11-12-2020||Chandigarh||23 COVID deaths in Haryana, infection tally tops 2.5 lakh||Haryana recorded 23 more deaths linked to COVID-19, bringing the toll to 2,699, while the infection count mounted to 2,50,394 on Friday with the detection of 1,065 fresh cases, according to a bulletin.The new fatalities included four each from Mahendergarh and Hisar districts and three each from Gurugram and Faridabad districts, the State Health Department said in its daily bulletin.Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases included Gurugram (296) and Faridabad (211), according to the bulletin.Haryana has 10,686 active COVID-19 cases and a recovery rate of 94.65 per cent, it said. PTI
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar orders strict action against 8 HUDA officials||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday directed the state's urban development authority to file a charge sheet against its eight officials after a Panchkula-based resident complained on Twitter about use of poor quality material in road construction.A news report was shared in this regard by the Panchkula-based resident on the Twitter handle of the chief minister.According to a statement, the complaint was regarding alleged use of poor quality material by the Haryana Urban Development Authority, Panchkula, in connivance with the contractors, for construction of roads in sectors across the Ghaggar river."It was stated in the complaint that due to the connivance of the officers of the Pradhikaran, corruption to the tune of crores of rupees has been committed. This was viewed seriously by the state government," the statement said, adding that the matter came up during a review meeting of the "CM Window" here on Friday."CM Window" is a web portal launched by the state government for redressal of people's grievances. PTI
11-12-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||15-yr-old Gurugram student takes Haryana Human Rights Commission for a ride||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 11 A 15-year-old student of DPS, Gurugram, took Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) for a ride as he complained of torture by his parents, but later during police inquiry he told that he was just trying to authenticate what was mentioned in his NCERT book on legal recourse to human rights violation.A resident of Sector 85 of Gurugram, the student approached the Commission on April 18 through online mode and complained of torture by parents. The boy alleged that his mother had threatened to kill him and he had been physically, mentally and emotionally abused. He went on to say that he had not attempted suicide as it was against the law. "Please save me. I need help!"  Taking notice of the complaint, the HHRC marked a police inquiry. During investigation, the boy made a statement that he had read in his NCERT book that in case there was violation of human rights of a person, one could make a complaint to the Human Rights Commission. In order to authenticate the fact, he made a complaint to the HHRC. He also mentioned that he was living happily in his house and no one was torturing him. While disposing off the case, HHRC chairperson Justice SK Mittal and member Justice KC Puri observed that the juvenile “has tried to test the activeness and vigilance of the Human Rights Commission and to test the same, he has filed a complaint before this Commission alleging that his mother has physically, mentally and emotionally abused him”. Interestingly, the order was pronounced on the occasion of Human Rights Day - December 10.
11-12-2020||New Delhi||Doing most of cleaning at Singhu border, claim protesting farmers||Garbage has been piling up at the Singhu border in Delhi where the farmers have been staying put for over a fortnight protesting the farm reform laws, with many complaining there has been little help from the authorities in keeping the site clean.Clusters of piled up paper and plastic glasses, bottles, fruit peels, waste generated from the food being cooked and dirty toilets combined with stagnant water generating a stench, the conditions at the site is worsening."Officials from the municipal corporations have been coming to clean the site once in a while, but it is the farmers who are doing most of the cleaning," said Malkar Singh, a farmer from Karnal, who has been camping at the site since November 25.On both the Delhi and Haryana sides of the border, a handful employees from the municipal corporations can be seen sweeping on the periphery of the protest sites, but farmers say that is not enough for maintaining the hygiene of the site which is seeing such a massive congregation."The toilets haven't been cleaned for days. There is no help from the government," said an agitated Gurvinder Singh whoc hails from Ramgarh in Punjab.Camping at the border since November 30, the farmer said whatever little cleaning is happening is because of the "safai pasand" farmers, who have taken it upon themselves to keep the area clean.The mobile toilets provided by the Delhi government are visibly not enough for all farmers at the site, leaving them with no option but to urinate in the open."There are so many of us here and not enough bathrooms. We urinate wherever we can. What else can we do?” said Bhajan Singh from Ferozepur in Punjab.A small group of Bharat Kisan Union farmers from Punjab have recently installed a laundry facility with washing machines running for eight to 10 hours a day to ensure that the farmers get to clean their clothes."We use water from the tankers that we have brought along and use the batteries of tractors to run the machines. The washing powder is donated by various people," Jagjit Singh, one of the men running the service, said.Thousands of farmers agitating against the centre's new agri laws have been camping at multiple border points for two weeks. On Thursday, they threatened to intensify their agitation with a plan to block railway tracks if their demands are not met soon.The announcement came on a day Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said it was not proper to announce the next stage of agitation when talks were continuing and urged the unions to return to the discussion table.The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain. — PTI
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana doctors wear black ribbons in support of IMA protest call||Doctors of the state-run hospitals in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on Friday extended support to the protest call given by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) by wearing black ribbons.The IMA has given a nationwide protest call against the Centre's move that allows Ayurvedic doctors to perform various general surgeries.However, the medical services in the out-patient departments (OPDs) were not affected.Medical services also operated normally in Chandigarh's Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) which caters to patients from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand and Chandigarh.The doctors will be wearing the black ribbons throughout their working hours as a mark of protest.--IANS
11-12-2020||Senior Journalist||Centre-state rift visible in stir against farm laws||In the last month of the most devastating year in recent human history, the protesting farmers have taken on the most powerful in the land: the strongest Central regime in three decades and the biggest corporates of the country. But will the ongoing farmers’ agitation actually impact electoral fortunes in 2021, first in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu that have elections by April-May and then by early 2022 in Punjab that is the epicentre of the protests?How the Centre proceeds in the ongoing talks will also be determined by its own risk assessment and the calculation of profit and loss in the political and financial spheres. The new farm laws are currently not just a lightning rod for protests against the dismantling of existing structures in agricultural markets or against the “selling of the farm sector to big corporate interests” as the agitators say. It’s also about the fundamental structure of federalism itself. Agriculture has essentially been understood to be a state subject according to the Constitution, although there are provisions in the Union and Concurrent lists that can be used as a pretext for the Centre to intrude into that space.That’s precisely what is happening with the far-reaching farm laws. They are in keeping with the stated philosophy of the current BJP that promotes ‘One Nation One Poll’ and ‘One Nation One Market’. As it is, notions of fair play in the sharing of resources with the states have been given short shrift during the lockdown and the pandemic. Non-BJP-ruled states have been complaining about the Centre taking various steps that threaten their fiscal autonomy.Unlike the BJP-led government of Atal Bihari Vajpayee (1998-2004), a coalition with a stated commitment to federalism, the current BJP is openly committed to centralising political power in one party, one supreme leader and the cadres loyal to that project. A close scrutiny of the fine print of the farm laws also shows that the balance of power between the judiciary and the executive is disturbed as the laws virtually take away the possibility of prosecution of civil servants and big corporates at the top of the chain, if the legislation comes into effect.The opposition to the new farm laws, therefore, will not vanish but could take different shapes in different parts of the country. For instance, in Tamil Nadu, the DMK will certainly raise the red flag of the Centre and BJP threatening state autonomy and dismantling federal structures. It is one of the country’s most industrialised states; the AIADMK regime there has stated that the farm laws do not harm farmers and those who did not wish to be part of contract farming could continue with regulated markets. The BJP, meanwhile, has made concerted efforts to mark its presence in a state that has mostly eluded it. A tie-up with the ruling AIADMK, divided since the death of another supreme leader, J Jayalalithaa, in December 2016, had been announced, but it is also likely that superstar Rajinikanth, who recently announced the launch of a political party, may be the preferred front for the BJP’s ambitions. The electoral impact of the farmers’ agitation would also depend on how the Centre deals with it. Crushing protest brutally will go down badly in regions such as Tamil Nadu that value their autonomy.In West Bengal, meanwhile, the ruling TMC already faces an aggressive BJP in the run-up to the state election. But it’s important to remember that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee rose to power after the strong campaign against the brutal methods used by the Left Front regime to acquire agricultural land for a special economic zone. (Subsequently, after coming to power in 2011, Mamata had to make statements about not being anti-industry). The TMC has consistently opposed policies that touch on land acquisition or encroach on state domains and agricultural incomes have indeed gone up in the state since 2011 (state government data shows a tripling of the income). The TMC says it opposes the farm laws on four grounds — federalism, MSP (minimum support price), PDS (public distribution system) and procurement.But after a decade in power, there is anti-incumbency and a vacuum in the opposition space that the BJP has filled after the disintegration of the Left. Still, the farm agitation does not really give the BJP any rhetorical advantage in Bengal. The party, therefore, continues to focus on law and order and strong-arm tactics of TMC cadres even as it energetically tries to procure leaders from other political parties, besides the usual Hindu vs Muslim issues.But it is Punjab where it is hardest to predict what will land ashore after the tsunami. Elections in this border state are a year away, but there are a few strands that are visible at the 15-km-long protest caravan at the Singhu border. It’s an organic protest where there is an interesting intermingling of trade union and long-standing kisan union activists from Punjab along with a very visible presence of leaders of gurdwara committees. Although the media narrative has focused on Punjab being a Congress-ruled state, and on the Left unions, one can also see the support base of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the protest. This suggests the possibility of the Akalis regaining credibility with their voter base after their decision to leave the NDA over the farm laws. Also, dropping by at the protest site is the leadership of Delhi’s ruling party, AAP, which has stakes in Punjab but is not really rooted in the state unless it finds a charismatic leader.In the 2017 Assembly elections and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Akalis and the BJP fought as an alliance, but now the national party would be on its own. The rhetoric being raised by the BJP support base (particularly their loyal media) about the protests being triggered by those who support the idea of Khalistan is worrying as it treads on a sensitive fault-line.The national BJP could, for starters, instruct its social media bots to stop presenting every protest as an anti-national activity. Democracy, after all, is supposed to be of the people, by the people and for the people. The people, protesting or sitting at home, should never be profiled as the enemy. And contrary to the commentators that say the farm laws are good for the people (but the people just don’t know it as yet), those bracing themselves for a long-drawn protest are firm that the laws are not in their interest.
11-12-2020||National President||Farmers' protest: At times, we must not seek the middle path||A bizarre logic is being deployed by the Narendra Modi government and a section of the media in the current standoff with the farmers: the recipient of an unwanted gift is being asked to be reasonable, not reject the gift, and find a ‘beech ka rasta’, or middle ground. The Modi government’s latest ‘proposal’ to the protesting farmers is being touted as just that middle ground. The government that put every possible obstacle to prevent farmers from reaching Delhi is being lauded for its sensitivity. When farm leaders stick to what they always said was non-negotiable, they are accused of moving the goalpost. The government frames not just its own response, but also what the farmers should be saying. Intransigence of the Modi government is presented as the rigidity of the protesters. Power has an amazing capacity to twist logic, to invent facts, to define what is reasonable.Let’s not forget that the present protest began with what PM Modi described as a saugaat, a gift to the farmers, nothing short of a ‘historic’ bonanza. Now, accepting or not accepting a gift should normally be a voluntary affair. The gift givers either already know what the recipients want, or check with them. Otherwise, it should be reasonable for the recipient to say “No, thank you”, in case they don’t like the gift. Unless, of course, the gift is not a gift at all, unless it is a sugar-coated pill that must be administered to an unwilling patient. (Incidentally, that is how pro-government economists present these farm laws, a bitter pill that could only be administered under the cover of a pandemic).A bounty farmers don’t wantThis straightforward reasoning has been given the go-by in this instance. It is clear that the government did not bother to check with the farmers or farmers’ organisations, not even with their in-house Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, before offering this ‘bounty’. By now, it is also clear that this gift has no takers, at least none among the multitude of farm organisations in the country.As for the farmers themselves, a Gaon Connection survey carried out a couple of months ago, much before the agitation hit its peak, found them apprehensive, if not hostile. The farmers are simply saying: “Thanks, please take your gift back. Instead, give us what we want, namely legal guarantee of remunerative price for our produce.” The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the joint banner for the current protest, has consistently asked for the repeal of the three farm laws. They have repeatedly clarified that this demand is non-negotiable. Yet, the Modi government and a section of the media feigns surprise when the farmers insist upon it.The government’s latest ‘proposal’ to the farmers invited a straightforward rejection. The 20-page document, printout of a PPT, sent by the government repeated the platitudes and propaganda that the ruling dispensation has been using for the past few months. Besides, there is a too-clever-by-half attempt to mention some previous committees involving Congress leaders, so as to implicate the Opposition parties in the government’s action. No wonder the government forgot to mention the 2011 report of the Chief Ministers’ committee headed by then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi that recommended legal status for Minimum Support Price (MSP). The ‘new’ proposal is just a rehash of what the ministers said to the farmers’ delegation on December 5.The nine-point proposal contains nothing about the amendment to the Essential Commodities Act that the farmers had objected to because it would encourage hoarding and price manipulation. Presumably, the government is determined not to make any changes in this law that would help the agri-business plans of large corporates. Similarly, it has little to offer on the proposed punishment for the farmers under the air pollution ordinance, except a vague promise of redressing farmers’ objections. On the Electricity Amendment Bill, the government assures that farmers’ bills won’t be affected, without specifying how. The farmers are not amused.On MSP, no legal guarantee comingThe much-publicised ‘concession’ on the issue of MSP is most disappointing. The government proposes to “give written assurance regarding the present MSP-based procurement system”. It is clear that the government is not going to offer a legal guarantee that the farmers had asked for. There is no mention of accepting the comprehensive cost-based formula (C2+50 per cent) recommended by the Swaminathan Commission for calculating the MSP. It is also clear that the government does not want to commit to going beyond the existing levels of meagre procurement. The farmers feel insulted.The proposed amendments appear more substantial in the APMC bypass law [Farmers’ Produce Trade & Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Act] and the contract farming law [The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act]. The media reports that the private mandis will be charged the same fees and put under similar regulation as the APMCs, but the government proposal merely says that the state governments will be given the power to do so. The proposal does not address the real need of most of the farmers for more and better functioning APMCs, nor does it address their apprehension about the possible collapse of APMCs. Similarly, the government proposes to address the fears about alienation of land under contract farming, but offers nothing to correct the unequal bargaining position of the farmers in a contractual arrangement with corporates. The farmers feel they are being taken for a ride.Yet the media seeks to shift the onus on to the farmers: now that the government is willing to amend these laws, why do you insist on repealing these? The farmers can only repeat what they have been saying all along: We never asked for amendments. Since we do not agree with the intent and the basic framework of these laws, we cannot possibly agree to amendments, major or minor. Can’t we say NO to your gift? Is it about us and our wellbeing, or about the PM’s prestige, his ego?Or they could quote famous Punjabi revolutionary poet Avtar Singh Pash, incidentally someone who was killed by Khalistani militants: “Beech ka rasta nahin hota”. At least on some matters, at least at some points in history, we must not look for the middle path.Views are personal
11-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court upholds applicability of state education rules to existing schools||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10The Punjab and Haryana High Court has upheld the applicability of the Haryana School Education Rules, 2003, to the existing schools.Justice Anil Kshetarpal asserted that the rules could not be said to have been applied retrospectively only because these had been made applicable to the existing schools. The ruling came in case of a school where approximately 1,100 students used to study, while the size of the plot available with the institute was 1/9th of the minimum area required.Justice Kshetarpal asserted that the rules had been framed to regulate the working of the Haryana School Education Department. “A school is a place where young kids are groomed. The schools are required to prepare the kids to face all kinds of challenges in life. In schools, apart from imparting academic education, a lot of space is required for extracurricular activities, including sports.”Justice Kshetarpal added that as such the rules had been made for the benefit of the general public as a whole. Even if for argument sake, the rules are considered retrospective still these will be applicable, particularly when these are for the benefit of the society at large. “It will not be appropriate to accommodate more than 1,000 students in a building constructed over an area of 250 m only.”The question the court had been called upon to determine was whether Haryana School Education Department Director’s decision to refuse the grant of further recognition to a school was correct or not. The refusal order was based on the pretext that the school did not fulfil norms laid down in the Haryana School Education Rules, 2003.Justice Kshetarpal observed that the existing school undoubtedly was established before the rules were made and notified. But the reading of the rules makes it apparent that these were applicable to already existing schools. The order passed by the Director did not result in applying the rules retrospectively. The recognition of the petitioner’s school has not been cancelled with a retrospective effect. The authorities have refused to renew or extend the recognition for the next academic session.He further observed that once the school does not fulfil the minimum requirements, it would not be appropriate for the court to come to its rescue and facilitate its continuous operation. Before parting with the case, Justice Kshetarpal added that Article 41 of the Constitution, fell in the Chapter of Directive Principles of State policy, which provided that the state would, within the limits of its economic capacity and development, make effective provision for securing the right to work, education and public assistance in cases of unemployment, old age, sickness and disablement, and in other cases of undeserved want.RULES CAN’T BE ENFORCED RETROSPECTIVELY
11-12-2020||---||Court puts state on notice||Chandigarh, December 10The Punjab and Haryana High Court has put Haryana on notice on a petition alleging the posting of non-state civil service officers on the post meant for HCS (executive branch) officers.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after The Haryana Civil Service (executive branch) Officers Association filed a petition against the state and other respondents. Appearing before the High Court Bench of Justice Rajbir Sehrawat through video-conferencing, senior advocate Akshay Bhan and Amandeep Singh Talwar on behalf of the petitioners contended — among other things — that the posting of non-state civil service officers on the post meant for the HCS (executive branch) as specified under the cadre rules was is in violation of the rules framed by the state government itself.Taking a note of the contentions, Justice Sehrawat issued notice of motion to the state and other respondents. It was accepted by Haryana Additional Advocate General DS Nalwa, who was assisting Advocate General BR Mahajan in the matter. Accepting his prayer for time to file written statement, Justice Sehrawat fixed the case for further hearing on January 22.The petitioner-association’s stand in the matter is that posting officers from other services to cadre posts was prejudicial to the prospects of the members of the IAS and HCS as well as to the interest of good administration. It has been contended that posting individuals from other services as superior officers to members of HCS (executive branch) was arbitrary as it ignored operational structure, hierarchy and destroyed administrative control and carried risks of complete failure of the system.NOTICE OF MOTION ISSUED
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||26 more die, 1,250 cases||The state recorded 26 deaths and 1,250 cases, which took the overall Covid tally in the state to 2.49 lakh on Thursday.Four deaths each were recorded from Faridabad, Hisar and Panipat, three from Bhiwani, two each from Gurugram and Jind, and one each from Ambala, Karnal, Rohtak, Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Jhajjar and Kaithal. So far, 2,676 people have succumbed to the virus with 2,343 having co-morbidities.The maximum fresh cases came from Gurugram at 398 followed by 182 from Faridabad, 64 from Panchkula, 61 each from Sonepat and Rohtak and 51 each from Ambala and Panipat. — TNS
11-12-2020||---||Vet varsity gets patent for dietary supplement for turkey broilers||Hisar, December 10The Lala Lajpat Rai University of Animal and Veterinary Sciences (LUVAS) has got a patent for dietary supplement composition for turkey broilers.Dr Vishal Sharma and Dr RK Sharma of the Department of Livestock Production Management College of Veterinary Sciences, who invented the dietary supplement composition said they had filed the invention for patent on February 12, 2013, and the Indian Patent office of the Centre has granted it on November 30, 2020.Dr Sharma said fish meal was a commonly used feedstuff in poultry ration especially for providing sulphur containing essential amino acids like lysine and methionine. The availability of good quality fish meal is difficult to ascertain. Besides this, fish meal has high chances of rancidity.He said they conducted an experiment from 2008 to 2011 to formulate a vegetable protein-based ration with the supplementation of inorganic sodium sulphate to replace the fish meal-based poultry ration. “The results revealed that the feed supplemented with inorganic sodium sulphate significantly improved body weight, feed conversion ratio, performance index and protein efficiency of turkey broilers as compared to fish meal containing diet.”Also, such a diet proved more economical than fish meal supplemented diet. So, the vegetable protein-based ration for turkey broilers supplemented with inorganic sodium sulphate can be very beneficial for improving the profitability and economics of poultry farmers, he added.
11-12-2020||---||HAU to provide quality seeds to farmers: VC||Hisar, December 10The Vice-Chancellor of Chaudhary Charan Singh, Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, Professor Samar Singh said, “Now, a large quantity of quality seeds can be produced in the university. The expenditure by the university on energy and labour for the seed preparation will also be reduced.” He urged scientists to set up advance crop equipment to reduce the expenditure on crop production and this would ease farming-related works.After inaugurating the new automatic seed processing plant at the Ramdhan Singh Seed Farm located in the university, Professor Samar Singh emphasised on adopting drone technology for increasing productivity per unit of the farm. He congratulated all scientists and faculty of the university on securing third position in the rankings of all State Agricultural Universities released by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research.The Director (research), Dr SK Sehrawat said since 20 years Ramdhan Singh Seed Farm had been producing seeds. Besides, efforts were being made to set up new seed processing plants for the past several years. Taking immediate cognisance, the Vice-Chancellor ensured financial arrangements for setting up a new seed processing plant. This will speed up quality seed production for farmers which will further facilitate the university in seeds distribution to the farmers in future.The Director of Ramdhan Singh Seed Farm, Dr Ram Niwas, said this plant was based on the latest technology of seed processing and its seed processing capacity was 30 quintals per hour. For this, about Rs 57 lakh were provided by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. This seed processing plant is automated. The plant is equipped with the latest machines such as seed processing pre-cleaner, graders, in-line cylinders, gravity separators, elevators and seed treatments and is based on a single integrated system. This will enhance the quality of seeds in seed processing and reduce the cost of electricity. He said this would provide more quality seeds to the farmers for sowing purposes.
11-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Woman sets house on fire, jumps in with 2 sons||Gurugram, December 10Allegedly harassed for dowry and unable to take it anymore, a 27-year-old woman allegedly set her house on fire and then jumped into the fire with two sons at Jatka Sheeshwana village in Nuh district .The woman and one son were charred to death while another son is being treated at the hospital. The father of the deceased woman filed a case of dowry death in Rajasthan. The Nuh police is investigating the case.“Rahman Khan, father of the deceased, filed a complaint of dowry death at the Kishangarh police station in Rajasthan. We are investigating all angles and action will be taken as per the law”, said Sub-inspector Virender Kumar, the investigating officer.
11-12-2020||Our Correspondent---||Now, only two guns per licence allowed in Gurugram||Gurugram, December 10 To curtail misuse of arms in the city, the Gurugram police have restricted the number of guns allowed per licence to just two.  Issuing an order in this regard, the Gurugram police on Thursday said people can’t have more than two licensed weapons. If they have, the licence for the additional guns attributed to them will stand cancelled. The police said they could also sell them off at gun houses by December 13. “After December 13, we will review all licences and those violating the set limit of arms will be suspended immediately,” said Gurugram Joint Commissioner of Police Kulwinder Singh.
11-12-2020||Parveen Arora||Transformer thefts a headache for cops, farmers, power corpn||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 10Theft of power transformers has become a big challenge for the police, farmers and power corporation.As per data collected by The Tribune, 933 transformers were stolen in 2019, while 679 transformers had been stolen this year till November end, causing a huge loss to the corporation and farmers.According to an Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) official, around five-acres of land can be irrigated by a 15 HP motor which requires around 16 KVA transformer, a small transformer having 8 kg to 10 kg of copper coil. The market price of stolen copper coil is between Rs 300 to 400 per kg, hence the total value of stolen transformer ranges between Rs 2,800 to Rs 3,500, while the cost of reinstallation of a 16 KVA transformer by the government is Rs 6,000, of which around 20 per cent is borne by the farmer and 80 per cent of it by the UHBVN, said the official. Maximum numbers of such incidents are reported in winters, the official added.About the modus operandi, a police officer said the members of the gang conduct recce in and around the target area in the daytime. They usually target small transformers and drop their equipment at the target site and go to a nearby dhaba/hotel. Later, the gang makes three to four trips of the site every month and steals around four to five transformers each time and around 16 to 20 transformers every month. Sometimes they steal up to 10 transformers in a night, said the police official.The stolen coils are mostly sold at Seelampur and Ghevra Mor in New Delhi and UP.On such incidents, Power Corporation SDO gets an FIR registered, based on which a new transformer is installed. The case is registered under Section 136 of the EC Act which is cognisable and non-bailable, said the police official.UHBVN Panchkula-Zone Chief Engineer (operation) Ashwani Kumar Raheja said earlier copper coil transformers were installed, but now aluminium-wound transformers were being used. They had written to the police to continue patrolling in vulnerable sites.On the other hand, Karnal Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram said, “We have arrested 58 accused and traced 37 theft cases of 2019 and subsequently, arrested 748 gang members, solving 242 cases this year.”MODUS OPERANDIThe members of the gang conduct recce in and around the target area in the daytime. They usually target small transformers and drop their equipment at the target site and go to a nearby dhaba/hotel. Later, the gang makes three to four trips of the site every month and steals around four to five transformers each time and around 16 to 20 transformers every month. Sometimes they steal up to 10 transformers in a night
11-12-2020||Deepender Deswal||Mass resignations by PRI members||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 10There has been a flood of “token resignations” by elected representatives of the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs), including sarpanches, panches and members of the block samitis and zila panchayats in the region in support of the protesting farmers.Though the byelection on these vacancies created after the resignations are unlikely as the term of the PRIs is set to expire in February 2021, they are trying to send across a message to the farmers to express their solidarity.As per information, about 35 PRI members have resigned in Hisar while the elected representatives in Fatehabad, Sirsa, Jind and Kaithal districts are also quitting their posts. Among those are zila parishad members Om Prakash Litani, Rubi Rathi, Jassi Petwar, besides a number of panches and sarpanches.The resignations started when a zila parishad member from Ward Number 5 in Sirsa Sunita Jhorar resigned from her post in support of the farmers. Sunita submitted her resignation to the DC and urged the Centre to accept the demands of the farmers.Following the suit, the panchayat of Kharia village in the Rania block of Sirsa, including sarpanch and panches, resigned in support of the farmers. They submitted their resignation to the BDO of Rania block.A senior official, however, said these resignations were not valid as the director of the Panchayat Department was the competent authority to accept it. “The members are addressing the letters to the DC or the BDOs of their respective blocks, who can forward their letters to the higher authority for acceptance.” the official said.13 from KalayatTotal 13 sarpanches of various villages in the Kalayat block of Kaithal district resigned from their posts on Thursday. They said they were resigning in protest against the anti-farmer policies of the government and in solidarity with the farmers
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||Dushyant: After MSP assurance, why hold stir?||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday broke his silence on the farmers’ protest, hoping that they would call off their agitation following a written assurance by the Centre on MSP and other demands.Expressing hope that the standoff between the Centre and farmers’ unions would be resolved, he claimed that he was in touch with the Centre on farmers’ issues.Dushyant, who had been under tremendous pressure from the Opposition and farmers’ unions to withdraw support from the government, reiterated that he would immediately quit if the MSP regime was threatened.While the JJP’s consistent stand had been that it was with farmers on the issue of MSP, Dushyant had refrained from commenting on the issue since the “Delhi Chalo” protest began a fortnight back. “Chaudhary Devi Lal used to say a government listens to the farmers’ voice when they have a stake,” he said, adding that his party had been placing farmers’ concerns before the government.About JJP MLAs’ open support to the protesting farmers, he quipped, “I am a farmer first, when did I deny that?” He said it was “our responsibility” that farmers got the right price for their produce and “we have been assuring that and will continue to do so”. — TNS
11-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Rohtak residents open purse strings||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 10Local residents have not only been helping Punjab farmers at the Tikri border by providing them vegetables, fruit, milk and other food items, but extending them monetary assistance as well.Residents of Garhi Bohar village have donated Rs 91,000 for the protesting farmers while many other individuals and social groups are lending financial aid daily.“We have collected Rs 91,000 from villagers and are ready to donate more if need be. Punjab farmers are our guests and it is our responsibility to help them,” said Jugnu Nandal of Garhi Bohar village.Three dharna spots had been set up on a 10-km stretch from the Jakhoda bypass to the Tikri border, with donations being received at the main dharna site at the border.“People of Haryana are enthusiastically supporting them. They are supplying food items in sufficient quantities and donating money. We are getting between Rs 80,000 and Rs 1 lakh daily,” said Sukhjinder Singh, a farmer leader noting down donations at the Tikri border.He pointed out that the donation was being spent on payment for the tent and meeting other expenses. A group from Punjab donated Rs 31,000 on Thursday, he added.Puroshhotam Singh Gill of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) said they were not demanding donations, but people of Haryana were voluntarily donating money to strengthen the agitation. Every group of Punjab farmers had brought thousands of rupees to stay here for as long as the agitation went on, he added.Joginder Ghasi Ram Nain, state president of the BKU, said many khaps and other social outfits had contacted them for donations, but they had been requested to provide food items instead.Om Prakash Dhankar, president of the Dhankar khap, said all khaps of Haryana stood with Punjab farmers. He said they had been ensuring supply of food items to the Tikri border and were ready to donate money, if need be.
11-12-2020||ajjar||Retired from service, serving people||A team of retired government employees has come forward to provide free medical aid and medicines to the protesting farmers staying put at the Tikri border. At least 2,000 farmers have availed the facility so far. “After we came to know that farmers were suffering from injuries and ailments, we  started conducting health check-up and providing medicines,” said Dr RS Dahiya, retired senior professor of the department of surgery at the PGIMS. Dr Dahiya said a majority of patients were suffering from fever, injuries, urinary problem, body ache, skin infection and mental stress.  Meanwhile, Dr Ranbir Khasa, retired SMO, said his team reached the Tikri border every morning. — TNS
11-12-2020||Sushil Manav||Centre spreading false information, says Hooda||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 10A day after the Centre mentioned recommendations of the working group of Chief Ministers led by Bhupinder Singh Hooda set up in 2010as the background for the three farm laws, Hooda accused the BJP government of spreading misinformation. He said had the government announced MSP according to his recommendations, there would have been no reason for farmers to protest.Against monopoly of CorporatesMy panel had recommended that there should be no monopoly to ensure that farmers got MSP for their crops. The new farm laws are meant to help corporates have monopoly. — Bhupinder Singh Hooda, former Chief MinisterPages 4 and 5 of the government’s proposals sent to farmer bodies on Wednesday, which were about the background for the laws, mentioned recommendations of the working group constituted by the then Congress government, that included Chief Ministers of Punjab, Bihar and West Bengal as members.“The working group had recommended that restrictions on marketing agricultural produce must be removed. It had recommended that neither APMC mandis nor corporates should have monopoly over markets of agricultural produce,” read the letter sent by the Centre to the farmers’ bodies to justify the three farm laws.Farmers’ organisations had been questioning the logic behind the three farm laws, particularly when nobody had ever demanded such reforms. Reacting sharply, Hooda claimed on Thursday that the BJP government had been spreading misinformation to mislead the people.“My panel had recommended that there should be no monopoly to ensure that farmers got MSP for their crops. The new farm laws are meant to help corporates have monopoly,” he said.The former Chief Minister said in case the BJP government was really interested in implementing the recommendations of the working group set up by Manmohan Singh government in 2010, it should have gone for MSP with C2 formula, as recommended by Swaminathan, and not A2 plus FL.While C2 is the comprehensive cost, which includes imputed costs of family labour, imputed rent of land owned and imputed interest on capital owned, the A2 plus FL includes costs the farmer pays for various inputs like seeds, fertilisers, pesticides, hired labour, hired machinery, leased in land and family labour.“Had the government started paying MSP using the C2 formula, farmers would have been getting between Rs 2,800 and Rs 3,000 per quintal for their wheat crop. With MSP calculated with the A2 plus FL formula, they are getting Rs 1,975,” he pointed out.
11-12-2020||Parveen Arora||Undeterred, farmers ready for long haul||tribune news serviceSonepat, December 10It is the 15th day of their protest at the Singhu border, but farmers are full of enthusiasm. They are prepared for the long haul over the three farm laws passed by the Union Government. Making the NH-44 their battleground, the farmers are not ready to step back and are going to intensify their battle.“We don’t know how long it will last, but we are ready for a long battle and will go back only after rollback of these laws,” said Amandeep Singh Mann of Bathinda.Sukhwinder Singh Khalsa of Sirsa said they had rejected the Centre’s proposal and would not move back till the laws were rolled back. “We want a rollback of these laws. Minimum support price should be ensured and a law enacted to this effect. We are ready for any long protest.”“Farmers across the country are against these laws, but the government is adamant on implementing these only to please some capitalists,” said Jagdeep Singh of Karnal.Youths had been passing their time by playing cards, smoking hookah, doing sewa in langar or distributing food to people. Sukhdayal Mehla said they passed their time discussing the plans of their leaders. Amit Kumar, involved in traffic management, said they did not want those coming to the protest site to face any difficulty.Haryanvi and Punjabi singers entertained the crowds. “We have come here after cultivating the wheat crop and have left the responsibility to irrigate our fields to family members and friends,” said Yashbir Singh. Gurparsad Hooda of Rohtak said it was not the protest of Punjab farmers alone, but of farmers from across the country.SIDELIGHTSZP member resignsKarnal: Zila Parishad (ZP) member from Ward No. 22 and JJP leader Kuljeet Kaur has resigned from the post in protest against the farm laws. “I have resigned as I belong to a farmer family,” she said, adding that she had tendered her resignation to DC Nishant Kumar Yadav. Kuljeet also announced to donate the allowances given to her by the government for the stir.Murder FIR cancelledAmbala: The police have cancelled the FIR against farmers over the death of Bharat Singh (72), who died on October 14, the day he participated in the BJP’s tractor yatra in Naraingarh. The farmers booked were associated with the BKU (Charuni). The case was cancelled on the basis of forensic and viscera reports from Madhuban and Khanpur Kalan, respectively. Sources said doctors had given the opinion that Bharat died of heart attack.Gul Panag backs stirSonepat: Actress Gul Panag on Thursday extended support to the farmers’ stir and urged the Centre to rollback these laws. “I stand by the farmers in their protest against the laws that were passed without taking them into confidence. I urge the Centre to hear out what the farmers are saying and speak only in one tune.” Panag said there was a trust deficit, which was the result of the passing of the laws when Covid was at its peak.
11-12-2020||Our Correspondent---||Another fake call centre  busted in Gurugram||Gurugram, December 10 The CM’s flying squad busted yet another fake call centre late Wednesday night for duping US nationals through pop-ups offering computer security. Two owners have been nabbed while eight employees detained. Two laptops and two hard disks have also been seized by the police. The team of the CM flying squad led by DSP Inderjeet Yadav conducted a raid after getting a tip-off that a fake call centre was being run from the fifth floor of Emaar Digital Green in Sector 61. When the team reached there, more than eight employees, including two women, were found working on computers, laptops and making calls.  During investigation, the team found that they did not possess any valid OSP licences of the Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement/MoU related to their work. They were running the fake call centre on the name of MWDN Techtrust Worldwide IT Services Private Limited.  Two operators-cum-owners revealed that they had been operating the fake call centre since last month. The accused have been identified as Ranjan Kumar (25) and Akshay Kumar (27), residents of New Delhi. While Ranjan is Class XII passout, Akshay holds a BTech degree and both were working with a call centre in Gurugram before starting their own fake centre.  “The accused first collected data like names, mobile numbers, e-mails and addresses of US nationals and later, sent voicemails to them. They trapped them to clear pop-ups and claims to provide computer security online. They sought payment only through e-cheque, debit and credit cards and charged $100 to $500 per person. We are questioning the accused,” said Inderjeet Yadav, DSP, CM flying squad.
11-12-2020||---||55K students to recite Gita online  to create world record||Chandigarh, December 10  At the International Gita Mahotsav -2020 in Haryana, 55,000 school students will collectively recite 19 verses of the Gita and create a unique world record.  This global Gita recitation will be conducted through online system at 12 noon on December 25. In this, 50 students each from 50 schools of 21 districts and 9,000 students from Kurukshetra district will be connected online simultaneously through social media, YouTube channel or any other means. An official spokesperson of the Education Department said the department had been entrusted with the responsibility of linking all schools with this programme for this recitation. Therefore, the Director, Secondary Education, has written a letter to the Education Officers of all districts, District Project Coordinator, Block Education Officer and heads of schools, asking them to prepare for the programme. He said the International Gita Mahotsav -2020 would be held from December 17 to December 25 this year. This time, according to the guidelines of Covid, it has also been decided to conduct all school competitions online.
11-12-2020||Nitin Jain||Now, tenants can  buy MC-owned shops in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 10The state government has offered tenants to buy the municipal council’s rented shops in the Ambala Cantonment.As per the offer, the tenants will be charged the present collector’s rate to get the properties transferred in their names on freehold basis after executing the conveyance and registration deeds.An announcement to this effect was made by Local Government Minister Anil Vij while accepting the long-pending demand of the MC’s tenants in the town’s one of the oldest commercial area — Rai and Randhawa markets in the excised area of Ambala Sadar.The offer will benefit at least 54 shopkeepers who had rented the shops from the civic body almost seven decades ago. While 182 tenants had already bought the shops when the government had made a similar offer in 2003 while the remaining 54 tenants had for various reasons could not avail the offer at that time.Having left out of the offer to turn owners, the tenants of 54 MC shops had been pressing hard on Vij to once again give them a chance to own the shops. On Vij’s direction, an order to this effect was issued by the Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Local Bodies, Haryana.As per the present Collector’s rate of Rs 38,500 per square yard in the Rai Market area, the total cost of a single shop, measuring 15.55 square yards, will come to Rs 5,98,675. However, 110 shops in 2003 were sold at that time’s collector’s rate of Rs 6,000 per square yard, which had worked out to be Rs 93,300. “Before buying the shops, the tenants have to clear all their dues and clear the encroachments, if any, to become eligible for availing the offer to turn owners,” a senior officer said.
11-12-2020||Gurugram||Three arrested for robbing Ola cab driver||The police have arrested three robbers on Wednesday from Jhajjar bypass for attacking a cab driver with a knife. The accused had fled the spot robbing the cab on December 6. The stolen car and the knife used in the crime have been recovered from their possession.The arrested accused have been identified as Kuldeep and Krishan of Kelanga village in Bhiwani district and Prashant of Chimni village in Jhajjar district. The accused had gone to attend a wedding and had booked an Ola cab but later robbed the car after holding the cab driver hostage on knife point. As per a complaint filed by Ola cab driver Dilshad of UP, the trio was going from Jhajjar to Chimni village in his cab when they suddenly attacked him and fled after robbing his cab and Rs 13,000 cash. An FIR was registered in Farrukhnagar police station and the crime unit nabbed the trio on Wednesday. “We are looking into their crime record,” said Preet Pal Singh, ACP, Crime. — OC
11-12-2020||---||4 shopkeepers fined Rs56K for single-use plastic sale||Yamunanagar, December 10 A team of Yamunanagar-Jagadhri Municipal Corporation has imposed a fine of Rs 56,000 on the owners of four shops, who were found selling disposable plastic and thermocol items used for serving food and drinks to the customers. Anil Kumar Nain, Chief Sanitary Inspector of Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, said they sent dummy customers on several shops in Yamunanagar to buy single-use plastic and thermocol items such as plates, cups and glasses, on Wednesday. He said they found that four shopkeepers were selling these items in the areas of Old Radaur road, Khera Mohalla and Railway road. He added that they imposed a fine of Rs 56,000 on them and recovered single-use plastic and thermocol items from their shops.  “Single-use plastic and thermocol items such as plates, cups and glasses are banned in the country and using the same is not allowed. But, despite the ban, several shopkeepers are still selling these items in Yamunanagar district. Therefore, we have started a drive to keep a check on the sale of these items here,” said Nain. He said they made appeals to the public through public awareness campaigns.
11-12-2020||---||Classes for X, XII pupils to resume  from December 14||Chandigarh, December 10In view of the board examinations, the state Education Department has decided to resume Classes X and XII for three hours daily in both government and private schools from December 14. The classes will run from 10 am to 1 pm.Meanwhile, the students of Classes IX and XI will be allowed to attend school from December 21.In a letter issued to all district education officers from the Directorate of School Education, it has been mentioned that before coming for classes, the students have to get a general medical check-up done from any doctor or health centre for the Covid symptoms. They have to get a letter from the doctor specifying about their medical condition.The letter issued by the doctor shouldn’t be more than 72 hours old before entering the school. Various Primary Health Centres or Community Health Centres will attend to the students free of cost.The permission from parents will also be required.Besides, daily monitoring of body temperatures of both students and teachers will be carried out in schools and if it is more than normal, they will be sent back. The schools have to upload data about body temperature on an app provided by the Education Department.
11-12-2020||Chandigarh||108 Ambulance staff to get uniform||The National Health Mission (NHM), Haryana, has specially designed a uniform for ambulance drivers and emergency medical technicians (EMTs) working under the National Ambulance Services 108 so as to give them a professional outlook.Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Rajeev Arora, said, “Uniform is an essential component so as to differentiate between the EMTs and drivers from other paramedic staff.”“The uniform will increase a sense of professionalism and also encourage the EMTs and drivers to hone their skills. It will provide an identity to the EMTs, which will help them work efficiently in the field,” he added.Arora said training had also been provided to the EMTs working on the National Ambulance Service 108 to enhance their skills for providing pre-hospital care to the patients transported through these ambulances such as basic life support, advanced cardiac life support, international trauma life support, advance life support obstetrics. — TNS
11-12-2020||Karnal||11 students clear UGC NET||GJUS&T ranked 12th in indiaHisar: Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, was ranked 12th in India and 444th in the world in the UI Green Metric World University Ranking 2020. Universities Indonesia (UI) released the result of UI Green Metric World University Rankings 2020 on December 8, 2020. The ranking has been declared by UI on the basis of verified data under six categories, including setting and infrastructure (SI), energy and climate change (EC), waste (WS), water (WR), transportation (TR) and education and research (ER). At the world level, the university is ranked 190th in SI category, 513th rank in EC category, 534th rank in WS category, 288th rank in WR category, 384th rank in TR category, 607th rank in ER category. At the national level, the university has ranked seventh in SI category, 14th rank in EC category, 11th rank in WS category, 8th rank in WR category, 13th rank in TR category and 18th rank in ER category.Global recognition for professorsAmbala: Dr Anil Kumar Sharma, professor and head of department of biotechnology and Dr Rakesh Chandmal Sharma, professor in mechanical engineering at Maharishi Markandeshwar (Deemed to be University) at Mullana (Ambala), Haryana, have brought global recognition to the university in the research arena as they have been enlisted in the top 2 per cent scientists in the world pursuing their research in the area of bioscience/bioengineering and mechanical engineering, respectively. Another faculty member, Dr Ravindra Rawal, previously from the department of chemistry at the same university has also found a place in the said list. As per the list released by Stanford University, California, USA, that represents the top 2 per cent of the most-cited scientists globally in various disciplines on the basis of standardised citation indications.MDU to conduct intermediate examsRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University will conduct the Intermediate examinations of B pharmacy, M pharmacy and LLB programmes as per directions/guidelines issued by the Pharmacy Council of India (PCI) and Bar Council of India (BCI) in the offline descriptive mode. MDU Controller of Examinations Dr BS Sindhu said the University would conduct the first year examination of all undergraduate and postgraduate programmes of directorate of distance education . Further, additional examinations of the first year and second year, will also be conducted. All these examinations will be conducted in the offline descriptive mode. Sindhu said for rest of the academic programmes, intermediate semester/annual examinations would not be conducted and the students would be promoted and their results declared. The detailed notification is available at the MDU website, Dr Sindhu informed.
11-12-2020||Just imagine the plight of people living in the streets with sewage water flooding it for the past more than a year. This is happening in a street in the old Narwana area. Residents have met officers concerned many times but all in vain. The accumulated water is emitting foul smell and has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes in this Covid and dengue season. The administration should solve the matter at the earliest.||Filthy water a nuisance for residents||– Ramesh Gupta, Narwana.Dangerous potholesIt is a matter of great pity that there are too many potholes opposite the Tata housing society. I fail to understand why so much time is being taken to repair it .The life of vehicles, especially two-wheelers, is badly affected and the owner have to to purchase new tyres time and again. The authorities should get the potholes repaired at the earliest.–Subhash C Taneja, Gurugram.Flaws in online examinationThe news of online examination by Kurukshetra University with new guidelines for odd semester of PG courses beginning on December 21 appears to be fine on the surface in the name of Covid crisis. The candidates are expected to attempt 75 per cent of the question paper.There are inbuilt problems of online examination with malpractices and use of unfair means, including impersonation. The authorities have to accept the challenge of minimising such issues with alertness and carefulness. Online examinations cannot be the substitute of offline examination. We need examination reforms in the semester system such as the university should conduct examinations for even semester and leaving odd semesters to the institution attended by scrapping internal assessment .This will prove to be efficient in all respects. –Prof MM Goel, Kurukshetra.Both sides should be flexible enoughThe Union Government has offered to modify the new laws on farming to allay farmers' apprehensions and their next meeting should help work out modalities to end the stalemate. Both sides on the 'high table' ought to be flexible enough to arrive at a win-win proposition for both sides. The need of the hour is to beware of politicians, who become self-anointed spokesmen and benefactors of farmers to settle political scores, misleading them to insist on repealing of laws. Dharnas ought to end.–Lalit Bharadwaj, Panchkula.Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
11-12-2020||Singhu (Sonepat)||Farmers threaten to block rail tracks again||Farmer leaders spearheading the protests against the agriculture laws at various points on the Haryana-Delhi border today said they would take their agitation to railway tracks if the Centre failed to meet their demands.“We had served an ultimatum till December 10 to repeal the three black laws. If the government doesn’t act fast, farmers will block railway tracks across the country,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union president Balbir Singh Rajewal while interacting with the media. The ‘Sanyukt Kisan Manch’ (joint forum of farmers) would soon announce the date for protest on rail tracks, he said.Reiterating their demand for a rollback of the laws, the farmer leaders claimed the Union ministers had admitted on several occasions that the legislations “would boost commerce”. “The laws will benefit traders, not farmers. They have been enacted to encourage private mandis and abolish the government-run APMC mandis,” said Rajewal.Dr Darshan Pal, Krantikari Kisan Union president, maintained the unions had kept the option of dialogue open, but would talk only if the government came forward with a “concrete proposal”. “When agriculture is a state subject, why is the Centre framing laws on it?” he quipped.Dr Pal claimed all toll plazas in the region would be shut on December 12. The Delhi-Jaipur highway would be blocked too, he said, adding the farmers would gherao the houses of BJP leaders on December 14 and hold dharnas at district headquarters across the country. The farmers had earlier blocked tracks for weeks in Punjab.
