11-11-2020||Sunit Dhawan||18 Covid patients die at Rohtak PGIMS in 2 days||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 11A spurt has been witnessed in the Covid-19 casualties at Rohtak PGIMS over the last two days.As per an official statement issued here this evening, 18 Covid patients from different districts admitted to Rohtak PGIMS have died on Tuesday and Wednesday.“Of these, 11 people died on Wednesday, while eight breathed their last on Tuesday. This is a serious matter. People are still taking the pandemic casually. There is no room for complacence and utmost care needs to be taken in the given circumstances,” said Dr Gajendra Singh, Public Relations Officer at Rohtak PGIMS.He cautioned people against going to crowded markets or other public places and advised them to use face-masks, hand-sanitisers, observe physical distancing and wash their hands frequently.“People need to be more careful now. The children and the elderly need to be extra-cautious as they are more vulnerable to the disease,” he maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/18-covid-patients-die-at-rohtak-pgims-in-2-days-169363
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Gurugram to be developed as 'smartest city': Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar||To bring Gurugram on the world map, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday announced that it will be developed as the 'smartest city'.For this, the Chief Minister proposed to set up a new municipal corporation in Manesar and develop a new Gurugram city in that area.The Chief Minister was speaking after virtually inaugurating two Air Care projects for the beautification of Gurugram.The Chief Minister said that Gurugram and Faridabad being the metropolitan cities in the National Capital Region, separate metropolitan development authorities have already been constituted for both the cities."Air pollution is a matter of concern for all of us in these cities and in view of this, two projects of 'Air Care' have been started to clean the air," he said.The Chief Minister said that besides Gurugram and Faridabad, Karnal has also been included in the Smart City project.In these cities, there is a need to develop facilities like water management, security system, public transport, buildings, good governance, e-education, and telemedicine in accordance with smart norms and infrastructure to be developed accordingly.Congratulating and wishing the people of Gurugram for these two projects, the Chief Minister said the projects have been inaugurated as Diwali gift.He said that with a view to provide prompt administrative services to the people, a 'Tower of Justice' is being constructed in Gurugram at an estimated cost of Rs 180 crore. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-to-be-developed-as-smartest-city-haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-169329
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Two wanted criminals held in Haryana's Sirsa||Two criminals, wanted in a case of shootout in Haryana's Sirsa district, were arrested on Wednesday with illegal arms, police said.Three illegal pistols and 12 cartridges were recovered from the accused, Amandeep alias Khalnayak and Rakesh alias Chotu, both from Sirsa district, a Haryana police spokesman said here."They were wanted in a shootout near a temple in Sirsa on September 2, 2020," he said."They along with their aides had opened fire at one Vishal and his friends and were on the run since then. A case in this connection was registered against them in Sirsa police station," the spokesman said.Preliminary probe reveals that Amandeep was previously involved in six criminal cases, including attempt to murder, loot, hurt, besides cases registered under the provisions of the Arms Act and the NDPS Act, he said, adding the criminal record of the second accused is being investigated.The spokesman said police teams arrested them from Sirsa during patrolling and recovered illegal arms from their possession."While one accused riding a motorcycle was nabbed near JJ Colony culvert with two loaded illegal pistols and six cartridges, the other one was arrested from near Rania Chungi," he said.Both were taken into custody and further investigation was underway, he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-wanted-criminals-held-in-haryanas-sirsa-169291
11-11-2020||The Hali park and lake project was approved for renovation three years back and a sum of Rs 24 crore was sanctioned for the purpose. Around Rs 14 crore have already been spent on the project||Work on Hali park project halted for 8 months||Vikram Chauhan, PanipatSewage, Garbage disposal problems on city outskirtsPeople living on the outskirts of Fatehabad are facing sewage and garbage disposal problems. The process to make the facilities available to the locals has been hanging fire for years. I came here at the age of 7 and since then there has been a lot of development. However, even after 17 years of development and endured duration of both the national parties in the city, the aforementioned problems still persist. The city has extended but the officials, it seems, are unaware of it. Most of the people here dispose of the sewage on roads, which has become a problem for pedestrians. So, the steps should be taken to improve the situation, thus providing us a sigh of relief from such a basic but huge problem. Pooja, Fatehabad.Shoppers flood Markets, admn in deep slumberDuring the ongoing festival season, markets are flooded with people throughout the day. The main reasons for the rush are the increasing number of vehicles and illegal encroachments by shopkeepers. The administration is not making any arrangements to identify specific parking slots and not taking any action against unlawful encroachers. With the Covid pandemic taking its toll but, it appears, the administration is in a deep slumber. It must awake and act.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNE invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/work-on-hali-park-project-halted-for-8-months-169190
11-11-2020||Hisar||Faculty development programme||Session on Gandhian philosophyFaridabad: An online interactive session was organised on the topic ‘Gandhian philosophy in the present-day world’ by the department of political science of DAV Centenary College here. Tara Gandhi Bhattacharjee, the granddaughter of Mahatma Gandhi and present chairperson of the National Gandhi Museum, New Delhi, was the chief guest and her son, Vinayak Bhattacharjee, was the guest of honour. A Annamalai, director, National Gandhi Museum, was the keynote speaker. The dignitaries highlighted the importance of Gandhian philosophy at present and in the times to come and threw light on many aspects of Gandhi’s life and the seminal work done by him. Tara Gandhi discussed the desirability of establishing ‘Sarvodaya Manch’ in educational institutions, which prominently focuses on the educational as well as mental development of the students. Vinayak Bhattacharjee spoke about the growing intolerance and elaborated that it was the right time to rededicate to the values of truth, non-violence, harmony and simplicity in life.Kurukshetra varsity VC takes chargeKurukshetra: Prof Som Nath Sachdeva assumed the office as the Vice Chancellor of Kurukshetra University on Tuesday. Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya, in his capacity as the KU Chancellor, has appointed Prof Sachdeva for a three-year term. He has academic and administrative experience of over 33 years. Earlier, he was working as head of civil engineering department at the NIT, Kurukshetra. While assuming the charge, Prof Sachdeva thanked the Governor and the Chief Minister for giving him the opportunity. He said he would work to enhance the employability of students through skill development as enshrined in the New Education Policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faculty-development-programme-169189
11-11-2020||Panipat||Hooch deaths: Mastermind among three more arrested||The SIT on Tuesday nabbed three persons, including a mastermind, in connection with the manufacture of spurious liquor at Naina Tatarpur in Sonepat district. The mastermind and his two partners were absconding since the hooch deaths.Total 48 persons had died in Panipat and Sonepat districts, eight of whom died in three Panipat villages — Dhansoli, Jhamba and Nanglapar.The accused were identified as Naresh, alias Nesha, of Naina Tatarpur, his partner Kuldeep of Ganjbar village in Panipat district and Mohit of Bapoli, a middleman between a liquor contractor in the Sanoli area and the spurious liquor manufacturers.There was a common chain of spurious liquor supply in Panipat and Sonepat districts and the spurious liquor manufactured at the illegal unit at Naina Tatarpur was supplied to Panipat villages as well.The SIT of the Sonepat police had unearthed two spurious liquor manufacturing units — one in Naina Tatarpur village and the other at Kharkhoda — last Thursday.Interrogation revealed that the illegal unit at Naina Tatarpur was being run by Naresh, Kuldeep, Ajit of Sitwali, Vicky and Mandeep and liquor was manufactured at the house of Vijay Kumar, a government teacher. The Sonepat police had arrested Ajit and Vicky. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooch-deaths-mastermind-among-three-more-arrested-169071
11-11-2020||Parveen Arora||Pace of work slow, deadline of Karnal sugar mill extended again||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 10The deadline for the completion of the new Karnal co-operative sugar mill project, costing around Rs 270 crore, has been extended by the district administration to March 2021. Earlier, the project was supposed to be completed by October 25, but due to the ‘slow pace of work’ and later the Covid-induced lockdown, the company has been able to complete only 40 per cent work so far.“Due to the lockdown, there were several restrictions, along with shortage of labour, due to which the company was not able to complete the work. The company has sought an extension of six months, but we have fixed end of March 2021 as the deadline to complete the project,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner (DC).It was a long-pending demand of the sugarcane farmers of the area. At present, an old mill is working since 1977, which develops technical snags every year, leading to delay in crushing. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had laid the foundation stone for the new Karnal co-operative sugar mill on January 20, 2018.“The new mill will be computerised and produce 15MW electricity. The crushing capacity of the mill will be increased from existing 2,200 tonne crushed per day (TCD) to 3,500 TCD. There will be a provision to increase the capacity to 5,000 TCD,” the DC added. The new mill will also reduce the sugar loss to 1.8 per cent from the existing 2.5 per cent per quintal. Besides, it will also increase the sugar recovery to 11 per cent from the existing 10.87 per cent, he maintained.The DC further said the new crushing season would start from November 10 in the old mill and in March the new mill would be functional. The crushing season this year would help in testing the new mill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pace-of-work-slow-deadline-of-karnal-sugar-mill-extended-again-169068
11-11-2020||Gurugram||2 policemen suspended for negligence||Two cops, including an SHO, have been suspended for laxity in adding relevant sections to the FIR in an accident case.  Alok Gupta (49), CFO at Integreon India Private Limited, was killed in an accident on the Golf Course Road here in the wee hours of August 23. His bike was allegedly hit by a speeding car, being driven by a minor. The victim was on his way to Greater Noida. The police had registered a case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC. Later, Section 304 (II) was added, and parents of the minor driver were also booked.  But the family of the deceased alleged that the Section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) was not added in the FIR on purpose. The family demonstrated on the city roads. Police Commissioner KK Rao on Monday suspended Aman Beniwal, SHO of DLF Phase 2 police station, and SIHari Om, the investigating officer, for negligence in handling the case. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-policemen-suspended-for-negligence-169061
11-11-2020||Our Correspondent
||Woman found dead, live-in partner booked||Gurugram, November 10 A woman was found dead at her rented accommodation in Ashok Vihar here on Tuesday, the police have said. The deceased has been identified as Naina Sunawar (41), a native of West Bengal. She was in a live-in relationship with a chow mein seller Bharat, alias Sagar Thapa, a native of Nepal. As he has been missing, the needle of suspicion points towards him. He has been booked for Naina’s murder. The couple had moved in the rented accommodation in Ashok Vihar a month ago. The house owner, a retired Sub-Inspector, said the couple’s portion on the first floor was locked for the past one week and he assumed that they couple had gone out of station.  On Tuesday morning, when an unbearable stench came from the first floor, he became suspicious and called the police. On breaking open the door, the police found the woman’s body wrapped in a blanket. A cloth was wrapped around her neck. The police said she was strangled. On the house owner’s complaint, a case was registered against Bharat under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (hiding the evidence) of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-found-dead-live-in-partner-booked-169062
11-11-2020||ibune News Service
||Unauthorised structures razed in Yamunanagar residential area||Yamunanagar, November 10 A demolition drive was carried out today by a team of District Town Planner (DTP), Yamunanagar, in a newly carved out unauthorised residential colony in the revenue estate of Damla village of Yamunanagar district.  Amit Madholia, DTP, said the area of the colony was 5 acres, where 20 damp proof courses and 10 boundary walls were demolished. The team comprised Madholia, Assistant Town Planner Dinesh Singh and junior engineer Ravinder Kumar.  “People should not invest their hard-earned money in unauthorised colonies and they should contact the DTP office for any enquiry before buying land,” said Madholia. He said action would be taken against persons, who carved out unauthorised colonies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unauthorised-structures-razed-in-yamunanagar-residential-area-169063
11-11-2020||Yamunanagar||11 head of cattle rescued||The police have rescued 11 heads of cattle from the possession of smugglers in Yamunanagar district. The cattle were loaded in a canter and were allegedly being taken to Uttar Pradesh for slaughtering. On the complaint of Surender Pal, Sub-Inspector, Cow Rakshak Staff, a case was registered against two unknown persons under Section 11 of the PCA Act yesterday. The police were patrolling near toll plaza of Milk Majra village on Sunday. “We saw a canter coming from Ambala. When we chased the vehicle, but the driver and one more occupant escaped. We rescued cattle from the vehicle,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-head-of-cattle-rescued-169064
11-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court calls for action against ‘big fish’ to check drug menace||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10In a judgment liable to change the way drug suppliers are proceeded against, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has called for action against the “big fish”. The Bench made it clear that the “big fish” or the suppliers escaped the net, while only the carriers of the contraband were apprehended.Unless the suppliers were hauled up and necessary information obtained regarding the network, the menace of drug trafficking would not be brought under control, the High Court asserted.The petitioner was seeking pre-arrest bail in an FIR registered on October 20 for an offence under the provisions of the NDPS Act at the Ratia police station in Fatehabad distrct. Justice HS Madaan observed the petitioner was said to be a supplier of contraband recovered from the possession of an accused.Justice Madaan asserted it was noticed most of the times only the carriers were apprehended, whereas “big fish” or the suppliers escaped arrest or managed to avoid custodial interrogation on the plea that their names did not figure in the FIR and no recovery was effected from them.Since the investigating agency did not get an opportunity for the supplier’s custodial interrogation, further lead regarding the contraband’s procurement by him and its supply thereafter could not be obtained. As a result, the drug cartels did not get smashed.“Such suppliers came up with straight faces, stating that they have nothing to do with the recovery and their involvement in the crime may not be taken by not considering the statement of the co-accused actually found in possession of the contraband,” Justice Madaan stated.Though an argument was advanced on the petitioner’s behalf that he was not named in the FIR and no recovery had been effected from him, Justice Madaan maintained the court found little merit in the contention. The FIR was not a substantive piece of evidence and its only purpose was to set the criminal machinery in motion. The investigating agency probed the matter during the investigation after the FIR’s registration and found out whether cognisable offence was disclosed against the accused.Justice Madaan added the argument that the statement by a co-accused was inadmissible and without merit. Such disclosure statement could certainly be taken into consideration for providing lead in the investigation. Even during the trial, it was admissible under Section 30 of the Indian Evidence Act.Dismissing the petition, Justice Madaan added the petitioner’s custodial interrogation was definitely necessary to find out the source of poppy straw and to whom it was to be supplied. His customers’ names were also to be found out. Denial of custodial interrogation would leave loose ends and gaps in the probe.Suppliers escape custodial interrogation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-calls-for-action-against-big-fish-to-check-drug-menace-169065
11-11-2020||
||1 IAS, 3 IPS, 2 HCS officers transferred||Chandigarh November 10 The Haryana Government has issued the transfer orders of one IAS, three IPS and two HCS officers. Among IPS officers, Naazneen Bhasin, SP/RTC Bhondsi, has been given additional charge of SP/SVB. Rajesh Duggal, SP, Kurukshetra, has been posted as SP, Jhajjar.  Himanshu Garg, SP, Jhajjar, has been posted as SP, Kuruksheta. Among HCS officers, Mamta, SDM, Ambala Cantonment, has been given additional charge of Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Excised Area, Ambala Cantonment. Gagandeep Singh, Joint Director (administration), Information, Public Relations and Languages Department, has been given additional charge of Secretary, Housing Board, Panchkula. Meanwhile, G Anupama, Secretary to Governor, and Principal Secretary, Department of Forests and Wildlife, has also been appointed as the nodal officer for the International Gita Mahotsav-2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-ias-3-ips-2-hcs-officers-transferred-169066
11-11-2020||---||Northern areas of Haryana neglected: Nirmal Singh||Ambala, November 10Accusing political parties of ignoring north Haryana, Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) leader Nirmal Singh on Tuesday said the area, with 27 MLAs, had been a victim of neglect for five decades.Addressing a workers’ meeting on the first foundation day of his outfit, he said there had been considerable discrimination in terms of employment and development.He inaugurated his party office and launched a campaign for the upcoming MC elections. The HDF is the first outfit to introduce its mayoral candidate — Amisha Chawla.“We will make a strong entry in the municipal council, zila parishad and municipal corporation elections and thereafter, contest the Assembly and Lok Sabha elections,” Nirmal said.Nirmal said the youth wing and women’s wing were being formed with the aim of activating the HDF throughout Haryana. He asked workers to get ready for local body elections and start campaigning||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/northern-areas-of-haryana-neglected-nirmal-singh-169067
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Poll expenditure limit for MC members up||The Haryana State Election Commission has revised the poll expenditure limit for Mayor and the members of municipal corporations, councils and committees.  As per the revised limits, the maximum election expenditure of the Mayor has been increased from Rs 20,00,000 to Rs 22,00,000 and that of a municipal corporation member from Rs 5,00,000 to Rs 5,50,000. Similarly, the limit of a member of the municipal council and municipal committee has been increased from Rs 3,00,000 to Rs 3,30,000 and from Rs 2,00,000 to Rs 2,25,000, respectively.  The State Election Commission has directed that if a candidate fails to submit the accounts of expenditure incurred by him/her for the poll within the prescribed time limit of one month, it shall declare him/her to be disqualified, may be for a period of five years from the date of the order. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poll-expenditure-limit-for-mc-members-up-169046
11-11-2020||Tribune New Service
||Ambala hospital starts facility for paediatric blood disorders||Ambala, November 10 The paediatric haematology-oncology facility has begun at the Civil Hospital in Ambala Cantonment. It has become the first town in the state to have a public sector facility to cure paediatric cancer, thalassaemia and other blood disorders in children. Dr Kuldeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, said the new facility was formally launched with the posting of Dr Vaneet, a paediatric haematology-oncologist who had come from Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Hospital in Delhi. “With this, paediatric blood disorder, cancer and thalassaemia patients will no longer have to rush to Chandigarh or other places for treatment,” he said. He disclosed that a four-year-old girl suffering from low haemoglobin and enlarged liver and spleen was the first patient to report at the facility. “As per the patient’s requirement, a bone marrow aspiration and biopsy for diagnosis and management was successfully performed at the new facility,”  the Civil Surgeon added. According to official figures, at least 30 toddlers suffering from paediatric blood disorder, cancer and thalassaemia had been reported at various health facilities in the district in the past couple of months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-hospital-starts-facility-for-paediatric-blood-disorders-169047
11-11-2020||
||Signature drive launched for district status to Naraingarh||Ambala, November 10 Struggling to get district status for Naraingarh subdivision of Ambala, the Zila Banao Sanyukta Sangharsh Samiti has launched a signature campaign and has set a target to get at least 21,000 signs in support of its demand.  The movement initially started in 2013 but the samiti failed to get its demand fulfilled, though several political leaders extended their support to it during the elections but later it found no political backing.  Sadeek Chauhan, samiti convener, said: “There are two blocks — Naraingarh and Shahzadpur — under the subdivision and 187 villages. For every administrative work, the residents of Naraingarh are forced to travel for over 40 km to reach Ambala city. The subdivision has infrastructure, including a Mini-Secretariat, court, a civil hospital and grain markets. By giving it district status, the government can ensure better development. It will be beneficial for the locals if the status is upgraded. It will also save a lot of time and money, which is consumed in travelling.” Chauhan said: “There are more than 1.80 lakh voters in Naraingarh. To garner more support, we have launched a signature campaign. The samiti activists will go from village to village to make people aware and get their signatures. Local Congress MLA Shalley Chaudhary has also extended her support to our demand and has sent a letter to the Chief Minister.”  The samiti claimed that there were nearly 60 villages, including 24 of Sadhaura (Yamunangar), 14 of Mullana (Ambala) and 20 Panchkula, in the range of 5 to 15 km of Naraingarh, but were over 30 km far from their respective district headquarters. If such villages are included, Naraingarh can also become a district.  They said besides submitting the memorandums to the CM, they had met Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala twice and as per his directions, they had submitted a copy of the memorandum, along with the details of population and villages that can be included in Naraingarh to make it a district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/signature-drive-launched-for-district-status-to-naraingarh-169048
11-11-2020||Parveen Arora||NDRI works on animal immunity||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 10Scientists of the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) have achieved another milestone in improving the immunity of the livestock to a great extent.Scientists have conducted research on five projects funded by the Department of Biotechnology, New Delhi, on the first line of defence cells (neutrophils) of livestock for around 12 years.During this research, the scientists worked on calving stress, as well as on mastitis, metritis diseases, and other disease-related aspects. They also found that neutrophils are capable of detecting the presence of sperms during insemination as well as an implantation of embryo in the female reproductive tract. Besides, they have isolated blood and milk neutrophils from healthy and diseased animals, on which further studies are being carried out, the director added.“Amid Covid crisis, we always talk about immunity. In case of animals, we treat them with the use of apophatic medicine, but the immunity aspects are very important. Our scientists have already initiated work and achieved success also. Supplementation of antioxidants, including vitamin A, E and trace minerals (zinc) have been found to increase the immunity of animals,” Dr MS Chauhan, Director, NDRI, said.He said the immunity enhancement had reduced mortality rate by 20-25 per cent. Besides, it will further increase milk production, improve health and ensure timely calving.Dr Ajay Dang, principal scientist, lactation and immunophysiology laboratory, who has conducted the research, said neutrophils were the first line of cellular defence against invading microorganism.“During an infection, neutrophils can quickly move through the walls of blood vessels and into the tissues of the body to immediately attack or monitor the foreign organisms. Neutrophils help to heal damaged tissues and resolve infections. Their levels in blood increase naturally in response to infection, injuries and other types of stress in dairy animals.” “We have seen that at calving, when the animal is under stress, there is an increase in immature neutrophils and their killing capacity of bacteria also decreases mastitis etc,” Dr Dang added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ndri-works-on-animal-immunity-169049
11-11-2020||---||Cases against roadways staff to be reviewed||Chandigarh, November 10 Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma has said a letter has been written to the District Attorney to review cases registered against Haryana Roadways employeesunder the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) when they were on strike. He announced this at a meeting with several Haryana Roadways employees’ unions here on Tuesday. Another decision taken at the meeting was that employees could avail an accident insurance facility of up to Rs 35 lakh by opening their salary account with HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, and the State Bank of India. Besides, in case of natural death, the family of the deceased employee will get an insurance of Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cases-against-roadways-staff-to-be-reviewed-169050
11-11-2020||Rohtak||New fee structure a setback to medical education: Teachers||The medical fraternity, comprising of faculty members, students and voluntary social organisations in the realm of healthcare services in Haryana, have opposed the revised fee structure for the MBBS course and introduction of seven-year bond and demanded its immediate withdrawal in the larger interest. At a meeting organised in Rohtak today, all members of the Haryana State Medical Teachers Association (HSMTA) unanimously opposed the state’s move and termed it “an irrational decision which would prove to be a setback to medical education, especially for students of lower and middle income families who aspire to become doctors”. Dr RB Jain, HSMTA president, said the move seemed to be a conspiracy to derail the provision of medical education in the state and should be withdrawn forthwith. Jan Swasthaya Abhiyan, Haryana, has also decried the unprecedented hike in the fees of MBBS and postgraduate courses at state-run medical colleges in Haryana. “There are nearly 800 MBBS seats in government medical colleges in Haryana. The state government cannot provide jobs to so many young doctors every year. Hence, the parents of passouts will have to repay the bond amount from their own pocket, which will be a massive financial burden for them,” said Dr RS Dahiya, convener of the organisation. The MBBS students at the PGIMS, Rohtak, and other medical colleges/institutes across the state have also opposed the unjustified fee hike and imposition of bonds involving a hefty amount. Meanwhile, parents have termed the government’s move as a “Tughlaqi farmaan” and said they planned to move the court against it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-fee-structure-a-setback-to-medical-education-teachers-169051
11-11-2020||Rohtak||Rohtak MC’s plan to run CNG buses fails to take off||The Rohtak Municipal Corporation’s plan to run CNG buses in the city to facilitate residents and check air pollution has failed to take off. As of now, thousands of auto-rickshaws cater to the residents for local commute. Though the auto-rickshaws provide easily available and cost-effective travel, these pollute the air and cause traffic snarls too. Plying of e-rickshaws in the recent past has come as an eco-friendly alternative, but their number is miniscule as compared to that of the auto-rickshaws. In the given circumstances, introduction of the CNG city buses could have been a welcome step, but the officials concerned concede it had hit a roadblock even before its launch. “As of now, there is no proposal or project work in progress on the ground to operate CNG buses in Rohtak,” said Joginder Singh Rawal, General Manager, Haryana Roadways, Rohtak. Mayor Manmohan Goyal said the contractor to whom the project had been assigned had failed to take it forward. “He has been served a notice for the cancellation of the contract. Fresh tendering process will now be started.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-mcs-plan-to-run-cng-buses-fails-to-take-off-169052
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||It’s verdict on farm laws: Selja||State Congress president Kumari Selja on Tuesday termed the victory as people’s verdict on the performance of the BJP-JJP government. She said people of Baroda had delivered a verdict on the three farm laws.“People have refused the favours of free LPG cylinders, liquor and cash offered by the ruling coalition. Voters have not only shown that they are against the farm laws, but have also given a verdict on the performance of the BJP-JJP government,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/its-verdict-on-farm-laws-selja-169053
11-11-2020||Sonepat||NOTA gets 468 votes||Congress candidate Induraj Narwal opened his account with a lead of 1,021 votes in the first round of counting. BJP’s Yogeshwar Dutt took the lead in the 12th, 15th, 18th and 19th rounds, but he couldn’t make the cut. In all, 468 voters chose NOTA.  As it became clear by afternoon that Narwal would win, Congress supporters started celebrating. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nota-gets-468-votes-169054
11-11-2020||Sushil Manav||Baroda  bypoll: Embarrassment for BJP-JJP govt||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10With victory in the Baroda bypoll on Tuesday, the Congress has been able to retain former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s bastion, which the party had won on the three consecutive elections since 2009.Congress candidate Induraj Narwal’s victory over BJP’s Yogeshwar Dutt by over 10,000 votes is being considered as a shot in the arm for the party in general and Hooda and his MP-son Deepender Hooda in particular.The result is being considered a big embarrassment for the BJP because byelections in Haryana have generally gone in favour of ruling parties in the past.Losing a bypoll when four years of the government are left must be particularly discomforting for the ruling BJP-JJP alliance since it has a lot to offer to the electorate, but failed to convince them to elect its candidate.In January last year, when hardly nine months of the BJP government were left, its candidate Krishan Middha was able to win the bypoll for the Jind seat by defeating stalwarts like Randeep Surjewala and Digvijay Chautala though the saffron party had never won the seat before.For Dutt, the defeat must be particularly upsetting because he lost twice in just over a year. He lost to Sri Krishan Hooda in the Assembly elections in October 2019.This time, he was also supported by the JJP, whose candidate Bhupinder Malik had secured the third position in 2019.In 2019, Dutt and Malik had together polled over 70,000 votes against 42,566 votes by the Congress nominee. This time, Dutt could manage to poll 49,850 votes against Narwal’s 60,367.The Congress, often plagued by infighting, was seen putting up a united face this time, with state unit chief Kumari Selja, AICC in charge Vivek Bansal, Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry and others chipping in.Another good thing about this bypoll was that though caste politics had become an integral part of Haryana politics, none of the main contenders tried to whip up the caste sentiment in the run-up to the election.While the BJP harped on development works done so far, the Congress raised issue of alleged anti-farmer policies of the BJP-JJP government.Like the 2019 poll, this bypoll again proved disappointing for the INLD since its candidate Joginder Singh Malik could manage just 5,003 votes.Khattar govt has lost people’s trust: HoodaRohtak: Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Tuesday stated that the result indicated that people were fed up of the BJP-JJP government. "The result is a no-confidence motion passed by voters against the ruling coalition. The wave of change will sweep the entire state and reach Chandigarh in due course,” Hooda said at a press meet. The Congress leader claimed the BJP-JJP combine had misused government machinery. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/baroda-bypoll-embarrassment-for-bjp-jjp-govt-169055
11-11-2020||Ravinder Saini
||Pay fee or name off rolls, 5,000 school students told||Tribune News Service Mahendragarh, November 10 Private schools in the district have started issuing notices to strike off names of students for not depositing fee in the past six months. As per sources, over 5,000 students have been sent such notices through WhatsApp and text messages, asking them to deposit fee at the earliest to avoid action. “We have no option but to strike off names of students who have not deposited a single rupee in the past six months, but are attending online classes. Their parents have been given the option to deposit a part of the fee so that salary of teachers can be paid,” said the owner of a private school. He said they understood the crisis faced by daily wagers and small businessmen, but even those working in the government sector or having sound financial background were not depositing fee. “Only 20 per cent students have deposited a part of the fee. Parents are not being forced to make full payment, but whatever they can,” said the owner of another school. He stated more than 50 schools in Narnaul, Mahendragarh, Ateli, Nangal Choudhary and Kanina had issued warning notices to over 5,000 students. “Many parents used to deposit the fee for the previous session at the time of admission to the next class. This year, they did not pay fee arrears due to imposition of lockdown at the time of admissions for this session,” he added. District Education Officer Sunil Dutt said students attending classes online or offline were bound to pay tuition fee. He denied receipt of any complaint regarding issuance of notices to strike off names.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pay-fee-or-name-off-rolls-5-000-school-students-told-169056
11-11-2020||---||38 cartons of liquor seized in Faridabad; 1 held||Faridabad, November 10The police have recovered 38 cartons of the country-made liquor meant to be supplied illegally in the city and arrested a man, who is reportedly a liquor supplier.The accused was identified as Birpal (45), a native of Bihar. He was produced in court on Tuesday and sent to judicial custody.Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Adarshdeep Singh said Birpal, who was riding a scooter, was intercepted in Navin Nagar here on Monday night. Four cartons of liquor and Rs 82,300 were seized from him.His interrogation led to the recovery of another 34 cartons — 24 from his car and 10 from his house, the ACP said.A police official said Birpal’s nephews Gyanender and Jaiveer were also involved in the illegal supply of liquor. “A hunt has been launched to arrest them,” he added.Gyanender and Jaiveer face 10 cases under the Excise Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/38-cartons-of-liquor-seized-in-faridabad-1-held-169057
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||16 casualties; 2,546 cases in Haryana||Sixteen persons died due to Covid in the last 24 hours. With 2,546 new cases, the tally crossed the 1.88 lakh mark on Tuesday. Four deaths were reported from Faridabad, three each from Gurugram, Sirsa and Bhiwani, two from Fatehabad and one from Jind. So far, 1,935 patients had succumbed to the virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/16-casualties-2-546-cases-in-haryana-169058
11-11-2020||
||Land registration in urban areas to become hassle-free||Chandigarh, November 10 The land registration in urban areas across the state is set to be fast-tracked. With the Haryana Government appointing district-wise nodal officers for facilitating the issuance of no-objection certificate (NOC) under Section 7A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975, for property transactions, the registration of land deals in urban areas would soon become “hassle-free”. Sources said the nodal officers would “hand hold” the applicants right from the application stage and would be responsible for getting the NOC under Section 7A of the Act for any property transaction. To check the mushrooming of unauthorised constructions, the registration authority insists on NOC under Section 7 from the competent authority, primarily Town and Country Planning Department, for any sale/lease of land in the notified urban areas in the state. At a recent meeting, it was decided that the competent authority must decide on NOC within 15 days. If the NOC was not decided within 15 days, it would be deemed be approved after 15 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/land-registration-in-urban-areas-to-become-hassle-free-169060
11-11-2020||Mahesh SharmaMandi Ahmedgarh||Sex-determination tests: Police reopen probe into mobile scan centre case||The Sadar police have reinitiated probe into a first-of-its-kind mobile scan centre that has been affecting the gender ratio of Punjab and Haryana by conducting sex determination tests by the road.While a tout of the scan centre was nabbed by a joint team of senior functionaries of the Health and Family Welfare Departments of Punjab and Haryana, the kingpin of the gang succeeded in giving the cops the slip.The arrested accused had also fled from the police custody following which two cops, Gupreet Kaur and Sukhwinder Singh, were booked for facilitating her escape. The accused, identified as Kamaljit Kaur of Maholi Khurd, has now been arrested again, hence the probe reinitiated.Investigations revealed that the authorities at Hisar in Haryana had observed that organisers of a mobile scan centre of Ahmedgarh had been upsetting their ‘Save the Girl’ campaign by conducting sex-determination tests of expectant mothers through a network of touts.A team of Hisar health authorities led by Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Anamika Bishnoi persuaded a decoy customer who contacted Kamaljit Kaur on the phone to get the test done for Rs 25,000.The Haryana team coordinated with the Deputy Director, Health and Family Welfare Department, Punjab, following which a team of health officials from Sangrur was constituted. Dr Ravinder Kaler, District Family Welfare Officer and PNDT coordinator, led the Punjab Health Department team.An FIR was registered on the statement of Civil Surgeon Dr Raj Kumar. Accused Kamaljit Kaur had taken the decoy customer to a Verna car on her bike and received Rs 25,000, which was paid to the driver of the car-cum-operator of the scanner. The co-accused, yet to be identified, took the decoy customer to Sangrur and conducted her test after parking the car by the road. The gender of the foetus was told to the woman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sex-determination-tests-police-reopen-probe-into-mobile-scan-centre-case-168947
11-11-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Hooda loyalist Narwal wins with big margin||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10The Congress today retained the Baroda Assembly seat with its party candidate Induraj Narwal defeating BJP-JJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt with a margin of 10,566 votes. In 2019, Congress candidate Sri Krishan Hooda had won by over 4,800 votes. The outcome underlines the sway of the father-son duo — Congress Legislature Party leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda — in the Jat belt. The verdict can also be interpreted as Baroda voters’ rejection of the post-poll BJP-JJP alliance.The BJP-driven farm laws seem to have been the party’s undoing and the JJP’s “Jat party” tag appears to have lost some sheen since the Assembly elections last year. This is evident from the fact that the BJP had polled 37,000 votes in the last election and the JJP, then contesting on its own, 32,000 votes. However, the Baroda byelection was contested jointly by the two parties but Dutt got 50,070 votes. The votes moved away from the BJP-JJP and went into the Congress kitty.The verdict has come as a shot in the arm for the Congress, and more importantly for Hooda, who fought the election as his own and pulled off an impressive win for loyalist Narwal. The INLD, pushed to the fourth spot behind the LSP, a non-entity in Haryana politics, has suffered a setback to its image.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-loyalist-narwal-wins-with-big-margin-168924
11-11-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||In Faridabad, cellphone bank for needy students||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, November 10To attend online classes, borrowing a mobile phone from neighbours was the only option for 15-year-old Rani. She lost her father a couple of years back. Her mother, who works as a labourer, barely earns enough to make both ends meet.Buying a smartphone was out of question for Rani, a student of Class X of a government school here. But today she walked home smiling, courtesy a mobile phone bank set up by the District Elementary Education Office (DEEO) to help underprivileged students.While the department distributed 20 cellphones among needy students, another 120 are expected to be given soon under this initiative. Ritu Chaudhary, District Elementary Education Officer, said the first lot of mobile phones was arranged by roping in teachers and NGOs. “We are accepting both used and new devices for distribution among the needy students. With this initiative, we aim to help as many students as possible,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-faridabad-cellphone-bank-for-needy-students-168927
