11-10-2020||---||Police arrest woman friend of Hisar trader who faked his death||Hisar, October 11The police on Sunday arrested a woman friend of trader Ram Mehar who is accused of fabricating his death and allegedly killing co-villager Ramlu at Data village in the district.The police arrested Sunita, a resident of Hansi town, and produced her in the court which sent her to five-day police remand for further interrogation.The police today raided factory in Barwala town and seized some documents. An official said the police will send samples of charred skeleton recovered from the burnt car for matching the DNA with mother of Ramlu to establish the identity of the victim.Meanwhile, the family members of Ramlu have demanded strict action and addition of SC/ST Act in the case against Ram Mehar besides murder charges. Ram Mehar faked his death and burnt down his car after allegedly killing Ramlu on October 6.The police investigation revealed that Ram Mehar committed the crime as he was under heavy debt of around Rs 1.5 crore. He hatched the conspiracy to escape the debt and got himself insured for Rs 1.6 crore from two insurance firms so that the amount can be claimed after his purported death. The police arrested Ram Mehar from Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh and brought him to Hansi police station where he under in police custody for six days.
11-10-2020||Kurukshetra (Haryana)||Hooda lashes out at Haryana govt over lack of arrangements in mandis||Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday lashed out at the state government over alleged lack of proper arrangements in the mandis during the current crop procurement season.“There is total collapse of the mandis (grain markets) in the state as there are no purchases, no MSP for farmers, no gunny bags to pack whatever crops arrive, no gate passes, no lifting and no payment to farmers who sell their crops,” the Congress leader alleged.Hooda, who is Leader of the Opposition in the state, said, “It appears as if the government has made up its mind to harass not only the farmers but all those who are involved in the broader agricultural ecosystem.”        The Congress leader was interacting with farmers, farm labourers and traders in grain markets in Shahabad, Pipli, Panipat and Samalkha after receiving complaints from farmers, a statement said.Hooda, who reached Pipli after a visit to Shahabad, alleged there is total chaos and government neglect is visible everywhere in the grain markets.“It seems as if the ‘Annadata’ (farmer) is being intentionally harassed because farmers are lining up to sell their paddy but the government has not even been able to run the official portal (Meri Fasal Mera Byora), even two weeks after the procurement process began,” he said.“Sometimes, the portal stops running and sometimes the farmers are being harassed in the name of excessive crop moisture. Farmers have been camping in mandis for many days, but their crops are not being purchased. Farmers are forced to put their yellow gold (paddy) on the road,” he added.Hooda claimed the government has been able to purchase barely 5 to 10 per cent of the crop that has arrived in the mandis.“This has led to a situation where the farmer is selling his crop to private agencies at whatever price they are offering,” the former CM said.He further said the farmers whose paddy crop has been purchased by the government have not been paid yet.“The government should buy paddy, millet, maize and cotton as soon as possible. Not only this, the government should compensate farmers who have sold their crops under compulsion at a low rate,” Hooda demanded.By implementing three new agricultural laws, “the government has allowed private agencies to loot the farmers”, he said.“These agencies are taking advantage of the chaos and disorder in mandis and are buying the paddy of the farmer at Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 per quintal, which is much below the MSP while maize farmers are being forced to sell at Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,200 per quintal. Millet and cotton farmers are facing a similar fate,” he said.Hitting out at the ruling BJP, he said if their leaders have to see the reality, then they should come to the mandis and talk to the farmers. PTI
11-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Jail warden, aide held for supplying drugs in Bhondsi jail||Unearthing a racket involving supply of drugs inside the Bhondsi jail in Gurugram, a crime branch team of the district police arrested two accused, including the jail warden, and recovered 110 grams of sulfa and 24 grams of smack from their possession.The accused jail warden has been identified as Prem Chand, a resident of Mahendragarh district in Haryana. The second accused was identified as Ankit of Rewari district.According to the police, the accused were intercepted by the crime branch of DLF phase-4 police station near the Bhondsi jail after a tipoff on Saturday night.The police recovered 110 grams of sulfa and 24 gm smack from the jail warden. They were booked under relevant sections of the NDPS Act at the Sector-65 police station here.ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan told reporters on Sunday that during interrogation, Ankit revealed that he used to supply the contraband to another accused Deepak alias Deepu, through the jail warden, who was lodged in the Bhondsi jail and around 10 cases of Arms Act, snatching and NDPS Act were registered against him.Deepak had established a network in the jail for distributing drugs to the inmates. He used to make the demand for drugs to his brother Dharambir alias Moto on the phone.“Dharambir had handed over the contraband to Ankit, thereafter he had supplied the drugs to the jail warden,” Sangwan said, adding that, it was the responsibility of Prem Chand to supply the drugs inside the jail and handed over to Deepak but before that he was arrested,” he said.“The arrested culprits will be interrogated to unearth the whole racket,” Sangwan added. IANS
11-10-2020||Aditi Tandon||Congress announces Bihar poll panels; Surjewala to head election management and coordination committee||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 11Congress General Secretary and former Haryana minister Randeep Singh Surjewala was on Sunday named chairperson of the party’s election management and coordination committee for the three-phase Bihar Assembly polls starting October 28.Surjewala will chair the 14-member panel which has among members former Speaker Meira Kumar, former minister Subodh Kant Sahay and star campaigners for the state Shatrughan Sinha and Kirti Azad.The panel also features CWC member Tariq Anwar, former AICC General Secretary Shakeel Ahmed and ex Haryana minister Ajay Yadav.Surjewala’s ascent in the Congress is being closely watched by insiders since his multiple elevations in the only comprehensive party reshuffle Congress president Sonia Gandhi effected after the 2019 Lok Sabha loss recently.Surjewala was named CWC member, General Secretary Karnataka and member of the compact panel to advise the Congress chief.A long-time head of media department, Surjewala continues in his role as communications planner for the party, currently handling a range of responsibilities amid anticipation of the elevation of Rahul Gandhi as chief any time that suits the Congress first family.Surjewala’s closeness to Sonia, Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi has catapulted him to an envious position in the grand old party’s hierarchy where several leaders are jostling each other for space.The former Kaithal MLA, who contested two Assembly elections at the behest of Rahul and lost, is seen as a diehard family loyalist who could well carve a place for himself in the leadership race of Haryana where former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda presently has a tight influence on elected lawmakers.Sonia also named five other panels for Bihar polls today, including panels for publicity, media, and legal affairs.
11-10-2020||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Modi interacts with Yamunanagar’s mason during distribution of property cards||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, October 11Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday interacted with mason Mumtaj Ali of Tugalpur village of Yamunanagar district via video conferencing during the launch of the property distribution card under the ‘SVAMITVA’ scheme.The Prime Minister today launched the distribution of property cards to property owners of about 763 villages of the country under the ‘SVAMITVA’ (ownership) scheme and Mumtaj Ali was one such beneficiary of the scheme.Answering the questions of the Prime Minister, Mumtaj Ali appreciated the SVAMITVA scheme and said: “Before the launch of the scheme, when a person started construction work of his house in the village, a dispute arose among people due to the absence of any kind of ownership records or demarcation of ‘abadi’ land (populated area or Laldora area). But this system will put a check on disputes.”Mumtaj further told the Prime Minister that he was a mason and he would now procure a loan to buy shuttering plates, used to put concrete slabs in houses.“I am a mason. I have got the right to ownership of my house. A bank has invited me to issue a loan of Rs 3 lakh to me. With this amount of loan, I will start a new work of shuttering plates, which will help me to grow in life,” said Mumtaj.When Modi exhorted him to provide education to his children, he promised the Prime Minister to continue the education of his children. He told him that he was already providing education to his children.“Sir, I am already providing education to my children. My son is studying in Class 11 and my daughter is studying in Class 12. I will continue the education of my children and will not force them to adopt the profession of masonry,” Mumtaj assured the Prime Minister.Sumeet Gupta, district media convener of the BJP, said this scheme aimed to provide the “record of rights” to village household owners. He added that this scheme would pave the way for villagers to use property as a financial asset for taking loans and other financial benefits.
11-10-2020||Sanjay YadavOctober 11||Meham MLA, brother booked in Rs 14-crore cheating case||Meham MLA Balraj Kundu, brother Shivraj, and two officials of a construction company have been booked in a Rs 14-crore cheating case registered in Gurugram's sector 50.The duo, along with officials Mohammad Hashim and VK Lamba, has been booked under Sections 420, 467, 468, and 506 of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of Parivartan Singh.Singh has alleged that the accused had given him a road construction project of Rs 75 crore in Madhya Pradesh."I started work on September 26, 2017, and completed about 55 per cent of the project till September 2020. My company sent bills worth Rs 41 crore to KCC Buildcon, the company owned by Kundu, but received payment of only Rs 27 crore. I had urged the four to release the remaining Rs 14 crore several times, but they refused, " said Singh.He alleged that Kundu used his status and power to threaten him with dire consequences."A case was filed on late Saturday night under the IPC. A probe into the matter is on," said Surender Singh, SHO of Sector 50 police station.Kundu hit back, saying the fresh FIR, like another one lodged against him in January, was due to “political considerations” and that he had been raising his voice against the BJP-led government in Haryana on various issues.The complainant has alleged that Kundu’s firm did not make a payment of over Rs 13 crore, which it owed to the complainant in connection with a road-construction project in Madhya Pradesh.He has also alleged that Kundu’s firm had got a contract for the project, which was allotted to him for completion and for which an agreement was made.The complainant has claimed that the work on the project started over three years ago and bills worth over Rs 40 crore were sent to Kundu’s firm, but so far, payments of only about Rs 27 crore have been received.He has alleged that the remaining payment is not being made to him.The police said a cheating case under the relevant provisions of law has been registered and further investigations were under progress.Officials of the legislator’s firm have also been booked.Asked about the FIR against him, Kundu told reporters, “I have not been informed by the police about it, but I have learnt that a case has been lodged at Gurugram’s Sector 50 police station.”      “It is a same kind of case that was registered against me in Rohtak about nine-ten months ago when I had raised my voice on certain issues against this government.“The government cannot suppress my voice by such FIRs. I will continue to raise my voice to highlight its failures and corrupt practices,” he said.The MLA said the present case was registered “purely out of political considerations as had happened the last time as well”.“I and my company have been doing business for over 20 years, why no case or any kind of complaint was registered earlier? During the past few months, when I have started to raise my voice against this government, it is after me,” he added.Replying to a question, Kundu said he has been touring the Baroda Assembly constituency in Sonipat district, where bypolls are scheduled next month, and highlighting the alleged failures of the BJP-JJP dispensation.“Farmers, employees, labourers, youngsters, poor, name any section, all are against this dispensation. The BJP candidate will lose security deposit from Baroda. They know I am highlighting their failures in Baroda and they want to disturb and put pressure on me to silence my voice, but I will not remain silent,” he said.In January too, the Haryana Police had booked Kundu for allegedly cheating a Rohtak resident.The case, which also involved money matters in a business transaction, was registered under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) pertaining to cheating, conspiracy and criminal breach of trust.Kundu had then alleged that he was being framed in the case due to political vendetta at the behest of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader from the state, who is a former minister.“I have been raising my voice against corruption. Such false cases will not suppress my voice,” he had then told reporters in Rohtak.A former BJP leader, Kundu had successfully contested the Assembly polls in October, 2019 as an Independent from the Meham seat in Rohtak, after being denied a party nomination.In February, he had withdrawn support to the M L Khattar dispensation, saying he was “deeply hurt” with the government giving a “clean chit” in the sugar mills corruption he had flagged. With PTI
11-10-2020||---||Dumper, car collide in Barara, one dead||Ambala, October 10A man was killed when the car in which he was travelling, was hit by a dumper near grain market in Barara last night.The deceased has been identified as Gulzar Singh, a resident of Barara.In his complaint to the police, Sukhbir Singh, a resident of Barara, stated that he and Gulzar were partners in fish farming. Last evening, they were on their way to Barara from Adhoya Chowk. While Gulzar was in his car, Sukhbir was behind him on his two-wheeler. Around 7:15 pm, a dumper, which was coming from the wrong direction hit the car head-on, and went off road. Gulzar, who suffered head injuries, was rushed to a private hospital in Mullana, where he died while undergoing treatment.Meanwhile, the dumper driver managed to flee leaving his vehicle behind.A case was registered under Sections 279 and 304A, IPC, at the Barara police station today. They body was handed over to the family of the deceased after the postmortem.Meanwhile, bodies of Rahul of Shahabad-Markanda in Kurukshetra and Gaurav of Sadhaura in Yamunanagar, who were killed on the spot when the two-wheeler they were riding, collided with a dumper loaded with sand near the Ugala village chowk on the Barara-Shahabad road last night, were also handed over to their families today. A case was registered under Sections 279 and 304A, IPC, on the complaint of Gaurv’s uncle Pawan Kumar.The DSP, Barara, Rajnish Kumar, said, “Bodies of the victims of both the cases have been handed over to their respective families. The dumper involved in Gulzar’s case was empty. Efforts are on to nab drivers.”
11-10-2020||---||Mystery shrouds youth’s death in Ambala City||Ambala, October 10A 21-year-old youth died under mysterious circumstances in Ambala City today. The family of the deceased has accused his friends of killing him. The deceased has been identified as Sajan, alias Mogli, a resident of Kabir Nagar in Ambala City.Mother of the deceased, Rani, alleged that Sajan’s friends took him along last evening, but he didn’t return in the night. His friends left him outside their house in an unconscious condition early this morning. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Ambala City, where he was declared brought dead.The SHO, Baldev Nagar police station, Satya Narayan, said, “The family has shared names of Sajan’s friends. They have claimed that Manish and Rahul took Sajan along with them last evening and left him outside their house today morning. Their claims are being verified.”“There were no injury marks on the body. Some poisonous substance is suspected to be the cause of death. However, the exact reason will be clear in the postmortem report. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC on the complaint of family and the matter is being investigated,” the SHO added.
11-10-2020||Panchkula||Show-cause notice to Panchkula hospital||The management of Ojas Hospital is in the dock for allegedly selling more than 50 per cent of its share to Alchemist Hospital, thus violating terms and conditions of allotment.The Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has issued a show-cause notice to the Panchkula-based hospital and the management has been given 30 days to file a reply.According to the information, the HSVP Estate Officer issued the notice after a complaint was received against them alleging that they have sold 54 per cent shares to Alchemist Hospital. The notice stated that as per the terms and conditions of allotment, the original allottees shall retain at least 51 per cent shareholding in Ojas Medical Services Pvt Ltd.If a reply is not received in 30 days, the HSVP would initiate the further proceeding without any notice. — TNS
11-10-2020||Deepender Deswal||Hansi trader faked death by strangling villager||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 10The police on Saturday identified the body found in the car of the Hansi trader who had faked his own murder to claim insurance money.Insurance fraudLokender Singh, SP, said on October 6, accused Ram Mehar (35) of Data village offered drinks to a co-villager, identified as Ramlu (28). When Ramlu got drunk, Mehar allegedly strangled him. He placed the body inside his car and set it afire. Mehar then fled to Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh in another car.The SP said in a complaint, the accused’s family told the police that Mehar rang them up to inform that he was in danger as two robbers on a bike were chasing him.The police launched a search and found the car with a charred body inside it near Mahjat village on the intervening night of October 6 and 7.The officer said circumstantial evidence at the crime spot made the forensic experts suspicious about the incident. “Following a probe, we arrested the trader, who was staying with one of his former factory workers near Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh,” the SP said.The accused told the police that he suffered huge losses during the lockdown and was under a debt of about Rs 2 crore. He even contemplated suicide, but later hatched a conspiracy to fabricate his own death. He got himself insured for about Rs 1.60 crore in July.The SP said as per preliminary probe, Mehar was in touch with his two women friends after the incident, but he didn’t contact his family. A local court remanded him to police custody for seven days.
11-10-2020||Palwal||Staff crunch in Palwal hits campaign to curb farm fires||The Agriculture Department, which has been tasked with curbing stubble burning in the district, is facing acute staff shortage.“Against the sanctioned strength of 35 posts of Agriculture Development Officer (ADO) in the district, it has no ADO deputed at present,” said sources in the department.Grave situationAll 35 posts of Agriculture Development Officer in Palwal district have been lying vacantFive posts of Quality Control Inspector, four of Block Agriculture Officer and three of Technical Assistants, also lying vacantThe department is depending on 20 non-technical persons, appointed as supervisors on the DC rateBesides, all sanctioned five posts of Subject Matter Specialist (SMS) or Quality Control Inspector (QCI), four posts of Block Agriculture Officer (BAO), three posts of Technical Assistants, three posts of Statistical Assistant and one post of Assistant Statistical Officer (ASO) have been lying vacant for the past two to three years.The department is depending on 20 non-technical persons, appointed as supervisors on DC rate recently, for routine work, it is learnt.This has resulted in hurdles in carrying out any specific duty or the present drive of curbing stubble burning incidents in the region, it is claimed.Meanwhile, with 10 incidents of stubble burning reported so far and as many as nine farmers fined amounts ranging from Rs 2,500 and Rs 15,000 on Friday by the district administration for burning paddy stubble, DC Naresh Narwal has written to all the sarpanches, village panchayats and numberdars to ensure that no stubble burning incidents take place in the district.He has warned of action against the sarpanches under the provisions of the Haryana Panchayati Raj Act in whose area stubble burning takes place. He has also assured to honour or reward those village panchayats on Republic Day or Independence Day that accomplish commendable work on this front.Regarding the shortage of staff in the Agriculture Department, the DC said that 20 Supervisors appointed on contract basis have been assigned the job with direct assistance from the panchayats for the drive. “The problem of burning stubble is from an area covering 2,000 acres falling in 20 villages only,” he claimed.
11-10-2020||Hisar||SP suspends 8 cops for lapses in assault case||The Charkhi Dadri SP on Saturday suspended eight cops for dereliction of duty in a case of assault on Stone Crusher Union president in Dadri.Union president Sombir Ghasola had received an extortion call of Rs 10 crore. He was in his office at the grain market when criminals opened fire on him. He escaped unhurt.In protest, the traders shut the grain market. SP Vinod Kumar reached the spot and suspended eight police personnel for dereliction of duty. The traders said the police had failed to protect traders. — TNS
11-10-2020||Yamunanagar||Dispute among accused led to liquor seizure in Yamunanagar||The police have arrested three more men in connection with the seizure of 689 boxes of illegal country-made liquor from a Canter in Radaur on September 11.The accused have been identified as Gaurav Kamboj, Anej and Pradeep Kumar, all from Yamunanagar district.Three more nabbedThree more accused held; sent to two-day police remandWith their arrest, five men have been held in the caseOn September 11, 689 boxes of illegal liquor were seizedWith their arrest, five men have been arrested in connection with the case.“The accused were produced before the court of Judicial Magistrate First Class Sher Singh on Saturday and remanded in two-day police custody,” said Inspector Rakesh Kumar Rana, a member of the SIT which is probing the case.On September 11, the Radaur police had recovered 689 boxes of illegal country-made liquor from a Canter near Radaur and arrested Pradeep Kumar of Kurukshetra’s Mathana village. On September 14, Bittu Singh of Bijnor (Uttar Pradesh) was arrested.During the police remand, Pradeep of Kurukshetra had told the police the consignment of 689 boxes of liquor was brought to Radaur on the demand of Anej and Gaurav through their accomplices Raju and Harvinder on September 11.“When Vikas Dahiya (another accomplice from Panipat) and Raju reached Radaur with the consignment, they had a dispute with Gaurav and Anej on some matter. In retaliation, Gaurav and Anej tipped off the police about a vehicle loaded with illegal liquor parked on the Bubka road near Radaur. Others managed to escape, but I was caught,” Pradeep of Kurukshetra reportedly told the police.The police requested the court for a four-day custody to arrest their accomplices, but they got only two days.
11-10-2020||Hisar||Won’t take Covid tests, resolve 2 Faridabad villages||The panchayat of Alipur Barota and Tamaspura villages of Ratia block in Fatehabad district have adopted a resolution that their respective villages would not give samples for Covid testing and also would oppose any team of the Health Department that visits the villages in this regard.The resolutions of the panchayats of the two villages were signed by the sarpanch and other villagers and were adopted recently.The panchayat of Alipur Barota said they had discussed the issue of Covid testing in the village. “The villagers have decided to oppose Covid testing and have refused to give samples. If a team visits the village, they will oppose it and none of the villagers will give samples,” the resolution stated, adding that all the villagers are healthy and doing fine and that there is no need for Covid testing.Sunil Kumar, husband of sarpanch Maina Devi, maintained that a team of the Health Department had arrived to take samples for Covid testing. “Though we asked the villagers to give samples, no villager came forward. The villagers opposed the testing,” he said.He said the visiting team asked the panchayat to give in writing about not giving samples. The panchayat adopted a resolution and handed over the copy to the Health Department.He stated that the villagers were not upset or annoyed with Covid testing, but they opined that since they were healthy, they would not give samples.Kumar said a villager who returned from Odisha had tested positive four months ago, but there had been no other patient in the village thereafter.Dr Munish Bansal, Civil Surgeon, said he got information about some villages’ opposition to testing. “We have increased sampling for Covid testing but we are facing protests from some quarters. Our teams are trying to assure the villagers about the need for testing,” he said.Sundar, a villager who had signed the resolution, stated that the villagers were unhappy with the style of functioning of the Health Department regarding Covid management.He said, “The Health Department took samples of villagers and then declared some Covid-positive. But when the person is discharged after 10 days, no Covid testing is conducted. Villagers feel that it is bizarre and they have doubts about this kind of testing. So they have decided against getting themselves tested.” The panchayat of Tamaspura adopted a similar resolution.
11-10-2020||Rohtak||Non-players can use stadium tracks too||The district administration has allowed non-players to exercise at both the athletic tracks of Rajiv Gandhi Sports Stadium but has fixed their timings so that regular players do not face any inconvenience due to them.As per orders issued by the Deputy Commissioner (DC), non-players will now be able to use the tracks for workout from 10 am to 2 pm.With this development, the youths preparing for Army exams and other residents who exercise there in routine have heaved a sigh of relief. The police had — some days ago — barred their entry to the athletic tracks following complaints of coaches/players that they disturb them while practicing.‘The Tribune’ had raised the issue in these columns on October 8.Since Army recruitment is scheduled to be held in November, a considerable number of youths had started coming to the stadium to prepare for their physical exam. Also, those running private coaching academies for competitive exams were also imparting physical training in the stadium to their students.The coaches and players complained to the police that non-players used to run on the tracks causing inconvenience to them.They also used to engage in verbal duels when the players and coaches told them to leave the tracks. The complaints forced the police authorities to ban the entry of non-players to athletic tracks but they were allowed to work out in other parts of the stadium.Later, the Army aspirants and local people called on DC Capt Manoj and requested him to find a way out. So, the DC fixed the timings for their practice at the stadium.Surender, in charge, New Bus Stand police post, said private academy owners, local residents and other youths coming to the stadium had been informed about the DC’s orders on timings. “Police have been deputed at the stadium for the compliance of the new orders,” he added.
11-10-2020||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Two brothers drowned in Gurugram canal||Two brothers, who worked as construction labourers, drowned in Dhankot canal in the district’s Budhera village on Saturday, the police have said.The deceased have been identified as Sandeep (18) and Mandeep (16), natives of Mau district in Uttar Pradesh. They lived with their family in Manohar Nagar Colony here.The police said that around 7.30 am, the brothers went out to relieve themselves near the canal. Mandeep went to fetch water in a bottle when he slipped. On hearing his cries, Sandeep rushed but he, too, slipped trying to save his brother.Around 8 am, a passerby spotted the bodies in the canal and informed the police. The bodies were fished out in half an hour.“The family of the deceased boys has not filed a complaint. The bodies were handed over to them after the postmortem,” ASI Naresh Kumar said.
11-10-2020||Gurugram||75 societies worried as genset ban looms||As Gurugram, along with NCR, readies to implement graded response action plan (GRAP) from October 15 to tackle air pollution, the decision of banning diesel generator (DG) sets has left residents of over 75 condominiums high and dry. With no regular power connection owing to non-compliance of norms by builders, the residents of 60 societies in New Gurugram (Sector 57 onwards) and 15 in city are completely dependent of these sets for power supply.A week’s timeDevelopers, resident welfare associations and DHBVN have a week’s time to resolve their issues as per EPCA ordersExcept for the essential services like hospitals, nursing homes, healthcare facilities, railway and metro services, airports, elevators and escalators, there will be a ban on diesel gensetsThey have approached the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) seeking exemption but the authority has rejected the request saying any decision in this matter rests with the Supreme Court-appointed Environmental Pollution Control Authority (EPCA).The residents claimed that they were being punished for the builders’ fault and demanded permanent DHBVN connection and strict action against the builders in the long term but as a stop-gap arrangement, they are demanding exemption from GRAP.“We have been facing this issue for the past many years. When we came to the flats, we were told that power connection was under way but it has not happened in the past five years because the builder never met all the conditions. We pay extra to get power by DG sets and for the past two years, GRAP has become our biggest issue. Why are we being punished?” said Purshottam Mehndiratta, RWA president of an affected society.A senior office-bearer of EPCA said that they have given enough time to builders, government’s district administrations and power officials to smoothen out the infrastructure to tackle air pollution.
11-10-2020||Hisar||Body found  in Sirsa village||The police recovered the body of an unknown woman placed in a suitcase near Phulkan village of Sirsa today. The police said the victim had marks on her neck, which indicated that she had been strangulated to death. They have not recovered any document and efforts are being made for identification. It is suspected that the body had been placed in the suitcase and dumped in the canal, a couple of days ago. — TNS
11-10-2020||Ambala||4 persons go missing in Ambala||Four persons were reported missing in separate incidents reported to the district police during the past 24 hours, the officials said here on Saturday.According to the police, a 35-year-old woman with her 9-year-old son Jatin had left home in Ambala Sadar on October 8 but did not return as yet. In a separate incident, Harbans Singh of Naggal near here had reported that his 19-year-old granddaughter had been missing since the intervening night of October 4 and 5.Similarly, Ajay, 20, of Baldev Nagar near here had left home on September 26 but did not return as yet. The police have lodged separate missing person's reports and launched a manhunt to trace the missing persons, the officials added. — TNS
11-10-2020||Gurugram||Guesthouse owner, Iranian nabbed||The Gurugram police have nabbed a local guesthouse operator for allegedly hosting foreigners without valid permission.The police also nabbed an Iranian national for staying without passport and visa in the guesthouse. An FIR has been registered against the duo at Sadar police station.According to the police, a team of the CM flying squad conducted a raid at the guest house, located in Sector 39, on information that some foreigners were staying there without passport and visa.They have also not informed the district administration. When the team reached the guest house, they found that two rooms were booked by Iranian national Hussain Adil Dhari and Sudan national Tejaldin Jomah. The Iranian failed to show his passport and visa. The guest house owner also has not submitted form-C about the same.Guesthouse owner Sunil and the Iranian were arrested by the police.
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Elderly have positive attitude towards mental illness: PGI study||A study of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has found that the elderly in the northern rural Haryana, in general, have a positive attitude towards mental illness and have a lower level of stigma associated with it.The study was carried out at the Civil Hospital of Naraingarh in Ambala by the treating team of psychiatry, which had received complaints from the local people that people were not taking treatment for mental health-related ailments and some were being mistreated at home or were visiting local quacks.The research team evaluated 104 adults aged 60 or above from a rural background visiting a general outpatient’s clinic at the Civil Hospital as attendants of patients on community attitudes toward the Mentally Ill (CAMI) scale, developed to measure community attitudes towards people with mental illness to measure the extent of stigma for mental disorders among the older adults.The scale consisted of 40 attitudinal statements which were put to participants. They were further divided into four subscales — "authoritarianism", which is a view of the mentally ill person as someone who is inferior and requires supervision and coercion; "benevolence", which corresponds to a humanistic and sympathetic view towards sick mentally persons; "social restrictiveness", which reflects the belief that mentally ill patients are a threat to society and should be avoided; and "community mental health ideology", which is the acceptance of mental health services and the integration of mentally ill patients in the community.Over 45 per cent people agreed that most women who were once patients in a mental hospital could be trusted as baby sitters, but 26 per cent disagreed and 3.8 per cent strongly disagreed.Over 56 per cent agreed that anyone could be mentally ill, while 57.7 per cent disagreed that the best way to handle them is to keep them behind locked doors.As many as 36.5 per cent agreed that mentally ill are a burden, but more 45.2 per cent disagreed too.Also, 59.6 per cent agreed that mentally ill are subject of ridicule for long, and 45.2 per cent agreed that mental hospitals are outdated means of treating the mentally ill.
11-10-2020||Ambala||3 arrested for thefts in Ambala||The district police have arrested three persons in separate cases of theft, the officials said here on Saturday.According to the police, Saurav alias Bhulla and Chhinda of Barara near here were arrested for stealing electricity wire, aluminium rolls and aluminium clamps in Barara on the intervening night of August 3 and 4.In a separate case, Akshay of Kaithal was arrested for stealing 25 batteries and cash from the shop of Sandeep Kumar in Ambala City on the intervening night of July 9 and 10. All the three arrested accused were remanded to two-day police custody by the local courts, the officials added.2 held for fleeing without paying for petrolThe district police have arrested two persons — Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukhi of Banur in Mohali, and Nilesh Kumar alias Param of Sohana in Mohali — for fleeing without paying for petrol, the officials said here on Saturday. Sonu Kumar of Ambala had reported that some unknown car occupants had fled his fuel station after refuelling their vehicle with petrol worth Rs 3,500 on October 6. Both the arrested accused were sent to 14-day judicial remand by a local court.
11-10-2020||---||1,158 new Covid cases, 10 deaths  in Haryana||Chandigarh, October 10Haryana reported 1,158 fresh cases and 10 deaths. These took the Covid-positive tally to 1.41 lakh today.Three deaths were reported from Fatehabad, two each from Yamunanagar and Ambala and one each from Faridabad, Gurugram and Hisar.A 33-year-old male from NIT Faridabad died today. A woman in her mid-50s from Ambala Cantonment, who was suffering from hypertension and was kept on oxygen support, and 54-year-old man of Ambala City were among the fresh casualties.Gurugram reported 264 cases, the maximum today, while 149 came from Faridabad, 112 from Hisar and 87 from Rewari.As many as 1,301 people got discharged, taking the tally of recovered cases to 1.28 lakh with 91.32 per cent recovery rate.
11-10-2020||Jhajjar||BJP tractor rally shown black flags in Jhajjar||The BJP on Saturday took out a ‘tractor rally’ from Dighal village here to Sampla town (Rohtak) in support of three new farm legislations.The yatra, led by Member of Parliament (MP) Arvind Sharma, was inaugurated by BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankar in Dighal by driving a tractor.Activists of the All-India Kisan sabha (AIKS) and other outfits under the aegis of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee showed black flags to the rally when it was passing through Dighal village. The protesters were standing on one side of the road while Sharma was driving the tractor at that time. They also shouted slogans against the BJP government.“The protest was aimed at expressing our anger against the three legislations which will have long-term consequences for the farm sector and rural livelihood,” a protester said.Subedar Satyanarayan, Preet Singh and Sumit Dalal of the AIKS, Dr Jagmati Sangwan of All-India Democratic Women’s Association, Pehalwan Om Singh and Jai Bhagwan of the BKU (Tikait) were among the protesters.Earlier, Dhankar, while addressing party workers, said the Congress was misleading farmers by spreading lies about the three laws. The fact was that the laws would not only help the farmers doubling their income, but also provide them economic freedom, he said.“The Congress is upset and frustrated by these laws. It is trying to sell lies but we will not let it do so. Hence, a tractor rally has been organised to make the farmers aware about these laws and to expose the Congress agenda,” Dhankar added.Sharma said the laws would not affect the mandi and the MSP system in any way. The farmers would continue to get the MSP as usual, he added.
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Produce being procured below MSP, claims Hooda||Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda today lashed out at the state government accusing it of indifference towards farmers and alleged that despite assurances, their crops were not being procured on MSP.“Farmers are neither getting MSP on paddy nor the government is procuring their cotton, bajra, maize or ragi crops. The government has been making false claims about procuring farmers’ crops on MSP,” alleged Hooda while talking to reporters here today.The Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Haryana Assembly alleged that there was a time when the country was in a “ship to mouth” situation where foodgrains were imported from other countries to feed the people.However, due to the hard work of farmers from Haryana, Punjab, western Uttar Pradesh and some other states like Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, the country has not only become self-reliant in foodgrains, but has surplus stocks of it.Hooda said that the NDA government at the Centre and the BJP-JJP government in Haryana must remember former US President Harry S Truman who said that “prosperous farmers make for a prosperous nation and when farmers are in trouble, the nation is in trouble.”Exuding confidence about his party’s victory in the November 3 Baroda Assembly bypoll, Hooda alleged that all sections of society, including farmers, traders and the poor were fed up with this government.“Farmers and mandi traders are upset because of the new laws brought about to ruin them. Youths are upset because of unemployment and scams after scams in recruitments. Common people are shocked at the poor law and order situation. The poor have been denied the benefits that the Congress government was providing them,” said the former CM.Alleging that the BJP-JJP government lacks cohesiveness, Hooda said when farmers holding protest in a democratic manner at Pipli in Kurukshetra were cane charged, the BJP state president, some ministers and MPs castigated the police action, the BJP’s alliance partner termed it as lathis on Chaudhary Devi Lal’s body, a minister in the government denied any lathicharge and the CM said that the cane charge was in “self-defence”.“People are at a loss to understand who to believe as all leaders of the alliance were speaking in different languages,” he said.
11-10-2020||Karnal||Smart Karnal set for makeover by 2022||Smart schools, a smart water distribution system, LED streetlights, proper collection and treatment of waste, a state-of-the-art Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) and eight grand entry gates — these are some of the projects in the pipeline that will see light of the day by mid-2021.At present, 18 Smart City projects worth around Rs 350 crore are in progress, while another 17 works worth Rs 700 crore are about to start.“The construction has been speeded up. Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL) plans to take up simultaneously other projects to be completed by 2022,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO, KSCL.Other projects that will be completed by the middle of next year are a new MC building, open-air gyms in all parks, renovated ponds, beautification of the Novelty road, civil upgrade of nine government schools and construction of a rainwater harvesting system, he added.Karnal was included in the list of Smart Cities on June 23, 2017. Earlier, projects to be taken up under the Smart City plan was worth Rs 1,211 crore. As per the plan, 720 acres was to be developed under area-based development (ABD) with a cost of Rs 1,022.08 crore and pan-city proposals of Rs 149.75 crore.Now, some projects have been dropped as Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL) is focusing on pan-city projects only.
11-10-2020||---||BJP-JJP to contest jointly on lotus symbol, says Khattar||Gohana, October 10The BJP-JJP alliance would contest the Baroda byelection jointly on the BJP symbol, said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar while interacting with the mediapersons in Gohana on Saturday.The Chief Minister said the Congress had not done any development work in Baroda in the past 54 years.Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, Sonepat MP Ramesh Kaushik, Rajya Sabha MP Ram Chander Jangra, Agriculture Minister JP Dalal, MLA and BJP district president Mohan Lal, JJP leader KC Bangar, and MLAs Nirmal Chaudhari and Sombeer Sangwan were present during the press conference.Khattar said he had visited Baroda after the seat got vacated and had assured people he would work as the MLA of the constituency till a new one was elected. After his assurance, scores of works had been completed and many more were underway, he said.Alleging that former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda had ignored the condition of the Baroda constituency, Khattar said Hooda was concerned about the Kiloi constituency only and he never paid attention to the Baroda constituency in the 10 years of his government. The CM claimed the government had spent Rs 550 crore on development works in Baroda.Taking a dig at Hooda over practising nepotism, CM Khattar said the father-son duo (Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Deepender) had lost the General Election, but when the nomination for the Rajya Sabha was filed and they could not decide on a leader, he had sent his son to the Rajya Sabha.
11-10-2020||Sonepat||Dhankar, CM to pick Baroda candidate||The BJP’s state election committee (SEC) has authorised Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and state chief Om Prakash Dhankar to finalise the name of the candidate for the Baroda Assembly bypoll. The CM and the state president will shortlist the aspirants’ names and send it to the central election committee (CEC) for the final decision.As many as 19 members of the SEC, out of 21 members attended the meeting, discussed the overall strategy and probable candidates, and authorised the Chief Minister and the state president to finalise the name of the candidate.Dhankar, Khattar, Union Minister Rattan Lal Kataria, Home Minister Anil Vij, Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar, MPs Sanjay Bhatia and Ramesh Kaushik, Agriculture Minister JP Dalal, former minister Ram Bilas Sharma, former state president Subhash Barala, former Rajya Sabha member Birender Singh and district president Mohan Lal Kaushik, among others, were present during the meeting.After one-and-a-half-hour-long meeting, Dhankar said all members had discussed the overall scenario of the bypoll. As many as 25 aspirants had submitted their biodata to the committee to contest the byelection, he said.He, along with the Chief Minister, would hold discussions about the candidates and present the points before the CEC to take the final decision, Dhankar said.So far, all aspirants were of the BJP, the state chief said.Dhankar said the biodata of Babita Phogat, who had resigned from the government job, had not been received.
