12-05-2020||---||3 children run over by rail engine in Hisar||Hisar, May 12Three children were run over by an engine on the Hisar-Ferozepur railway track in Satya Nagar locality of town on Tuesday evening.The children were playing on the railway track when the rail engine running from Sirsa to Hisar appeared.The deceased have been identified as Golu (4), Ajit (7) and Ravi (10). Golu and Ajit were siblings. They belong to the migrant families hailing from Madhepura district in Bihar.The locals said the engine did not blow horn and the children were caught unawares as it approached towards them.
12-05-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Follow NCERT academic calendar for online teaching, Haryana tells schools||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12Concerned at the reported stress among Class I to X students on account of “unnecessary non-uniform” exposure due to online learning during Covid-19 pandemic, the Education Department has cracked the whip on schools asking them to strictly follow the alternative academic calendar designed by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT).The Directorate of Education, in its order to the district officials concerned, has asked them to strictly monitor the implementation of the NCERT calendar which would go a long way in making learning a fun for the students during lockdown period in the coronavirus crisis.Officials said the order was the outcome of a number of complaints against certain schools which were beaming online content for six hour daily for the students in a bid to cover the syllabus. “Since there is no uniformity in the content put out for students online by different schools, there is a confusion among the students leading to mental stress among them, especially among students of primary classes,” the officials.In fact, a meeting under Principal Secretary (School Education) Mahavir Singh was held here recently where issue of “too much” online content for the students was raised by certain officials leading to mental stress for the students and parents.At the meeting it was decided to strictly enforce the NCERT alternative academic calendar, which the officials felt would go a long way in relieving stress on the students and parents and lead to uniformity in student learning.Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said since the students were the major stakeholders in the education system their welfare was uppermost in the mind of the state government. “Every effort is being made to make e-learning a fun experience for the students till the time schools were re-reopened after the Covid-19 crisis,” he asserted.
12-05-2020||---||11 new cases in Haryana, tally up to 741||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12Eleven more tested positive for Covid in Haryana on Tuesday taking the total number of cases in the state to 741.Of the 11 new case cases, seven were reported from the National Capital Region (NCR). Four persons tested positive for the virus in Faridabad on Tuesday, taking the total number of Covid cases in the district to 106. Two tested positive in Sonipat while one case surfaced in Rewari.Kurukshetra, Karnal, Ambala and Panchkula also reported one case each.With 340 people discharged from hospital after being cured of the disease, the total number of active cases in Haryana stands at 390.Haryana had reported one death and 26 new cases on Monday.
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Engineers object to new electricity Act||The Haryana Power Engineers’ Association (HPEA) strongly condemned the Centre’s move to privatise the power sector through the proposed amendments in the Electricity Act-2003.The HPEA held its meeting through videoconferencing on Monday. The meeting was addressed by HPEA president Ram Paul Singh, general secretary KK Malik and chairman KD Bansal.Malik said the main purpose of amendments to the Act was to privatise discoms and ensure undue favours to private power generators. — TNS
12-05-2020||---||High Court rejects woman’s plea for protection||Chandigarh, May 11A woman who claimed that she travelled from Rajasthan to Haryana during the Covid lockdown for tying the knot with the man she loved failed to find favour with the Punjab and Haryana High Court today. She and her “husband” were seeking protection of life and liberty.Appearing before the Bench of Justice Manoj Bajaj through video-conferencing, her counsel submitted that she travelled to Nuh on April 20 to reach the prospective groom. The Bench was told that their alleged marriage was performed on April 25.“It is not disputed by the counsel that on April 20 and 25, the states of Rajasthan and Haryana were put under lockdown in order to prevent the spread of global pandemic Covid-19. He is unable to show the requisite permissions granted by the respective states to the petitioners to perform the marriage. Apart from this, he is unable to show the mode and manner of the threat allegedly executed by the respondents, who are residents of Rajasthan,” Justice Bajaj asserted.Dismissing the plea, Justice Bajaj took note of the state counsel’s contention that she was already married and had not taken divorce from her first husband.
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Biometric attendance stays suspended in Haryana govt offices||
12-05-2020||Our CorrespondentSonepat||Three labourers buried alive in Sonepat village||Three labourers identified as Mukesh (42) and Ajit (32) of Lath village in the district and Pradeep (22) of Shaharmal Pur village in Panipat district, were buried alive under a heap of earth while digging a road in the fields of Lath village on Sunday.The digging was being carried out to lay pipelines for carrying tubewell water to the fields of Pradeep, a farmer, of the same village, located on the other side of the road. The farmer had not taken permission from the local market committee authorities for digging under-construction Lath-Kheri Damkan road.After receiving information of the incident, villagers reached the spot and took out the victims after removing the heap of earth. Victims were then taken to Gohana Civil Hospital, where doctors declared them brought dead.Inspector Mohan Lal, SHO, Gohana sadar police station, said on the complaint of Raj Pal, brother of victim Mukesh, a case under Section 304A had been registered at the Gohana sadar police station against land owner Pradeep of Lath village.He also informed that the farmer had taken the bodies of the victims and handed them over to their family members after the postmortem examination and no one had been arrested so far.
12-05-2020||Hisar||Waterworks ‘defunct’ for years, villagers left high and dry in Charkhi Dadri||Residents of the Makrana village in Charkhi Dadri district have been waiting to get water supply in their village for last 25 years. Though the waterworks was constructed in 1995-1996, not a drop of water reached the water tanks there. The village panchayat had put in place an alternative arrangement by fetching water supply from Bhana village, 14 km from the village, which is inadequate to fulfill the needs of the entire village. Resultantly, the villagers are forced to fetch water from Dadri town, about 12 km away from the village or have to purchase it for Rs 10 per pitcher from private suppliers.The villagers said groundwater there was saline and unfit for human consumption. “The Public Health Department had constructed new infrastructure by building to supply water to the village, which was set to get raw water from Satnali feeder, but the water pipes could not be laid to fetch water from the feeder to the waterworks,” said Rajesh Kumar, a villager.Suresh Kumar, husband of the village sarpanch Sarita, said the village had been raising the issue for over two decades. “The panchayat had made arrangements to get water supply by laying pipe line to Bhana village, but this system was not able to fulfil the needs and the maintenance of the long stretch of pipeline was also a problem,” said Kumar.Villagers said after persistent efforts, the state government resumed work for laying pipeline to connect waterworks to the Satnali feeder water channel in 2014. “But the work again got hampered due to theft of the pipelines. Now, number of villagers opt to purchase RO water from a private supplier at a cost of Rs 10 per pitcher, while some others fetch water from Dadri town,” said Kumar.Public Health Engineering Department (PHED) junior engineer (JE) Samunder Singh said 80 per cent of the work to lay water pipeline to connect the waterworks to Satnali feeder was complete. “The work has to be stopped due to the lockdown as the labour was not available. The raw water supply from Satnali feeder is meant for five villages, including Makrana, Datauli, Chillar, Changrod and Adampur,” the JE said.
12-05-2020||---||Rohtak PGIMS doctor found ‘working’ with boxing body, probe initiated||Rohtak, May 11A resident doctor at Rohtak PGIMS has allegedly been found to be working with the local unit of the National Boxing Academy (NBA) as well. The PGIMS authorities have initiated a probe into the matter.As per sources, the matter came to light when a resident lodged a complaint with the authorities of the University of Health Sciences, pointing out that Dr Gaurav Nandal, a resident doctor and a PG student at Rohtak PGIMS, was working with the local branch of the Boxing Federation of India (BFI).The complainant said the said doctor also went on foreign tours along with the boxing team on several occasions, owing to his collusion with certain top officials of the PGIMS.“Yes, we have received a complaint regarding the matter and a probe is underway,” said Dr Sandeep, Deputy Medical Superintendent at the PGIMS, on being contacted for his comments. He, however, refused to divulge any details.In a recent communique to the PGIMS administration, the BFI authorities have maintained that they would ascertain the nature of the said doctor’s engagement and related details from the management of the NBA, Rohtak. Dr Gaurav remained unreachable for comments.Meanwhile, Satish Sarhadi, NBA chief operating officer and Deputy Director, Sports Authority of India (SAI), parried a direct question posed to him regarding the matter on the phone and went incommunicado thereafter.
12-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Gym owner gunned down in Gurugram||Gurugram, May 11In a shocking incident, a 36-year-old gym owner, was allegedly gunned down in front of his children at the Naurangpur mini-stadium today.How Incident unfoldedThe onlookers told the police that the children were exercising on the walking track opposite their father when a Creta car came there and three men stepped out.They pulled out guns and began firing at Manjeet. He sustained eight bullets and died on spot while the accused fled the scene.The deceased has been identified as Manjeet Yadav. He had gone for a morning walk with his 15-year-old daughter and eight- year-old son, when unidentified assailants came in a Creta car and opened fire at him, killing him on the spot.They then fled away.The incident has created panic in the area. Though the accused are yet to be identified, the police suspect it to be yet another crime pertaining to the newspaper distribution mafia. The victim’s wife told the police that he was now taking up newspaper distribution in the Vatika area and was getting threat calls to stop the same, said the police.According to the police, Manjeet Yadav, alias Manjeet Pehalwan, hailed from Vajirpur village in Delhi and was staying with his family at his uncle’s farmhouse in Shikohpur village for the past some years. As part of his daily routine, he left for morning walk to the mini-stadium around 5 am with his children.The onlookers told the police that the children were exercising on the walking track opposite their father when a Creta car came there and three men stepped out. They pulled out guns and began firing at Manjeet. He sustained eight bullets and died on spot while the accused fled the scene. The children raised an alarm and called their father’s uncle who called the police. The police rushed him to a nearby private hospital where doctors declared him him brought dead.“I got a call about the incident and reached the spot with my son Hariom and nephew Yogesh.We found Manjeet’s body lying in a pool of blood. The way he was killed seems like a conspired murder”, the deceased’s maternal uncle and complainant Jaipal told the police.On his complaint, an FIR has been registered against the unidentified accused under Sections 302 (murder), 34 (common intention) of the IPC and section25-54-59 of the Arms Act at the Kherki Daula police station.“We have taken all available CCTV footage and got some leads. Prima facie it seems to be an outcome of a rivalry between the newspaper distributors. The deceased was involved in total five cases, including a murder, at the toll plaza. We are investigating all angles,” said Deepak Saharan, DCP, Manesar.Prior to this, the city has also witnessed many murders over newspaper distribution. The deceased had been booked for extortion and also firing at Kherki Daula in the past, so the police are also probing gang war angle.
12-05-2020||Panipat||Six held for stealing booze in Panipat||The Panipat police arrested six members of gang, including a police constable, allegedly for stealing 4,500 cases of liquor from a sealed godown in the Samalkha area.The accused have been identified as Ishwar of Shamri village of Sonepat district as the kingpin of the gang; Rajneesh of Kathura village and Sombeer of Kutubpur village of Sonepat; Ajmer of Dhamar village of Rohtak district, who is constable in the Haryana Police; Deepak, alias Tachva, of Mandhoti village in Jhajjar district; and Sudhir of Jagsi village in Sonepat district. The police on Monday produced the accused in the court, which sent five of the accused in the judicial custody and kingpin Ishwar to four-day police remand. — TNS
12-05-2020||---||1,200 boxes of liquor seized in Yamuanagar||Yamuanagar, May 11The police seized 1,200 boxes of country liquor and produced a liquor contractor, Sushil Kumar, alias Tinku Kamboj, here in a local court after arresting him on Monday. “The liquor contractor was granted bail by the court,” said police spokesperson Chamkaur Singh.According to information, a few liquor shops were reportedly closed on Monday to lodge protest against the arrest of the liquor contractor. A team of CIA-II of Yamunanagar police had seized 1,200 boxes of country liquor, which was allegedly being unloaded from a truck in a godown in Yamunanagar on Saturday.Singh said CIA-II in charge Mehroof Ali formed him that a team, which conducted a raid at the godown in Yamunanagar, seized 1,200 boxes of country liquor. The contractor managed to flee the spot and a case under Section 61/A/1/14 of the Excise Act was registered.
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||TC Gupta to head probe team on liquor smuggling in Haryana||The state government on Monday formed a three-member special enquiry team (SET) to probe liquor smuggling in Haryana, including the Kharkhoda liquor theft case, and appointed Additional Chief Secretary, Power, TC Gupta as its head.The other members of the panel are ADGP Subhash Yadav and Additional Excise and Taxation Commissioner Vijay Singh. Home Minister Anil Vij said the three-member team would submit its report by May 31.As per terms of reference, the SET will check the actual availability of stocks in all warehouses or godowns that were sealed by the Excise Department during the last two years for any violation.It will also examine the cases of seizure of illicit liquor in Haryana from April 1, 2019, to March 31, 2020, both by the Police and Excise Departments separately with special reference to the action taken and fines imposed by the latter pursuant to the recovery of liquor.The team will also collect and collate the result of investigation of the FIRs registered from March 15, 2020, till April 10, 2020, that have been registered in different parts of the state for the pilferage of liquor from L-1 and L-13 godowns and also from malkhanas of the police stations.Earlier, Vij had recommended the name of IAS officer Ashok Khemka to head the panel. He had also given the name of ACS, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Sanjeev Kaushal for the same.
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Liquor contractors’ stocks should be checked: Hooda||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday attacked the state government over time taken in appointing a special enquiry team (SET) for probe into Kharkhoda liquor theft case.‘OPDs closed, patients forced to go to Delhi’On managing the Covid pandemic lockdown, Hooda said the cases had risen in Haryana recently as the out-patient departments were closed and patients were forced to go to Delhi, where they got infected.He said, “The government has taken so much time in constituting the SET. We haven’t seen long queues outside liquor vends in Haryana because liquor smuggling was rampant during the lockdown. The stocks of liquor contractors should be checked.”He strongly opposed the government decision to restrict paddy sowing in 19 blocks and said it should be withdrawn immediately. “It is important to worry about groundwater, but for this the government should also take effective steps that will help solve the problem. It should restart the Dadupur-Nalvi water recharge canal project and efforts should be made to bring SYL water. A plan should be made to bring water in Hansi-Butana canal.Hooda clarified that he was not against the government taking a loan at this time but the money should be used to provide financial relief to the poor, farmers, labourers, daily wagers, shopkeepers, small traders and middle-class people.He demanded waiving electricity bills of those consuming less than 300 units for the next three months. “The BJP government had already increased VAT on diesel petrol from 9.24 per cent in from our tenure to 17.4 per cent. Now, in this period, the government is putting additional taxes on petrol-diesel, fruit-vegetables and is raising bus fares. Instead of hitting the common man with additional taxes, a higher tax should be imposed on alcohol, cigarettes and other items consumed by the affluent sections of the society,” Hooda added.He also attacked the government over delay in paying MSP for wheat to farmers.On managing Covid pandemic, he said the cases had risen in Haryana recently as the OPDs were closed and patients were forced to go to Delhi, where they got infected.
12-05-2020||Hisar||Fake test report sparks row in Hisar||A controversy erupted in the town after a person associated with a political party tested negative for Covid, but a report showing him positive went viral on the social media.A health official said a PDF report of a person reached them on Saturday night, which showed he was positive for Covid. The report was issued by a Gurugram lab on May 9. The person came to Hisar the same day and also stayed in the PWD rest house here.The health officials along with the police traced the person, who showed the report that was negative for Covid. “However, we want him to get his sample tested, yet again. He again went home from the hospital on Sunday,” said a health official, leading to a tussle between the health official, district malaria officer-cum-biologist, who was assigned the duty for tracing the Covid suspect.The health official team pasted a poster outside the house of the person, stating that the inmate had been quarantined for 14 days as a precaution. However, the biologist was stripped of the charge of Covid duty and he will remain as district malaria officer.Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma, however, said there was no controversy over the issue. Dr Ramesh Punia, district malaria officer, who was also assigned the Covid duty, has been asked to concentrate on malaria as the work was suffering due to dual duty to him.
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||37 patients discharged, highest number of recoveries in a day in Haryana||The state reported one death and 26 new Covid cases in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 730 on Monday. However, 37 patients also got discharged on Monday, the highest in a day so far. The fresh cases were reported from Jhajjar (9), Faridabad (7), Sonepat (5), Gurugram (3) and Charkhi Dadri (2).In all, 27 patients were cured and discharged in Ambala and 10 in Sonepat. With this, the recovery rate in the state has reached 46.16 per cent. On April 20 also, 37 patients had got discharged.Faridabad district reported its fourth death on Monday. This was the 11th death of the state, which took the mortality rate in the state to 1.51 per cent. A 65-year-old man hailing from Sector 18 here died in a private hospital in the noon. He was admitted to the hospital after a complaint of dysentery and pneumonia, while his sample report was found positive on May 8. He was put on ventilator on Sunday night. Confirming the death, Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Ram Bhagat said the patient had a history of heart ailment as he had undergone stent implantation three times earlier. Meanwhile, six workers employed at a vegetable shop in Dabua Mandi here also tested positive. The district’s tally touched 102.Among the nine patients in Jhajjar, eight belong to Bahadurgarh town here. Three are the family members of a Covid patient and five are the primary contacts of other such patients. The ninth one hails from Bupania village here and had a travel history to Delhi. He is also suffering from kidney infection. With this, the district’s tally reached 83 on Monday.Among the five cases in Sonepat, three are women. A 50-year-old woman and her 27-year-old son in Gannaur tested positive on Monday. They are close contacts of a vegetable vendor of Gannaur, who was confirmed for Covid on Friday. A 21-year old woman of Kamaspur village, who is a staff member of a private hospital, and a 20-year-old girl of Rewali village also tested positive. Besides, a 30-year-old person of Garh Shehzanpur village got confirmed for Covid.
12-05-2020||Rohtak||Researcher with Maharashi Dayanand University, Rohtak, develops anti-Covid ‘vaccine’||A researcher with Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) in Rohtak has claimed to have developed a vaccine against Covid.The ‘3CL hydrolase-based multi-epitope peptide vaccine against SARS-CoV-2’ has been designed by Dr Renu Jakhar, who has recently completed her PhD at the Centre for Medical Biotechnology of MDU, by using immuno-informatics.Her research paper has been accepted for publication by the Journal of Medical Virology, published from the USA, after sharing it with the World Health Organisation.“This is a protein-based vaccine which will strengthen our body’s immunity by raising the generation of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. Utmost care has been taken to ensure that the epitopes used in the vaccine are non-toxic and non-allergic,” Dr Renu told The Tribune.The researcher maintained that after the vaccine was ready, animal trials could be carried out at the MDU if the government and university authorities granted permission. Clinical trials on animals and humans were a time-consuming process and it might take up to nine months for the vaccine to be available in the market.“The development of a vaccine usually takes years. It will be unprecedented if the vaccine is available by the end of the year or early next year. This has become possible with the advent of computer-aided immuno-informatics tools and genetic and protein engineering,” said Prof SK Gakhar, Vice Chancellor, Indira Gandhi University, Meerpur, Rewari, under whose supervision the research was carried out.
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Cartridge paucity may put brakes on prompt testing in Haryana||The non-availability of cartridges may soon put the brakes on cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) for Covid in the state, with their stocks exhausted in two of the five districts where this facility was made available less than two weeks ago.The government, on its part, has already sent its demand to the Centre, which is dealing with supplies, while maintaining that non-availability will not adversely impact testing.Against a stock of 350 cartridges received on April 29, which was distributed among four medical colleges and one district hospital, a balance of 102 is presently available with the Health Department. The cartridges supplied to the Panchkula hospital (40) and the BPS Medical College in Sonepat (100) stand exhausted.Though testing done through the CBNAAT machines used for conducting TB tests has not been the mainstay of Covid testing in the state, where only 2,500 of 57,000 tests have been conducted so far, it is a preferred alternative to the PCR test.The difference lies in the fact that the time gap between the test and result varies greatly — taking two hours with the rapid testing kit against eight hours under PCR testing. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajeev Arora said the state government had written to the Centre for more supplies.“Their limited availability does not impact testing. The CBNAAT machine is only an additional tool for testing. We have enough capacity in PCR machines. Additional machines have been installed in Rohtak, new machines are being installed in Khanpur Kalan and a new laboratory is being set up in Ambala. These will be in addition to eight government and five private laboratories already operational,” he said.
12-05-2020||Ambala||3rd Shramik train chugs off from Ambala||Shramik train with 1,188 migrants onboard chugged off to Bihar from here on Monday evening. This was the third special train that departed from here since Thursday. Earlier, two trains ferried over 2,500 migrants to Bhagalpur and Katihar in Bihar.After medical screening, the passengers were allowed to board the train and were seated in 24 coaches while maintaining social distancing. Besides free travel, the migrants were also given food packets, water bottles, biscuits, sanitisers and face masks.The train that left from platform number 3 here would reach Muzzafarpur via Saharanpur in 25 hours, said Northern Railways DCM Ritika Vashisht and Station Superintendent BS Gill. Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma, SP Abhishek Jorwal were also present at the spot.Most of the migrants who boarded the train said they had left hope of returning to their homes. “We had faced turbulent times since the national lockdown was imposed,” said Bindu, Sona and Akhilesh, all migrabnts. Similarly, other passengers Jogi, Bechuras, Mukhdev and Lal Mahmood said they shall remain indebted to the state government and district administration for arranging their free and safe travel. — TNS
12-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||No business, 10K autos off road in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 11Over a week after auto-rickshaws were allowed to ply in the city, over 10,000 such vehicles remain off road in the absence of passengers.Drivers blame it on the closure of universities, colleges and ban on public transport due to the ongoing lockdown. They say the situation has pushed them to the brink as they do not have any other source of income.Repaying loan a worryI pay Rs 24,000 monthly instalments for three autos, but don’t have any money. The financier will impose a hefty interest if the payment is delayed. — Vinod, Auto driverMany are finding it hard to repay vehicle loans taken from private financiers. Some have even started selling vegetables using autos.“Our business relies on Maharshi Dayanand University, PGIMS and educational institutes as a large number of people from outside visit these daily. Even locals go to PGIMS for treatment, but due to the pandemic, all educational institutes are shut and there are no passengers,” says Deepak, a driver.Though the PGIMS has opened some of its OPDs, people prefer to use private vehicles. Some drivers do ply auto-rickshaws, but they seldom get passengers, he adds.Lack of work has Vinod, another driver, worried. “I pay Rs 24,000 as EMIs for three autos, but don’t have money.The financier will impose hefty interest if the payment is delayed,” he says.The district administration’s decision to restrict only two passengers in auto-rickshaws prevents drivers from making a profit, says Amit, another driver. “I make Rs 30 from a single trip and end up spending the amount on fuel,” he adds.Rajender Dahiya, president, New Rohtak Auto-Rickshaw Kalyan Samiti, says the Haryana Government should release Rs 5,000 aid for each driver on the lines of Delhi Government to help them tide over the crisis.
