12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports record spike of 2,783 COVID-19 cases, 24 fatalities||Haryana on Saturday reported the biggest single-day spike of 2,783 COVID-19 cases and 24 fatalities, which took the total infections in the state past the 90,000-mark and death toll to 956.With the record spike, the total cases rose to 91,115.Earlier this week, the state had reported the biggest single-day spike of 2,591 cases.Among the 24 fatalities on Saturday, five were from Karnal district, three each from Faridabad and Ambala, two each from Gurugram, Sirsa and Yamunanagar while one death each was reported from Kaithal, Fatehabad, Kurukshetra, Panchkula, Hisar and Rohtak, according to state health department’s daily bulletin.Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases include Gurugram (326), Faridabad (278), Karnal (272), Hisar (213), Ambala (197), Panipat and Panchkula (178 each), Kurukshetra (173), Sonipat (165) and Sirsa (131).Active cases in the state currently are 19,446 while 70,713 have been discharged after recovery.As of Saturday, the state has a recovery rate of 77.61 per cent, fatality rate was 1.05 percent while the rate at which infections are doubling is 29 days.  --- PTI
12-09-2020||Sanjay Yadav||92 passengers fined for removing masks during their travel in metro train||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, September 12Taking a firm action against those lowering or removing masks during their travel in metro trains, the DMRC authorities penalised 92 out of 150 defaulters under a pilot project on Saturday evening.      A special team will be deputed in metro trains to ensure that all travelers wear mask for their entire journey.The DMRC collected the fine through metro cards.Metro services have resumed fully and Gurugram metro stations expect to see return of commuters from Monday. Expecting a heavy foot fall, extra police force has been deployed on every station.Under stage one, Yellow Line or Line 2 and Rapid Metro were made operational with restricted service hours.Stage two kicked in from Friday with extended service hours, and stage three came into effect from Saturday, with metro services going back to pre-COVID-19 time schedule of 6 am to 11 pm.According to DMRC officials, as the passengers increased in metro it was noticed that some passengers were lowering or removing their masks. They started long conversations on their mobiles while ignoring the Covid-19 risk.“On Day 1, we caught 150 passengers who were lowering or removing their masks during journey and 92 were penalised. Twenty per cent offenders were caught in yellow line metro between HUDA City Centre and Samaypur Badli stations,” said the DMRC spokesperson.“We not only monitored through CCTV cameras, but our team was also present in metro,” the spokesperson added.
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||25 more succumb, 2,388 fresh cases in Haryana||With 2,388 fresh cases, the total number of Covid cases reached 88,332 on Friday.The death toll went up to 932 with the addition of 25 deaths.Gurugram reported a maximum of 289 cases, followed by Faridabad (281), Panchkula (180), Kurukshetra (173), Ambala (168) and Karnal (155).Karnal reported a maximum of four deaths, followed by Gurugram, Ambala and Sirsa (three each). Faridabad, Rohtak, Panchkula and Yamunanagar reported two deaths each while Panipat, Bhiwani, Palwal and Kurukshetra reported one death each.In Faridabad, the new Covid cases included Neeraj Sharma, MLA from the NIT segment, and Lalit Nagar, former MLA from Tigaon. — TNS
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Deposit Rs25K in Covid fund, Punjab and Haryana High Court tells woman||A woman who left her matrimonial home with the help of another man after 12 years of marriage and two children before seeking protection from her husband and other persons would end up contributing to the Covid relief fund.Dismissing her petition for protection with Rs 25,000 costs, Justice Manoj Bajaj of the Punjab and Haryana High Court ordered the deposition of the amount in the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana Covid relief fund.The direction came after Justice Bajaj observed that the petitioner had apparently not approached the court with clean hands and had deliberately suppressed material facts. “Therefore, this court finds that she deserves to be saddled with costs,” Justice Bajaj added, before directing the Rohtak Chief Judicial Magistrate to ensure the recovery and deposition of the costs.In his detailed order, Justice Bajaj asserted that the court, after hearing the counsel, found that the writ petition did not contain any pleading, much less narration of a cause of action in favour of the second petitioner, for filing petition along with the woman-petitioner.Though the petition was verified by both petitioners by appending their signatures, affidavit in support of the petition had not been filed by the second petitioner. Apart from this, the second petitioner had not portrayed any grievance even in the representations submitted to the official respondents.Resultantly, the court found that the writ petition on the second petitioner’s behalf was without valid cause of action. As such, the petition with regard to him was dismissed.Justice Bajaj noted that the woman, too, did not deserve any concession, particularly when she failed to explain the reason for leaving her husband’s company. Besides, the address mentioned inthe petition was of her matrimonial home, thoughthe woman claimed that she was residing at different places in Jhajjar district.Justice Bajaj observed that it was not disputed by the counsel during the course of hearing that no complaint was ever submitted by the woman either against her husband or family of her in-laws.Admittedly, the marriage was 12 years old and the children were also residing with the father. It did not appeal to prudence that the petitioner did not contact her parents after leaving her matrimonial home, but chose to live alone in Jhajjar district.Except for bald allegation that the husband treated the petitioner with cruelty, no supportive material had been placed on record by her. “This court finds that not only is the petition for protection founded on frivolous grounds, but it also amounts to abuse of the process of law,” Justice Bajaj stated.
12-09-2020||Yamunanagar||Test results online in Yamunanagar||The results of Covid tests done in the district are now available online. The authorities of the Health Department here launched a portal on Thursday to ensure that persons who tested negative did not have to visit the hospital to collect their report.“The test results will be available on the portal: www.civilsurgeonynr.com. The report of those who test negative will be available on the portal but of those who test positive will not be uploaded to maintain secrecy of the patients,” said Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar.Civil Surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said: “The report will be available for download by entering the number of sample registration form and the mobile number.” — TNS
12-09-2020||---||Swami Agnivesh — Sanyasi who fought for social causes||Swami Agnivesh, a prominent social activist and Arya Samaj leader who served as Cabinet minister in Haryana, passed away in a Delhi hospital on Friday after cardiac arrest.He was 80. He was admitted to the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in New Delhi with liver cirrhosis and was on ventilator since Tuesday due to multiple organ failure.The hospital record confirmed 6:30 pm as the time of his death. The hospital said they attempted to revive him for half an hour before declaring Agnivesh dead.“On Friday, his condition deteriorated and he went into cardiac arrest at 6 pm. Resuscitation was attempted, but the stalwart passed away at 6:30 pm,” the hospital authorities said.Born as Vepa Shyama Rao on September 21, 1939, at Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh, Agnivesh was brought up by his maternal grandfather, who was the diwan of the princely state Sakti in present-day Chhattisgarh.He acquired degrees in law and commerce, worked as lecturerin St Xavier’s College in Kolkata and practised law for a while as junior to Sabyasachi Mukherji, who later rose to become the Chief Justice of India.Agnivesh became a member of the Legislative Assembly of Haryana in 1977 and served as Cabinet Minister for Education in 1979.In 1981, while still a minister in Haryana, he founded the Bonded Labour Liberation Front, which continued to raise issues surrounding bonded labour in India, especially in quarries in and around Delhi.He was involved in various areas of social activism, including campaigns against female foeticide and for emancipation of women.Agnivesh came to Haryana in 1968 to join the Arya Samaj. On March 25, 1970, Agnivesh took sanyas vows and since then, he had been donning saffron robes of a sanyasi.He was expelled from the organisation in August 2008 after 17 of the 19 Arya Samaj Pratinidhi Sabhas in India expressed opposition to him.Swami Agnivesh took part in the 2011 anti-corruption protests in Delhi under Anna Hazare for the Jan Lokpal Bill. He later broke away after differences with some leaders associated with the protests. The same year, he spent three days in Bigg Boss house from November 8 to 11.
12-09-2020||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Another fake call centre busted in Gurugram||The police on Friday busted a fake call centre and arrested its owner and three operators for allegedly duping US citizens on the pretextof providing them with technical support. The main server was seized.The accused were operating from a guest house in Sector 29 here.On a tip-off, a police team led by Inspector Jagbir Singh conducted a raid at the guest house, where more than 30 employees were found working on computers. When asked to furnish Other Service Providers (OSP) licence, which is issued by the Department of Telecommunications, or an agreement or MoU related to their work, the employees drew a blank.The police arrested call centre owner Manu Singh Tanwar of Bhiwani, and his operators identified as Arun Singh of Nainital (Uttarakhand), Pushender Singh of Bhiwani and Pankaj Yadav of Charkhi Dadri. The rest of the employees were detained.“The main accused, Manu Singh Tanwar, was a liquor vend contractor. He started the fake call centre last month. He hired three main operators on the monthly salary of Rs 15,000. They asked US nationals to purchase iTune gift cards, took their phone numbers and redeemed the value of the cards. They duped several foreigners,” said KK Rao, Police Commissioner, Gurugram.
12-09-2020||Panipat||SIT to look into sodomy case||The incident went viral on social media after a sodomy case was registered against the youth, Akhlaq of Nanauta.His elder brother Iqram had alleged that Akhlaq went to Panipat in search of work and a case of kidnapping and sexual assault was registered. TNS
12-09-2020||Yamunanagar||Stone of ADR centre laid in Yamunanagar||Justice Rajiv Sharma, Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge and Executive Chairman, Haryana State Legal Services Authority (HSLSA) , laid the foundation stone of an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) centre in Yamunanagar through video-conferencing on Friday.Justice Nirmaljit Kaur, Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge and Administrate Judge, Sessions Division, Yamunanagar; Parmod Goyal, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Member Secretary, Haryana State Legal Services Authority, Panchkula; Deepak Aggarwal, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairperson, District Legal Services Authority, Yamunanagar; Mukul Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Yamunanagar; Danish Gupta, CJM-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority; Balwinder Kumar Saini, president, Bar Association, Yamunanagar; and Atul Bansal, president, Bar Association, Bilaspur, were also present.Justice Rajiv Sharma said the setting up of ADR centres in court complexes was the need of the hour. He said the HSLSA had set up ADR centres in several districts of the state and people were getting direct benefits from these centres. He praised the HSLSA and said it had done commendable work in providing speedy and affordable justice to people through lok adalats.“Efforts should be made to settle cases through the HSLSA and other legal platforms before going to courts,” exhorted Justice Sharma.Deepak Aggarwal said a large number of cases were pending in courts, but ADR centres would help in disposing of cases at a rapid pace.According to information, the building of the ADR centre in Yamunanagar was expected to be completed in about 15 months and the cost of the building would be Rs 4.5 crore. — TNS
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Process on to appoint Right to Service panel chief||Nearly one and a half years after the retirement of the then Chief Commissioner of the Right to Service (RTS) SC Chaudhary, the Haryana Government has again set in motion the process to make appointment to the prestigious post.With that end in mind, the state government has constituted a search committee to recommend suitable candidates to the Statutory Committee comprising Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and a minister nominated by the Chief Minister.Now, the state government has asked eligible applicants to apply by September 18. Under the Haryana Right to Service Act, 2014, a serving or retired officer in the rank and status of the Chief Secretary of Haryana or Secretary to the Government of India is eligible for the post.The RTS Commission can have one Chief Commissioner and four Commissioners. Currently, Hardeep Kumar, the lone incumbent Commissioner, is holding the officiating charge of the Chief Commissioner. Chaudhary had retired on April 5, 2019. — TNS
12-09-2020||Faridabad||Maths workshop at YMCA varsity||Experts talk on fitness regimeYamunanagar: A daylong national webinar on 'Fit India-A step towards healthy nation' was organised by the department of physical education and the NCC unit of Guru Nanak Khalsa College. Principal (Major) Harinder Singh Kang welcomed the speakers and the participants. In his keynote address, Anil Karvade, member, board of management of Laxmi Bai National Institute of Physical Education, Gwalior, emphasised on a daily fitness regime of 40 minutes. Nishan Singh Deol, head, department of physical education, Punjabi University, spoke on the topic 'Science of soul'. Arvind Malik, head of department of physical education, Kurukshetra University, said one must approach fitness scientifically to obtain good results.Webinar on mushroom productionKarnal: A three-day online webinar on ‘Mushroom production, processing and marketing’ was organised at Maharana Pratap Horticulture University, which was inaugurated by Vice Chancellor Prof Samar Singh. In the webinar organised under the National Agricultural Higher Education Project, Prof Samar said in the diversification of horticulture, mushroom was a business that could be started with nominal funds and if successful, the production could be augmented at any stage. He said in our country, the consumption of mushroom was only 100 grams per person while in the Netherlands and China, it was used widely. He said the fresh variety of mushrooms had arrived at the university's Regional Centre. The VC said farmers should also be informed about economic analysis and marketing of mushrooms. He said there was a need to set up mushroom processing plants.
12-09-2020||It is observed that sweet shop owners are not bothered about the ill-effects of spurious milk items such as milk||Trade of spurious milk items goes unchecked||Blow to drive against stray cattle in HisarAROUND three-four days back, the Municipal Corporation of Hisar started a drive to remove stray cattle. However, on Wednesday, some rowdy cattle owners assaulted the team members and got their animals freed coercively from the MC officials in the Mill Gate area, that too, in the presence of police personnel deployed for carrying out the drive smoothly. If the monopoly of such persons is allowed to go on like this then there is a little possibility of seeing Hisar as a cattle-free city. The drive against stray cattle will become a mockery. For the success of the mission, it is necessary to provide adequate police force comprising women constables as cattle owners are pushing their women forward to sort out any brawl. — Baljeet Singh, HisarIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
12-09-2020||Kurukshetra||Day later, farmers booked in Kurukshetra||The Kurukshetra police have registered four cases against BKU leaders and farmers for blocking the national highway, damaging public property, attempt to murder, pelting stones at the police and rioting. The farmers had held a protest and a state-level ‘Kisan Bachao, Mandi Bachao’ rally at Pipli grain market in Kurukshetra on Thursday.Of the four, while three cases have been registered at Thanesar Sadar police station, one case has been registered at Shahabad police station.The cases have been registered against BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni, union spokesman Rakesh Bains, Pankaj Habana, Jasbir Singh, Karam Singh and nearly 300 others, including identified and unidentified farmers and farmer leaders.An attempt was allegedly made to run a tractor-trailer over the Shahabad SDM who was on the spot to stop the farmers.SHO Shahabad Devender Kumar said, “Jasbir Singh who was driving the tractor tried to run over the SDM Shahabad who was trying to persuade the farmers.”SHO Sadar police station Naresh Kumar said, “Three cases have been registered against the farmers for blocking the national highway, damaging public property, pelting stones at policemen, deterring public servant from discharge of duty and Disaster Management Act. No arrests have been made so far.”Superintendent of Police Astha Modi said, “FIRs have been registered against the organisers and mobilisers. Notices were served to the organisers and they were told that no permission has been granted for the rally due to Covid but still they organised the rally.”On the other hand, four cases have been registered in Ambala too. A police spokesman said, “Four separate cases, one each at Parao police station, Saha police station, Shahzadpur police station and Sadar police station have been registered against the farmers, including some identified and unidentified ones.”BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “The police have registered cases against the farmers. The police can arrest us anytime and we are ready to get arrested. The government can’t stop us by threatening us in the name of FIRs.”
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Common interests get peasants, arhtiyas together on one platform||Commonality of interests and changing profile of the trading community over the years, where big farmers have not only ventured into business, but have also developed sizeable control over trading activities in grain markets, have brought farmers and commissions agents together on one platform against farm ordinances.The coming together for the “Kisan Bachao, Mandi Bachao” rally in Pipli of farmers and commission agents, hitherto considered in conflict of interest with each other, has surprised many.Ever since the times of Sir Chhotu Ram (1881-1945), considered a messiah of the farming community, commission agents had been portrayed as the ones who exploited farmers by charging exorbitant rates of interest on loan advanced to farmers at the time of need.Gurnam Singh Chanduni, president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, who had announced the rally, said when both farmers and commission agents faced a threat to their existence due to the ordinances, personal differences did not matter much.“If grain markets do not remain and when farmers will not get minimum support price for their produce, what will both do? When wheat is available for Rs 1,550 per quintal today, who will give Rs 1,900 to farmers when there will be no MSP? Similarly, paddy today is fetching Rs 1,200 against an MSP of Rs 1,868,” said Chanduni.Inderjit Singh, vice-president, Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha, said the existence of farmers and commission agents had come under a question mark due to these ordinances.“Once big corporates enter contract farming, farmers will be totally left on their mercy while commission agents will disappear from the scene due to amendments in the APMC Act,” he added.Gurjeet Singh Mann, a progressive farmer from Sirsa, said commission agents did not carry the same profile as they did during Sir Chhotu Ram’s time.“Over the years, big farmers have been venturing into the business of trading in agricultural commodities in grain markets along with farming. Once only people from the Agarwal community monopolised business in grain markets. But today, one-third of commission agents in any grain market of Haryana are from farming background. Being politically active, they dictate terms where collective decisions are to be taken. In a way, interests of farmers and commission agents are interlinked and interwoven,” he said.Speaking about the ordinances, Mann said these were far more complicated for a common farmer to understand and make an assessment of their immediate and long-term impact.
12-09-2020||Kurukshetra||Take back cases, Bhupinder Hooda warns govt||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda slammed the BJP-JJP government and served a 10-day ultimatum to the government to take back cases registered against the farmers. Otherwise, the Congress would launch an agitation against the state government.Referring to the Kandela incident, Hooda said, “Whichever government has used lathis or bullets against the farmer, it could not last long in power. After the killing of farmers, the INLD was thrown out of power. Now, the BJP-JJP will face a similar fate.”“The government should bring an ordinance and ensure that if someone procures the crop outside the grain market below the MSP, then a case will be registered against the purchasers. The Haryana Government should reject the three ordinances in the state Assembly. We will bring a private Bill in this regard,” Hooda said.HPCC chief Kumari Selja, who also reached Kurukshetra, sought compensation for the farmers who have suffered injuries in Kurukshetra and cancellation of FIRs registered against the farmers. She also informed that the Congress would hold demonstrations and submit memorandums at the district level on September 21.Earlier in the day, AICC communications in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala said, “The BJP is trying to hand over the entire farming to handful of companies. As part of its conspiracy, the BJP has introduced three ordinances. The government is trying to end the bond between farmers and arthiyas.” — TNS
12-09-2020||Jhajjar||Panel to resolve issues: Dhankar||State BJP chief OP Dhankar said a three-member panel comprising Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini, Hisar MP Brijendra Singh and Bhiwani-Mahendragarh MP Dharambir Singh had been made to interact with farmers over the three ordinances. He termed the lathicharge on farmers as “inappropriate”— TNS
12-09-2020||Hisar||7 of family get life term for honour killing in Sirsa||Sirsa Additional District and Sessions Judge Dr Chander Hass today sentenced seven persons to life imprisonment in an honour killing case.The convicts were relatives of the victim, Amandeep Kaur of Dharbi village in Sirsa. She had married a neighbour, Manmeet Singh, after eloping with him on August 10, 2014.Amandeep’s family was opposed to the marriage. The couple, fearing for their lives, approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court for protection.The couple stayed in a shelter home for a week and then shifted to Manmeet’s house. On September 30, Amandeep was abducted by her family members. Her body was later found at a village in Punjab.Among those convicted are Amandeep’s brother Karan Singh, uncles Mukhtyar Singh and Jagtar Singh, cousin Vikas and other relatives Balbir Kaur, Prince Rani and Buta Singh. — TNS
