12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Not begging from Punjab, demanding only rightful space in assembly building: Haryana speaker||Reiterating that Punjab is yet to give Haryana its rightful share of space in the common assembly building for the two states, Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Wednesday asserted that he is not begging but claiming the state’s right.Gupta made the claim citing provisions of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, which, he said, provides for 40 per cent of the space in the assembly building to the Haryana, which, however, has got only 27 per cent of the space till now.At least 20 rooms of the Haryana share in assembly building is in the possession of Punjab, he added.“We are not begging, but demanding only our rightful share. We are asking for what is our rightful share in the assembly building,” Gupta said.Punjab Assembly Speaker Rana K P Singh, however, had earlier claimed that “not an inch was due” to Haryana in the assembly building.Gupta, however, reiterated that Haryana has not been given its rightful share in the assembly building after the creation of the state following the reorganisation of Punjab nearly 54 years ago.He said earlier when he had met the Punjab assembly Speaker, he had agreed to have a meeting arranged between the secretaries of the two assemblies on the issue.“He had said the two secretaries would meet and discuss the issue. Later, I do not know what happened and he went back on his word. The meeting never took place. Now, without the two sides having any meeting or discussion, the Punjab Speaker has been saying that not an inch is due (to Haryana),” Gupta told reporters here.He said he has also raised the issue with Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore, who is also the Administrator of Chandigarh Union Territory.Gupta said he would urge Badnore to intervene in the issue.“Fifty-three years have passed since Haryana was carved out of Punjab. We are only asking for our due share in the assembly building in Chandigarh (which serves as the common capital of both the states),” he said.Since Haryana came into existence on November 1, 1966, both states are having common buildings for their secretariats and assemblies besides having a common high court.Gupta had also said if given their share, Haryana officials would get enough space for work, further improving the functioning of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha.Punjab Speaker Singh, however, had earlier said the issue has already been sorted out.“I have examined it, I have checked it, if there was even one inch of space, we would have definitely given it. But there is nothing that we have to give,” he had told PTI recently. — PTI
12-08-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Woman lawyer commits suicide in Gurugram; blames senior lawyer of sexual harassment||A local lawyer, a daughter of an inspector of Chandigarh Police allegedly committed suicide after hanging herself in her PG room, located in Sector 38.A two-page suicide note has been recovered from the spot in which she accused a senior lawyer of sexually exploiting her and leading to her suicide.Police have booked the senior lawyer for abetment to suicide and are investigating.According to the police, the 25-year-old victim was practicing in Gurugram court since last two years. She lived in a PG in Sector 38 where she had committed suicide in her first floor room on Monday. Her body was found hanging from the ceiling fan. After getting information a police team reached the spot and took the body in custody. Her family was informed and a suicide note found in her room.Father of the deceased who is inspector with Chandigarh Police said in his complaint that she was in touch of a senior lawyer who lured her on the pretext of marriage and sexually exploited her and finally she took this extreme step.Following the complaint an FIR has been registered against lawyer under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of IPC at Sadar police station today.“The deceased in her suicide note mentioned the name of local lawyer and we are investigating all angles. Action will be taken as per the law”, said inspector Dinesh Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station.
12-08-2020||---||Haryana Chief Secretary Office to go paperless||Pradeep SharmaTribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 12The Office of the Chief Secretary (CS), where a substantial number of state government files land up for final decisions, will go paperless.The state government has decided that all important policies from other departments will be routed to the CS Office through the e-Office software--- a software developed by National Informatics Centre that will allow the state government to go digital.Additionally, all hard copies from other departments of the state government, which are currently being catalogued and monitored using the Centralised File Movement and Tracking Information System (CFMS), will be converted into the electronic format by the CS Office, a senior official said.A separate scanning facility at the Civil Secretariat will help scan and convert voluminous files. Various departments of the state government could also use their own scanning facility, the official said.The state government has devised a standard operating procedure (SOP) to help officials with the new system.The state government had asked departments to switch over to e-Office on July 27while sending files related to outsourcing, ex gratia, casualty (compensation and jobs for dependants) and sports to the CS Office.Sources say this will help cut down on delays, especially at a time when the state is reeling under the COVID pandemic given that it would make it easier for officials to access the files using desktops, laptops and smartphones.
12-08-2020||Faridabad||Young couple found murdered in Haryana's Faridabad||A couple was shot dead by unidentified assailants inside their house in Haryana's Faridabad district, police said on Wednesday.The victims have been identified as Sukhbir (28) and Monika (26). They had been living here for the past couple of years. Jasana is the paternal village of Monika.The bodies were found late on Tuesday with bullet injuries. They were found lying in a pool of blood in a room in their house in Jasana village, they said.The hands of the couple had been tied before they were shot, the police said.The murder came to light when a milkman came to deliver milk at the house. As Monica, who used to collect milk, did not come out for a while, the milkman went inside and noticed the couple's bodies. Later, police were informed, they said.CCTV footage from the locality where the incident took place has been collected. Four suspects are seen coming out of the building where the couple lived, they added."Some articles were found missing from the house. Cupboards had been opened and things were lying scattered. A case has been registered and the motive behind the crime is being ascertained," Station House Officer of Tigaon police station Inspector Jasvir Singh said. --With PTI
12-08-2020||---||Vendor tests +ve in Fatehgarh Sahib, -ve in Karnal||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, August 11No new positive case was reported in Fathegarh Sahib today while 385 patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital.The administration and cops were ensuring that residents follow health guidelines.Test report of a vegetable vendor in Bassi Pathana has created confusion. After his arrival from Bihar, the vendor underwent test at the Bassi Pathana Civil Hospital.Authorities informed the vendor that he tested positive and an ambulance was on the way to admit him, however, he left for Karnal in a car of his brother-in-law. The vendor again got himself tested at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital, Karnal, Haryana.His reports turned out to be negative.Civil Surgeon Dr Surinder Singh said the vendor had violated guidelines by fleeing from the town. He said if he had any doubt regarding veracity of the test, he can get himself tested again.
12-08-2020||Hisar/ Rohtak||Haryana’s gender ratio drops to 914||Having witnessed a considerable improvement in the sex ratio at birth (SRB) over the past five years, Haryana has suffered a setback with a decline in the SRB in the first seven months of this year (up to July 31). Against the SRB of 923 in 2019, the ratio has dropped to 914 so far this year.Among districts, Fatehabad recorded the best SRB of 948, followed by Kaithal (942), Sonepat (940), Panipat (934), Nuh and Kurukshetra (both 933). Fatehabad and Kaithal were at the ninth and 13th positions, respectively, in 2019 with the SRB of 921 and 919, respectively, while Nuh was placed 10th, recording birth of 921 girls against 1,000 boys.As many as 11 districts recorded SRB below the state’s average of 914. The worst performing districts were Jhajjar (883) and Karnal (884). In 2019, their ratios stood at 914 and 908, respectively.Panchkula, which sat at the top in 2019 with 963 SRB, saw a drop of 40 points to the 8th position with the SRB of 923. Similarly, second position-holder Ambala (918) dropped to the 12th spot. Besides, Sirsa recorded the SRB of 931, Panipat 934, Hisar 918, Faridabad 915 and Yamunanagar 921.
12-08-2020||Faridabad||DAV Centenary College holds Career counselling through webinar||JC Bose university inks MoU with ASSOCHAM councilFaridabad: To take initiatives to another level and to promote eco-friendly activities on the campus, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, inked an MoU with the ASSOCHAM National Council for Green and Eco-friendly Movement (CGEM) to promote mutual cooperation and exchange programmes in the field of environment sustainability. The MoU ceremony, which was held on a digital platform, was attended by Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar, registrar Dr SK Garg, chairperson of environmental engineering department Dr Renuka Gupta, director, industrial relations Dr Rashmi Popli from the university, and chairman of CGEM Pankaj Dharkar and senior director Neeraj Arora from ASSOCHAM. ASSOCHAM CGEM offers a sustainability certification programme which is specifically designed for the sustainable design and development of the buildings and related developments, to enhance the knowledge of building professionals on green building concepts and technologies. This collaboration will facilitate the students of the university from environmental science, civil engineering and mechanical engineering background to get exposure to green building design strategies, waste management and sustainable development. It will facilitate the students to participate in the training programme on green building certification conducted by the CGEM apart from seminars and workshops on the issue of environment sustainability. The environmental science department will act as the nodal department to execute collaborative initiatives with the CGEM. Expressing pleasure over the tie-up, the V-C said the green initiatives of ASSOCHAM would help the university in getting expertise in green and eco-friendly development as the university has a plan to develop its second campus in Bhakari village of Faridabad which comes under the Gurugram-Faridabad Aravali hills forest range.National webinar organisedKurukshetra: Professor MM Goel, retired from Kurukshetra University, said for the revival of the Indian economy post the pandemic era, the Finance Commission needs to be made permanent for allocating the resources in the absence of the Planning Commission. While addressing the online national webinar organised by Manohar Memorial (PG) College, Fatehabad on the topic ‘Needonomics as revival strategy for the Indian Economy post pandemic’, he said all kinds of deficits, including fiscal, revenue, budget, primary, trade and above all trust could be addressed by adopting needonomics, which could reduce the coefficient of distrust in all sectors of the economy. The needonomist will make life smooth for MSMEs.
12-08-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||No end to stray animal menace||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comNo end to stray animal menaceStray animal menace continues to haunt state residents. Strays roaming on Karnal roads are posing risk to the lives of residents. Besides, they have made farming a difficult task, leading to financial losses to farmers. If the ruling BJP-JJP coalition government doesn’t pay attention to the menace in time then this will become a burning issue for the Opposition parties and hence have serious consequences. Shakti Singh, KarnalDefunct streetlights trouble commutersStreetlights from Harial Chowk to Tohana junction on the National Highway-71, which passes from Narwana, are lying defunt. The NHAI has started collecting toll tax long back but the entire stretch remains dark at night. Stray cattle can bee seen sitting on roadsides and accidents happen quite frequently because of darkness. A generator set has also been placed near the bus stand to switch on to lights in case of emergency, but it remains defective most of the time. The NHAI should resolve the issue at the earliest. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaRain floods Ambala’s Sector 9Incessant rain on Tuesday caused serious havoc in Sector 9 of Ambala even when the administration was apprised of the plight in advance. However, when the situation arised, nobody came to the rescue. Rainwater has entered houses and sewage has got mixed with drinking water, making locals’ lives more miserable amid Covid. The administration should take cognisance of issue at the earliest. Gian P Kansal, Ambala Unemployment takes toll on mental healthPeople from all walks of life are suffering due to Covid, which has led to a bigger problem of unemployment in the state. People have lost their source of income, some are getting lesser salaries, others were terminated from workplaces. Also, slowdown of business, inflation and lack of employment opportunities being other major issues. Survival has become tough, especially for people belonging to middle and lower classes. Many are facing mental health issues like depression, leading to an increase in suicides, with lack of employment being one of the major causes. The state government should take effective measures against unemployment at the earliest. Vikram Sharma, Panchkula
12-08-2020||---||Congress to stage protest tomorrow||Chandigarh, August 11The state Congress will on Thursday protest across the state over the series of scams unearthed during the Manohar Lal Khattar regime. The protests will be held at district headquarters.State Congress chief Kumari Selja would be present at a protest in Nuh.State Congress general secretary Ajay Chaudhary said that on one hand, the state was fighting the Covid pandemic and, on the other, the state was looting people which had been revealed through registry and liquor scams. “By protesting in every district, the public will be informed about the scams,” Ajay Chaudhary added.
12-08-2020||Karnal||Students ‘called’ to school, Karnal DC orders probe||Violating norms, teachers of the Government High School in Kalampura village called 10-12 students of various classes on Tuesday.The students were seen studying in a classroom without wearing face masks, prompting the district authorities to initiate an inquiry.However, the students and Principal denied the allegations. “Nobody has called the students. They came here to get books issued from the library as well as to get their doubts cleared which they were facing in their studies,” said Seema, Principal of the school.DC Nishant Kumar Yadav told DEO Ravinder Chaudhary to initiate an inquiry into the matter. — TNS
12-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Gurugram Municipal Corporation team removing illegal shanties attacked, 2 hurt||Gurugram, August 11A group of residents attacked a team of the Municipal Corporation when it started to remove their illegal shanties situated behind the behind Sikanderpur marble market here on Monday. They reportedly hurled stones at the team members.Two employees were injured, while as many vehicles were damaged in the attack. About 30 people have been booked under Sections 147, 149, 332, 353, 186, 427 and 506 of the IPC at the DLF Phase 1 police station. Some of the accused have been identified as Pappu Mandal, Shanti, alias Moti, Nirmala and Sonla.
12-08-2020||---||Covid-19: Fatality count in Haryana touches 500||Chandigarh, August 11With 798 fresh cases, the Covid tally reached 43,227 today. Eleven deaths pushed the toll to 500, 341 of whom had comorbidities.The deaths were reported from Panipat (4), Faridabad (2) and Gurugram, Sonepat, Ambala, Panchkula and Kurukshetra (1 each).A 66-year-old woman from Shikha Colony in Ballabgarh and an 84-year-old man from Sector 15-A in Faridabad were among the casualties.A 91-year-old woman of Kurukshetra succumbed to the viral disease. A 67-year-old man of Ambala, who was a blood cancer patient, died in hospital.Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (121), Panipat (107), Rewari (73), Gurugram and Ambala (69 each), Sonepat (56), Palwal (47), Rohtak (42), Karnal (38), Panchkula and Yamunanagar (26 each), Kaithal (21), Jind (16), Charkhi Dadri (14), Hisar (12), Jhajjar (11) and Bhiwani (5).Among fresh cases in Ambala, 26 were reported from Ambala Cantonment, 23 from Ambala City, 10 from Chaurmastpur, six from Naraingarh and four from Shahzadpur.The localities which reported fresh cases in Faridabad included Old Faridabad, Ballabgarh, NIT, Dabua Colony, Jawahar Colony, Sanjay Colony, SGM Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, Sector 8, Sector 16 and Sector 82. In Karnal, eight cases were reported from RK Puram and seven from Nilokheri.
12-08-2020||---||Out on parole, murder convict shot dead in Panipat village||Panipat, August 11Out on parole, a 38-year-old murder convict was shot dead in Panipat’s Nimbri village while he was sitting at a confectionery shop on Monday evening. The deceased was identified as Kuldeep of the same village. He was a liquor contractor.In his police complaint, Neeraj, brother of the deceased, said he along with his brother Kuldeep were sitting at the confectionery shop near his liquor shop. Virender, Vikash, Sumit, Ajeet, Vishal, Surjeet, Manjeet and 2-3 other persons came there on motorcycles and opened fire on his brother and also attacked on him with sharp-edged weapons.His family members rushed him to the General Hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead.A case was registered against 13 accused. The reason behind the murder was old enmity between two groups of the same village, Inspector Anirudh said.
12-08-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram Municipal Corporation clears 1.25 lakh tonne construction waste||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 11The municipal corporation (MC) in Gurugram has cleared around 1.25 lakh tonnes of construction and demolition (C&D) waste in the last seven months, making it the highest annual clearing in the NCR in the last five years.The quantity was a meagre 4,643 tonnes in 2019. The authorities credited the success to the new enforcement strategy of the MC, which did away with outsourced enforcement teams.Enforcement agency Pragati AL Natural Resources had issued challans worth Rs 50 lakh and recovered around Rs 28 lakh till date. The agency had submitted recovery assessment of over Rs 80 lakh since January.“Construction and demolition waste has been the biggest civic issue in Gurugram. We have utilised the last eight months, especially the period of lockdown, to clean the city. The Aravalli patch, a dump yard earlier, will now be a bio-diversity zone,” said Municipal Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh.According to a report compiled by the MC, the city had a legacy of around 8 lakh metric tonnes of C&D waste, producing 300 tonnes per day.“When we started, a majority did not know the procedure. We have cleared patches like IFFCO Chowk and Aravallis and kept a tab on every nook and corner. The number of calls to take away waste has increased and illegal dumping has come down by 60 per cent,” said a Pragati spokesperson.
12-08-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Fake call centre busted in Gurugram||Gurugram, August 11Yet another fake call centre was busted in Gurugram on Tuesday. In all, 12 men were running the centre from a house and duping US nationals on the pretext of providing technical support.The call centre owner and operator were arrested while others detained for questioning. Three computers and around Rs 1.5 lakh cash has been recovered by the police.The cyber police got a tip-off that a fake call centre was being run from House No. 4/19 in N block of the DLF Phase 2. Following which a team conducted a raid at the house, where more than 12 employees were found busy working on computers. They didn’t possess any valid OSP licence of the Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement.The police detained 12 and later arrested call centre owner identified as Amit Dhanda of Narvana in Jind, and operator Saurabh Chaudhary of West Bengal.
12-08-2020||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Bottles of liquor seen floating in canal||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, August 11A large number of people gathered at the banks of Western Jamuna Canal (WJC) at Radaur town as soon as they heard about bottles of liquor floating in the water.Initially, many of them jumped into the canal to bring out the bottles, but later some of them threw those away, suspecting that these might contain spurious liquor like those seized in Punjab.Word of cautionSeveral people started fishing bottles out of the canal. But I warned them not to drink liquor in view of the tragedy in Punjab, where more than 100 people have died after consuming spurious liquor. — Swami Maheshashram, Temple PriestAccording to the information available, a large number of country (desi) liquor bottles were seen floating near the ‘pucca’ ghat constructed on the banks of WJC at Radaur town on Sunday evening.“Several people started bringing out the bottles from the canal. But I warned them not to consume this liquor because a tragedy had recently happened in Punjab due to the consumption of spurious liquor,” said priest Swami Maheshashram living at Nageshwar Dham Temple near ‘pucca’ ghat.He said that some people followed his advice and threw away the bottles. He added that hundreds of bottles were seen floating in the canal.Bottles were labelled with a brand of country liquor manufactured by a distillery in Ambala district.After getting information, Deep Chand, SHO, Radaur police station, sent a team near ‘pucca’ ghat.“When our team reached the spot, 20-25 bottles of liquor were floating in the WJC. But those could not be brought out due to high water flow in the canal,” said Deep Chand.He said that it could not be known who threw the liquor bottles and with what motive. “No bottle was fished out from the canal. No case has been registered,” the SHO said.
12-08-2020||Panipat||790 liquor cases seized from milk truck in Sonepat; 2 held||The Sonepat police have arrested two men and seized 790 boxes of illicit liquor from a milk truck at Kharkhoda-Delhi border near the Saidpur police post.The illicit liquor was being smuggled from Bhadurgarh in Jhajjar district to Narela in Delhi. The liquor has a mark and a hologram of two distilleries in Ambala and Jhajjar district.A team of the Kharkhoda police station received a tip-off about a milk truck carrying a huge stock of illicit liquor and entering Narela after crossing the border near Saidpur village.The team laid a naka near the Saidpur police post and during checking, truck driver Naresh Kumar and cleaner Kaluram of Alwar district of Rajasthan were arrested. They told the police the stock was of Sonu of Asoda village in Jhajjar.A case under Sections 420, 483 and 34 of the IPC and 61, 1 and 14 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 (Haryana Amendment Bill, 2020, has been registered.Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said the seized illicit liquor was from NV distillery in Ambala and ADS distillery in Jhajjar. — TNS
12-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Cannot grant parole till convict comes clean: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 11The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the term ‘hardcore prisoner’ will stand attracted once a person is “detected using a cell phone” and till the time he is cleared in the FIR for the use of mobile phone, it will not be possible to accept his prayer for grant of parole even if he has been granted bail in the matter.ABOUT HARDCORE PRISONERThe words used in Section 2(aa)(iv) are such that the definition of hardcore prisoner will stand attracted once a person is detected using a cell phone. Till such time the petitioner is cleared in the FIR registered against him, notwithstanding the fact that he has been granted bail in the FIR, it will not be possible to accept the prayer for grant of parole. — Punjab and Haryana High Court BenchThe ruling by the Bench of Justice S Muralidhar and Justice Avneesh Jhingan came on a petition filed for six-week parole by a convict against Haryana and other respondents.The Bench observed that the convict was undergoing rigorous imprisonment for 10 years, awarded by the Palwal Additional Sessions Judge vide judgment dated May 5, 2017, after conviction in a gang rape case. During the course of imprisonment, another FIR was registered in 2018 on the allegation that he was found to be in possession of a cell phone in the jail.His counsel submitted that Section 2(aa)(iv) of the Haryana Good Conduct Prisoners (Temporary Release) Act defined ‘hardcore prisoner’ to mean a person “who has been detected of using cell phone or in possession of cell phone or SIM card inside the jail premises”. His counsel contended that the petitioner should be released on parole since he had been granted bail in the FIR in connection with the possession of cell phone.He added that till the time he was convicted for the offence registered under Section 42 of the Prisons Act, circumstances should not come in the way of granting parole. The Haryana Additional Advocate General referred to a Division Bench judgment in the case of ‘Vakil Raj versus Haryana’. Among other things, the Bench had ruled “imposing a condition that the use of a mobile, which has the potential of misuse, will disentitle a convict for grant of parole cannot be said to be unjustified”.The Bench asserted: “The words used in Section 2(aa)(iv) are such that the definition of hardcore prisoner will stand attracted once a person is detected using a cell phone. Till such time the petitioner is cleared in the FIR registered against him, notwithstanding the fact that he has been granted bail in the FIR, it will not be possible to accept the prayer for grant of parole.”Before parting with the order, the Bench pointed out that the petitioner would nevertheless be entitled to be considered for grant of parole on the completion of at least five years of custody in jail under Section 5A of the Act.
12-08-2020||Karnal||Haryana Government offices to run from Agro Mall||Finally, the Agro Mall, which is lying unused for the past six years, will be utilised by giving it on rent to various government departments.Four departments, including DETC (Excise), DETC (Sales and Taxes), Education and Revenue Departments have given their consent to shift their offices there. These departments have to pay a monthly rent to the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB).Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, along with officials of the HSAMB visited the Agro Mall on Tuesday and directed officials to develop it at the earliest.The offices of DETC (Excise), DETC (Sales) and the Old Revenue Record Room are running from the buildings, where the second phase of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) is to be constructed. For which, these departments have to shift their offices.“We have fixed a rent of Rs 46.90 per sq feet per month,” the DC said. — TNS
12-08-2020||Gurugram||Couple robbed in Gurugram||A retired couple was allegedly robbed at gunpoint by robbers on Monday evening. The incident has brought the issue of security of senior citizens in the city under the scanner once again.This episode was reported from posh area DLF Phase 3. The suspects fled in just 20 minutes after taking away cash and jewellery.An FIR has been registered.According to the police, the incident took place on Monday with 77-year-old retired teacher RK Mehta, a resident of S block of DLF Phase 3.“The maid was working when three robbers knocked on the door. Mehta opened the gate and robbers barged into the house and held him at gunpoint. His wife and maid tried to raise an alarm, but another miscreant pointed a gun at them and locked all of them in a room. They took the keys of the almirah and fled after taking away Rs 25,000 and gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 2 lakh,” said a police officer.A case under Section 392 of the IPC and the Arms was registeted. — OC
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Retired CID chief hired||The state government today appointed retired IPS officer Anil Rao as Adviser, Public Safety, Greivances, Good Governance and overall incharge, CM Window. He would draw his last salary minus pension while his other entitlements and allowances would be the same. — TNS
12-08-2020||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar youth found dead||The body of a 19-year-old boy was found at Industrial Area Phase II in the district’s Manakpur village on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Vaibhav Chauhan. Baldev Singh of Jagadhri said his grandson, Vaibhav, had gone to Manakpur village on Sunday, but didn’t return. — TNS
12-08-2020||Parveen Arora||325 commercial plots in Karnal find no buyers||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 11A query filed under the Right to Information (RTI) Act has brought out that the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has not received any buyer for 325 plots in Sector 12 in the past several years even after making several attempts.‘High rates to blame’ Several attempts were made to sell the plots, but certain things acted as limiting factors. One, the rates of the HSVP commercial sites are high in comparison to other sites in the city. Two, the time period to make the payment has been reduced from five years to just 120 days. — HSVP EmployeeCity-based activist Rajesh Sharma, who had filed the RTI query, had sought information about the development of Sector 12, the number of unsold plots and the number of plots auctioned after 2010.The process to develop Sector 12 was started in 1993. Only one plot was auctioned after 2010. In all, 325 plots are awaiting buyers.The RTI reply states that of the 325 unauctioned plots, 107 are double-storey shops, 62 booths, 60 showrooms, 45 shop-cum-offices (SCOs), 32 kiosks, 12 dhaba sites and seven hotel sites.“Several attempts were made to sell the plots, but certain things acted as limiting factors. One, the rates of the HSVP commercial sites are high in comparison to other sites in the city. Two, the time period to make the payment has been reduced from five years to just 120 days. As a result, people didn’t show interest in buying commercial sites in Sector 12,” an HSVP employee said.He said had the plots been auctioned off, the HSVP would have earned a good amount of money.Pradhuman Singh, Executive Officer (EO), HSVP, said they would restart the e-auction process after getting a nod from the higher authorities.
12-08-2020||---||Claims of Haryana farmers worth Rs 35 cr stuck||Chandigarh, August 11Farmers’ claims worth Rs 34.92 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) are stuck for the past over three years because banks debited the premium from their accounts, but they were not covered under the scheme or insurance companies had not settled their claims for other seasons.ISSUE BEFORE CENTRE There is a clear provision under the PMFBY that in case farmers are deprived of their claims due to the fault of insurance companies or banks, they will be held liable to compensate farmers for the loss. We have taken up the matter with the Centre so that bankers can be forced to make good the loss. — Jagraj Dandi, Joint Director, Agriculture and Farmers’ WelfareThe claims of at least 7,500 farmers across the state were stuck after they suffered crop losses because their crops were not covered under the PMFBY despite payment of premium.Jagraj Dandi, Joint Director, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, confirmed the development and said the cases pertained to various years since the PMFBY was introduced in 2016.“There is a clear provision under the PMFBY that in case farmers are deprived of their claims due to the fault of insurance companies or banks, they will be held liable to compensate farmers for the loss. We have taken up the matter with the Centre so that bankers can be forced to make good the loss,” he said.According to sources, the insurance claims of nearly 7,500 farmers were stuck since 2016 after they suffered crop losses because they were not covered under the scheme.Sources said the amount of these unresolved claims was over Rs 15 crore. When the state government checked records, it was found that banks had debited premium, but not paid it to insurance companies.The PMFBY provides for resolution of disputes by District-Level Grievances Redressal Committees under Deputy Commissioners and State-Level Grievances Redressal Committees headed by the Principal Secretary.The sources said both committees had found banks responsible and imposed fines on those. However, the banks had not complied with the orders of the committees and the matter had reached the Centre.“We have taken up the matter with the Centre so that banks can be forced to pay farmers’ claims as they have been waiting for these for years despite having paid premium,” said a senior officer of the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department.Besides, two insurance companies had not settled claims of farmers amounting to Rs 11.09 crore and Rs 9.79 crore.
12-08-2020||Chandigarh||Booze Scam: Bhupinder Singh Hooda demands probe by CBI or House panel||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has expressed dissatisfaction with the findings of the Special Enquiry Team (SET), which is probing the liquor scam and instead demanded an inquiry either by the CBI or a High Court judge or a House committee. “The state government is trying to put the blame on excise officials. The Opposition demands that real culprits should be exposed,” he told the media here on Tuesday.The former CM listed out several scams that had been exposed in recent years. “There was a scam in the registration of sale deeds, and the purchase of mustard and rice. After every 15 days, a new scam tumbles out of the closet.” The Congress leader said the scams were pushing the state to the brink of bankruptcy.On the protest by 1,983 physical training instructors demanding their reappointment, he said as the BJP-JJP government was dithering, the Congress would bring in a private member Bill to reinstate them. — TNSHe has lost focus: VijReplying to Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s allegations, Health Minister Anil Vij said, “I heard what Hooda said on Tuesday. He was looking upset. He has been suffering from fever. He has lost his focus.”
