12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Wearing masks made compulsory in Haryana; violators to face action||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Sunday said that wearing of face masks has been made compulsory while stepping outside homes in the state during the lockdown and anybody found violating the orders will face action as per law.“I have issued orders with immediate effect that anyone who ventures outside home will have to wear a mask. Anyone violating the orders will face action,” Vij, who is also the health minister, said.Those found violating the instructions will be punished under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and the police authorities are empowered to take action against the violators, he said.“People can wear a mask or cover their face with cloth, scarves etc,” he said.Earlier, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar too had appealed to people across the state to wear masks whenever they venture out.Notably, Haryana has witnessed a spike in number of COVID-19 cases in the past few days and the total number of such cases on Sunday rose to 179, including five health professionals with a doctor and two nurses among them.The worst affected districts of the state with maximum number of positive cases are Nuh (45), Gurugram (32), Faridabad (31) and Palwal (29).As many as 261 containment and buffer zones have been set up across the state including those falling in the four worst affected districts. These zones will be completely sealed as no movement of people inside these zones will be allowed as a measure to check the spread of infection, he said.Vij has maintained that the spike in positive cases was due to a number of Tablighi Jamaat members testing positive.On Sunday, he said that “107 Tablighi Jamaat members” are among those who have tested COVID-19 positive.With a majority of private clinics closed these days, Vij urged doctors to keep the establishments open in such difficult times.“I am appealing to private doctors. During these difficult times, they should open their clinics in the state. Over 70 per cent of them have closed their clinics. Whether government or private doctors, both will have to discharge their duties,” he said.“There are many people who suffer from ailments like diabetes, heart and kidney disease and other major and minor ailments for which they used to consult private doctors too. Many people have complained that they are unable to access the private doctors as they have shut down their clinics,” he pointed out.The government was making an appeal to these doctors to open their clinics and provide their services, the minister said.Replying to a question on possible measures, he said that the government can make the doctors to open their clinics by invoking provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act. Yet, for the moment we want to request them that they should open clinics on their own, Vij said.The minister, meanwhile, praised the way safai karamcharis (sanitary workers) are carrying out sanitisation work across the state to minimise chances of any infection in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak.The minister also sought to assure that there were sufficient stocks of personal protection equipment (PPE) needed by doctors, nurses and paramedical staff in government hospitals. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wearing-masks-made-compulsory-in-haryana-violators-to-face-action-70205
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda dies after prolonged illness||Congress Member of Legislative Assembly Shri Krishan Hooda died after a prolonged illness on Sunday, officials said.He was a legislator from Baroda assembly segment in Sonepat.Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Hooda and his son Deepender Hooda tweeted their condolences. In his condolence message, Bhupinder Hooda said Shri Krishan Hooda was a strong pillar not just of the Congress party but the state polity as well. "Shri Krishan Hooda's election as legislator for six terms speaks volumes of his popularity. He was like an elder brothe anbd his demise is a personal loss for for me," the former CM said. हरियाणा के सबसे वरिष्ठ विधायक, कांग्रेस विधायक दल के मजबूत स्तंभ और मेरे ताऊ जी श्री कृष्ण हुड्डा जी के निधन की ख़बर सुनकर स्तब्ध हूँ। दिवंगत आत्मा को मेरी श्रद्धांजलि और परिजनों के प्रति मेरी संवेदनाएँ।भगवान् से प्रार्थना है कि दुःख की इस घड़ी मे परिवारजनों को सम्बल प्रदान करे pic.twitter.com/PdzKrg3TMS  मेरे बड़े भाई व विधानसभा में मेरे साथी, बरोदा के लोकप्रिय विधायक श्रीकृष्ण हुड्डा जी के निधन से मुझे व्यक्तिगत नुकसान हुआ है, जिसकी भरपाई निकट भविष्य में संभव नहीं है। भगवान् उनकी आत्मा को अपने श्रीचरणों में स्थान दें।मेरी भावभीनी श्रद्धांजलि और परिजनों के प्रति गहरी संवेदनाएँ। pic.twitter.com/hzxPGSiVfK||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-mla-shri-krishan-hooda-dies-after-prolonged-illness-70203
12-04-2020||New Delhi||ICMR approves DBT institute as coronavirus testing facility for Faridabad||The bioassay laboratory of Department of Biotechnology’s Faridabad-based Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI) will now function as an extension of diagnostic facility of Faridabad’s ESIC Medical College and Hospital for coronavirus testing. It will be the first and only COVID-19 testing facility in the Faridabad region, DBT said.A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between the two institutes also provides for the team at the bioassay laboratory to train manpower and build capacity at the ESI hospital for COVID-19 testing.While THSTI is funded by Department of Biotechnology in the Union Ministry of Science and Technology, ESIC Medical College and Hospital, Faridabad, is a premier medical institution under the Union Ministry of Labour and Employment.DBT- THSTI’s bioassay laboratory was established under the DBT-funded Translational Research Program of THSTI. It was set up for clinical development of vaccines and biologicals. It is intended to meet the global standards in Good Clinical Laboratory Practice (GCLP) and will be applying for accreditation by National Accreditation Board for testing and calibration Laboratories (NABL) for vaccine development and testing.This MoU was signed after the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) decided to expand testing by engaging government laboratories not under ICMR. This includes laboratories of DBT, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Defence Research and Development Organisation, and government funded medical colleges, among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/icmr-approves-dbt-institute-as-coronavirus-testing-facility-for-faridabad-70195
12-04-2020||Yamunanagar||Yamnunagar jail head warder booked for breaching quarantine orders||Haryana Police booked a jail warder for having breached quarantine protocol and reporting to work despite orders to stay at home, officials said on Sunday.Yamunanagar’s head warder was put under home quarantine was reportedly put under a month-long home quarantine at his house in Ambala Cantonment on March 19 after his sister and brother-in-law visited him from West Bengal.However, he continued to report to work despite the order and told no one about it, officials said, adding that by doing so, he put the lives of the jail staff as well as prisoners at risk.He also took a few days off work in the last week of March, sources said.None of his relatives have so far tested positive, sources said.After he came to know about the official’s breach of home quarantine, District Jail Superintendent Ratan Singh had the official booked for disobeying orders by a public servant (Section 188) and doing an act that is like to spread a dangerous infection (Section 269) on April 10, officials said.“When we came to know that a head warder continued his duty despite being quarantined to him, we immediately got the whole jail sanitised,” District Jail Superintendent Ratan Singh said, adding that the head warder had been made to take a compulsory leave of absence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamnunagar-jail-head-warder-booked-for-breaching-quarantine-orders-70182
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||BJP-JJP govt in hurry to get liquor factories running: Randeep Surjewala||Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Sunday hit out at the BJP-JJP coalition government in Haryana, saying it was in a hurry to get liquor factories running at a time when all its focus should have been in fighting COVID-19 and arming those who were at the forefront of this battle.“The Khattar-Chautala government, whose aim should be welfare of 2.5 crore people of Haryana, is in a hurry to get liquor factories running,” he said while addressing a press conference through video conference.During the proposed extended period of lockdown, liquor shops are likely to be allowed to open as many chief ministers have strongly pitched for it arguing that it is a major revenue generating way for the states, sources had said on Saturday after a conference of state chief ministers with the PM.Citing a circular from the Excise and Taxation Commissioner dated April 11, he said, “The circular from the Excise and Taxation Commissioner (addressed to Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioners) says they are directed to ensure operations of distilleries, bottling plants—Indian Made Foreign Liquor, breweries, wineries situated in their districts are resumed with immediate effect.“(For wholesale and retail operation), the order then says this may be treated as a step in the direction of full scale operations of wholesale and retail licenses after the lockdown period is over,” he said quoting from the order.Surjewala, a former Haryana Minister, said that in the lockdown period, “priority of this government should be fighting the coronavirus, arming our doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, police personnel, safai karamcharis and essential services employees with personal protection equipment, N-95 masks and other gear and not bothering to start distilleries with immediate effect”.“Is the government working for welfare of the people of Haryana or are they working for profiteering of liquor distillery owners and wholesale and retail liquor operators. That’s a question they need to answer,” he said.Surjewala said that earlier too the state government had shut down liquor vends in the state from March 27 after heavy criticism from people and the opposition for keeping the outlets open despite a nationwide lockdown to check spread of COVID-19.Claiming that bootlegging was going on despite the entire state being under lockdown, he said it indicates a failure of the ruling dispensation on the law and order front.Haryana police had last week said that it had launched a crackdown against bootleggers and arrested 449 people for involvement in illegal storage/transportation/sale of liquor and over 1 lakh bottles of illicit liquor had been seized during the lockdown period.The Congress leader also voiced concern over “fewer” COVID tests being carried out, saying on an average only 51 tests were being conducted per day in a state having population of over 2.5 crore, which indicates failure of the government.                      “To fight the corona pandemic, testing is key to prevention... but I am deeply saddened that the Khattar government is neither comprehending nor understanding the gravity of the issue,” he said.He said that out of over 25,000 people who had been put on surveillance, as per government’s own medical bulletin, only 3,663 have been tested in 71 days between February 1 and April 12.Reports of over 1,000 people who have been tested are still awaited, he said.“We are all together with the Khattar government in fighting the coronavirus, but they need to pull up their socks and get their act together and not leave the people of Haryana at the mercy of God,” he said.Meanwhile, he claimed that while the Centre has recommended use of sodium hypochlorite for disinfecting of public places, the state government was using “bleaching powder, which is not enough even to kill mosquitoes”.He said that if Congress workers can use sodium hypochlorite spray in Kaithal and Narwana the government should have also used it to disinfect public places across the state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-jjp-govt-in-hurry-to-get-liquor-factories-running-randeep-surjewala-70180
12-04-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Watch: Ambala residents shower sanitation workers with flowers for their fight against coronavirus||The localities in Ambala showered flowers on the sanitations workers and applauded them for their effort to fight the deadly disease coronavirus. On Thursday evening, the residents of ‘Nadi Mohalla’ area—from their terraces—showered flowers, while people on the lane clapped for the workers. Meanwhile, to prevent the spread of COVID-19, Gurugram district administration on Thursday declared nine areas in the city as containment zones.In India, over 7,000 people have been tested positive for the COVID-19 disease. The death toll has crossed over 200.In Haryana, a total of 177 people have been infected with the contagious virus, and two people have succumbed to the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/watch-ambala-residents-shower-sanitation-workers-with-flowers-for-their-fight-against-coronavirus-70171
12-04-2020||Chandigarh||Distilleries can start operations||The Excise and Taxation Commissioner today issued an order to all Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioners for ensuring operation of distilleries, bottling plants, breweries and wineries in each district with immediate effect. “This may be treated as a step in the direction of full-scale operation of wholesale and retail licences after lockdown is over,” read the order. The officers were directed to coordinate with local administration for smooth operations in each district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/distilleries-can-start-operations-69993
12-04-2020||Sushil Manav
||Staggered purchase won’t work, say traders, farmers||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 11 Even though the Haryana Government has announced the schedule for procurement of rabi crop from April 15 in a staggered manner by observing social distancing, farmers as well as grain market traders are sceptical about the smooth completion of operations. The state government had announced that the procurement of mustard will begin from April while the purchase of wheat will start from April 20. The procurement is to be done in a staggered manner whereby only 100 farmers are to be allowed to enter a grain market in a day – 50 between 8 am and 2 pm and 50 more from 2 pm to 6 pm. “This looks good on paper, but is not practically possible. Allowing 100 farmers a day means hardly one farmer will arrive on one arhtiya shop in a day as every grain market in the district or even in the sub-divisional towns has more than 100 traders. Normally, eight to 10 labourers are engaged by a trader for unloading, cleaning, weighing, packing and loading of wheat. The labourers are paid on the basis of work. In case, one farmer is to come to a trader in a day, it will be impossible to retain the labourers as they would not get enough wages,” said Ashok Gupta, president of Haryana State Grain Market Traders Association. He said that with the large scale exodus of migratory labourers from the state, it is already going to be a daunting task to find sufficient manpower and retaining them is going to be even harder in case procurement is to be done in a staggered manner. He said that the grain market traders were of the view that when the procurement of wheat is to last till June 30, it would have been better to delay the process by 15 more days till the Covid situation improves a little. He said under these conditions, the traders, farmers and labourers will be at great risk of getting infected as it would be almost impossible to observe social distancing.  “The process of harvesting of wheat lasts 15 to 20 days. This means farmers will not be able to bring their produce to mandis directly from their fields. Once, they take their produce to their homes, it does not really make a difference if they have to keep it with them for 15 days or for a month,” he added. Gurjeet Singh Mann, a progressive farmer from Kirpal Patti in Sirsa, said that though the combine harvester owners, who were in Madhya Pradesh and other states for job work now, are likely return by April 20, many farmers would prefer to delay harvesting as far as possible. Staggered procurement would increase their transportation costs. PK Das, Additional Chief Secretary, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumers Affairs, however, said that the state government was fully geared up for staggered procurement in view of Covid. “The government will not limit its procurement activities in the grain markets alone, but wheat will be procured at over 2,000 purchase centres set up in villages. There will be a limit on the arrival of 2,500 to 3,000 quintals at each purchase centre. But in bigger grain markets, the condition of maximum limit of farmers visiting per day could be relaxed,” Das said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/staggered-purchase-wont-work-say-traders-farmers-69992
12-04-2020||Gurugram||Nine nabbed for thrashing students||The police have nabbed nine persons for of thrashing four migrants for not buying overpriced groceries from the shop specified. The accused attacked four ITI students on Wednesday, critically injuring one of them. The accused, armed with sticks, entered their room and beat them up for defying the norm of buying groceries from the landlord’s shop. The accused were nabbed and let off on bail. “The police have no tolerance to hate crime. We this took immediate action and nabbed the accused. We are ensuring prompt action on any such complaint,” stated Commissioner of Police Mohammad Akil. The police station concerned had four other villages other than Aliyar under its jurisdiction. The police deployed eight personnel each in these villages. A special meeting was held between the police and local sarpanches. Each village would now have special peace committees to keep a check on hate crime. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nine-nabbed-for-thrashing-students-69991
12-04-2020||---||With 11 new cases, tally reaches 177||Chandigarh, April 11With 11 new cases, Haryana’s Covid tally reached 177 today. There was a jump of 6.6 per cent over the total number of cases on Friday, which was 166.Fresh cases were reported from Nuh (6), Yamunanagar (2), Faridabad (1), Karnal (1) and Hisar (1). All six who tested positive in Nuh were local residents. One had Tablighi Jamaat connection while five others were primary contacts of a driver who was found positive earlier.Today, Yamunanagar reported its first two cases. Both patients were from Mumidi village. They had gone to Gujarat in February to join the Tablighi Jamaat and returned on March 20.In Karnal, another staff nurse of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College tested positive. The 10-year-old son of the 36-year-old patient was put under isolation. It was being suspected that she got the infection from another doctor of the hospital who had tested positive.In Faridabad, a 46-year-old chemist tested positive today. It was being suspected that he had got the infection from an infected person who had come to his shop for medicines.In Hisar, a 63-year-old man, father of an administrative official, was included as the second case in the district, as per the official bulletin. Nuh led among districts with 44 Covid cases, followed by Gurugram (32), Faridabad (29) and Palwal (29).According to the government bulletin, 3,663 samples had been tested so far with 2,472 negative and results of 1,026 cases awaited. Three patients had died so far while 22 had been discharged.As pensioners were facing trouble in withdrawing their pension through biometric method or voucher till June 30, the Haryana Government decided not to stop their pension.Earlier, if pensioners failed to withdraw pension at least once in three months, the amount was sent back to the department through bank or post office. The department used to stop the pension benefit of that beneficiary and the pensioner had to reapply after one year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-11-new-cases-tally-reaches-177-69990
12-04-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Pandemic brings image makeover for personnel in khaki||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 11After the image of the Haryana Police took a beating in the 2016 Jat agitation for failing to deliver, the Covid crisis has brought a complete image makeover for the force as its personnel are going beyond the call of duty for the helpless public while ensuring adherence to government directions.While doctors deal with the Covid challenge in hospitals, the police have easily become Covid warriors everywhere else — holding fort and standing in while coming to the rescue of the ailing and the deprived. This humane face of the police comes with a stern resolve too.From clamping down on lockdown violators to slapping cases against the incorrigible, checking hate crime to booking those spreading fake news — the police are juggling a lot more than just maintaining law and order.“Our brief to the field staff has been very clear — to chip in wherever possible and help whenever they can. The virus has blurred the usual duty boundaries. Those are for normal times. In this time of crisis, everything, including being supportive, sympathetic and thoughtful, is our job. Maintaining law and order, of course, remains priority,” explained Navdeep Singh Virk, ADGP (Law and Order).A pregnant jhuggi-dweller in Gurugram was not only moved to the General Hospital for delivery in a PCR after she developed labour pains, but given food and medicines. A PCR vehicle dropped the mother and newborn back after they were discharged.A resident of Prem Nagar in Yamunanagar sought police help after feeling uneasy at night. Since her only son was stuck in Gurugram due to the lockdown, responding to her call, the police admitted her to a hospital and called her relatives.An 85-year-old woman lost her way in Narnaul and could not recall her address. The police made her comfortable by offering tea till they located her family. Similarly, in Bhiwani, a visually challenged mother with children was being continuously supplied meals by the local police to make life a little easier for her.These were among the many incidents that had changed the way the public looked at the men in khaki. The police were performing an entire gamut of duties — distributing food packets and dry ration to the hungry, keeping tabs on bootleggers since liquor vends were closed, ensuring delivery of essentials and medicines for senior citizens, facilitating movement of vehicles to maintain supply chains, counselling suspected patients, keeping migrants in relief camps occupied, running a community kitchen to feed the hungry, and more.“This has been an eye-opener that shows that the police have a humanitarian core. Exposure to weaker sections and difficulties of people has brought out the best in them. They are going to slums, unmindful of the danger of exposure which everyone is avoiding. They are counselling people during contact-tracing, persuading them to come to hospital and are an integral part of medical teams. This experience will change the police force. The gratitude of people will encourage them to give more. It will have a long-term effect on the police psyche and how they interact with the people,” said DGP Manoj Yadava.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pandemic-brings-image-makeover-for-personnel-in-khaki-69989
12-04-2020||Nitish Sharma||Strictness pays in Kurushetra, no positive case reported||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, April 11Though no Covid-positive case has been reported in Kurukshetra so far, the district administration has been strictly implementing the lockdown from the first day.Only shops providing essential supplies are allowed to remain open from 10 am to 4 pm. Retail buying of vegetables and fruits from the main vegetable markets has been banned. Residents are being motivated to get essential items through door-to-door service providers and home delivery service.A total of 32 checkpoints have been put up to seal inter-district and inter-state borders. Doctors are regularly screening policemen deployed on checkpoints.All 2,347 people who have travel history have been traced, 572 of whom are still under home quarantine while the rest have completed the 28-day period.“We have been getting vegetables on our doorstep while shops selling essential items remain open as per timings allowed by the administration. A major issue is that people do not maintain social distancing. All residents must follow guidelines being issued for our safety. We are not allowing anyone from our family to go out unnecessarily,” said Tejinder Kumar, a local resident.“While residents are supposed to maintain social distancing, many political leaders have not been following these guidelines. They can be seen on social media sitting next to each other in groups. getting clicked and accepting cheques being presented for the relief fund. Politicians should also follow guidelines,” said Rajiv, another local resident.In Kurukshetra, 58 cases had been registered against lockdown violators and 69 persons arrested. The police had impounded 92 vehicles and issued 3,889 challans over the last couple of weeks.Adesh Medical College and Hospital in Shahabad had been declared a dedicated Covid hospital for Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Karnal.In Kurukshetra, 51 samples had so far been sent for testing, of which 49 tested negative while the reports on two were awaited.“There has been no positive case in Kurukshetra yet and all efforts are being made to ensure that there is no case in the coming days as well. Guidelines being issued by the Centre and state are being implemented strictly to prevent the spread of Covid. Since positive cases have been reported in neighbouring districts, including Karnal, Kaithal and Ambala, extra precaution is being taken at the inter-district borders,” said State Transport Commissioner SS Phulia. He had been monitoring activities to stop the spread of Covid in Kurukshetra district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/strictness-pays-in-kurushetra-no-positive-case-reported-69988
12-04-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Lack of awareness adds to troubles of Palwal district||Tribune News ServicePalwal, April 11Palwal is “under-developed” and less populated in comparison to its neighbouring Faridabad, but the nature of the problem is the same.Here also the majority of the positive cases (29 so far) are of the persons who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation or those who came into their contact, leading to the district emerging as a hotspot.Sensing it as a serious threat, the district took a lead by announcing containment zone to screen the suspects on an urgent basis.As the majority of the cases have been of the Jamaatis, the authorities took a little time to understand the epicentre of the problem — the Hathin subdivision. It is primarily a rural hub with the majority of the villages being part of the Mewat region which is poorly educated.At least 15 villages including Chhainsa, Durenchi, Mathepur, Mahlooka, Hunchpuri, Kot, Utawar, Lakhnaka, Rupraka, Gurawali, Babupur Hathin, Jalalpur, Guraksar, Alimew and Paharpur were placed in containment zones.These were to be covered by 45 teams consisting of doctors, nurses and health workers to carry out an intensive house-to-house search of the cases.Only one case was from the urban pocket of Palwal where a 68-year-old businessman was found positive. He was the first case to have been found positive on March 23 after he returned from Dubai on March 12.Revealing that a record 59,000 persons in the area have already been scanned, Dr Brahmdeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, said the exercise could be extended easily to every person in the district.“The issue took a serious turn when it was found that a large number of persons of whom the majority were residents of other states or countries had visited villages of Hathin in connection with religious work. This made us to carve out a strategy to hit at the root of the problem,” said the Civil Surgeon.As the large number of persons, who came in contact with the suspects, had been illiterate or unaware of the problem, handling it lightly could have taken a heavy toll, he said. He added that the result has been satisfactory as the identification of suspects has become easy.“We will ensure that no one is left as suspected case in the minimum time. For this, we are ready to go an extra mile to make this issue a thing of the past,” says DC Naresh Narwal.Claiming that Palwal became the first district to go for containment plan, he said the strategy was now to clean up the mess through hyperactive involvement of all concerned.The main challenge, he claimed, has been the lack of education in a large part of the district having a rural background.Admitting that though the recovery rate has been a bit slow so far, a district official said that all the positive cases are stable and are on the path to recovery. Six of them are expected to be discharged in the next four to five days.The first case was discharged within a week of his treatment. The majority of those still getting treatment are lodged in the Government Medical College at Nalhar (Nuh) where ventilators are available.The main cause of worry is that the issue needs continuous attention for the next couple of months as lack of awareness has been the major hurdle. The Police Department is playing a key role in making social distancing a success.As many as 1,600 vehicles have been impounded or challaned so far in the lockdown period. While a fine of Rs 11 lakh has imposed, 119 persons have been arrested till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lack-of-awareness-adds-to-troubles-of-palwal-district-69987
12-04-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Jamaatis under attack, 19 cases filed in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 11From firing at mosques to being beaten inside their homes for ignoring the ‘lights off’ call of the PM to hate campaigns on the social media, Muslims in Haryana have been at the receiving end ever since Tablighi Jamaat members were found to be infected with the coronovirus.Manoj Yadava, DGPAction taken at onceMost incidents have occurred in rural areas. DCs and SPs have visited these villages. Immediate action has given confidence to the community. Till date, 19 cases have been registered against 89 and 28 persons arrested for attacks on the Muslim community in Haryana, even as 107 of the 1,608 Jamaatis traced so far have tested positive. In Panipat, 72 persons have been named in seven cases while 13 have been arrested.On April 2, eight persons allegedly attacked Karamvir’s family with sharp-edged weapons at Dhansanauli village and then entered a nearby mosque and beat up a man. “We ran upstairs and bolted the door. The police arrived after an hour despite frantic calls. They (attackers) kept saying the Muslims must be expelled as they are spreading the virus,” recalled Karamvir, 64. He has now moved to Panipat city with his family.In the same village, Firoz Rubaan and his wife Mohsina were allegedly attacked on April 3 by a group of six persons, also involved in the attack on Karamvir’s family. Rubaan is recuperating in a hospital.In Kundli, Sonepat, some youths attacked Naruna Masjid gates and damaged CCTV cameras on the night of April 6. At Sonepat’s Badwasani village, 30 persons ransacked the village mosque on April 4. In Gurugram, some youths, who were reportedly looking for Jamaatis, opened fire at Dhankot mosque on the night of April 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jamaatis-under-attack-19-cases-filed-in-haryana-69890
12-04-2020||---||CM: Haryana to be split into 3 zones||Chandigarh, April 11Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today said that with the lockdown in all likelihood to be extended by two weeks after April 14, the state would be divided into three zones — red, orange and green. The red zone would comprise hotspots like Nuh, Gurugram, Palwal and Faridabad; the orange zone would have districts reporting few cases and the green zone with no case at all. As of now, no Covid case has been reported from Kurukshetra, Rewari, Mahendragarh and Jhajjar. The three zones will have different set of rules. “We are working on a protocol,” Khattar said.Regarding MSMEs, he said industries employing lesser workforce could be allowed to function on the condition that they ensured social distancing. He urged builders to observe social distancing too while promising free movement of raw material and finished goods.On harvesting, he said the state was facing labour shortage. “We are trying to engage MNREGA workers and about 15,000 migrants staying in state’s shelter homes.”Working on protocolRed zone: Will comprise hotspots like Nuh, G’gramOrange zone: Dists reporting only one or two casesGreen zone: Dists with no cases||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-haryana-to-be-split-into-3-zones-69889
