12-07-2020||Hisar||Hisar: Footage reveals PCR ran over youth after chasing him||A day after an alleged accidental death of a youth, CCTV footage revealed that the victim died after a PCR chasing him ran him over on the Jind road in Hansi town of the district.The incident occurred yesterday evening when the victim identified as Ravinder, a resident of Gaganheri village, was chased by the PCR.The footage showed that the youth fell on the ground from his motorcycle and the PCR ran over him.He died on the spot as one of the cops watched him lying on the road.After the dharna by the family of the youth, DSP Hansi Dharambir Singh informed that the police have booked three cops under murder charges under Section 302 of the IPC and also imposed sections of SC/ST Act and started investigation.Initially police termed it a case of accidental death stating that the youth died after hitting an electricity pole.The CCTV footage, however, showed the PCR chasing and hitting the youth from behind.The family members came to know about the incident when the CCTV footage of the incident went viral on the social media.They started a dharna demanding registration of murder case against the cops and demanded their arrest.The youth was working in a shop in Hansi town. There was no word from the police so far about the reason of the PCR chasing him which led to the incident.
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Locusts enter Haryana districts; agriculture minister says necessary action taken||Swarms of locusts have reached Sirsa, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri and Mahendragarh districts of Haryana, Agriculture Minister JP Dalal said on Sunday.He said steps have been taken to curb the infestation and adjoining districts have been asked to remain alert.The locusts entered Sirsa, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri and Mahendragarh districts on Saturday, with some settling in the fields during the night, Dalal said.He said the agriculture department has deployed fire tenders and tractor-mounted spray guns to kill the insects.“Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed deputy commissioners of these and adjoining districts to remain alert,” Dalal, who visited the affected areas in Charkhi Dadri, told reporters.He said deputy commissioners (DCs) of the affected districts have been directed to send a preliminary report about the damage caused to crops by the insects.After the reports are received, a special ‘girdwari’ (revenue survey) will be ordered in areas where the loss is more, he added.Dalal assured farmers that the government would take all necessary measures to control locust infestation in case the insects are spotted in any district and they will be compensated for their losses.In many villages where locusts were spotted, the farmers beat ‘thalis’ (plates) and other utensils to drive away the insects and protect their crops like cotton and bajra.Dalal reached the Irrigation Department Rest House in Charkhi Dadri’s Baund village this morning and was apprised by the DC about the locust attack in the district.The minister directed the officers of the agriculture department to ensure insecticides are sprayed wherever locusts are spotted.He also asked them to constitute a group consisting of four-five people each from 20-25 villages per district so that the administrations can be alerted about any locust infestation in time and necessary measures taken immediately.He added that the state government is making all possible efforts to deal with locusts and there were reports of nearly 50 per cent swarms being eliminated in various districts by using chemical sprays.Dalal also visited Sanwar village and the surrounding areas to take stock of the spraying of insecticides carried out last night.He directed the agriculture department officers to spray insecticides during the day time as well and said there is a need to be vigilant as the season of monsoon is favourable for locusts.He was told that the Charkhi Dadri district administration has a stock of about 1,700 litres of insecticide.On Saturday night, Dalal had visited his constituency Loharu in Bhiwani district to take stock of the situation and review the measures taken to prevent a locust attack.A fortnight ago, a huge swarm of locusts had reached Rewari from neighbouring Rajasthan. While a part of the swarm settled overnight in the district, the remaining headed towards Gurgaon the next morning and eventually moved towards Uttar Pradesh.Notably, Haryana had issued a high alert over a month ago after locust swarms attacked crops in Rajasthan and a few other states, but the insects had moved away from the state.Locusts, popularly known as ‘tiddi dal’, are short-horned grasshoppers with highly migratory habits and voracious feeding behaviour.This insect can eat more than its body weight. A one square kilometre of locust swarm containing around 40 million locusts can in a day eat as much food as 35,000 people. PTI
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||4 more die of Covid-19 in Haryana, 658 new cases push total infections to 21,240||Haryana on Sunday reported four more coronavirus deaths as 658 fresh cases took the caseload in the state to 21,240.Two fatalities were reported from Sonepat, while one death each was reported from Nuh and the hardest-hit Gurugram district, according to the state health department's daily bulletin.The state's COVID-19 death toll has risen to 301, it said.        Some of the districts which reported fresh cases were Faridabad (222), Gurugram (112), Sonepat (101), Palwal (35), Rohtak (26) and Karnal (25) among others, the bulletin said.    There are 4,956 active cases in the state while 15,983 people have been discharged after recovery, it said.The state's recovery rate on Sunday was 75.25 per cent. PTI
12-07-2020||Mahendragarh||Frequent locusts attack keeps Mahendragarh farmers, district officials on round-the-clock vigil||Locust swarms have kept both Mahendragarh farmers and district officials busy.The district witnessed its seventh attack on Saturday, when swarms attacked standing crops in the district before settling on trees near Bas Khudana village. District officials estimated that 10-15 percent of the village’s cotton and bajra crops have been destroyed by locust swarms.Fear of repeat attacks are forcing them to vigilant, and giving them many a sleepless night.Raj Kumar, a villager from Sihar Azamnagar village, says swarms they have increased patrols in the fields. “Swarm of locusts damaged bajra and cotton crops on my fields spread over seven acres of land last week, forcing us to remain in alert mode to protect the remaining crops. Now, we have to take rounds of the fields several times in a day. After the first attack, the locusts have been spotted two-three times in the village but we scared them away each time by clanging utensils and making loud voices,” he says.Dayanand of Palri Panihara villag says he now spends most his time in the fields, protecting his fields from locust swarms and stray cattle. Swarms have destroyed 40 per cent of his standing bajra and cotton crops spread over 2.5 acre on Saturday morning.  “We spend our nights in the farms to protect our crops,” he says.District officials and villagers take joint patrols around the fields. Mahendragarh Deputy Director (Agriculture) Jaswinder Singh says they call their operation ‘The Barefoot’, and thanks to their vigilance, they have saved many standing crops.“We succeed in eliminating more than 70 percent locusts in all affected villages. No major loss has been reported in any of the villages,” Singh said.
12-07-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Jilted man shoots 'ex-girlfriend', himself in Gurugram village||A man shot an alleged former girlfriend and then killed himself in Nanu Kalan village, police sources said.The woman, identified only as Priyanka (20), had wed on June 29 and had been visiting her parents when the man---identified by police as Rajesh---called her up asking to meet her behind some shops in the village late on Saturday.He first shot her and then himself, police said. Their bodies were found near the shops at 5 am, police said.Police said a First Information Report has been register for against Rajesh.“Woman had a bullet in her chest and man in his temples. We are investigating all angles but we haven’t yet found the reason behind the murder,” Manesar Deputy Superintendent of Police Deepak Saharan said.Sources however said that they two had been in a relationship before the woman got married in June.
12-07-2020||Karnal||Karnal reports 21 Covid-19 cases; district tally climbs to 519||Karnal reported 21 Covid-19 fresh positive cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 519.Out of the fresh cases, five infections surfaced from Jamalpur, including a 42-year-old woman, 36-year-old woman, 44-year-old man, a 20-year-old youth and another 20-year-old youth.Apart from them, a 41-year-old man from Gharaunda, a 55-year-old man from Gonder, a 35-year-old man from Sector 7, a 47-year-old man from Shiv Colony, a 27-year-old youth from Taraori, a 34-year-old man of Gandhinagar, a 50-year-old female from Mall road, a 25-year-old youth from Sector-8, a 40-year-old man from Rajinder Nagar and three people including a 44-year-old man, a 46-year-old man, a 45-year man from Sector-4 and a 26-year-old man from Sikri, a 23-year-old female from Jyoti Nagar, and a 37-year man from Nissing also tested Covid-19 positive.Recovery cases are increasing day by day.So far, 323 patients have been discharged. The district has 189 active cases.
12-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||The grand old havelis of Rohtak||Characterised by earthiness and famous for its rewari, the historical town of Rohtak in Haryana has relics of ancient and medieval settlements, besides some magnificent structures of architectural significance. Giving a peep into the rich cultural heritage of the town are the grand old havelis of the town, which is often referred to as the political capital of the state.The ornate facades with images carved in stone, massive wooden door sets, cusped arches, vaulted roofs, sandstone pillars, hanging balconies, besides beautiful embellishments of these havelis stand as proof of a magnificent past.Though many such havelis have been reduced to ruins owing to the lack of maintenance over the past few decades, some of these stand tall as glorious specimen of the old world charm.“The havelis of Rohtak date back to the Mughal era. Some well-to-do residents of the area probably got impressed with the construction of the Red Fort and Jama Masjid in Delhi and constructed their own havelis,” observes art-historian and writer-photographer Rajkishan Nain.He notes that garhis, sprawling old settlements established by prominent residents, were succeeded by havelis with the advent of time and reduction in land-holdings.The historian laments that successive governments have, however, failed to conserve the glorious heritage of the state.Pradeep Bhagat, former Principal of the Chandigarh College of Architecture, who has studied the havelis of Rohtak district, points out that the havelis present an efficient combination of aesthetics and utility.“The havelis have a well-defined orientation which facilitates proper ventilation in terms of air and sunlight. These are beautifully designed and have adequate space to entertain guests and visitors at the entrance while ensuring privacy of the women of the family. There are ample storage spaces and provision of water,” he states.The master architect remarks that today’s architects can learn a lot from the artisans and masons who built the havelis. These structures, which have withstood earthquakes and other natural calamities, stay warm in winters and cool in summers without any artificial heating or air-conditioning system.“Unlike the dull and drab modern-day buildings, the walls of havelis were adorned with paintings, frescos and other art works,” he says.Noted historian Ranbir S Phaugat, who has been documenting the cultural heritage of Haryana for nearly three decades, rues that the region’s heritage structures are decaying due to lack of conservation and maintenance. “It is shameful that the state has no resources for scientific conservation of havelis which are withering away with time. These heritage buildings should be listed properly, conserved and maintained,” he asserts.The historian opines that a majority of havelis in Rohtak were built by local residents belonging to Muslim, Jain and Agarwal communities between 1870 and 1945. Most of these havelis are located on the Railway Road, Naya Padao, Civil Road and Babra Mohalla in the old Rohtak town.Apart from Rohtak town, several towns and villages, which were part of the old Rohtak district, also have splendid havelis.“These include Beri, Dujana, Dighal, Birdhana, Jhajjar, Machhrauli, Salhawas, Maatan, Majra (Dubaldhan), Kahnaur, Nigana, Kalanaur, Rohad, Farmana, Meham, Sonepat, Sisana, Rohat, Bhatana, Zafrabad, Kakroi, Sanghi, Khidwali, Behalba, Bhaini Chanderpal, Madina and Dabauda,” says Phaugat.Dr Rajendra Sharma, Professor of Political Science at Maharshi Dayanand University in Rohtak, who has a keen interest in history and antiques, feels that disintegration of the joint-family culture and lack of interest towards cultural heritage among the occupants of havelis has led to the demolition and commercialisation of these heritage buildings. Endorsing his views Vipin Goyal, an antique-collector, observes that the owners of several such havelis are ready to sell these and shift to modern houses.Architectural marvelsClimate control: Apart from being breathtakingly beautiful, the havelis had inherent climate-control mechanism characterised by two-feet-thick walls made of lakhauri bricks plastered in lime mortar, high ceilings and appropriate and effective ventilation.Water-harvesting mechanism: The havelis had adequate provisions for water like water-tanks and wells, and some even had water-harvesting systems to collect rainwater from the roof and conserve it in the well or tank on the ground for future use.Quake-resistant buildings: These age-old havelis have witnessed numerous earthquakes and natural calamities but have stood the test of time owing to their substantial foundations, wisely chosen construction material and efficient designing.
12-07-2020||Panchkula||Gardener’s son tops Panchkula district||Shubham Maurya of Shri Jainendra Gurukul Senior Secondary School in Sector 1 topped the district in the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) Class X exams.The son of a gardener and a resident of Old Panchkula, he scored 98.60 per cent to emerge the district topper.On his preparations, the achiever said, “I used to study for four-five hours after returning from the school. However, the time spent on studying doesn’t matter, but one should be regular. Online learning platforms and teachers helped me a lot in clearing doubts. I don’t use any social media application.”His parents Raj Bahadur and Lalti Devi said he did not want to limit himself and aimed high. Shubham, who wants to pursue non-medical in Class XI, said he aspired to be an architect as buildings and their design always fascinated him. Sharing his success mantra, he said there were times when he found it hard to focus on studies, but not losing confidence held the key.Gardening and painting acted as stress busters for the district topper.Manisha of Saarthak Government Integrated Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 12-A, was placed second in the district with 97.60 per cent. Shubha of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Barwala, bagged the third position with 97.20 per cent.In Panchkula, a total of 4,762 students had appeared for the exams. The district recorded a pass percentage of 65.16 with 3,103 students coming out with flying colours. In the terms of pass percentage, Panchkula ranked 11th. — TNS
12-07-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Over 1L challaned for mask violation in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 11Over a month after Haryana made wearing of masks at public places compulsory, over one lakh challans have been issued in the state for violations.While the Haryana Police had issued 77,084 challans till July 5, civic bodies had issued 15,309 and the Health Department over 5,000, though monitoring in rural areas seemed limited to certain districts and pockets.According to information, Yamunanangar reported the maximum of 8,019 challans, while 7,011 had been issued in Bhiwani and 6,700 in Gurugram district.A total of 5,032 challans had been issued in Narnaul and 5,322 in Jhajjar. The least number of 809 challans had been issued in Sirsa.“Our main objective is that the public adheres to the government order. The challan for Rs 500 is merely a deterrent to violators against repeating the mistake,” said ADGP (Law and Order), Navdeep Singh Virk.The 87 municipal bodies issued 12,548 challans in urban pockets and recovered Rs 37.52 lakh as fine. Sirsa’s council topped the chart by issuing 4,469 challans.Others had issued less than 1,000 challans apiece while three committees — Kanina, Taraori and Bhuna — were yet to open their accounts. Sources maintained that there could be delayed reporting on the part of these committees, with challans not getting reflected in the data.Ashok Meena, Chief Executive Officer, Aayushman Bharat, said the data of municipalities had been provided by the Urban Local Bodies Department. “The main focus is on ensuring that people wear masks and maintain social distancing,” he said.With over 5,000 challans issued in the past month, Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General, Health Services, said the low number was on account of the department juggling many duties. “The challaning bit is being done effectively by the police and local bodies while we are handling other aspects,” he said.On the rural side, the Panchayat and Development Department had been entrusted the task of challaning violators. While some districts like Faridabad had issued 2,694 challans, others like Rohtak had issued only 16 so far.Attending event costs 2 persons dearMahendragarh: Attending the inauguration of a shop located near Valmiki Temple in Narnaul town on Saturday cost two persons dear when Deputy Commissioner RK Singh reached there after seeing a tent pitched outside the shop for the inaugural ceremony. The persons were sitting there without wearing face mask and were challaned for violation of the guidelines issued by the government. tns
12-07-2020||
||Organisers of ‘mrityu bhoj’ to be booked||Mahendragarh, July 11  Keeping in view the rising number of Covid cases, the district administration has decided to get an FIR lodged against those found organising ‘mrityu bhoj’ on the last day of mourning. Deputy Commissioner RK Singh, while directing the SDMs in this respect, said that several people had contracted Covid infection after participating in weddings and other social functions. “Despite all, it has come to light that people are still organising ‘mrityu-bhoj’ amid the Covid pandemic. FIR should be lodged against the organisers,” said the Deputy Commissioner, adding that compliance of the government’s guidelines was vital to contain the spread of Covid.  The Deputy Commissioner also directed the health officials to get an FIR lodged against those who conceal their travel history. Notably, the Covid cases in the district have reached 423 with 18 new cases surfacing on Saturday.
12-07-2020||Ambala||Ambala tehsils to come under CCTV surveillance||In a bid to ensure transparency, accountability and responsiveness in the system, the district administration has decided to install CCTV cameras at all tehsil complexes in Ambala.  Besides, point of sale (POS) machines will also be made available for promoting digital transactions. Under the pilot project, CCTV cameras and POS machines are being installed in Naraingarh tehsil. Disclosing this here on Saturday, Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said the idea behind the move was to keep all activities and operations at the tehsil complexes under check so that no discrepancy or unethical work could take place. “Since tehsil complexes were among the most frequently visited public offices and deal with cash and property transactions, the move will keep a check on their working,” he said. Acting swiftly on the DC’s directive, Naraingarh SDM Aditi initiated the work to install CCTV cameras and POS machines at tehsil complex in her subdivision. After her visit, the SDM said a complaint box had also been installed at the tehsil complex for the public to inform any wrong in the system. “We have also displayed the official fee structure outside the tehsil office for the information of the public,” she added. — TNS
12-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Can’t club all FIRs for bail conditions: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 11The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a court cannot club all FIRs, including those not under consideration before it, for the purpose of imposing an arduous bail condition on an accused.‘INTENT LAUDABLE, BUT...’This court is appreciative of the laudable intent of the Sessions Court to protect the interests of investors in all 67 FIRs, though what was before it was just one FIR. But the said intent to protect innocent investors ought to have been achieved within four corners of criminal jurisprudence by dealing with each criminal case or FIR on its individual merits.— Justice Arun Monga, Punjab and Haryana High CourtThe ruling by Justice Arun Monga came on a petition by Anil Jindal against Haryana. He was seeking directions for partially setting aside or modifying an order dated March 27, 2019, passed by the Faridabad Additional Sessions Judge.The Bench was told that the Judge had imposed a condition “to furnish details and documents of any immovable property or properties valuing Rs 100 crore in lieu of personal bond with respect to all cases pending against the petitioner and other co-accused”. Anil Jindal is the chairman of the SRS Group, involved in developing and constructing plots and flats.Senior counsel RS Rai and Anmol Rattan Sidhu, along with advocates Kunal Dawar and Pratham Sethi, told the Bench that the bail condition was onerous, highly excessive and oppressive. They argued that the SRS Group was in the business of real estate.They contended that the FIR was the result of overall recession in the sector. They stated that the prices of plots and flats started falling and all investors started claiming refund of investment without realising that their money had already been invested in a real estate project. They pointed out that the real estate value of the group’s assets was about Rs 2,500 crore, far more than the total debt liability.Justice Monga asserted that the petitioner had filed his bail application only in one FIR of the 67 where he was named. Justice Monga stated that the petitioner was arrested in all other FIRs, but those were not in the court below as bail applications were not filed in those cases when the impugned order was passed.Justice Monga asserted that one could certainly look into collective allegations in all other criminal cases against an accused for proper adjudication, but allegations in the FIR in question alone were required to be seen while imposing bail conditions.“This court is appreciative of the laudable intent of the Sessions Court to protect the interests of investors in all 67 FIRs, though what was before it was just one FIR. But the said intent to protect innocent investors ought to have been achieved within four corners of criminal jurisprudence by dealing with each criminal case or FIR on its individual merits,” Justice Monga added, while modifying the bail condition.The accused was asked to furnish a personal bond for Rs 3 crore and submit details and documents of any unencumbered property valued not less than Rs 3 crore, with one surety for an equal amount.
12-07-2020||---||Judge asks officer to take action against erring officials||Yamunanagar, July 11Jagadhri Additional Sessions Judge (Duty Magistrate) Dr Abdul Majid has rapped the Haryana Agro Industries Corporation for failing to take timely action against a rice miller, who did not return a share of custom milled rice (CMR) to the corporation in 2016 and, in the process, committed a fraud of Rs 2.3 crore.The Judge asked Atul J Sirsikar, managing director of the corporation, to take legal action against erring officers.The matter came up for hearing during the course of arguments on a bail plea filed by Kamal Nayan, owner of Kamal Agro Industries Limited. The judge dismissed his bail application.The matter is five years old. In the 2015-16 kharif season, the corporation had given more than 2,368.58 metric tonnes (MT) of paddy to Kamal Agro Industries. The mill, however, missed the deadline to deliver the custom-milled rice to the corporation. The mill was given more time, but it failed to meet the deadline again.The mill supplied only 948.83 MT of CMR to the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and held back the delivery of the remaining 638.11 MT, causing a loss of Rs 2.30 crore to the corporation.For 19 months, the corporation did not take action against the mill owner. It was on March 29, 2018, that the FIR was registered against Nayan under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the IPC.“Kamal Nayan committed the fraud with the Haryana Agro Industries Corporation, but timely action was not taken against him. There appears to be a serious lapse on the part of district-level officer (officers) of the corporation, resulting in financial loss to the government. The matter should be looked into by the managing director of the corporation,” the judge said in his order.
12-07-2020||Nitish Sharma||After 19 years, Ambala gymnasts get new apparatus at stadium||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, July 11After a gap of almost 19 years, gymnasts of Ambala have finally got new Olympic-standard apparatus that arrived at the gymnastics hall of the War Heroes Memorial Stadium in Ambala Cantonment last evening. The apparatus has been imported from Germany at a cost of Rs 1.28 crore.Players faced problems at international eventsSince the apparatus was old, the players used to face problems when they competed at national and international levels with modern apparatus there. The matter was brought to the notice of Anil Vij who directed the Sports Department to get new international-standard equipment and apparatus. —Satpal, gymnastics coach, War Heroes Memorial StadiumThe previous apparatus was imported from Holland in 2001, but it had suffered damage during the floods in 2004 as the water had entered the gymnastics hall. Though, it was still being used, the gymnasts were not happy with the equipment. The gymnasts and the coaches had been demanding new apparatus and raised the matter with local MLA and state Home Minister Anil Vij.The gymnastics coach at the War Heroes Memorial Stadium, Satpal, who is also an international referee, said, “Since the apparatus was old, the players used to face problems when they competed at national and international levels with modern apparatus there. The matter was brought into the notice of Anil Vij who directed the Sports Department to get new international-standard equipment and apparatus.The new apparatus has arrived and it will be installed in a couple of days.”The Ambala’s stadium is the only stadium where such equipment is available in the state. The gymnastic hall was renovated at a cost of Rs 7.50 crore last year.Anil Vij, who had been taking keen interest in the upgrading of the stadium, said, “The government has been making sincere efforts to provide best equipment to players for training. With the new equipment, the players will be able to maintain better balance and there will be lesser chances of injuries. The apparatus has been imported from Germany. The hall has been renovated and with all new facilities, the players will be able to do more practice and perform better at the national and international level.”
12-07-2020||---||Vice-Chancellor's effigy burnt in Mahendragarh||Mahendragarh, July 11Residents of Jant and Pali villages here on Saturday burnt the effigy of Central University of Haryana (CUH)’s acting Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad and demanded that the Union Government should order a high-level probe into the recent recruitment of teaching and non-teaching staff.“Favouritism was done in the selection of the teaching and non-teaching employees and merit was ignored. Hence, we are demanding a high-level probe into the matter. Jant and Pali villages had provided their land to establish the university free of cost and a promise of giving preference to people of both the villages in Class IV posts was made in lieu of it. But the promise is not being fulfilled,” alleged Ashok Kumar, one of the protesters.He maintained Kuhad’s term as Vice-Chancellor had ended in April. Hence, they were also demanding appointment of a new VC at the earliest for the smooth functioning of the university.
12-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||175 attendants of Covid patients get BCG vaccine in Rohtak's PGIMS||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 11The Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here has administered BCG (bacillus calmette guerin) vaccine to 175 attendants of Covid patients to see whether or not it proves to be effective in fighting the virus.In this clinical trial, close contacts of patients, doctors, nurses, ward boys and sanitary workers have been administered the vaccine. The trial was kicked off on May 1.Effectiveness on trialThe clinical trial aims at exploring whether or not the participants get infected from Covid. If yes, we want to know the intensity of severity. If no, it will prove that the vaccine is effective.— Dr Dhruv Choudhry, Head, Pulmonary and Critical care Medicine, PGIMSAll 175 persons have been kept under observation for 180 days. During this period, the effect of the vaccine will be studied in phases.A mobile phone application has been developed to receive feedback about their health at regular intervals. The participants have been asked to inform doctors if they fall sick or if there is a swelling at the spot where the vaccine was administered. Mobile phone numbers of doctors have been shared with the participants, sources say.“Blood samples of all participants will be taken for the antibody test after the completion of the observation period. The latest level of antibody of participants will be compared to the level of antibody recorded before administering the BCG vaccine. The vaccine will be considered effective if the level of antibody is higher before administering the vaccine,” said Dr Ramesh Verma, a co-investigator in the clinical trial and professor in the department of community medicine at the PGIMS.
12-07-2020||Kurukshetra||International Sarvkhap women conference today||Sarvjatiye Sarvkhap women’s wing president Dr Santosh Dahiya said the first International Sarvkhap Women conference would be held online on Sunday. She said noted women from across the nation would take part in the conference would take part in the conference with an aim to make women self-sufficient. — TNS
12-07-2020||Deepender Deswal & Ravinder Saini||Locusts near Rajasthan border keep admn on tenterhooks||Tribune News ServiceSirsa/Mahendragarh, July 11As many as eight swarms of locust entered Mahendragarh, Rewari, Jhajjar, Sirsa, Charkhi Dadri and Bhiwani districts on Saturday, while another one spotted in Mahendragarh district on Friday night has largely been controlled by the teams of the administration and farmers.The swarms of locust have crossed into villages in Mahendergarh district along the Rajasthan borders on Friday night, while the eight swarms — two each in Rewari and Jhajjar and one each in Sirsa, Mahendergarh, Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri were spotted on Saturday.The district authorities and farmers in Mahendragarh swung into action and will launch an operation at night to control the locusts.Sources said the locusts caused more than 10 per cent damage to bajra crop in all three villages before flying over towards Dadri on Saturday morning.Another small group of locusts was also spotted hovering over Jaitnavaas and surrounding villages in Rewari district. Later, it entered Dadri through Jhajjar’s Jharli area.Meanwhile, Surender Dahiya, Additional Director, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department, also the Nodal Officer for locust management in the state, said the swarms were of varying sizes ranging between 1 sq km in Rewari to 10 square kilometres in Mahendragarh. The one in Sirsa district is 6 sq km in size, 3 km in length and 2 km in width.While the other two swarms spotted in Charkhi Dadri and Bhiwani districts are comparatively smaller in size. However, with the movement of wind, these locusts get together to make one big swarm, he added.In Sirsa district, the swarm of locust entered the villages, including Malwani, Mallekhan, Madho Singhana, in the Ellanabad block.The agricultural officials say that the locusts seem to be moving with the direction of the wind and had reached Nanakpura and Modia Khera village. Nearly 3-km-long swarm was spotted in Badesra, Kanhda, Mandi and adjoining villages in Charkhi Dadri district. The farmers, however, rushed to the fields to protect the cotton, guar and bajra crops and played loud sounds by banging utensils.In Mahendragarh district, a swarm of about 4 km in length and having 1.5 km width was spotted in Rajawas, Rathiwas, Kurahwata, Palri Panihari, Pali and Devrali villages on Friday night. The swarm of locusts has entered the district for the sixth time.The district administration launched operation ‘The Barefoot’ to kill the locusts. Deputy Commissioner RK Singh said the operation was carried out by pressing into service 30 tractors and five fire tenders, which eliminated around 70 per cent locusts before sunrise. The operation was launched around 11.30 pm on Friday but had to be halted around 2 am, following strong winds. It resumed around 4 am and continued up to 6 am before the remaining locusts flew away, he added.Farmers were already alerted hence they banged utensils and played loud sound to scare the insects away but locusts settled at the trees due to rain,” the DC added.
12-07-2020||---||Girl students to get passport with graduation degree: CM||Karnal, July 11Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said girl students would get passport on the completion of their graduation degree and the whole process would be completed in the college. He also said learner’s licences would be given to students to make them aware about traffic rules.While launching the “Har Sar Helmet” campaign from Dr Mangal Sen auditorium here, the CM handed over learner’s licence and helmet to several youths. Khattar also lauded the initiative of Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia and Studds, a helmet company, for initiating the programme to make the youth aware about traffic rules. He said it was a non-political programme, but had long lasting results. He said wearing a helmet could contribute in reducing the number of deaths in accidents.Khattar said, “Around 1,300 accidents take place in the country daily. A majority of the victims without helmet succumb to their injuries.” He said 13 person die daily in accidents in Haryana.Citing a study, Khattar said 80 per cent of the casualties could be prevented if the riders wear helmet. the CM asked youths to wear a helmet considering it their duty and not compulsion.He said around 1,000 youths in the Assembly constituency of Karnal would get learner’s licence with helmet under the campaign. The CM also inaugurated a mural of astronaut Kalpana Chawla on the wall of the auditorium and a RT-PCR lab for Covid patients for Gurugram from Karnal PWD Rest House through videoconferencing.‘Har Sar Helmet’As many as 1,000 youths in Karnal constituency will get a learner’s licence with helmet under the ‘Har Sar Helmet’ campaign
12-07-2020||Panipat||Samples from canal sent to forensic lab||The police have collected samples from the minor canal as well as the tubs of the illegal bleaching unit where three children were allegedly murdered. The samples have been sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory, Madhuban, for chemical examination.The bodies of three children — Lakshya (10), Vansh (10) and Arun (12) — were found in a minor canal flowing along an illegal bleaching house in Binjhol village on Wednesday.The family members alleged that their children were murdered in chemical tubs and later their bodies were thrown into the canal.The police had booked 12 persons, including the owner of the bleaching unit, the manager, the land owner and his mother, on the charge of murder but no accused has been arrested so far.Superintendent of Police (SP) Manisha Chaudhary said the cause of death of the children was not certain even after the post-mortem report. “It is a sensitive case and it will be too early to say anything regarding it,” she said.Our teams are questioning the suspects and the samples from the minor canal have been collected and sent to the FSL for chemical examination, the SP added. — TNS
12-07-2020||
||1-km-long crack in soil at Mahendragarh||Mahendragarh, July 11  A two-to-four feet deep and six inches-to-one foot wide crack has developed in the soil at Kheri village under Ateli subdivision. It is around 1 km long on the ‘gaucharan’ land in the village. Deputy Commissioner RK Singh today sent a team of officers led by Kanina SDM to the village to take stock of the situation. The team interacted with the villagers and submitted its report to the DC. “Expertise is required to ascertain the cause of the wide crack in the earth. Hence, we have decided to call a hydrologist from Gurugram after going through the report submitted bythe team. The hydrologist is likely to visit the village tomorrow. Further action will be taken as per the advice of the hydrologist,” RK Singh told The Tribune.  Sarpanch Narendra Chauhan said a slight crack had developed following the impact of a tremor that shaken the region over a week ago. The crack became wider and deeper due to the rain. As it may widen further in the coming days, the district administration was today informed about it so that preventive measures could be taken, he added.
12-07-2020||Yamunanagar||4 arrested with illegal arms in Yamunanagar||Separate teams of the Yamunanagar police have arrested four persons with five illegal arms in the past two days.The accused have been identified as Raj Kumar of Mukherji Park in Jagadhri, Rajat Dhiman of Kot Mustarka village, Neeraj of Karkauli village and Dilbar of Leda Khadar village of the district.Chamkaur Singh, PRO of the Yamunanagar police, said a team of the CIA-I headed by Inspector Rakesh Matoria arrested Raj Kumar with an country made revolver from near Tota dharamshala of Jagadhri on Friday. “Another team headed by Sub-Inspector Joginder Singh caught Rajat Dhiman with a country made revolver and a live cartridge from near the bus stand of Kot Mustarka on Friday.”He said a team of the anti-narcotics cell headed by Inspector Mahavir Singh arrested two persons with three illegal country made revolvers and five live cartridges. “Neeraj was arrested with two revolvers and four live cartridges from near Rakshak Vihar police naka in Jagadhri town on Thursday. Dilbar was arrested with an illegal country made revolver and three live cartridges from near T-point of Chhachhrauli town on Thursday,” Chamkaur SIngh added. — TNS
12-07-2020||---||Gurugram stadiums reopen with SOPs, players elated||Gurugram, July 11Taking yet another step towards unlock, the Gurugram administration opened its stadiums for players to practice from Saturday.Though swimming pools will continue to remain shut till further orders but the practice sessions of all other sports have resumed, much to the joy of coaches and players.Gurugram’s Tau Devi Lal Stadium is one of the most renowned stadiums in the NCR, where national-level players train for various sports disciplines. The players had repeatedly been seeking reopening of stadiums since May but owing to the ever-increasing Covid cases, these were not just shut but were also being considered for setting up isolation centres. However, with no such plan as of now, players and coaches have been allowed to get back to the stadiums with necessary standard operating procedures (SOPs).“We are ensuring the unlocking of sports facilities with maximum caution. All SOPs are strictly followed in the stadium and sports equipment is sanitised regularly,” said Tau Devi Lal stadium manager Sukhbir Singh.Dos and Don’ts
12-07-2020||Karnal||Kaithal woman, daughter set on fire, latter dies||A 40-year-old woman and her daughter (13) were set on fire on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday by an unidentified person when they were sleeping in their room at Arjun Nagar, Kaithal.The daughter, Tamana, succumbed to the burn injuries today. The woman, Bala Devi, has been referred to the PGI, Chandigarh. Her condition is said to be critical.In his complaint, Bala Devi’s husband Ved Parkash alleged that Subhash of Tohana set his wife and daughter on fire when they were sleeping in their room at around 1 am. He was sleeping in another room and woke up on hearing some sound. He tried to save them and took them to the hospital where his daughter was declared dead.The police have arrested Subhash and initiated a probe into the case. The reason behind the crime is not known but as per sources, the accused used to come to the residence of the victims regularly.“We have registered a case under Sections 302 and 307 of the IPC against Subhash and he has been arrested,” said Shashank Kumar Sawan, Superintendent of Police, Kaithal. He said they hadgot the statement of Bala Devi recorded in front of a magistrate. —TNS
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||648 fresh cases take Haryana Covid tally beyond 20,000||With 648 fresh cases, Haryana’s Covid tally crossed the 20,000 mark. Seven people succumbed to the virus today.The deaths were reported from Faridabad (3), Sonepat (2), Gurugram (1) and Nuh (1).Faridabad witnessed the deaths of a 63-year-old woman from Nagla Enclave, 58-year-old man from Sanjay Colony and another 58-year-old man from Bhatia Colony.While the deaths of a 61-year-old woman from Ward no. 4 and 67-year-old man from Sector-19 were also reported, these were yet to be recorded in the state health bulletin.The fresh cases came from Gurugram (170), Sonepat (110), Faridabad (90), Rewari (56), Ambala (42), Hisar (31), Jhajjar (28), Panipat (21), Palwal (20), Mahendragarh (18), Bhiwani (14), Karnal (12), Nuh (12), Kurukshetra (9), Sirsa (6), Panchkula (5) and Fatehabad (4). Meanwhile, 62 people are on oxygen support and 17 are on ventilator.The fresh cases in Faridabad came from Ballabgarh, Old Faridabad, Dabua Colony, Jawahar Colony, Sector- 8, Sector-16, Sector-28, Sector- 82, Azad Nagar, Kheri Kalan village, SGM Nagar and Saran village.In Karnal, five persons including a 40-year-old man from Jamalpur, four-year-old boy from Gobind Colony, 44-year-old man from Augondh village, 30-year-old man from Taraori and 24-year-old man from Ashok Nagar were among the positive cases.A 13-year-old girl from Charuni Jattan, 30-year-old man from Jinjarpur, 35-year-old man who returned from UP, 13-year-old boy and 58-year-old man from Sector-7, 15-year-old boy and 50-year-old woman from Patiala Bank Colony, 40-year-old man from Dayalnagar, and nine-year-old girl from Krishna Nagar Gamri in Kurukshetra tested positive.New cases in Palwal surfaced from Taraka village, Alawalpur, Prakash Vihar, Khambi, Bahin, Karimpur, Alika village, Bamnikhera, Deegot, Rundhi village, Nangla village, Garhi Patti, Kalsara, Billauchpur, Mohan Nagar, Kalra Colony, Jawahar Nagar, Krishna Colony, Tuhi Ram Colony, Prahladpur and Omaxe City.In Ambala, the fresh cases included 25 from the district’s famous cloth market, 10 from Ambala Cantonment, five from Ambala City and one from Shahpur village.A 64-year-old woman of Old Age Home in Sisana and 62-year-old man from near Janta Hospital Gur Mandi were among the casualties from Sonepat.Meanwhile, 490 people got cured in the past 24 hours taking the tally of recovered cases to 15,394 with a rate of 74.79 per cent. The active cases at present are 4,891. — TNS
12-07-2020||Ambala||Prisoner held with phone||A jail inmate, Rajpal, at the Central Jail here was held with a mobile phone, said the police on Saturday. According to information, Central Jail deputy superintendent Bhupinder Singh reported to the police that a mobile phone with a battery was recovered from a jail inmate during the routine checking of his cell on Friday. The police have registered a case and launched a probe. TNS2 arrested for murder bidThe district police have arrested two persons — Vijay Kumar and Sahib Singh of Rajpura in Patiala, who is presently putting up in Ambala City — in a case of attempt to murder, the officials said here on Saturday. As per the police, Rajesh Kumar of Ambala City had reported that some unidentified miscreants had stabbed Deepak Kumar with intent to kill him on Wednesday. The duo was produced in a local court, which remanded them to a two-day police custody. TNSThief nabbed, cash seizedThe district police have arrested Sahil of Yamunanagar in a case of theft at a temple and claimed to have recovered the stolen cash from his possession, said the officials. As per the police, Kashi Ram of Shiv Mandir in Mullana had reported that the accused had stolen cash after breaking open the donation box at the temple recently. The accused was sent to a 14-day judicial remand by a court. TNSFour persons go missingFour persons have reportedly gone missing from their respective homes in the past 24 hours, the police said here on Saturday. Kishan Rishi Dev of Shahzadpur reported that his wife (25) was missing since July 9. Pahal Singh (35) of Shahzadpur is missing since July 4. Similarly, Nayab Singh (65) of Naggal is missing since January 20, while Rajpal Singh of Mullana reported that his daughter (19) hasn’t returned since July 8. Cases have been filed and manhunt launched. TNS
