12-01-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Ludhiana artist showcases farmers’ protest in 18-ft long painting||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 12A specially-abled artist from Ludhiana has made his own identity in the farmers’ protest by making an 18ft long painting at Singhu border, in which he has tried to showcase all episodes of the agitation.As the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws continued on 48th day on Tuesday, Praveen Kumar, an artist from Ludhiana told The Tribune that he also wanted to become a part of the agitation and reached Singhu border on Sunday night.“Our people are staging a protest here for the past 45 days,” said Praveen. It was his wish that there must be some contribution of the painters’ fraternity in the farmers’ protest as they were fighting for the rights of the common people too, he asserted.“I have started the painting 15 days ago but some work was kept pending so that I can complete it at the Singhu border,” said the artist who has come here on his special vehicle.“I have shown the protest episode-wise in my painting,” he said.“In the first scene, I painted the farmers sitting on a railway track in Punjab and after that they came on the road, which is the second scene,” he said.“I have also shown how the farmers entered Haryana and how the government tried to stop them by using water cannons, by digging roads, etc.,” he added.The artist has also used some symbols in the painting and painted a snake with a lizard in its mouth to show the condition of the Union government, which, he claimed, was not able to take a decision over repeal of three farm laws.“I appealed to the government to fulfil the demands of the farmers as soon as possible so that they can go to their homes happily,” he said.Besides farmers, hundreds of protesters, including women along with their children, have also reached the Singhu border.Gurbachan Singh (76) from Amritsar said they reached the Singhu border on November 26 last year and their only demand is the repeal of three black laws.“We will not step back till the Union government does not repeal these laws. We are ready to stay here till their last breath,” said Gurnam Singh of Moga.
12-01-2021||Vijay Mohan||Changing climatic conditions in Haryana's arid regions lead to higher kharif yield: Study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 12Changing meteorological trends and climatic variables in arid regions of Haryana over the past 45 years has shown an increase in the yield of kharif season crops, which may indicate further increasing trends if other factors are not limiting, a new study claims.Analysis of yield data from 1972-2016 revealed that cotton lint yield increased at a maximum rate of 17.5 percent, followed by pearl millet at 7.8 per cent, rice at 3.1 per cent and barley at 2.7 per cent. No significant trend, however, was observed in wheat, gram and pigeon pea yield during the study period. The increasing trend in yield was found to be more in kharif season crops as compared to the same during rabi season.The study was undertaken by five experts from the CCS Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, and Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal, and published recently by the India Meteorological Department. The purpose was to determine long-term trends in evapo-transpiration, its explanatory weather variables and ultimate effect on the yield of major crops of the arid ecosystem in south-western Haryana.During the last 45 years wind speed declined at a rate of five per cent while sunshine hours and reference evaporation declined at a rate of 3.3 per cent and two per cent, respectively, the study states.Further, the minimum temperature increased at 1.8 per cent and an average rainfall deficit of 1,122 mm over evapo-transpiration (ET) was observed although it registered a declining trend owing to reduction in ET.The Hisar region was chosen for the study because it is typically arid but still one of the most agriculturally active regions of Haryana. It represents the western agro-climatic region of Haryana with hot summers and chilling winters, with 80 per cent of its annual precipitation being received in just three months from July to September during the south-western monsoons.Ambient weather parameters of a region have a direct impact on productivity of crops grown in that area and several studies have pointed out variations in crop yield due to fluctuation in weather variables. These fluctuations are pronounced in arid and semi-arid areas as these are more sensitive to climate change and variability. Change in weather variables is bound to influence ET, which also reflects plant water requirements and serves as an important input for planning irrigation systems.According to the researchers, decrease in ET has been reported since 1950 in many parts of the world which is contrary to common belief that global warming and increasing temperatures will increase terrestrial evaporation. However, this decrease in ETO is not universal and contrary results from some areas have also been reported.
12-01-2021||New Delhi||Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions to continue for next 3 days||Due to the prevalence of dry north and northwesterly winds, the minimum temperature is expected to remain below normal over most parts of Northwest India during the next four to five days resulting in cold day to severe cold day conditions over parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the next three days, said the IMD.Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions is also very likely over parts of Uttar Pradesh, north Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan Ground Frost can also be expected over isolated pockets over south Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh and north Rajasthan during the next two days.Dense to very dense fog conditions at isolated places are also very likely over Northwest India during next four/five days.Meanwhile, under the influence of the cyclonic circulation over Comorin area and neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls and moderate thunderstorm and lightning very likely over Tamil Nadu Puducherry and Karaikal, Kerala and Mahe and Lakshadweep during next two to three days Isolated heavy to very heavy and rainfall is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on January 12 and 13 and over Kerala and Mahe on January 12, the weather office said.
12-01-2021||Chandigarh||Intense cold wave sweeps Punjab, Haryana; Hisar shivers at 2.2 degrees Celsius||Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday reeled under intense cold weather conditions with Hisar being the coldest place in the region.Hisar in Haryana shivered at 2.2 degrees Celsius, five degrees below normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here.The minimum temperature in Narnaul settled at 2.8 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal, he added.Ambala, Karnal, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa recorded their respective lows at 5.6, 6.4, 4.2, 4.5 and 4.4 degrees Celsius, up to three degrees below normal.Chandigarh recorded its low at 7.8 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal, the official said.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala registered their minimums at 7.2, 6.4 and 6.4 degrees Celsius respectively, up to four degrees above normal.The minimum temperature of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 9.6, 8.5, 6.4, 3.9, 5.2 and 7.7 degrees Celsius, respectively.Fog engulfed most places in Chandigarh, Hisar, Sirsa and Patiala in the morning. PTI
12-01-2021||The canal bridge at the railway road in Tohana is encroached by vegetable rehri vendors and hardly any space is left for the people to pass from this point. For the entire day||Remove rehri vendors from bridge in Tohana||Virender Tehri, TohanaHonour wisdom of SCWith protesters and government sticking to their stance for and against the repealing of farm laws at the behest of deepening political power-plays at work, all hopes shift to the apex court. It's time both sides honour collective wisdom of the Supreme Court that has successfully eased many a bigger and complex contentious issue in the past.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaPhysical hearing welcome step in district courtsAdvocates of the district courts of Punjab and Haryana states welcome the decision to allow physical hearing in all categories of cases in the district courts and express their gratitude to the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Lawyers and judges should now work in unison in the courts to ensure speedy justice to the people by strictly following the guidelines/health advice issued from time to time by the Centre and the state governments concerned.Shakti Singh, KarnalHope Supreme court comes to rescue of allIt was really unfortunate to learn that the eighth round of the ongoing talks between the Centre and the 40-farmers union leaders, aimed at amicably resolving the matter concerning three farm Bills, have also ended in a deadlock on January 8, owing to both sides steadfastly sticking to their respective guns. While the Centre is now reportedly banking on the SC when it hears the matter on January 11 but the farmers are not ready to accept nothing less than the 'repealing' of the three controversial farm laws, is highly likely to keep the pot boiling. Since, enough is enough now, let us hope that the SC soon comes to the rescue of one and all.SK Gupta, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
12-01-2021||Kurukshetra||KU celebrates foundation day||Webinar on career opportunitiesAmbala: The Ambala College of Engineering and Applied Research (ACE), Mithapur, organised a webinar on career opportunities after engineering. Er Aman Gulati, station controller, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, and Er Arpan Rathore, deputy engineer, Bharat Electronics Limited, Bengaluru, were the key speakers. Rathore discussed job opportunities in both public and private sectors. Gulati shared different technologies used in the operation of metro rail. Er Vijay Kumar Anand, coordinator of the webinar, said more than 150 persons, including alumni, attended the webinar. Principal Amit Wason said they had been organising webinars on regular basis.Karnal lad invited to R-Day paradeKarnal: The Union Ministry of Education has invited Pulkit Aghi, a former student of Pratap Public School, Sector-6, Karnal, to New Delhi to witness the Republic Day parade from the PM’s box. Pulkit had scored 99.6 per cent in Class XII examinations held in March last and is currently pursuing BCom (honours) from Shri Ram College of Commerce, University of Delhi. Principal Puja Waalia Mann described Pulkit as an eloquent speaker and enthusiastic cricketer. Pulkit owed his success to the Principal, teachers and his parents.100 students get placement offersYamunanagar: More than 100 students of Seth Jai Parkash Polytechnic, Damla, have got placement offers from reputed companies. Besides, several companies have conducted online tests for students passing out in June this year. Principal Anil Kumar said despite a slowdown in the industry, the institute had succeeded in providing job opportunities to the maximum number of students.
12-01-2021||New Delhi||Won’t be part of court committee: Farm unions||Farm unions today said they would not be part of any panel the Supreme Court might form to attempt resolution of the ongoing deadlock over farm laws.After a meeting with their lawyers, the unions said they were “unanimous in their decision that the laws must be repealed forthwith”.“While all organisations welcome the SC suggestion to stay the implementation of farm laws, they are collectively and individually not willing to participate in any proceedings before the SC-appointed committee,” the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha said in a statement.The farm leaders thanked the court for understanding their problem and speaking comforting words during the hearing, but said the SC could not play mediator in a policy matter. “Our lawyers told the SC that they had no instructions to agree for a committee without consulting us. So we met our lawyers and after deliberation on pros and cons of the suggestions about the committee, we told them that we are not ready to go before any committee that may be appointed by the SC,” said union leader Darshan Pal.
12-01-2021||Deepender Deswal||Wildlife falling prey to stray dogs in Hisar||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 11Stray dogs are a major threat to endangered species of blackbucks and chinkara besides peacocks in Hisar region. Nearly 78 per cent of the total 2,682 wildlife animals have fallen prey to dogs in past five years.Shockingly, blackbucks and chinkara deers which are on the brink of extinction are primarily dying due to attacks by dogs.As per an RTI report procured by Akhil Bharatiya Jeev Raksha Bishnoi Sabha president Vinod Karwasra here on Monday, in view of the prevailing conditions, the wildlife comprising of animals which are under the category of protected species and included in Schedule-I of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, fear extinction in the region.The Hisar division, including Hisar, Fatehabad, Sirsa and Bhiwani districts, located along the Rajasthan borders used to be the abode of thousands of blackbucks, chinkaras and other wildlife creatures. However, with shrinking forest cover and spread of human settlements, the wildlife species are falling prey to stray dogs which have penetrated into the forests along with humans.Of the total, 411 blackbucks died in the past five years out of which 362 of them were mauled to death by dogs. Similarly, 29 of 35 chinkaras fell prey to dogs in these four districts. The records indicated that of 68 recorded deaths of peacocks, 25 died of dog attacks and 12 were hunted down by the poachers while 23 of them died due to some disease and eight of them died because of some other reasons.Giving a district wise break-up of dog attacks leading to death of animals, Karwasra said in Hisar district, which recorded 216 causalities of blackbucks, 201 of these were mauled to death by dogs.Wildlife officials maintained that population of various species of deer, including blackbucks, chinkara and gazelle, besides Neelgai and other animals had come down drastically over the past years in the region for falling prey to stray dogs. Last year, there were reports of nearly 850 incidents of attack by stray dogs, informed a wildlife official.Karwasra said wild animals reside mostly in agriculture areas and abandoned panchayat land, especially in Adampur, Balsamand in Hisar district and Badopal area in Fatehabad. “This has been a thickly populated area of blackbucks and other species. But there has been a spurt in dhanis (hamlets) as farmers have started constructing houses in the outskirts. They also keep dogs at these dhanis. Besides, deer, which mainly live in forest and sand dunes, have almost vanished with the spread of agriculture areas,” he said.
12-01-2021||Rohtak||Covaxin trial head tests positive||Principal investigator of the clinical human trials of Covaxin at PGIMS, Rohtak, Dr Savita Verma has tested positive for Covid.As per an official statement issued here today, Dr Verma is legally bound to not get herself vaccinated as she is the principal investigator of the human-trial project. “Dr Verma’s name figured in the contact history of a PGIMS doctor who had tested positive for Covid earlier. Hence, Dr Verma got herself tested and was found Covid-positive. She is under home isolation and does not has any symptoms as of now,” maintains the statement. —TNS
12-01-2021||Chandigarh||6 more deaths, 244 fresh cases in Haryana||Gurugram reported a maximum of 72 cases followed by 32 from Faridabad, 20 each from Sonepat and Panchkula and 12 from Yamunanagar. One death each was reported from Gurugram, Karnal, Panipat, Sirsa, Jhajjar and Jind. —TNS
12-01-2021||Sushil Manav||Ahead of vaccine rollout, Haryana sees dip in Covid cases & deaths||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 11Even as Haryana is all set to roll out Covid vaccine from this Saturday, the situation in the state is already witnessing a continuous improvement with weekly fresh cases coming down for the eight week in a row and deaths showing a decline for the seventh consecutive week.The report card Active cases per lakh population have come down to 10 and cases per lakh population in 15 out of 22 districts are in single digit. As many as 1,887 cases and 33 deaths were registered from January 4 to 10 against 2,161 cases and 43 deaths recorded in the preceding week. The state witnessed the highest number of new weekly cases during the peak in November when 17,246 cases were reported from November 16 to 22. After this, the new cases started witnessing a decline. As many as 15,222 cases were reported from November 23 to 29; 11,374 from November 30 to December 6; 8,496 from December 7 to 13; 5,252 from December 14 to 20; 3,263 from December 21 to 27; 2,161 from December 28 to January 3 and 1,887 from January 4 to 10.The highest-ever weekly deaths were witnessed from November 23 to 29. The fatality figure has been witnessing a continuous decline with 187 deaths reported from November 30 to December 6, 129 from December 7 to 13, 104 from December 14 to 20, 53 from December 21 to 27, 43 from December 28 to January 3 and 33 deaths from January 4 to 10.Nuh district is now left with just one case per lakh population, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Mahendragarh and Palwal districts have two cases each per lakh population, Fatehabad and Hisar districts have three cases each, Kaithal and Sirsa four cases each, Charkhi Dadri, Jind and Sonepat six cases each, Rohtak seven and Yamunanagar and Karnal have nine cases each per lakh population. Gurugram has the highest 51 active cases per lakh population, followed by Panchkula (42), Rewari (16), Panipat (14), Kurukshetra (11) and Ambala and Faridabad 10 each.As of today, the total number of active cases in the state is 2,510, of which the highest 779 are in Gurugram, followed by Panchkula (234).Five districts have less than 20 active cases — Nuh (8), Mahendragarh (15), Jhajjar (18), Palwal (19) and Bhiwani (20. In November, active cases had crossed 20,000-mark during the peak.The positivity rate has come down to 5.5 per cent from 6.81 per cent in November. Six districts – Faridabad (9.9), Gurugram (8.2), Rewari (7.7), Panchkula (7), Panipat (6.3) and Ambala (6.1) – have critical positivity rate of over six per cent while all other districts have less than six. Charkhi Dadri (1.4) and Nuh (1) have the positivity rate of less than 2 per cent.
12-01-2021||Chandigarh||Balbir Chaudhary, former Fatehabad MLA, dies||Former BJP MLA from Fatehabad Balbir Singh Chaudhary passed away on Monday after a prolonged illness. He was 86. Chaudhary is survived by a son and two daughters. The last rites took place in Fatehabad and the pyre was lit by his son Ranbir Chaudhary. Chairman of Public Enterprises Bureau Subhash Barala, former chairman Jagdish Chopra and former MLA Balwan Singh Daulatpuria were among those who attended the cremation. Tehsildar Vijay Kumar laid a wreath on behalf of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The CM expressed grief over his death in a tweet saying Chaudhary played a vital role in the development of Fatehabad. Born in 1935 in Mailsi tehsil of Multan district (now in Pakistan), Chaudhary was among the old-timers of the RSS and the BJP. — TNS
12-01-2021||---||Five held for running illicit liquor racket in Jhajjar||Jhajjar, January 11With the arrest of five persons, the police on Monday claimed to have busted a racket involved in smuggling illicit liquor with fake labels of popular brands. They also seized 714 cartons of illicit liquor and other material.The accused were identified as Surender of Rankhanda village, Sundar of Chhichhdana in Sonepat and Mohammad Farman, Sahil and Manaazir of Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. The police recovered duplicate stickers and cartons of various brands from the spot. Surender was reportedly the kingpin of the racket.Rajesh Duggal, Superintendent of Police, said they got a tip-off that illicit liquor was being supplied from a godown on the Badli road. A police team led by Inspector Jitender Singh conducted a raid and arrested the accused.“The accused were produced in a local court, which sent Surender to three-day police remand and the other four to judicial custody. The source and supply chain will be ascertained during interrogation,” said Duggal. He added that some more persons were likely to be involved in the racket. Further investigations are underway, as the accused are being questioned.
12-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Rs 10 lakh robbed at gunpoint in Gurugram||Gurugram, January 11An executive of a Sector 18-based private company was robbed off Rs 10 lakhs by three bike-borne robbers at gunpoint near Atul Kataria Chowk today.The employee had left from the Sector 14 bank branch after withdrawing cash. An FIR has been registered at the Sector 14 police station.According to the police, the incident took place at around 11am on the Old Delhi road near Atul Kataria Chowk. The victim is identified as Deepak Pandey who works as an executive with a private company. It was when Deepak was returning with a bag of Rs 10-lakh cash after withdrawing it from the ICICI Bank branch, Sector 14, on his scooty.When he reached in front of Osho nursery, three bike-borne accused overtook him. When he stopped they held him hostage at gunpoint and fled after snatching his bag. Deepak also raised alarm but the accused threatened to kill him and finally fled away with the bag of cash.After getting information, the Palam Vihar police and the crime unit team reached at the spot of crime. Till evening, the police was debating about jurisdiction and finally the Sector 14 police registered the case.Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, crime, said they were exploring the CCTV footage of the nearby area to identify the accused. We are verifying all facts, he added.
12-01-2021||
||Pipli to be made tourist hub||Chandigarh, January 11  The state government has decided to develop Pipli in Kurukshetra as a world-class tourist hub.  A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the Haryana Sarasvati Heritage Development Board (HSHDB) held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today. The tourist hub would be developed by the HSHDB. Apart from boating, there would be a wide range of facilities such as restaurants, parks and museums for visitors.  The state government is already developing Adi Badri in Yamunangar as a tourist destination. It was decided to develop five-six water bodies in Yamunangar and Kurukshetra districts for the storage of excess water during the rainy season, so that the same could be utilised for irrigation and related purposes. This would not only boost tourism activities in the area, but would also improve the underground water level in Kurukshetra, Pehowa, Ladwa and Radaur. It was informed that the Sarawati river project would help overcome the problem of dark zones in Yamunanagar, Karnal and Kaithal districts.
12-01-2021||Karnal||Locals recall ’93 Nissing protest||A day after the Kaimla incident in which the CM’s ‘mahapanchayat’ venue was ransacked allegedly by protesting farmers, locals recall how two farmers had lost their lives in police firing which had taken place at Nissing town in 1993 during the then Bhajan Lal-led Congress government. However, the police yesterday managed to tackle the situation and no loss of life was reported.  In both incidents, farmers were opposing the CM’s programme. In Kaimla village, the CM had to cancel his visit, which was planned to educate the farmers on the “benefits” of the three farm laws. However, in the Nissing incident, farmers, who were opposing the electricity Bill, had an altercation with the police when the then CM Bhajan Lal was addressing the gathering at the grain market. The police had to use force to bring the situation under control.    According to farmers, who had participated in the protest, two from Kaithal district —  Lakhpat Singh and Mam Chand — had died while others were injured. The then CM was safely escorted by then SP VN Rai with the help of CM’s security officials.  Rai said the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ should not have been planned at a time when talks were on between farmer leaders and the Centre.  Sewa Singh Arya, BKU leader, said the Kaimla incident could have been a repeat of the Nissing farmers’ protest had the police not tackled the situation. — TNS
12-01-2021||Parveen Arora||Day after ransacking, Kaimla village counts losses||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 11A day after the venue of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ in Kaimla village was ransacked by protesting farmers, the situation was returning to normal, with people hopeful of peace and harmony.No loss of lifeI am thankful to God that there was no loss of life on Sunday, otherwise it would have led to a war-like situation. Everything passed off peacefully. - Ram Singh, Karnal ResidentSome villagers were in support of the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’, saying the Chief Minister had the right to express his point of view. On the contrary, some villagers were against the programme, saying it should not have been organised in their village.They thanked God that there was no loss of life, which could have prolonged the conflict between residents of Kaimla village and of other villages.“The incident on Sunday was unfortunate as it should not have happened. It led to unrest, but after being pacified by elders, youths in the village were calm. Had any untoward incident taken place, it would have been dangerous for everybody,” said 65-year-old Balbir Singh of Kaimla village.He maintained that the Chief Minister had the right to express his point of view and he should have been allowed to do so.“I am thankful to God that there was no loss of life on Sunday, otherwise it would have led to a war-like situation. Everything passed off peacefully,” said 70-year-old Ram Singh. He said the government should have avoided this programme amid the unrest over the three farm laws.Another local resident, Rajinder, blamed the police for remaining a mute spectator and the ransacking of the pandal could have been avoided had the police taken any action. He said everybody had the right to express his point of view.The wheat crop of some farmers was damaged due to the faceoff. “A helipad was established on my fields. Due to the protest, the wheat crop on around two and a half acres was damaged. I request the government to compensate me,” said Balwinder Singh, a farmer.Farmers Amarjeet, Lahna Singh, Bhim Singh and others also suffered losses. Dharam Singh, another farmer, said the government should compensate the farmers.The event management company which had provided a tent for the programme suffered a loss of Rs 2.6 lakh as its public address system was damaged by protesters.Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC, said he had sent a Revenue Department team to the spot to assess losses. The wheat crop on 12 acres had been damaged. “The government will compensate the farmers and the event management company for the losses,” he asserted.
12-01-2021||---||Hooda: BJP leaders inciting protesters||Chandigarh, January 11Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has hit back at Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and said it was not he, but BJP leaders, who were provoking farmers with their statements.Bhupinder Hooda, Former CMTrust deficitWhen a Chief Minister can’t hold a public meeting in his district, there cannot be an issue important than this. The government has lost people’s confidence. “If the next round of talks has been scheduled for January 15, why is the Chief Minister saying that laws will never be repealed. The farmers’ movement has been peaceful. But if you (Khattar) provoke them, anarchy will spread,” he said here on Monday.Hooda further said, “Overnight, farmer leaders have become communists. They have also been labelled Khalistanis and Pakistanis. It is an insult to the farming community.On Khattar’s statement that Congress leaders were “day-dreaming” on moving a no-confidence motion against the state government, the former Chief Minister said, “When a Chief Minister can’t hold a public meeting in his district, there cannot be an issue important than this. The government has lost people’s confidence.”When asked about the registration of attempt to murder cases against farmers, the Congress leader warned the government of avoiding confrontation with farmers. “It is a sensitive and serious situation.”On INLD’s Abhay Chautala offering to resign from the Assembly in protest against the farm laws, Hooda said: “It will help the state government only. Otherwise, his presence in the Assembly would help the Opposition during the no-confidence motion.”
12-01-2021||---||Tractor rally in Bhiwani today||Jhajjar, January 11Farmers’ organisations have announced their agitation against the new three farm laws would be intensified if the Centre failed to repeal the legislations. The decision was taken during a meeting at the Tikri border on Monday.Prahlad Singh Bharukhera, state president, Haryana Kisan Manch, told the media: “The non-committal attitude of the Centre towards our demands has forced us to intensify the agitation. A tractor rally will be held in Bhiwani on January 12. The next day, copies of the laws will be burnt. On January 15, a cavalcade of tractors will leave for Delhi borders from Sirsa to participate in the proposed Delhi march on the Republic Day.”Farmers’ outfits accused Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar of dividing protesters and defaming their agitation. They demanded withdrawal of cases registered against protesting farmers of Karnal on Sunday.On farmers vandalising the venue of Khattar’s event in Karnal district on Sunday, Bharukhera said the outfits had in advance asked the government and the district authorities not to organise the event, but the authorities went ahead and organised the function.He alleged the state government was trying to make the agitation violent by hatching a conspiracy.
12-01-2021||Ambala||Case lodged over damage to tower||The police have booked unidentified persons for setting afire the power meter and MCB board of a Jio tower at Farauli village in Ambala. In his complaint, Ravi Bhushan, a technician of SG ENCON, said someone set afire power meter and MCB board on the night of December 9. A case was registered at Parao police station. — TNS
12-01-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Mini Sikh museum comes up at Singhu||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, January 11Parwinder Singh, one of the few Sikh sculptures who has been propagating the Sikh history through a museum created by him at Balongi in Mohali district, today established a mini museum near the central stage at the Singhu border.“Our history is full of courage and martyrdom. I have come here with some statues to make youths aware about the Sikh heritage,” says Parwinder Singh.Parwinder Singh, who is a a scooter mechanic by profession, said the statues of Bhai Mati Das, Baba Deep Singh, Bhai Sati Das and four Sahibzadas had been established in the mini museum, which was visited by hundreds of farmers today.He said there were 70 statues at his museum at Balongi, but it was not possible to bring all of them here. “My aim is to establish a museum on the lines of Madame Tussauds Wax Museum in London. I have been trying to do my best from my limited source of income,” he added.
12-01-2021||---||Will gherao police station if anyone nabbed: Farmers||Karnal, January 11Farmers have threatened to gherao the police station if their brethren are arrested in connection with the vandalism of the venue, where Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was to address a “kisan mahapanchayat” in the district’s Kaimla village on Sunday.Khattar had to cancel his programme as the situation turned tense. Subsequently, around 900 farmers, including 71 by name, were booked. Among them was BKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni.“We are ready to court arrest, but want to make it clear that if the police try to arrest any farmer, we will gherao the police station (where the case has been registered),” said Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, member of the state core committee, BKU (Charuni) on Monday while addressing farmers at the Bastara toll plaza, where they have been staging dharna.“Not a single farmer attacked a government or police official. On the contrary, it was BJP workers who attacked farmers,” he claimed.The BKU leader further said, “We had appealed to the BJP several times that it should cancel the programme, but it ignored our calls, forcing us to protest… The police had detained three farmers, who were released later.”SP Ganga Ram Punia said, “A case against farmers has been registered under Sections 147, 149, 323, 332, 353, 109 and 120-B of the IPC, and Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.”
12-01-2021||Chandigarh||Abhay Chautala submits ‘conditional’ resignation||Senior INLD leader and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Chautala today sent his “conditional” resignation to the Vidhan Sabha Speaker to express solidarity with agitating farmers.In his letter to the Speaker, Abhay wrote that the letter should be considered as resignation from the Assembly if the Central Government failed to repeal the three farm laws by January 26.Abhay said he could not play any constructive role for the welfare of farmers under the circumstances in the wake of the deadlock between farmers and the Central Government over the farm legislation. — TNS
12-01-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||CBI court orders handing over chargesheets to addl accused||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 11The CBI Special Court, Panchkula, on Monday ordered the CBI to handover chargesheets to additional accused in the Manesar land scam.Manesar land scamOn December 1, while passing strictures against the investigating officer, the CBI court had called Home Secretary Rajeev Arora, former Director, Industries, DR Dhingra, former Chief Town Planner (CTP), HSIIDC, Surjit Singh, former CTP of the Town and Country Planning Department (TCPD) Dhare Singh and former Deputy Superintendent of TCPD Kulwant Singh Lamba as additional accused in the case.Earlier on December 1, while passing strictures against the investigating officer (IO), the CBI court had called Home Secretary Rajeev Arora, former Director, Industries, DR Dhingra, former Chief Town Planner (CTP), Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development (HSIIDC), Surjit Singh, former CTP of the Town and Country Planning Department (TCPD) Dhare Singh and former Deputy Superintendent of TCPD Kulwant Singh Lamba as additional accused in the case.They were cited as witnesses by the investigating agency, but the CBI court was of the opinion that a prima facie case was made out against them as well. However, Arora got a stay from the Punjab and Haryana High Court on December 14. Later, Dhinga and Dhare Singh also moved the High Court, but their matter was adjourned to January 28.Meanwhile, the CBI filed an affidavit before the High Court on January 8, where it submitted with “excruciating pain” that the trial court “has clearly transgressed its jurisdiction” while passing strictures against the investigating officer (IO) in the case.It has called for expunging two paragraphs from the CBI court order dated December 1. The first paragraph said that the “IO of this case has done investigation in an apparent pick and choose manner”, and “has chosen to turn a blind eye to the role of some important public servants whose acts and omissions can be prima facie termed to be more culpable than the persons arrayed as the accused in this case”.However, regarding calling additional accused in the case, the CBI has said that the order of the “learned trial court is liable to be defended by the public prosecutor”.
12-01-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Sanitation poor at Delhi protest sites||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 11Farmers camping on different borders of the national capital in protest against the recently enacted agriculture laws are also facing lack of basic amenities and challenges like poor sanitation, water stagnation, inadequate disposal of solid waste, insufficient lighting and shortage of warm clothes etc.“Inadequate number and poor maintenance of mobile toilets have rendered these dirty and unusable, pushing a considerable number of protesters to resort to open defecation. Almost three in every five respondents — 57.5 per cent — have to resort to open sites for defecation,” reveals the report of the survey released today.The survey has been conducted at five sites of the farmers’ agitation on Delhi borders, including Singhu, Tikri, Shahjahanpur, Gazipur and Palwal, between December 19 and 22, by the Delhi and Haryana chapters of the Jan Swasthya Abhiyan (JSA), a countrywide movement on health and healthcare comprising 21 national networks and more than 150 organisations and state-level JSA platforms.“Only 10.5 per cent respondents said these toilets were clean with proper water supply and 47 per cent said they were located at far-off places, creating difficulties in accessing them. There is no provision of lighting near the toilets, making it difficult to use them in the dark. Women are facing added troubles as they do not want to defecate in the open. Many women protesters reported that they were eating less and consuming less water to avoid using toilets,” the report says, adding that inadequate provisioning of mobile toilets is leading to compromised health, nutrition and hygiene for the protesters, especially women.“There is also a growing threat of mental-health problems among the protesters with depression and suicidal tendencies, with some suicides and suicide attempts having taken place. No mental-health support measures are available at the protest sites to prevent these,” said Satnam Singh, state coordinator, JSA (Haryana) and a member of the survey team.As per the survey, non-governmental organisations and volunteers are making efforts to maintain cleanliness.
12-01-2021||
||HC seeks details on masks for jail inmates||Chandigarh, January 11 With jail no bar for Covid infection, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked for details regarding availability of masks for inmates. The Division Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh has set a day’s deadline for the purpose. The direction came on a petition against Haryana and other respondents by Rishi. As the case came up for hearing through video-conferencing, his counsel told the Bench that the petitioner, a jail inmate, was tested for Covid. His RT-PCR test was reported to be positive on December 27. As a result, he was taken to a quarantine centre in Sector 12, Panchkula.  Thereafter, the petitioner did not receive attention from the medical authorities. Taking note of the submissions, the Bench issued notice of motion, which was accepted by the state counsel.
12-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||Haryana cops land in dock||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 11The Haryana Police have landed themselves in the dock after an investigating team of the same six police officers registered two drugs cases against a person. In both cases, the second investigating officer was called after the alleged recovery of objectionable material.FAIR PROBE DEBATABLEAfter hearing counsel for the parties, without commenting upon merits of the case ... it will be a debatable issue whether a proper and fair investigation was conducted. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan, Punjab & Haryana HC“After hearing counsel for the parties, without commenting upon merits of the case and considering the fact that the investigating team, consisting of six police officers, in both FIRs is exactly the same and a perusal of both FIRs shows that the second investigating officer was called after effecting recovery from the petitioner, it will be a debatable issue whether a proper and fair investigation was conducted by them,” Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted, while granting regular bail to the accused.Justice Sangwan directed the forwarding of the order’s copy to Jind Superintendent of Police for issuance of appropriate directions to the investigating officers under the NDPS Act to follow the correct procedure in the future.The direction by Justice Sangwan came after the counsel for the petitioner contended that the second investigating officer was called at a stage when recovery had already been carried out by the first investigating officer, which did not amount to proper and fair probe.It was submitted that once a person was apprehended on the suspicion of carrying some intoxicating substance, the second investigating officer in ordinary cases was called immediately. The search and consequent recovery were carried out in tye presence of the second investigating officer, but such a procedure was not followed in the present case. In support of his argument, the counsel relied upon a Supreme Court judgment.The counsel submitted that the police party, as per allegations in the FIR, stopped the petitioner on the suspicion of carrying some illicit material and recovered 1.6 kg “ganja phool patti” from him. He submitted that it would be a debatable issue whether “ganja phool patti” fell in the definition of narcotic substance. It was also submitted that the petitioner was involved in another FIR dated January 15, 2020, at the same police station and had been repeatedly implicated in similar FIRs by the same set of police officers.
12-01-2021||---||Paper for govt post leaked, school owner, son among 14 arrested||Panipat, January 11A day after the examination for the post of panchayat secretary was conducted across the state, the police today claimed to have busted a gang which allegedly leaked the question paper.Examination for panchayat secyA school owner and his son were among 14 persons arrested under Sections 120-B and 420 of the IPC.Superintendent of Police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan said the accused were nabbed following the arrest of a few men, who allegedly leaked the question paper in Hisar district on January 9.The examination was conducted on Saturday and Sunday.“The police received a tip-off that a gang operating from Paradise School in Samalkha had leaked the question paper and were trying to provide the answer key to candidates present in different districts. Subsequently, the police raided the school and arrested four persons — school owners Jagdeep and his son Anuj, Rahul of Sonepat district and Rajesh of Panipat district,” Sawan said.During the preliminary investigation, Rahul said the school owners had called him to solve the question paper.The questioning led the police to 10 other accused — eight were nabbed from Karnal and the remaining from Samalkha. Some of them were candidates.Pushpender, Vishwajeet, Anuj, Sanjeet, Aman, Sunil, Ankit and Deepak, all from Rohtak, were nabbed from Karnal. The remaining two accused — Devender of Sonepat and Vaibhav of Panipat — were arrested from Samalkha.“Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadav monitored the arrest operation,” the SP said, adding the police recovered 18 mobile phones, two laptops, one printer, one Bluetooth-type device and four cars from the accused.Swan further said, “The owners of the school, which was one of the examination centres, hatched a conspiracy with other accused and appointed them in the school as Class IV employees recently. A photo of the question paper was clicked and sent to paper solvers. After solving the paper, they sent the answer key to the exam centre.”The accused have reportedly told the police more people were involved in the paper leak racket. They were produced before court on Monday and sent to three days’ police remand.
12-01-2021||---||10 IAS officers promoted||Chandigarh, January 11The state government promoted four IAS officers of 1990 batch to Chief Secretary’s grade with immediate effect.Those who have been promoted include Sudhir Rajpal, Ankur Gupta, Anurag Rastogi and Raja Sekhar Vundru.These officers shall continue to hold the charge of their present assignments.Apart from this, two officers, including Arun Kumar and Sumita Misra, have been granted proforma promotion.Meanwhile, the state government also promoted six IAS officers of 2005 batch to super time scale with effect from January 1. Those who have been promoted include Saket Kumar, Hardeep Singh, Ramesh Chander Bidhan, Bhupinder Singh, Geeta Bharti and SS Phulia.
