12-12-2020||New Delhi||Farmer group in support of new agri laws meets Tomar, threatens to protest if repealed||Amid an ongoing protest against three farm laws, a delegation of 29 farmers from Haryana met Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday to extend their support to the new legislations and threatened to stage a protest if those are repealed.The delegation, led by Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (Mann) Haryana state leader Guni Prakash, submitted a “letter of support” to Tomar on the farm laws passed by Parliament in September and demanded the government to continue with these legislations.“We will also protest if the government repeals the laws. We have given a memorandum to all districts,” Prakash told reporters after the meeting.He also sought to know why the previous government did not implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission till 2014.“Everyone has a right to protest. They have, so do we. We are in support of the three laws, but this protest is being led by Leftists and those who are violent,” he said.Claiming that the ongoing farmers’ agitation is no longer a peasant movement, the BKU leader said, “It has taken a political colour. Farmers will get real freedom through these three laws.”This was the second group of farmers from Haryana that met Tomar and extended support to the farm laws. The first group had met the minister on December 7.No breakthrough has been achieved during the six rounds of talks between the Centre and the agitating farmers so far, as the farmers have stuck to their demand for a repeal of the laws, despite the government sending them a draft proposal to amend specific issues without abolishing the legislations.The three laws have been presented by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and scrap the mandis (wholesale markets), leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The Centre has maintained that the MSP and the mandi system would continue and would rather be improved and strengthened further. — PTI
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 11 more COVID-19 deaths, 1,008 fresh cases||Haryana on Saturday reported 11 more coronavirus-related fatalities, taking the death toll to 2,710 even as 1,008 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection tally to 2,51,402.According to the state health department’s daily bulletin, three fatalities were reported from Hisar and two each from Sonepat and Faridabad districts.The districts which reported a big spike in cases include Gurugram (276) and Faridabad (182).There are 10,318 active cases in the state, while 2,38,374 people have recovered from the disease so far.At present, the recovery rate is 94.82 per cent. PTI
12-12-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur ||Now, Haryana Government proposes fee hike for private medical colleges||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 12 After hiking fee in government medical colleges, the Haryana Government has proposed to enhance fee for MBBS course in private medical colleges from Rs 10 lakh per annum to Rs 12 lakh per annum.   The hike has been proposed when the process for the second round of MBBS counselling has started.  As per a public notice issued by Director General-cum-Secretary, Medical Education and Research, Amneet P Kumar, dated December 11, the tuition fee, including development charges, would be Rs 12 lakh per annum with annual increase of 7.5 per cent. Thus for a four year course, a student would have to pay Rs 53.68 lakh as fees. Earlier, the fees was Rs 10 lakh per annum with an annual increase of 5 per cent, which comes down to Rs 43.10 lakh. So overall, the fee has been increased by 24.5 per cent.  However, there is no change in refundable college security which is Rs 2 lakh and hostel fee which cannot go beyond Rs 75,000 per year. There is also no change in library fee, sports and medical charges and Internet charges.The new fee structure would remain applicable for the next three years, once it gets notified. But before notification, the state government has invited suggestions/ comments on the proposed fee structure in private colleges within a week.    Earlier on November 6, the Department of Medical Education and Research had notified the enhanced fee structure for MBBS course in government medical colleges, where now there is a requirement of an annual bond of Rs 10 lakh in the name of ‘Incentivizing Doctors to opt for Haryana Government Medical Service’.Either the student has to pay the entire bond himself or has to opt for education loan, which will be facilitated by the government.    Only in case a candidate gets a job with the Health Department, the state government will repay loan instalments till the time he or she is serving with them or for a period of seven years. The fee in government colleges is now Rs 80,000 per annum with 10 per cent increase every year, which comes out to be Rs 3.71 lakh for the entire course. The loan amount will be Rs 36.29 lakh for the four years. In total, a student has to bear the burden of Rs 40 lakh as fee alone in a government medical college in Haryana.     There are four private, five government and one government-aided medical college in the Haryana. “About 50 per cent seats have remained vacant in the first round of counselling in the state,” said an official from the University of Health Sciences, Rohtak.The university is supervising counselling. “Probably, the students are opting for other states due to high fee,” said a state government official.  The first round of counselling had ended on November 23. The registration for second round of counselling started on December 12 while seats will be allocated on December 16.Kumar couldn’t be reached for comments.
12-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Netaji’s gunman Jagram Yadav dies||Gurugram, December 12Freedom fighter Jagram Yadav, who served as Subhash Chandra Bose's gunman, died in Gurugram on Saturday. He was 97.The last rites were performed at Ram Bagh with state honours.Yadav had hit headlines in 2015 when he claimed that revolutionary leader Subhash Chandra Bose did not die in a plane crash but was killed.A native of Badshahpur village, Jagram Yadav lived with his family at Sector 15 Part – 1 here.Yadav had joined the Kumau Regiment of the Indian National Army (INA) as Sepoy in April 1943.He served as Netaji’s gunman for 13 months during his four year and 308 days tenure at the INA.
12-12-2020||Sonepat/New Delhi||Ready for talks with govt, but will first discuss repealing agri laws: Farmer leaders||Sticking to their demands, farmer leaders Saturday said they are ready to hold talks with the government, but will first discuss repealing the three new farm laws, and announced further intensification of their ongoing protest against the legislations.Addressing a press conference at Singhu Border here, farmer leader Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu said thousands of farmers will start their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march from Rajasthan’s Shahjahanpur through the Jaipur-Delhi Highway at 11 am on Sunday.He said farmers from other parts of the country are also on their way to join the protesters here and they will take the agitation to the next level in the coming days.“If the government wants to hold talks, we are ready, but our main demand will remain the scrapping of the three laws. We will move onto our other demands only after that,” the farmer leader said.Farmer union leaders will also sit on a hunger strike between 8 am and 5 pm On December 14 against the new agriculture laws, he said. Leaders from all 32 unions will sit on hunger strike.Farmer leaders said they have given a call to women to intensify the protest. "We will make all arrangements for basic amenities for women by December 15," they said.They also denied any association with farmer leader VM Singh.Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni announced to begin indefinite hunger strike from December 19 if demands were not met by then.Pannu alleged the government tried to weaken the agitation, but that the protesting farmers did not let it happen. The farmer leader vowed to keep the protest peaceful.The government on Friday asked the protesting farmers to be vigilant against their platform being misused, saying some “antisocial” as well as “Leftist and Maoist” elements were conspiring to spoil the atmosphere of the agitation which has been going on for over two weeks now.Photographs of some protesters at the Tikri border seen holding posters demanding release of activists arrested under various charges had gone viral, prompting Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to say that these “antisocial elements” are conspiring to spoil the atmosphere of the peasants’ movement under the guise of farmers.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the ‘mandi’ system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. — TNS/PTIAlso read: Security at Delhi borders increased after farmers’ announcement to intensify stirRead the full text of the three bare Acts related to farming and agriculture marketingFarmers block toll plazas in Hisar, KarnalHow many sacrifices will farmers have to make to get agri laws repealed, asks RahulChapatti makers, washing machines ease farmers’ agitation at Tikri borderWhy MSP is a must for farmersRevoke farm laws, we’ll carry Modi’s posters, say unions
12-12-2020||New Delhi||Hopeful about next round of talks between Centre, protesting farmers soon: Chautala||As a deadlock continues between the central government and protesting farmers on three new farm laws, Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Saturday said he is hopeful the next round of talks between the Centre and the unions will take place in the next 24-40 hours.  After meeting Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar here, Chautala said the crop procurement at the government-decided MSP (minimum support price) would be ensured for each farmer till the time he was part of the state government.Chautala, who also met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Food, Railways and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal earlier in the day, also said the Haryana government is stable as of now and his party has a strong position on the MSP issue.Chautala, who has been facing pressure from the opposition and some Haryana farmers to withdraw from the BJP-led government in the state, had earlier said he will resign if the MSP system is threatened.Asked whether the alliance government in Haryana was stable, Chautala said on Saturday, "Yes. ..Till we ensure MSP, we will be stable".  "I am hopeful that in the next 24-40 hours, there will be another round of talks and some conclusive statement can come out of that," the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leader said.Farmer unions, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, say that the new laws will lead to the dismantling of the MSP system under which government agencies buy their crop at an assured price.In its proposal to farmers on Wednesday, the Centre had said it will give a written assurance that the MSP system will remain and also redress their other key concerns. The unions, however, are demanding complete rollback of the central laws and have threatened to intensify their agitation. Chautala said he Rajnath Singh and Piyush Goyal also in the morning."We all need to sit and finalise...  I am hopeful the way the Centre is engaging with protesting farmers and has given a 24-page reply to the demands of the farmers union, the situation at borders will normalise with a mutual agreement and there would be a conclusion to this issue with mutual consent," he said."The solution will be found only through dialogue. Umeed pe duniya kayam hai (World revolves around hope)," he said.Chautala said he is hopeful that the next round of talks will be held early and some positive outcome will follow from both the sides. When asked when the government will give statutory recognition to MSP for this written assurance, the deputy chief minister said, "Whatever they demand." On opposition parties in Haryana threatening to move a no-confidence motion, Chautala said it is the Congress party which is making such statements.  --- PTI
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Include public representatives in priority groups for COVID vaccination: Haryana writes to Centre||The Haryana Government has written to the Centre to have public representatives, including MPs and MLAs, listed among the priority groups for COVID-19 vaccination once it begins, Health Minister Anil Vij said on Saturday.He also said the state government was making all preparations in terms of building database of priority groups, cold chain infrastructure and identification and training of vaccinators for rolling out vaccination.He said while those on the frontline of fight against coronavirus, such as doctors, nurses, paramedics, etc. were on the priority list for vaccinations, the Haryana Health Department has written to the Union Health Ministry recommending that public representatives who come into contact with masses during their work also be included in the list.Asked if MPs, MLAs too have been recommended in this, Vij said, “This includes all public representatives who are at risk of getting exposed to the virus, including the police, local bodies personnel like sanitary and municipal workers, law makers and others.”     Notably, the Haryana Assembly has 90 members, and the state sends 10 members to Lok Sabha and five to Rajya Sabha.Earlier, the Union Health Ministry had asked states to submit lists of priority population who are to receive COVID-19 vaccine first.The priority population are categorised as those who are at a higher risk of contracting the virus.Noting that it is natural to prioritise the COVID-19 vaccine distribution process, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had earlier said healthcare workers and people aged above 65 would be given priority. PTI
12-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Chapatti makers, washing machines ease farmers’ agitation at Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 12Farmers from across the state, who are protesting at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border along with their counterparts from Punjab, are making optimum use of technology to make the long haul at the protest site bearable.They are using technology to the fullest by using two roti-making machines, which churn out rotis in three seconds and knead the dough within minutes. They also have washing machines and WiFi supported LED televisions to keep them updated about the latest news. For continuous power supply, they have brought generator sets and solar panels at the site.“We brought the roti-machine on rent here from Delhi around 10 days ago to serve langar to scores of farmers. With this, we are able to feed 10 to 15 thousand farmers daily without any trouble as the roti-making machine churns out a roti in three second,” said Haryana Kisan Manch state president Prahlad Singh Bharukhera from Sirsa.He said eight persons remain engaged with the roti-making and dough kneading machines at one time.“We just put the dough in the machine, which first rolls out the roti and then prepares. The technology has made our job easier. The machine will be kept here and the langar continues until the protest ends,” he added.Another group of farmers from Fatehabad have put up an LED television and a washing machine under the Metro over bridge here.“Tractor-trailers and tents are our make-shift abode these days as we don’t know how long the protest will go hence television was needed to get updates about the protest while washing machine was required to clean the clothes as it has been over a fortnight away from home amid mud and pollution. Since most of the protesters being the elderly hence availability of washing machines is saving their energy to carry the fight forward,” said Navdeep Singh Nathwal, a farmer.Nathwal said these facilities have made it easier for the farmers to stay updated about the latest ongoings and also have eased them in performing their daily chores. The TVs are supported by the WiFi hence no one face any issue watching the latest news reports, he added.
12-12-2020||---||Farmers block toll plazas in Hisar, Karnal||Hisar/Karnal, December 12Intensifying their protest against the Centre’s new agri laws, farmers took over some toll plazas in Haryana on Saturday, not allowing authorities to collect fees from commuters.All four toll plazas in Hisar district—located on the Delhi road, Rajgarh road, Sirsa road and Chandigarh road—on Saturday were taken over by protesting farmers, allowing vehicles to pass through without paying toll.Meanwhile in Karnal, on the call given by various farmers’ unions, farmers closed the Bastara toll plaza on NH-44 and Peont toll plaza on Karnal-Jind National Highway-709A Farmers had closed the Bastara toll at midnight to give free passage to commuters in a move to protest against the three controversial agri laws.Police force deployed at Pachgaon, a cluster of villages seven kilometres from Manesar towards Jaipur expressway, on Saturday. Tribune Photo: Sukh ChandanAlso read: Chapatti makers, washing machines ease farmers’ agitation at Tikri borderThe Peont toll plaza was made free in the morning.Bastara toll authorities again started the collection of toll in the morning, which the farmers got suspended.A large number of farmers are at the toll plazas. The police force is also there to maintain law and order.Earlier, the plan was to get toll plazas free from 8 am and administration had planned accordingly, but farmers coming from Punjab, with the help of local farmers, got the Bastara toll free at midnight.Meanwhile at Jhajjar, the toll plaza on the Rohtak-Delhi highway, near Rohad village, continues to charge tax from commuters despite the call of protesting farmers for making all toll tax booths free in the state.No farmer is present at the toll booth.The agitating farmers had earlier said they would picket toll plazas to press their demand for a repeal of the three new laws, which were voted through in Parliament in September amid strong protests by opposition parties.More than 100 farmers led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders Malkit Singh and Manish Chaudhry gathered at a toll plaza on the Ambala-Hisar highway, around 15 kilometres from Ambala city.The BKU activists raised slogans demanding the withdrawal of the farm laws.In Punjab, toll charges are not being collected from commuters as farmers have been staging sit-ins at toll plazas since October 1.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is suffering a loss of Rs 3 crore per day on account of farmers’ protest at toll plazas in the state. There are 25 toll plazas on national highways in Punjab.The three farm laws are anticipated to bring “reforms” in the agriculture sector by removing middlemen and allowing farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.Farmers worry these laws will eliminate the safety net of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure earning. But the government says the MSP system will continue and the new laws will give farmers more options to sell their crop.Police force deployed at Pachgaon, a cluster of villages seven kilometres from Manesar towards Jaipur expressway, on Saturday. Tribune Photo: Sukh ChandanFarmers from different parts of the country, including Haryana and Punjab, have been camping at various border points of Delhi for two weeks to demand a repeal of these laws.They have rejected a government offer to amend the farm laws and give a “written assurance” on continuing the MSP system. They have also threatened to block railway tracks across the country and all highways leading to Delhi if their demand is not met. — With PTI
12-12-2020||New Delhi||29 more die in Punjab, 23 in Haryana as national Covid tally goes past 98 lakh||India’s COVID-19 tally of cases climbed to 98.26 lakh with 30,006 new cases in a day while 93,24,328 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 94.88 per cent on Saturday, according to the Union Health Ministry data.The total coronavirus cases mounted to 98,26,775 and the death toll climbed to 1,42,628 with the virus claiming 442 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed.The COVID-19 case fatality rate further declined to 1.45 per cent.There are 3,59,819 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 3.66 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed.Also read: India’s active COVID-19 caseload drops below 3.6 lakh: Health MinistryAccording to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a cumulative total of 15,26,97,399 samples have been tested up to December 11 with 10,65,176 samples being tested on Friday.The 442 new fatalities include 87 from Maharashtra, 60 from Delhi, 50 from West Bengal, 29 each from Kerala and Punjab, 23 from Haryana, 16 from Karnataka and 14 each from Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.A total of 1,42,628 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 48,059 from Maharashtra followed by 11,928 from Karnataka, 11,870 from Tamil Nadu, 9,934 from Delhi, 8,966 from West Bengal, 8,025 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,049 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,036 from Punjab and 4,148 from Gujarat.The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.“Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the Ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures was subject to further verification and reconciliation. PTI
12-12-2020||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Revoke farm laws, we’ll carry Modi’s posters, say unions||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 11“We are willing to return home flying the national flag as well as putting up posters of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on our tractors if the government repeals the contentious farm laws,” said BKU (Kadian) president Harmeet Singh Kadian while talking to The Tribune today.Not repealing the laws appears to be an ego issue with the PM and Home Minister Amit Shah, Kadian said while responding to a question on the deadlock.Not just Kadian, a number of farm leaders are firm about their demand for the withdrawal of the new laws. They fear that corporates will ultimately take control of the pricing mechanism and subsequently their land. The farmers are also not ready to accept the MSP “lollipop” because at “present too the government is paying MSP only on two or three of the 23 listed crops”.President of the BKU (Ekta Sidhupur) Jagjit Singh Dalewal said: “The entry of corporates in the fields of education, health and transport has affected the government set-ups. The same will happen to agriculture. History shows that budget planning by the corporates allows them to bear losses for a few years. Initially, they will lure farmers with more money, leading to closure of government mandis. Finally, corporates will be controlling the price.”Voicing similar apprehensions, BKU (Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said: “Agreeing to government amendments would have been akin to allowing the neck of the corporate camel inside the tent of farmers. If not stonewalled now, this will render farmers homeless.”The trust deficit between the unions and the Centre doesn’t appear to have lessened after the recent proposal sent out by the latter. “Whether we were being administered 100% pure poison of the farm laws or whether it is being diluted by 50%, it will still be poison. Allowing our cases in civil courts means nothing to us because a common farmer does not have enough resources to fight the corporates,” said Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher.“Ideally speaking, the government needs to withdraw the contentious farm laws for at least two years. Before bringing any change, the farmers need to be engaged in discussions,” he added.Vice-president of the Kirti Kisan Union Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala said the farmers were mainly protesting because agriculture was a state subject. “Why is the Centre thrusting the laws upon farmers? At this juncture we feel that even if the government makes amendments to the farm laws, it could backtrack and re-amend them after we call off our agitation.”“We are also finding it strange that the government that has not heard us for the past several months, agreed to make amendments within 10 days of our reaching the Delhi border,” Kadian said.
12-12-2020||Hisar||Workshop on video resume||CDLU Prof gets add’l chargeSirsa: Chaudhary Devi Lal University Vice-Chancellor Prof RB Solanki has assigned the additional charge of Head of Legal Cell of university to Prof Ashok Makkar, Chairperson, Department of Law. Prof JS Jakhar, Dean, Faculty of Law, and other faculty members of the university congratulated Prof Makkar for the new assignment. Prof Makkar thanked the university administration for the new assignment and said he would perform the said additional duties with sincerity and would work for the upliftment of the university. Earlier Prof Makkar has performed the additional duties such as Assistant Registrar, Nodal Officer of Anti-ragging Cell and state public information officer of the university.Date for special chance extendedKurukshetra: The Kurukshetra University administration has given a special mercy chance for students of all UG/PG courses, including professional, diploma and certificate courses to improve marks and clear reappear, as per the direction of KU Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath. The KU spokesperson said the UG and PG courses, including professional, diploma and certificate courses (semester/annual exam), students between sessions 1998-99 to 2010-11 could fill the examination form with general examination fee of Rs 1,500 along with an additional fee of Rs 25,000. At the same time, the students of the session 2011-2012 can fill the examination form with an additional fee of Rs 20,000 along with the normal fee of Rs 1,500. He said the interested students could apply for it by December 21. For more information, students can get information from the university website.five-day training programmeHisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University here organised a five-day training programme for SC and ST women to make them self-reliant and help them to establish self-employment opportunities. The training programme was organised in the Saina Nehwal Institute of Agriculture Technology, Training and Education, of the university in collaboration with the Central Institute for Research on Buffaloes at Sirsa Road here. Co-Director (Training) of the Institute Dr Ashok Godara said self-employment oriented training was needed for the hour. He said after getting training there, women could increase their income by setting up small scale industries at domestic level. He said the five-days training would be imparted for testing of fruits, vegetables and value added products of food grains in the institute. Dr Shashi Kumar Bhatia said fruits and vegetables were the main source of vitamins and minerals which were also integral source of our daily diet. Dr DK Sharma shared detailed information about the equipment being used in processing of fruits and vegetables. Training Convener Dr Surendra Singh said during the programme, all types of information regarding the process of drying pickles, jam, candy, squash, chutney, jam, tomato sauce, fruits and vegetables would be given to the participants.teachers’ assn felicitates new VCKurukshetra: The Kurukshetra University Teachers Association (KUTA) organised a reception for KU Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath in RK Sadan. The Vice-Chancellor said he along with his team would make all out efforts to make KU a center of excellence. New courses will be started in the areas of artificial intelligence and skill development to assure self-reliance among the youth. Kurukshetra University will also take meaningful steps to establish new dimensions in the field of research. On the occasion, Dr Sanjeev Sharma, Registrar, said the coming year was full of challenges, but the teachers would work to enhance the ranking of the university with their hard work and dedication. Welcoming the Vice-Chancellor, KUTA president Dr Parmesh Kumar said under the leadership of the Vice-Chancellor, the university would progress in every field.
12-12-2020||These In case anybody has to go to Delhi or Chandigarh from Narwana||Farmers' agitation leading to loss in biz||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaCCTV cameras at public places non-functionalCCTV cameras are very helpful in reducing crime rate and the footage is also used as evidence in solving cases. But, many CCTV cameras at public places are out of order. They are not maintained to keep these working regularly. Recently,, the Supreme Court had ordered installation of CCTV cameras with night vision in every police station across the country. The government is expected to execute the order and the cameras will be installed but their maintenance should also be ensured .Ravinder Kawatra, Shahabad MarkandaDefaulting officials to be penalisedIt is a matter of great satisfaction that the Mayor of MCG, Madhu Azad, has asked officials and councillors of the Gurugram zone to take interest in their work and expedite the process of development. CM Manohar Lal Khattar has directed that the names of such defaulters be forwarded so that action is taken against them.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Officer promoted as DGHS||The government on Friday promoted Dr Jitender Singh Grewal, Additional Director General of Health Services, to the second post of Director General of Health Services (DGHS). He will be on probation for a period of one year. Meanwhile, Dr Veena Singh, Director Health Services, has been promoted to the post of Additional Director General of Health Services against a vacant post. She has contributed 30 years to the field of health services. She will join in place of Dr Grewal and be on probation for a period of one year. TNSIAS officer gets add’l chargeThe government on Friday gave additional charge of Managing Director, Land Reclamation Development Corporation Ltd (HLRDC) to IAS officer Vijay Singh Dahiya. At present, he has been holding the charge of Director-General and Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Department and Additional Chief Executive Officer, Kisan Kalyan Pradhikaran. TNSAmbalaAmbala gets 4 CNG stationsAfter getting the piped natural gas (PNG) supply project, Ambala has now got four compressed natural gas (CNG) stations. This will end the dependency of the CNG vehicle owners on other towns as they were forced to go as far as Chandigarh or Kurukshetra to get gas in the absence of a station here. While two CNG stations in Panjokhra and Mohra have already begun operations, another two in Khan Ahmedpur and Jalbehra are likely to be opened next month, a senior officer told The Tribune here on Friday. TNS
12-12-2020||Jhajjar||Protesters won’t allow toll plazas to charge fee today||Farmers staying put at the Tikri border for the past fortnight today finalised the strategy of sealing all nearby points leading to Delhi and making all four toll plazas in Jhajjar and Rohtak districts free for commuters on Saturday. They roped in farmers of nearby villages for the same.  “Not only farmers of Jhajjar and Rohtak districts but also of other districts in the state have assured us of making the toll plaza free tomorrow following the call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Manch hence we are quite confident about the success of our strategy,” said a farmer leader, adding that they will also reach the toll plaza if needed. Purushottam Singh Gill, a leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal), said they had identified eight routes leading to Delhi from Sonepat, Jhajjar and Gurugram districts. Many of these had already been blocked and remaining ones would also be sealed on Saturday to mount pressure on the Center for accepting their demand, he added. — TNS
12-12-2020||Sushil Manav ---||After tepid response, numbers swell||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, December 11  The number of farmers protesting at the Tikri and Singhu borders continues to swell by the day, even as 40 organisations from the state have lent support to the agitation. Farmers from Punjab still comprise a larger chunk of the protesters — more than 60 per cent of the total — while those from Haryana are making up for the initial lukewarm response. Their participation is fast increasing. More than 20 per cent of the protesters are from Haryana. Prahlad Singh Bharukhera of the Haryana Kisan Manch said, “Farmers from Sirsa and Fatehabad were the first to protest against the farm laws as they held a ‘pakka morcha’ outside Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala’s residence in Sirsa on November 4. Later, farmers from Ambala, Kurukshetra and Karnal joined their Punjab brethren for the Delhi march.” He further said farmers from the Jat heartland of Rohtak, Sonepat and Jhajjar were hesitant to join the protest initially as they apprehended a repeat of the 2016 Jat agitation. But as it became clear that the protest was peaceful, they lent support.  The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) continues to be the single largest organisation from the state participating in the protest. Others organisations at the forefront are the Haryana Kisan Manch, Bharatiya Kisan Mazdoor Union, Kisan Sanghrash Samiti, BKU (Ghasi Ram Nain), Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, All India Kisan Sabha, Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Mahasabha and All India Kisan Mazdoor Sangthan. Some of these organisations have a statewide appeal, while others wield influence in districts and blocks.  Rajender Arya of the Haryana Kisan Mazdoor Naujawan Union said: “The Delhi march evoked a tepid response from Haryana. But once the farmers from Punjab laid siege to the Delhi border, the participation from Haryana started increasing. Now, farmers from across the state are heading towards Singhu and Tikri.” Bharukhera said Haryana’s representation was more at the Tikri border than at the Singhu border. He further said the unique feature of the protest was it was not centered on one person. “There is no single hero. The 1988 farmers’ protest at Boat Club had Mahendra Singh Tikait as its hero and the 2011 anti-corruption movement had Anna Hazare. But in this protest, people have emerged as the hero.” This is the reason organisations have not deviated from the single-point demand of revocation of the laws.
12-12-2020||Parveen Arora---||Seniors guide youth, keep spirits high||Tribune News Service Sonepat, December 11 Experience of elders and enthusiasm among youths is keeping the spirit of protesters high at the Singhu border for the past 16 days.  Elderly farmers keep guiding the youths to remain vigilant and perform all sorts of duties, so that the protest continues to remain peaceful. Subsequently, the youths are performing well on every front — be it langar sewa, managing the traffic flow of the farmers’ vehicles or maintaining hygiene and distributing fruits.  Farmers are reaching the site from Haryana and Punjab with milk, fruits, vegetables, medicines and food items in vehicles bearing flags of farmers’ organisations and theTricolour. There is no dearthof financial and social support from Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and UP. Besides, Punjabi singers as well as spiritual gurus are keeping the protesters in high spirits. Gurbaz Singh (65) from Moga said that earlier, the protest was limited to Punjab, but now it had become a mass movement across the country. “It is a disciplined dharna. The youths are keeping a vigil to avoid any anti-social element from hampering our movement,” he added. Gurnam Singh, another youth managing traffic, said, “We’ve divided the duties and accordingly, keep guarding the protest site.”
12-12-2020||Parveen Arora---||Heaps of garbage, stagnant water raise stink at Singhu||Tribune News Service Sonepat, December 11 Heaps of garbage and stagnant water near the Singhu border, where thousands of farmers have been protesting against the three controversial farm laws for two weeks, are posing a sanitation problem, which, protesters fear, will lead to an outbreak of diseases. Pieces of orange and banana peels, plastic and paper glasses and plates, and food waste are piling up at various places, causing inconvenience to protesters. This is not all. Dirty toilets and stagnant water are raising a stench. The protesters claimed toilets had not been cleaned for nearly a week. Ask protesters and they blame the district administration for the sorry state of affairs. “Sanitation employees do not clean the site regularly. Garbage has not been lifted for days and the drainage system is poor. All in all, the situation is bad,” said Ajyab Singh, a farmer. Another farmer Narinder Singh said the district administration should deploy more sanitation employees at the site. “If the administration doesn’t get serious, the unsanitary conditions will lead to outbreak of diseases.” “The few mobile toilets that have been stationed near the protest site are dirty, forcing the farmers to relieve themselves in the open,” one of the farmers said, adding some farmers took it upon themselves to clean the toilets.
12-12-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur---||15-yr-old Gurugram boy takes HHRC for a ride||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, December 11  A 15-year-old student of DPS, Gurugram, took the Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) for a ride as he complained of torture by his parents, but during police inquiry he said he was just trying to authenticate what was mentioned in his NCERT book on legal recourse to human rights violation. A resident of Sector 85 of Gurugram, the student approached the Commission on April 18 through the online mode, where he complained of being tortured by his parents.  He alleged that his mother had threatened to kill him and he had been physically, mentally and emotionally abused. He even went on to say that he had not attempted suicide as it was against the law. “Please save me. I need help!” he said.  Taking notice of the complaint, the HHRC marked a police inquiry. During the police investigation, the boy made a statement that he had read in his NCERT book that in case there was a violation of human rights of a person, one could make a complaint to the Human Rights Commission.  In order to authenticate the fact, he made a complaint to the HHRC. He also mentioned that he was living happily in his house and no one was torturing him. Disposing of the case, Haryana Human Rights Commission chairperson Justice SK Mittal and member Justice KC Puri observed that the juvenile "was trying to test the activeness and vigilance of the panel due to which he filed a complaint alleging that his mother had physically, mentally and emotionally abused him".
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Covid cases cross 2.5 lakh in Haryana||With 23 deaths and 1,065 fresh Covid cases, the overall tally in the state crossed 2.50 lakh on Friday. So far, 2,699 deaths have taken place in the state with 2,361 having co-morbidities. — TNS
12-12-2020||Ravi S Singh---||BJP will sweep urban local body poll: Kataria||Tribune News Service New Delhi, December 11 Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti and Social Justice Rattan Lal Kataria said here today that the BJP would “sweep” the urban local bodies elections, including the three Municipal Corporations, scheduled on December 27. Kataria, who is the BJP MP from reserved Ambala constituency, and party’s prominent Dalit face, told the media that he would personally campaign for the BJP nominees. The corporations of Panchkula and Ambala are among the three going to polls, are located in his constituency. “The people of Haryana are convinced with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision and governance,” Kataria said, and added that the ML Khattar government in the state was providing an “honest” and transparent” administration.He praised the state government for providing comparatively higher MSP for the Bajra produce. He said various sections, especially SCs, MBC, OBCs, and women, were feeling empowered in Modi’s dispensation. These sections had become adherents of the BJP which had helped expand its base.
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chargesheeting of 8 officials ordered||Taking strict action against eight officers of the HSVP, the CM today directed that they be chargesheeted on the basis of a complaint made by a Panchkula-based resident on CM’s twitter handle. The complaint was regarding use of poor quality material by the HSVP in connivance with the contractors. — TNS
12-12-2020||Chandigarh||Naib tehsildar, BDO among six suspended for negligence||Taking cognisance of complaints regarding negligent officers raised on the CM window, suspension orders of six officers and employees, including a Naib tehsildar and BDO were issued on Friday. The orders were issued on the directions of the CM by Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associates Programme Project Director Rakesh Gupta and OSD to CM Bhupeshwar Dayal, during a review meeting of the CM window, social media grievances tracker here. During the review meeting, the Superintendent of Police of Panipat was directed to constitute a special team to arrest the sarpanch, Rair Kalan village in Panipat district. The said sarpanch is absconding after committing an embezzlement of Rs 1.87 crore from the Panchayati Fund. In another case of misappropriation of Panchayati Funds in Mewat, to the tune Rs 1.60 crore was withdrawn on the basis of fake documents. Immediate action was taken when the matter came to the notice of the Chief Minister wherein suspension orders of BDO Amit Kumar and the then Panchayat Secretary were issued and directions to register an FIR against them were also given. Strict disciplinary proceedings were initiated against the then Executive Officer, Municipal Council BN Bharti (retired), for being hand in glove with a builder for illegal acquisition of PWD land in Narnaul, Mahendragarh. The then Building Inspector Bhim Singh was also suspended with immediate effect. In a complaint regarding corruption allegations against officer of the Cooperation Department, Inspector Amit Kumar working in Karnal district has also been suspended. The said inspector in connivance with his relatives had set up a bogus society. These societies were duping people by creating fake ID cards using government logos. Thus, strict proceedings have also been ordered against the Inspector. Taking strict action against, Naib tehsildar Shivraj Singh for his appointment on the basis of forged documents, orders were issued to register two FIRs against him in two separate cases and his suspension orders were issued with immediate effect. In the second case, false NOC was issued for acquisition of government land. Strict disciplinary action was also ordered against the then Municipal Secretary Kanina, Rohtash after he was found guilty in the initial inquiry. Besides, strict action was also ordered under Rule 7, along with registration of an FIR against Assistant Registrar Co-operative Society (ARCS) Satish Rohilla and Rishi Kumar, after they were found hand in glove with the builder regarding 40,000 square yards of land in Gurugram district. — TNS
12-12-2020|| ---||OPDs of private clinics remain shut over IMA doctors’ strike||Faridabad, December 11 All odd 900 members of the district unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) observed a one-day strike by closing down the OPDs today, in protest against the decision of allowing the non-allopathic doctors(BAMS) to conduct surgeries.  The call for strike was given by the IMA across the nation today against the recent notification of the Central Council of Indian Medicine(CCIM), a spokesperson of the district unit of the IMA said. He said all private clinics and hospitals closed down their OPDs between 6 am and 6 pm as mark of protest. However, the strike did not affect the emergency services and the treatment of the Covid patients, it is claimed. He said the amendment announced by the CCIM had included 58 modern medicine surgical procedures to be studied and performed by the postgraduate students and practitioners of the ayurveda system of medicine in the country. “Describing the new system as mixopathy, the memorandum submitted by the IMA to the PM through the district authorities here, said it was a cheap alternative in healthcare, that could result in an unacceptable level of suffering and cost as many lives could be lost before any remedial measures were taken.  The association has sought immediate repeal of the amendment in the larger interest and welfare of modern medicine and the patients. A similar protest was also staged by the private doctors (allopathy) in Palwal district also. The members of the Haryana Civil Medical Services Association also held gate meeting in support of the protest by the IMA over the issue. “The allopathic doctors’ fraternity will not accept mixopathy system of medicine suggested by the Niti Ayog Committee of the Union Government and support the demand of repealing the amendment,” said Dr Rajesh Sheokand, general secretary of the HCMS Association.
12-12-2020||Gurugram||Parents wary of sending wards to schools||The state government’s decision to reopen schools for board and pre-board classes from December 14 and 21, respectively has left private schools and parents baffled. The private schools claimed that a new order to open and shut had disrupted the academic schedules.“For them it’s nothing but a joke. Open for two days then close down. Their decisions are impossible to execute. We have set our own schedules of calling students and will stick to it”, said a private school principal.The Private Schools’ Association has written a letter to the Education Department communicating their apprehensions. Many small schools have already scheduled work from home classes till March and have no plans to open before the next academic session. The parents too are skeptical and have requested that the schools remain close till the availability of a vaccine. — OC
12-12-2020||---||Why MSP is a must for farmers||DARBARI economists will tell you that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system fattens a few rich farmers. Don’t listen to their lies and half-truths. Yes, it is true that only a lucky few manage to sell most of their produce at the government-mandated floor prices. But the MSP announced by the government acts as a signal price for all trade in crops across the country.If the govt had been serious about increasing farm income, it would have strengthened MSP-based procurement.How does that happen? Although most states are woefully short of government-regulated APMC mandis, the few that they have become the hubs through which most crops ultimately pass. The farmers themselves might not be able to access these mandis, but local grain traders do. Small farmers need cash almost immediately after harvest, so they sell their crop to local grain merchants. The merchants pick up the produce from the entire area and store it, till the official procurement process begins.These merchants have the linkages to raise money to rent godowns and later transport large amounts of wheat, paddy, pulses and oilseeds. They have the holding power which small farmers do not. Once FCI begins to buy, the grain merchants offload a part of their stock at the MSP. This becomes a form of insurance for them, which ensures they are able to pay for the cost of finance, transport and storage and make a decent margin, even if the open market collapses.This also ensures that they can pay steady prices to the farmers whom they bought from. If grain traders were exposed to the fluctuations that always take place in agricultural markets across the world, the small farmers would get even less. This is clear from the crops that do not have official procurement.Vegetables are a good example. Since there is no assured pricing system here, farmers are at the mercy of fluctuations in the open market. That is why we hear stories of farmers selling onions at Re 1/kg to the trader and the consumer paying Rs 30 for it. That is also why we see images of tomatoes dumped on the road by angry farmers when they fail to earn even enough to cover the cost of transport.The experience of farming across the world tells us that the standard laws of supply and demand do not work in food production. That is why even the developed capitalist world, where free markets supposedly rule, subsidises its farming communities. The reason for this is that agriculture has its own specific time, a particular rhythm, which cannot be controlled by machines. Factories make products in a very short period of time, often in less than a day. They can react to changes in demand or overall supply in the market very quickly.Farmers begin sowing, armed with the knowledge of the previous season’s demand. Even the most enlightened farmer, who keeps track of global trends, will still have to commit to a certain acreage at the point of sowing. If supply or demand trends change during the weeks needed for the crop to grow, there is nothing that the farmer can do about it. This is why supply and demand can never match in agriculture. They always confront each other with a seasonal lag.In such a situation, assured prices alone can ensure that farmers have a steady income. Otherwise, a sudden glut can cause farmers to go bankrupt. And we know this happens every year in places where farmers are unable to access the APMC mandis or get MSP. They are unable to pay the loans they took at the beginning of the season. Microfinance lenders and banks come banging at their doors. At times, the farmer is humiliated so much that he ends up killing himself.Only the state can intervene to protect farmers from the vagaries of market forces. That can only be done by government procurement at assured minimum prices. Private procurers and big agri-businesses can never do that. Except in the world of naïve textbook economics. In that world, if agricultural trade is opened up to everyone, farmers will have a wider range of buyers to choose from. This will help them demand more for their products and end up with better prices than the MSP system can.In this economic fairy tale, agri-businesses will compete against each other to improve efficiencies of transport, marketing and retail. This will help them reduce costs while paying more to farmers. In effect, everyone wins — the farmers get more, the corporates earn higher margins by reducing distribution costs and consumers pay less.In reality, the three new laws ensure that farmers will be powerless in front of big corporate agri-buyers. Purchase contracts will have to be agreed to before the sowing season. The farmer will have to ensure that the quality of the crop meets the contracted standards. The buyer will have the right to terminate the contract whenever he wants. If there’s a dispute, the farmer will not be able to go to any civil court. In effect, the farmer will be at the mercy of the corporate buyer.The complexity of crop procurement will ensure that a few big corporates, who can assimilate a part of the existing network of grain traders into its system, will quickly capture the market and become monopsonies. The corporates will dictate prices and farmers will have no fallback option, since there will be no MSP system to protect them. The same trading networks that give some price stability to small farmers, because of government procurement, will simply congeal and be absorbed into the procurement structure of big corporates. The vast sea of rural exploitative relations will be preserved, but the lifeboat of MSP will be taken away.If the Modi government had been serious about increasing farm income, it would have strengthened MSP-based procurement, instead of dismantling it. It would have set up an adequate number of APMC mandis — India needs five times the number we currently have — instead of disempowering them. It would have fixed the APMCs and tried to reduce the control of the arhtiyas. Instead, it is simply throwing the farmers to the mercy of market forces and big businesses. Global experience shows that this can only make things worse for farmers.
