12-10-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Year on, BJP-JJP govt’s CMP yet to see light of the day||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12Nearly a year after the BJP-JJP government came to power in Haryana, its much-touted common minimum programme (CMP) for overall development of the state is yet to see the light of the day.In fact, the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic seems to taken a toll on the formulation of the CMP with the high-powered committee headed by state’s Home Minister Anil Vij failing to hold its meeting in the past about nine months.Earlier, the committee, at its meetings on November 28, 2019, and January 23, 2020, had asked the officers to examine the legal and financial aspects of poll promises made by both the parties ahead of 2019 Assembly elections so that the CMP blueprint could be prepared.Vij, when contacted, conceded that committee’s meeting could not take place on account of the pandemic. The meeting will soon be called so that common points of both the parties could be finalised to be included in the CMP, which would subsequently be implemented for people’s welfare, “he asserted.Sources said the mammoth cost involved in the implementation of the CMP was the major reason for its delay as Covid-19 pandemic had hit state’s finances very badly. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has gone on record saying that the implementation of the CMP would cost be state exchequer to the tune of a whopping Rs 70,000 crore.It is estimated that implementation of BJP’s poll promises would cost the state exchequer around Rs 32,000 crore while those of the JJP around Rs 38,000 crore.In the run-up to last year’s assembly polls, BJP poll manifesto contained 260 poll promises and those of the JJP 160 poll promises.The BJP, which failed to get majority in last year’s assembly polls winning 40 seats in the 90-member Haryana Assembly, cobbled together an alliance with the JJP, which had won 10 seats, to form government in Haryana on October 27 last year.Immediately after coming to power, the alliance government formed the committee under Vij with Kanwar Pal Gujjar, Education Minister, Anoop Dhanak, Minister of State for Archeology and Museums, and OP Dhankar, BJP president, as members, to prepare the CMP after a thorough study of the poll manifestos of both the parties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/year-on-bjp-jjp-govts-cmp-yet-to-see-light-of-the-day-154764
12-10-2020||Hisar||17 juvenile inmates flee from observation home in Hisar||A total of 17 juvenile inmates — eight of them facing murder charges — lodged in the observation home fled after attacking the security guards at the entrance of the main gate at Chandigarh road on the outskirts of the town on Monday evening.The police sources said the juveniles facing charges in different cases seemed to have planned in advance and make good their escape. The police have sounded an alert and sealed the borders of the district.The police sources informed that all the escapees are involved in heinous crimes like murder, attempt to murder, robbery, dacoity, theft. While 14 of them belong to Jhajjar and Rohtak districts, two of them are from Hisar and one from Charkhi Dadri district.SP Hisar Balwan Singh Rana said inmates of observation home have assaulted the security guards and fled. The SP informed that maximum force has been deployed on the highways and all possible escape routes which have been sealed and vehicles are being checked in a thorough manner.Rana stated that the suspected persons are being checked and detained for identification in the observation home. He directed all the DSPs, SHOs to be out on the highways for checking of vehicles and the supervision of the checking staff. The checking staff has been told to be equipped with arms.According to information, the incident occurred between 6 to 6:30 pm when the group of juvenile inmates reached near the entrance and assaulted the security personnel deployed at the gate.They opened the gate and fled on foot, the police sources informed adding that there were nearly 4-5 security personnel who were present at the gate.SP Rana rushed to the spot and started investigation. The police spokesman informed that they have started a hunt for the escapees and started the process to register a case on the complaint of the observation home superintendent.It may be informed that a similar incident occurred in June 2017 when a group of six juvenile undertrials from observation home fled in a similar fashion.They too had attacked the security staff inside the observation home when the staff was taking water campers inside. They had attacked the security guard with an iron road and the snatched the keys and make good their escape by crossing two layers of security.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/17-juvenile-inmates-flee-from-observation-home-in-hisar-154761
12-10-2020||CHANDIGARH||No fee for SC students||The Higher Education Department has issued guidelines regarding collection of fees and funds for Scheduled Caste students enrolled in undergraduate classes of government-aided and self-financing colleges. Those availing of post-matric scholarship will not be charged anything while applying for online provisional admission to undergraduate classes. Principals will have to ensure that such students have certificates for this fiscal establishing that the income of their family is less than Rs 2.5 lakh. TNSUpload info on HRMSThe government has issued guidelines on transfer of employees through the human resource management system (HRMS). Those getting transferred will have to upload their joining and relieving report on the HRMS. If the joining and relieving report is not uploaded on the HRMS by appointing authority, every employee will have to log in at intrahry.gov.in to upload joining and relieving report. TNSNo bouquet at eventsThe government has asked its departments at the headquarters and district level to refrain from gifting bouquets at official functions in view of the resource crunch due to the pandemic. An order to this effect has been issued by the Chief Secretary to various administrative secretaries, heads of departments and Deputy Commissioners. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-fee-for-sc-students-154556
12-10-2020||Rewari||Sainik School holds webinar||Analytical, instrumentation facilitySirsa: The central analytical and instrumentation facility will be developed by the faculty of life science of Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Sirsa. A sum of Rs 4 crore will be spent on this project at the initial stage. This was stated by Professor Rajkumar Salar, dean of faculty of life science and chairperson of biotechnology department, while addressing the first online alumni meet of the department. He added that the biotech department graph had been steadily going up. As many as 28 Phd degrees and 40 MPhils have been awarded to scholars while 17 have been registered in the PhD programme at present. As per record available with the department, 20 students have qualified NET exam and the department feels proud of its alumni.Collaboration with varsitiesRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) will collaborate with leading Canadian universities in higher studies and research, and explore possibilities of faculty exchange programme with them. A virtual meeting of the MDU functionaries with the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and Trade Commissioner (Education), Canadian High Commission was held to facilitate this collaborative venture.2nd webinar on National Edu PolicyKarnal: The KVA DAV College for Women organised the second webinar on the National Education Policy (NEP)-2020 for the NCC Air Wing Cadets on Sunday. College principal Sujata Gupta addressed the gathering and emphasised how NEP could enhance the practical skills of students and be a step forward towards nation-building. She highlighted the power and responsibility of the youth, particularly the cadets for creating awareness in society. Dr Deepti Sharma, convener of the NCC wing, welcomed the participants and motivated the cadets to create receptiveness in them and also in the society about this new policy. The key speaker of the webinar was Prof Mahabir Narwal, department of commerce, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, who deliberated on NEP and highlighted its importance for the growth and career of students in higher education.MoU signed for teachers' trainingPanipat: The All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University for Science and Technology (DCRUST), Murthal, to conduct joint training programmes for teachers on technical education quality parameters and providing certification to them. The Vice-Chancellor, Professor Rajender Kumar Anayath, signed the MoU on behalf of the university after formal discussion with the AICTE chairman professor Anil Sahasrabudhe on various issues of mutual cooperation at the AICTE head office in New Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sainik-school-holds-webinar-154554
12-10-2020||Karnal||Plasma donors awarded certificates||Cops trace, return 26 mobile phonesKaithal: The police traced and returned 26 stolen and lost mobile phones worth around Rs 3.5 lakh to their owners. Shashank Kumar Sawan, Superintendent of Police, handed over these phones to their owners and they thanked the police for the recovery. He said their information technology and cyber cell teams had tracked and recovered these mobile phones, including some costly high-end mobile phones. He advised people to report loss of mobile phones, especially smartphones, quickly to ensure that these were not misused by anti-social elements.Award for Yamunanagar surgeonYamunanagar: Dr Anil Aggarwal, eminent surgeon, was honoured with ‘Best Surgeon of Haryana Award’ by a media house at a state-level function organised in Rohtak recently. The award was presented by Members of Parliament Ram Chander Jangra and Baba Balak Nath. Dr Aggarwal had conducted about 50,000 surgeries, including free of cost for patients who cannot afford the treatment.Lyrical message on farm firesAmbala: Guru Prem Grover, subject matter specialist (soil and water management) at the Krishi Vigyan Kendra in the district’s Tepla village has penned a song to motivate farmers to stop burning paddy stubble and educate them about the ill-effects of the practice. The Haryanvi song “Poshak tatva ho jange khak, parali ne lagao na aag” has been sung by Hisar-based Manjeet Singh. “The challenge is to change the mindset of farmers. They are still stuck on the conventional methods of farming. The Krishi Vigyan Kendra decided to do something innovative so that farmers shun the practice. The song is being shared in WhatsApp groups,” said Grover.Letters of praise for social outfitsRohtak: The district health authorities felicitated various social outfits for their valuable contribution in the fortnight to promote awareness among people for eye donation. Dr Anil Birla, Civil Surgeon, felicitated the outfits by presenting appreciation letters. Dr Dinesh Sharma, eye specialist and convener of the event, said they had motivated people for eye donation by organising functions at various locations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plasma-donors-awarded-certificates-154550
12-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||40,000 litres of ENA seized in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 11The CM’s Flying Squad seized over 40,000 litres of extra neutral alcohol (ENA) from a dhaba near Kanhi village on the Rohtak-Gohana road this morning.“The ENA was brought here from NV Distillery, Rajpura (Punjab). The papers and permits issued by the distillery for transportation to Assam have been seized. A preliminary investigation reveals the pilfered ENA was to be supplied in Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan for making substandard liquor,” said squad head DSP Ajit Singh.“Following a tip-off, police and excise officials raided ‘Bhole ka Dhaba’ around 2 am and found two tankers stationed there,” he added. Labourers were seen filling ENA from one tanker into small containers, while the second tanker had already been unloaded.PILFERAGE deniedThere is no possibility of pilferage from the distillery. The seized papers and permits may have been forged. The Excise Department has set up a post inside the distillery and the officials posted there check every consignment before it moves out. —NV Distillery, ManagerLabour Inspector Dilawar Singh was also called there as the labourers maintained they were forced to do that work. “Dhaba owners, Sandeep and Kuldeep of Rukhi village, said they used to pilfer ENA from the tankers of various distilleries in Punjab, Bhopal, Karnal and Ambala and then supplied it to customers in UP and Rajasthan,” sources said. Shamsher Singh, SHO, Sadar police station, said 24 persons, including two dhaba owners, tanker drivers and labourers, were arrested.Jasbir Dhiman, plant manager of NV Distillery, Rajpura, however, maintained there was no possibility of pilferage from their distillery and that the seized papers and permits might have been forged.“The Excise Department has set up a post inside the distillery and the officials posted there check every consignment before it moves out,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/40-000-litres-of-ena-seized-in-rohtak-154315
12-10-2020||The park in Sector 20 Panchkula||Replace fused bulbs in  Panchkula park||Sunil Minocha, PanchkulaNo respite in dog bite casesThough the Supreme Court and the High Court on several occasions have directed the local municipal bodies to frame a policy on curbing dog bite cases, however there have been frequent incidents of stray dogs attacking and biting schoolchildren, aged persons, pedestrians and morning walkers across the city. As per my opinion, the only solution to this problem is that the erring officials should be made personally responsible.Gopal Mittal, PanchkulaCivil Hospital functioning as referral hospitalSince long, Civil Hospital, Narwana, is functioning like a 'referral hospital' where patients are usually referred to PGIMS, Rohtak, or Agroha and most of the times, the patient succumbs on the way. Even though the hospitals in the district are equipped to handle Covid cases, yet each patient is referred to other hospitals. In case of serious accidents, the patients are just referred without being attended to by doctors there. The government should improve the functioning of civil hospitals. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/replace-fused-bulbs-in-panchkula-park-154547
12-10-2020||Hisar||Youth ends life live on Facebook||A truck driver employed with a power plant in Khedar village on contract basis committed suicide while telecasting the the incident live on his Facebook account in Uklana town of the district. The police have registered a case of abetment of suicide against four persons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-ends-life-live-on-facebook-154545
12-10-2020||Chandigarh||7 succumb; 1,065 cases in Haryana||With 1,065 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 1,42,155 on Sunday. With seven more deaths, the toll reached 1,579.Gurugram accounted for a maximum of 241 cases, followed by Hisar (152), Faridabad (138), Rewari (82) and Sonepat (55). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-succumb-1-065-cases-in-haryana-154542
12-10-2020||Palwal||Car rams into stationary truck near Palwal, 2 of Delhi family die||A 54-year-old man and his 30-year-old son were killed when their car rammed into a stationary truck on the KMP expressway, about 10 km from here, on Saturday night. His wife and daughter were injured in the mishap.The truck driver, who has not been identified, has been booked. Delhi resident Vinod Sethi (54) and his son Manoj Sethi, who was behind the wheel, died on the spot. Vinod’s wife Rekha and their daughter Megha (25) were injured. They were admitted to hospital. Their condition was said to be stable.According to a complaint lodged with the police, the family was going to Shani Dev temple in Mathura (Uttar Pradesh). It is claimed the truck was parked in the middle of the road without parking lights on.The police said the bodies of the deceased were handed over to their relatives after the postmortem.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/car-rams-into-stationary-truck-near-palwal-2-of-delhi-family-die-154421
12-10-2020||
||Ex-prez, secy in fray for KU teachers’ body poll||Kurukshetra, October 11 After the withdrawal of nominations on Saturday, two-time former Kurukshetra University Teachers’ Association (KUTA) president Parmesh Kumar and two-time former KUTA secretary Naresh Kumar are left in the fray for the post of KUTA chief. Besides the post of president, two candidates each are contesting for the post of vice-president and joint secretary, while three for the post of secretary. The elections were scheduled to be held in March this year but were postponed due to Covid and then examinations. There are 360 eligible teachers for voting and the elections are scheduled for October 20. The candidates are raising the issue of delayed salaries, poor financial condition of KU, implementation of UGC guidelines, old pension scheme, and demand for financial package from the state government. Dr Parmesh Kumar from the zoology department said: “KU is suffering from an acute financial shortage and a special package of at least Rs 300 crore from the government will be the top priority. Efforts will be made for 100 per cent pay and pension as grant in aid from the state government so that the salary and pension can be released timely. Seventh pay commission guidelines were released by the UGC almost a year ago but are not yet approved by the state government hence concerted efforts will be made so that teachers get their due. We will also raise the issue of timely promotion of teachers working under Self Finance Scheme, Institute of Integrated and Honors studies (IIHS), Institute of Teachers Training and Research and Directorate of Correspondence Course.” Dr Naresh Kumar from the geology department said: “Teachers are not getting their salary on time. We will demand that the teachers should be given extension up to 65 years after their retirement. Those who are working in SFS haven’t got their arrears of 7th pay commission till now. Interview for professorship in IIHS should be fixed at the earliest. We will also make efforts for Self Finance Scheme teachers to convert their posts from SFS to budgeted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-prez-secy-in-fray-for-ku-teachers-body-poll-154422
12-10-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Blunder in industrial plots’ allotment costs HSVP dear||Tribune News ServicePanipat, October 11A scam in the allotment of industrial plots at the collector rate allegedly by officials of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has come to light.Some officials of the estate office, HSVP, in connivance with industrialists have allotted plots at collector rate instead of HSVP rates and led to a revenue loss of Rs 8 crore to the department.Allotted plots at collector rateSome officials of the estate office, HSVP, in connivance with industrialists have allotted plots at collector rate instead of HSVP rates.Chief Administrator Pankaj Yadav has transferred a patwari from Panipat to Sirsa, who was allegedly involved in the allotment of industrial plots and ordered an inquiry to the Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO), HSVP. Besides, the department has cancelled the allotment of the plots.Sandeep Malik of Ugrakheri had filed a complaint to Chief Administrator Pankaj Yadav in August, alleging that the patwari at the HSVP office, in connivance with some officials, allotted five plots in Sectors 29 and 25 to industrialists at collector rate only, while the plots were to be allotted at collector or reserve price of HSVP, which was higher, leading to a revenue loss of Rs 8 crore to the department.Sources said these plots had been allotted to the industrialists around 20 years ago but were taken back by the department due to non-payment. It was alleged that the plots had been re-allotted to the same owners at the collector rate, which was Rs 7,300 per square metre in Sector 29 part-2 in June, while the reserve price was Rs 21,000 per square metre.Following the complaint, the CVO has begun an inquiry in the allotment of a plot in Sector 25 part-1 of 1,045 square metre; four plots in Sector 29 part-2 of different sizes, including a plot of 2,100 square metre, two plots of 1,000 square metre and a plot of 525 square metre.The CVO summoned then estate officer Yogesh Ranga and also sought the record of these plots at the headquarters. “I was called by the vigilance in connection with the issue and I have submitted my statement,” Ranga said.HSVP estate officer Vikas Dhanda said the inquiry into the alleged scam was underway and the vigilance wing of the department was probing it. Power of attorney of the plots allotted had been cancelled on the basis of the preliminary inquiry, he said. “A letter has also been written to the HSIIDC so that the industrialists cannot sell these plots to others,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/blunder-in-industrial-plots-allotment-costs-hsvp-dear-154423
12-10-2020||---||To tackle smog, Gurugram MC clears 2.5 lakh MT waste||Gurugram, October 11Over 4,000 construction sites in Gurugram left harried with announcement of Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) from October 15 may escape construction ban, all thanks to the MC.Having cleared over 2.5 lakh metric tonnes of construction and demolition (C&D) waste from across the city and ensuring coverage of raw material and water sprinkling at 90 per cent construction sites, the authorities are hopeful of lesser smog this time, which would help construction sites evade the ban that has become an annual affair every winter.“We have achieved what was mere plans and promises for the past 10 years. We have cleared major parts of the city of construction debris. With strict rules in place, we have ensured that the construction projects are not producing any dust, which contributes to smog,” said Joint Commissioner Hari Om Attri.Hari Om Attri, Joint CommissionerDebris ClearedWe have achieved what was mere plans and promises for the past 10 years. We have cleared major parts of the city of construction debris. With strict rules in place, we have ensured that the construction projects are not producing any dust, which contributes to smog.The corporation with its agency Pragati embarked on this mission in April 2020 and utilising lockdown managed to change the city’s face. From completely curtailing illegal dumping of C&D waste in the Aravallis through a crackdown on the transportation mafia to ensuring compliance of construction bylaws by challaning that raised the revenue of over Rs 50 lakh. With this, the authorities managed to deal with the city’s biggest civic crisis.The move spearheaded by Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh clicked with residents and now an average of over 100 calls are received daily for collection and disposal of C and D waste. Encouraged by the response and the onset of winter, the authorities are going to get more aggressive.“The EPCA will implement GRAP and warning of pollution period has already been sounded. We have now doubled collection and increased fine for construction bylaws violations from Rs 25,000 to Rs 50,000. We will be clearing all vulnerable sites of pollutants by October,” Attri said.While the entire plan has left residents and even builders rejoiced, a few councillors have been objecting to it. Senior officials claim that many of them had themselves been involved in illegal dumping of waste and had been penalised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-tackle-smog-gurugram-mc-clears-2-5-lakh-mt-waste-154424
12-10-2020||
||Licences of  4 arhtiyas suspended||Karnal, October 11 The market committee office in Nissing has suspended licences of four arhtiyas for allegedly misbehaving with secretary Sumanlata and other staff members. A police complaint against the arhtiyas has also been filed. On Friday, market committee employees stopped a farmer from taking his produce outside the grain market.  The arhtiyas said since the farmer did not get a good price for his produce in the mandi, he decided to sell it elsewhere. But market committee employees stopped the farmers, leading to an altercation. In the meantime, several arhtiyas intervened and allegedly manhandled the employees. The market committee secretary alleged the arhtiyas even misbehaved with her in her office. “I have suspended licences of four arhtiyas for misbehaving with me as well as manhandling other staff members. I have filed a police complaint as well,” Sumanlata said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/licences-of-4-arhtiyas-suspended-154425
12-10-2020||ibune News Service
||Farmers being harassed intentionally, claims Bhupinder Hooda||Kurukshetra, October 11 Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda today visited grain markets in Pipli and Shahabad of Kurukshetra and interacted with the farmers who had come to the grain markets to sell their produce. He blamed the BJP-JJP government for the problems faced by farmers in the grain markets. Bhupinder Singh Hooda said, “Farmers have sold their produce below MSP and no payment has been made so far for the procurement that has started on September 25. The government should clear payments within 72 hours. The government should compensate farmers who have sold their crops under compulsion at a low rate. The farmers are being harassed in the name of registration, gates passes and then payment.  “It looks as if the government has made up its mind to harass not only the farmers but all those who are involved in the broader agricultural eco-system,” he said. The former CM interacted with farmers at Panipat and Samalkha grain markets as well. Hooda said “There is total chaos and governmental neglect is visible everywhere in the grain markets. It seems as if farmers are being intentionally harassed. Farmers are lining up to sell their paddy but the government has not even been able to run the official portal two weeks after the process was started. The government has taken days to repair a problem that should have taken a few seconds.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-being-harassed-intentionally-claims-bhupinder-hooda-154426
12-10-2020||
||At 189, Kurukshetra has maximum farm fires||Karnal, October 11 Farmers of the state continue to burn crop residue after paddy harvesting even after the issuance of prohibitory orders by various district authorities in the state.  As per the information gathered from the Agriculture Department, 867 fire locations have been detected this season till Saturday evening. With 189 cases, Kurukshetra tops the tally. It is followed by Karnal with 163 incidents, Ambala (118), Kaithal (98), Yamunanagar (74), Fatehabad (74), Jind (49), Hisar (29), Sonepat (19), Palwal (13), Sirsa (13), Panipat (9), Panchkula (8), Jhajjar (4), Rohtak (3), Rewari (2), Bhiwani (1) and Gurugram (1). A senior official of the Agriculture Department said that they have recommended to the Regional Officer concerned of Haryana State Pollution Control Board for legal action against the erring farmers.  He maintained that they have constituted teams at the village level to check stubble burning which results in environment pollution every year. He maintained that farmers have been urged not to burn paddy stubble. Emphasis has also been laid on setting up more custom-hiring centres in the state to eliminate stubble burning by providing hi-tech machinery to the farmers on subsidy under In-Situ management for crop residue scheme this year. Dr Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director Agriculture (DDA), Karnal, said that the government would honour the panchayats which were earlier in the red zone in stubble burning for zero stubble burning this season. Meanwhile, doctors also cautioned farmers not to burn paddy stubble as farm fires could aggravate the Covid situation. “Covid affects lungs and causes breathing problems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/at-189-kurukshetra-has-maximum-farm-fires-154427
12-10-2020||Aditi Tandon||Merit must for party positions, says new Haryana Cong in charge||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 11After two consecutive Assembly poll defeats, the Congress in Haryana is all set for major organisational restructuring with the party’s new state in charge Vivek Bansal asserting that merit is a must for party positions in the state and political clout alone won’t work.In an interview to The Tribune on Sunday, Bansal admitted to factionalism in Haryana Congress ranks and said “factionalism would be there but it must converge for the benefit of the party and not vice versa.”Vivek Bansal, In charge, Haryana CongressWaiting for observers’ reportThree observers — Congress leaders Rafiq Khan, Pankaj Sharma and Vijay Jangar — will submit their report on the Baroda segment on Monday after which the party will take a call on the election nomination.Bansal said he would visit every district Congress unit in the state to gauge the sentiment of workers at the grassroots before initiating the long pending changes in the organisation.“Organisational restructuring is my utmost priority as is to ensure that factionalism in the state converges in party interest instead of eroding the same. State units and committees remain dysfunctional and have to be formed on priority. Unless you enrol the soldiers, you cannot take on the enemy,” Bansal said when asked what would be his first task as the new in charge.On the upcoming Baroda bypoll, the AICC in charge for Haryana said three observers had been deputed to the constituency to assess the popularity of potential candidates and report back on caste combinations and social composition of the segment.“The three observers — Congress leaders Rafiq Khan, Pankaj Sharma and Vijay Jangar — will submit their report on the Baroda segment tomorrow after which the party will take a call on the election nomination,” Bansal said adding that the “black central farm laws” would remain the top poll plank of the Congress in the byelection.On state unit factionalism and his plans to address it, Bansal said, “Factionalism is bound to be there but it should not harm party interests. Factional interests must converge with Congress interests. My job is to ensure factionalism does not erode the party’s well-being. Party workers must also understand that merely knowing a leader or being close to someone cannot be a licence to be assigned roles and responsibilities. Merit is a must.”Bansal said people on the streets would be given priority in the upcoming party reshuffle.“Merit will be the top criterion along with party loyalty and fighting spirit. Influence and clout alone will not work. I would rather promote workers who have been fighting on the streets than those who have remained confined to their drawing rooms,” he said.The AICC in charge for the state added that a Kisan Sammelan was on the cards in Haryana to take the anti-farm laws agitation initiated by Rahul Gandhi forward and would be held any time after the announcement of the candidate for the Baroda bypoll.Bansal also called the BJP-JJP ruling alliance in Haryana unholy, noting that “this is an anti-people and anti-farmer alliance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/merit-must-for-party-positions-says-new-haryana-cong-in-charge-154428
12-10-2020||---||Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacts with Yamunanagar mason||Yamunanagar, October 11Prime Minister Narendra Modi today interacted with a mason, Mumtaj Ali of Tugalpur village of Yamunanagar district, via videoconferencing.The PM launched the distribution of property cards to property owners of about 763 villages of the country under the ‘Svamitva’ (ownership) scheme via videoconferencing. Mumtaj Ali is one of the beneficiaries of the scheme.Answering the questions of the PM, Mumtaj Ali appreciated the Svamitva scheme and said, “Before the launch of the Svamitva scheme, when a person started construction work of his house in the village, a dispute arose among people due to the absence of any kind of ownership records or demarcation of ‘abadi’ land (populated area or Laldora area). But this system will check disputes.”Educate your kids, advises PMMumtaj further told the PM that he is a mason and would now get a loan to buy shuttering plates used to put concrete slabs in houses.“I am a mason. I have got the right of ownership of my house. A bank has agreed to loan me Rs 3 lakh. With this amount, I will start a new work of shuttering plates which will help me to grow in life,” said Mumtaj.When Modi exhorted him to provide education to his children, he promised the PM to continue his children’s studies.Answering Modi’s question, Mumtaj told him that he was already providing education to his children.“Sir, I am already providing education to my children. My son is studying in Class XI and daughter is studying in Class XII. I will allow them to continue their studies and will not force them to adopt the profession of mason,” Mumtaj assured the PM.Sumeet Gupta, district media convener of the BJP, said that this scheme aimed to provide the ‘record of rights’ to village household owners.He added that this scheme would pave the way for villagers to use property as financial asset for taking loans and other financial benefits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/prime-minister-narendra-modi-interacts-with-yamunanagar-mason-154429
12-10-2020||---||AAP workers protest against new farm laws in Karnal||Karnal, October 11Scores of AAP workers held a protest march here on Sunday against the three controversial farm laws. They wanted to gherao the Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s residence in Prem Nagar, but a heavy police force foiled their attempt.Earlier, AAP workers led by Rajya Sabha member Sushil Gupta assembled near Nirankari Bhawan on the Railway road and started their procession towards the CM’s camp office. They tried in vain to jump the barricades. Later, they handed over a memorandum to the district authorities against the farm laws.Gupta criticised the Centre for passing the farm laws, which, he described as, “anti-farmer”. “Farmers were protesting when the Centre passed the laws,” he said.The AAP leader also hit out at the BJP-JJP government for the “deteriorating” law and order situation in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-workers-protest-against-new-farm-laws-in-karnal-154430
12-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Sports gradation certificate under old instructions not relevant: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11Putting to rest the legal controversy raised in more than 100 pleas on the entitlement of a sportsperson to recruitment on the basis of an advertisement issued by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) in 2018, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has held that the sports gradation certificate issued under the old instructions will not be relevant.The Bench of Justice Daya Chaudhary and Justice Meenakshi I Mehta ruled that the policy in force or prevalent at time of advertisement for government jobs would be relevant and taken into consideration for ascertaining the eligibility of candidates.The Bench also upheld the new policy after observing that sportspersons in the state had been performing quite well in recent times even at the international level. “The state having come up with the new policy qua the guidelines and parameters to be taken into consideration by the competent authorities for issuing gradation certificates well in commensuration with the performance level of players in the state in sports events can in no way be termed as violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution,” the Bench asserted.The pleas had been filed by candidates who applied for Group D posts advertised by HSSC in August 2018 under the eligible sportspersons category. The Bench held that sports gradation certificates issued or sought to be issued under the old instructions, circulated on November 30, 1993, would not be relevant for the posts and were required to be obtained in terms of the new policy dated May 25, 2018.The Bench asserted it was the employer’s prerogative to settle the criteria for jobs under a particular category to get the best employees. The Bench noted the old instructions only provided parameters and guidelines to be considered by the competent authorities while issuing sports gradation certificates for ascertaining eligibility for seats reserved for outstanding players in technical and medical institutions and state government jobs. “There is nothing in the same to suggest that such certificates are meant for vesting any right in the sportspersons to get selected for government jobs under the sports quota,” the Bench ruled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sports-gradation-certificate-under-old-instructions-not-relevant-hc-154431
12-10-2020||
||Karnal rice miller surrenders in Rs 5.09 cr embezzlement case||Karnal, October 11 Naresh Kumar, MD of Ram Dev International Company, has surrendered before the Karnal police in connection with an alleged embezzlement of custom milled rice (CMR) worth Rs 5.09 crore with the Food and Civil Supplies Department. He has been sent to seven-day police remand. The company has three rice milling plants, eight sorting and grading units in the district with offices in Saudi Arabia, Dubai and Delhi. The police had to recover money of the fraud case along with the whereabouts of the other accused. In May, the CBI had registered a case against Kumar and two other directors — Suresh Kumar and Sangita — following a complaint by the SBI on February 25. The SBI alleged that the directors had removed the machinery from the old plant and fudged the balance sheets to unlawfully gain at the cost of banks’ funds of around Rs 173 crore. SP Ganga Ram Punia said Kumar was absconding in connection with a case registered on July 19, 2016, on the complaint of the then DFSC. He has surrendered in the embezzlement of paddy CMR worth Rs 5.09 crore. “Kumar is in police remand till October 16,” he said, adding that the accused had fled to Dubai. As per the FIR, a case was registered against Naresh Kumar, Suresh Kumar, Ajay Kumar, Raj Kumar, Subhash Chand and Pawan on the complaint of the then DFSC on July 19, 2016, for not returning the CMR of the year 2015-16 worth Rs 5.09 crore. Despite several reminders by the department, the accused did not give any satisfactory answer about the embezzlement of 19,615.95 quintal CMR, the FIR said. Sources said he was absconding in the FIR registered by the CBI. Moreover, the Karnal Arhtiyas Association had also filed a complaint against the firm for duping 111 arhtiyas belonging to the Karnal grain market of Rs 9.54 crore in 2016. They had alleged that the firm had purchased paddy from the arhtiyas of the Karnal grain market in 2014, but did not clear their dues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-rice-miller-surrenders-in-rs-5-09-cr-embezzlement-case-154432
12-10-2020||---||Pvt schoolteachers from Haryana visit Rajasthan for free Covid test||Rewari, October 11Teachers of private schools in Rewari and Mahendragarh districts have found a way to evade the fee slapped by the health authorities for Covid test for non-medical reasons.They are getting the test done from various healthcare institutions in the neighbouring Alwar district of Rajasthan, where the test is conducted free of cost.Sources say the teachers working in Rewari are approaching the health centre in Bhiwadi, while those of Mahendragarh are visiting Behror for Covid test. On getting a negative report, they are submitting it to their school concerned for rejoining.Covid test is mandatory for teachers to check the spread of pandemic but the Haryana Government has fixed Rs 1,600 for RT-PCR and Rs 650 for rapid antigen test for Covid for those who wish to get themselves tested for non-medical reasons.“I went to Civil Hospital, Narnaul, to get my Covid test done before rejoining the school but the official on duty asked me to deposit Rs 1,600 for RT-PCR test, referring to the government order. I was not aware of the orders and came back. Later, a teacher who got him tested in Behror free of cost suggested me to go there,” said a private school teacher in Mahendragarh.He said the next day he got himself tested in Behror for free. “I tested negative and joined the school by showing it to the principal. Many other teachers are also following the suit,” he added.Another teacher from Rewari said they cannot pay the hefty fee for the test hence many teachers got themselves tested from Bhiwadi, while several others got their test done while standing in the queue of suspected patients of Covid.“It is unfortunate that Haryana teachers have to go to other states to get themselves tested for free. The government must withdraw the order of charging fee,” said Anil Kaushik, chief, Progressive Private Schools Association, Haryana.Dr Adarsh Aggarwal, Covid in charge at Government Hospital in Behror, said: “We do Covid tests for free. People from surrounding areas are coming to the hospital for the test.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pvt-schoolteachers-from-haryana-visit-rajasthan-for-free-covid-test-154433
12-10-2020||
||Friend of trader who faked death nabbed||Hisar, October 11 The police today arrested a woman friend of trader Ram Mehar, accused of killing Ramlu in Data village of the district and faking his death. The police arrested Sunita of Hansi and produced her in a local court, which sent her to five-day police remand for further interrogation. The police raided the premises of a factory in Barwala and seized some documents. The police said they would send a sample of the skeleton recovered from the burnt car for DNA matching with Ramlu’s mother to establish his identity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/friend-of-trader-who-faked-death-nabbed-154434
12-10-2020||---||Three missing kids reunited with kin||Chandigarh, October 11The Haryana Police has been working relentlessly to bring smile on the faces of families whose children have gone missing. The police have traced three missing children and handed them over to their families.A spokesperson for the Haryana Police said the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU) had been successful in reuniting a boy with his family after two years.The 10-year-old child was living at a children’s home in Jhajjar. The child informed the police he was a resident of Muradpur and his father’s name was Bablu.Interestingly, the process of adoption of this child had been completed by the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Jhajjar, and the parents adopting him wanted to take the child to Australia.On the basis of the address given by the child and the father’s name, his father in Lakhimpur Kheri near Hardoi was traced. Talking to the child’s family, they said two years ago, this child had gone missing from Delhi. The boy was handed over to his family by the State Crime Branch on October 5.In another case, the police was successful in reuniting a specially abled child, who had been living in Ashiana, Panchkula, with his family after seven months. On the basis of the language spoken by the child, the UP Police were contacted and it was found out the child had been missing from Sheikhpura.Later, video calls were exchanged between the child and the family, following which the family identified the child. After completing the formalities, the child was handed over to the parents.Another missing child was reunited with his parents after three days. The Rajasthan Police had received information that a child was found at the railway station.When the child was contacted, the information was shared with the Bahadurgarh Railway Police, where the boy’s mother had come to register a missing report at the police station. The police took orders from the Bikaner CWC and reunited the child with the parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-missing-kids-reunited-with-kin-154435
12-10-2020||Yamunanagar||Theft at Yamunanagar jewellery shop; employee dead||The body of a jeweller’s employee was found at a jewellery shop in Tirth Nagar Colony here on Saturday. On the complaint of jeweller Gaurav Verma of Saharanpur district (UP), a case was registered against unidentified persons under Section 460 of the IPC at the Sadar police station on Sunday. The complainant has two jewellery shops — one at Nakud and the other in Tirth Nagar Colony here. He said his shop in Tirth Nagar Colony was being run by his employee-cum-relative Praveen, alias Mohan, of Yamunanagar. “I got information around 11 pm on Saturday that the shutter of my jewellery shop was half-open. When I, along with other persons, reached the shop, we found Praveen’s body inside,” he said, adding the door of the locker was open and gold and silver ornaments were missing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/theft-at-yamunanagar-jewellery-shop-employee-dead-154436
12-10-2020||Panipat||Carjack at gunpoint in Sonepat||Miscreants looted two vehicles at gunpoint in Sonepat district on Saturday, the police have said. Cases have been registered. Bijender of Sonepat’s Silana village was on his way to Haridwar in his car on Friday night. He stopped near Murthal Chowk on the NH-44 to ask for the directions from two youths. The youths said they could accompany him to Haridwar as they claimed to be going in that direction. When they reached the Nandnaur road, the youths put a pistol on Bijender’s temple and looted Rs 1,200 and some documents. They fled in the car after dumping Bijender on the road.  The other incident took place in Ganaur. On Saturday night, Majri village resident Surender, who has registered his car with Ola, picked two passengers from a dhaba in Murthal.  En route to Delhi, the passengers asked Surender to pick their friend from Jatheri village, which was off the route. As they reached near Jindal Law University, the passengers put a gun on Surender, threw him out of the car and fled.  The police said the two cases were under probe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/carjack-at-gunpoint-in-sonepat-154437
12-10-2020||ibune News Service
||Faridabad residents to launch dharna against dumping site||Faridabad, October 11 A mahapanchayat today decided to launch an indefinite agitation against the decision of the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) to set up a waste dumping site in Sector 74 here. Arun Chaudhary, a spokesperson for the mahapanchayat representing the residents of villages Sihi, Mirjapur, Mujheri and Neemka and the Residents Welfare Association of Sectors 75, 76, 77 and the Neharpar Vikas Morcha, said the dumping site adjoining the Byepass road in Sihi village was unacceptable in any form as it would lead to acute air and water pollution in the residential area. Majority of the speakers who addressed the gathering of 2,500 said the move had no prior consent or approval of the residents. Terming it illegal, they said it would not only adversely affect the environment but pose a serious health hazard to local residents. Ajit Singh Numberdar, one of the organisers hailing from Sihi village, said while a dharna would be staged indefinitely, a representation would also be submitted to local MP Krishan Pal Gurjar on Tuesday. He said a memorandum had already been submitted to Cabinet Minister Mool Chand Sharma recently, besides taking up the issue with the MCF authorities. Calling it an example of sheer bad planning by the civic authorities, Wing Commander Satinder Duggal (retd) of the Neharpar Vikas Morcha said failure in disposal and recycling of city’s waste had been a blot on the Rs 2,600 crore smart city project. While the MCF has already constructed a concrete base and lining of the spot spread over five acres to dump waste generated by the city, the decision of the new dumping site had been made after the reports that the current landfill site at Bandhwari village located on the Faridabad-Gurugram highway had already got filled up to the maximum level and was unable to adjust more garbage. Birender Kardam, chief engineer, MCF, said efforts were on to resolve the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-residents-to-launch-dharna-against-dumping-site-154438
12-10-2020||Faridabad||Country liquor seized, 1 held||The police seized around 900 cartons of country liquor from a truck near SGM Nagar in the district on Friday morning. A case was registered in this connection. The driver was identified as Santosh, hailing from Uttar Pradesh who was currently residing in Faridabad. He entered the district from Gurugram. He told the police that the liquor was meant to be offloaded at the godown of a liquor contractor here though he had a permit for transportation  from  Hathin to Bhiwani. The market cost of the liquor seized was yet to be calculated. The accused was produced in a local court, which remanded him in one-day police custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/country-liquor-seized-1-held-154439
12-10-2020||Our Correspondent
||Meham MLA booked for cheating in Gurugram||Gurugram, October 11 Meham’s Independent MLA Balraj Kundu, his brother Shivraj Kundu and two company officials have been booked in a Rs 14 crore cheating case registered in Sector 50 police station, Gurugram.  The brothers along with officials Mohammad Hashim and VK Lamba have been booked under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC on the complaint by Parivartan Singh, a resident of Sector 51. The complainant alleged the accused had given him a road construction project of Rs 75 crore in Madhya Pradesh. “I started work on September 26, 2017 and completed about 55 per cent of the project till September 2020. My company sent bills worth Rs 41 crore to KCC Buildcon, Kundu’s company, but received payment of only Rs 27 crore. I urged the four persons to release the remaining Rs 14 crore several times, but they refused,” Singh said in his complaint.  He further alleged that MLA Kundu used his status and power to threaten him with dire consequences. “As per the complaint, an FIR was registered on Saturday night,” said Inspector Surender Singh Phogat, SHO of Sector 50 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/meham-mla-booked-for-cheating-in-gurugram-154440
