12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ballabhgarh student murder case to be heard on day-to-day basis by fast-track court||The trial proceedings in the murder case of a 21-year-old college student of Ballabhgarh in Haryana’s Faridabad district will be conducted on a day-to-day basis by a fast-track court.District and Sessions Judge Deepak Gupta said this on Wednesday in his reply to a letter from Faridabad Police Commissioner OP Singh, who had sought hearing of the case in a fast-track court.An exclusive court for fast-tracking of cases of heinous crimes against women has already been set up in the district as per the instructions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in 2013, Gupta said.The court is presided over by Additional District and Sessions Judge Sartaj Baswana.Gupta, in his reply, said the proceedings would be conducted by the exclusive court on a day-to-day basis.The victim, Nikita Tomar, was shot dead outside her college in Ballabhgarh last month allegedly by a man who had been pressuring her to marry him, according to the police.A B.Com final-year student, Tomar, had stepped out of college after taking an exam when the incident took place. Before shooting her, the accused tried to force her into the car he had come in, the police had said.Two men—Tausif, the main accused, and Rehan—were arrested in the case.Faridabad police had filed a 700-page chargesheet before a local court on November 6, less than two weeks after the murder.Earlier, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij had said that the trial against the accused would be held in a fast-track court.Replying to a calling attention notice on the case in the Legislative Assembly, Vij had, earlier this month, said that the state government was providing all possible help to the victim’s family.Vij had also said a case of kidnapping was registered against the accused—Tousif and Rehan—by the victim’s family in 2018, but was later withdrawn.The entire incident, including the abduction case, will be investigated by the government, the home minister had said.Vij had said that he asked police to investigate who pressured the victim’s family to withdraw the kidnapping case.The accused—Tousif—belongs to some “powerful political family”, and he was held within 12 hours of committing the crime, Vij had said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ballabhgarh-student-murder-case-to-be-heard-on-day-to-day-basis-by-fast-track-court-169793
12-11-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||First survey of Haryana’s health and wellness centres exposes gaps in service delivery||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 12The first survey on the Health and Wellness Centres (HWCs) in Haryana pointed out gaps in service delivery as at some places in absence of Medical Officers (MOs) the pharmacists or staff nurses or Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANMs) were found prescribing medicines, while there were centres where drug procurement and dispensing had become difficult in absence of pharmacists.To ensure delivery of the Comprehensive Primary Health Care (CPHC) services, existing sub-centres covering a population of three to five thousand were converted into Health and Wellness Centres (HWCs) in 2019, with the principle being “time to care” to be no more than 30 minutes. Primary Health Centres in rural and urban areas were also converted to HWCs.The Population Research Centre (PRC) at the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Chandigarh, carried out the assessment of 20 HWCs in four districts of the state-Kaithal, Yamunanagar, Ambala and Fatehabad during the period of January to March.Prof Aswini Kumar Nanda and Associate Prof Rajesh Kumar Aggarwal of CRRID carried out the survey on the behalf of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The study found that many HWCs were without a full-time MO. The part-time MOs are unable to meet the demands of patient load and community outreach programmes. There was an increasing demand among the public for the availability of medical officer at the facility for better diagnosis and treatment, said the survey findings.It came out that in spite of the rising demand for diagnostic tests at the HWCs, most of them (Primary Health Centres /Urban Primary Health Centres) were without regular laboratory technicians. The arrangement of part-time laboratory technicians did not fully meet the day-to-day demand of visiting clients. At some places, with only one ANM, Mid-level Health Provider (MLHP) expressed a desire for a helper to facilitate the services.In spite of spacious and modern physical infrastructure, HWCs lack medical, paramedical and other manpower which acts as a constraint on the health care services and outreach activities under their jurisdiction, the findings read.“We have recently recruited a number of doctors so vacancies have been filled and for pharmacists and lab technicians. We have sent the requisitions. They will also be filled soon,” said Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General Health Services (DGHS).In Kaithal and Fatehabad districts, no Sub-Health Centre (SHC) was upgraded to HWC. Only Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) were converted into HWCs. So, there was no Mid-Level Health Provider (MLHP) in these districts.The formation of Mahila Arogya Samiti, for health awareness, was not common in slums or slum-like settlements under the jurisdiction of most HWCs.The non-availability of OPD slips meant for prescribing medicines reported at Jaidhar SHC in Yamunanagar. There was no maintenance of building at Hafizpur SHC. Animals used to come inside the building area in the absence of a boundary wall. The poor road connectivity was also a factor in public approaching the facility in the district.Poor road connectivity to the Sandhali HWC (Yamunanagar) impacted the follow-up of cases.The quality of repair and upgradation work at Kaptan Majra HWC (Yamunanagar) seemed unsatisfactory to both staff and visiting clients. The 24-hour electricity provision got reduced to 18-hour during the hot summer days.At HWC Kherati Khera in Fatehabad, it was difficult many a time for the staff to download even a regular mail in the absence of IT person.The shortfall in receipt of iron-folic acid (IFA) tablets and the paracetamol syrup at the HWCs reported from Fatehabad. The children are often prescribed tablets instead of paracetamol syrup.All eight PHCs that were HWCs were found without a MO in the Kaithal district.The one at Shakti Nagar in Kaithal district was located in an old private building. It was reported that the dogs kept by the owner often create a problem for the visitors as reported by some OPD clients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/first-survey-of-haryanas-health-and-wellness-centres-exposes-gaps-in-service-delivery-169790
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||No salaries for four months, 2,400 Haryana regular staff brace for lacklustre Diwali||The “pro-employee” image of the BJP-JJP government seems to have gone for a toss with at least 2,400 regular staff of the state government bracing for “lacklustre” Diwali in the absence of non-payment of their salaries for the past nearly four months.Taking a strong exception to the non-release of the salaries, the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS) has sent an SOS to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to intervene in the matter so that the employees and their families were not forced to observe “black Diwali”.“We have apprised Khattar through a tweet to intervene in the matter to get the salaries released before Diwali so that employees and their families could also celebrate Diwali. It is ironical that while the state government is providing Diwali advance (repayable loan) to government employees, the salaries of the employees are yet to be released, for nearly four months,” he asserted.Inquiries showed nearly 1,000 employees belonged to Haryana Tourism, about 900 supervisors of the Integrated Child Development Service (ICDS) of the Women and Child Development and at least 500 teachers of the Mewat model schools.Sources said that a financial crunch on account of COVID-19 pandemic was primarily responsible for the non-payment of the salaries.The sources said the Haryana Government was yet to reimburse bills relating to boarding and lodging of the medical and paramedical staff engaged in the COVID-19 duty in the hotels run by Haryana Tourism pushing the department into financial crisis.“Besides, fiscal crisis induced by coronavirus is the primary reason for the delay in the payment of the salaries,” a senior officer reasoned.Since March 2020, Haryana Tourism hotels are being for used accommodating “Corona warriors.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-salaries-for-four-months-2-400-haryana-regular-staff-brace-for-lacklustre-diwali-169752
12-11-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Covid fatalities on the rise; dengue, typhoid also spread tentacles||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 12Along with a steep hike in the number of Covid-19 cases, the cases of dengue and typhoid are also on the rise. The health experts have advised the people to take the necessary precautions and avoid visiting markets or other crowded public places.While the number of Covid-19 cases in Rohtak touched the 9,000 mark today, as many as 171 cases of dengue have also been registered in the district till date. Cases of malaria seem to be under control this year.Apart from Covid and dengue, typhoid is also spreading its tentacles. A considerable number of typhoid cases is being reported from Rohtak and nearby areas, though the record of the typhoid cases was not available with the local Health authorities.“The renewed surge in the number of Covid cases is worrisome. The residents should realise that their well-being is more important that celebrating festivals by venturing out into the markets or socializing,” says Dr Anil Birla,  Meanwhile, a spurt has been witnessed in the Covid-19 casualties at Rohtak PGIMS over the last three days.As per official data, as many as 25 Covid patients from different districts admitted at PGIMS have died in last three days. Of these, seven persons died on Tuesday, 11 on Wednesday and seven on Thursday.“This is a serious matter, while the people are still taking it casually. There is no room for complacence and utmost care needs to be taken in the given circumstances,” said Dr Gajendra Singh, Public Relations Officer at the PGIMS.He cautioned the people against going to crowded places and advised them to use face-masks, hand-sanitizers, observe physical distancing and wash their hands frequently.“People need to be more careful now. The children and the elderly need to be extra-cautious as they are more vulnerable to the disease,” he maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-fatalities-on-the-rise-dengue-typhoid-also-spread-tentacles-169736
12-11-2020||New Delhi||Stop farm fires, Central Pollution Control Board tells Punjab, Haryana||Expecting an increase in pollution levels during the festive season, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) today asked the governments of Punjab and Haryana to take immediate stringent steps to curb stubble burning.The CPCB also asked the authorities in Delhi-NCR to close hot mix plants and stone crushers till November 17 and strictly check biomass burning. In case of any violation, strict action should be taken against the violators such as imposition of penalty and temporary stoppage of construction activities, the CPCB order to pollution control boards of UP, Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab read.“Agencies must ensure compliance of orders of courts and the National Green Tribunal regarding banning the sale and use of firecrackers,” it said.The Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas had on Tuesday tasked the Central Pollution Control Board with operationalising and monitoring GRAP measures till a mechanism is set up by the newly-constituted panel. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stop-farm-fires-central-pollution-control-board-tells-punjab-haryana-169548
12-11-2020||Sushil Manav||Gaps plugged, procurement of paddy 20% less than last season||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 11Even as Punjab has been battling an excessive arrival of paddy in its markets this kharif season, Haryana will end up with almost 20 per cent lesser procurement compared to 64.71 lakh metric tonne last year, thanks to steps taken by the Khattar government to plug the gaps.These gaps allowed some leeway to unscrupulous traders who would purchase paddy at cheaper rate in neighbouring states and push it into the procurement system in Haryana where the crop was procured at minimum support price, said sources.3-step verificationHaryana checks illegalitiesUnscrupulous traders would purchase paddy at cheap rate in neighbouring states and push it into the procurement system in Haryana for purchase at higher MSPVarious procurement agencies in Haryana have so far procured 53.58 LMT of paddy. With most of the crop produced by farmers already having arrived in grain markets, the state is likely to close procurement at 55 to 56 LMT, said PK Das, Additional Chief Secretary, Food and Civil Supplies, Haryana. Though the kharif season was to officially end on November 30, the state government is likely to close the procurement much earlier given the steadily declining paddy arrivals. “Hardly 30,000 MT paddy arrived in the markets yesterday. Around 1.5 to 2.5 LMT more will arrive before we shut the operations,” he said. Das said though paddy was grown on lesser area this year, the credit for lesser procurement went to sterner measures.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gaps-plugged-procurement-of-paddy-20-less-than-last-season-169590
12-11-2020||---||Chunk of JJP votes shifts to Congress||Pradeep SharmaTribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 11A major chunk of the vote share of the JJP, the alliance partner of the BJP, seems to have shifted to the Congress, resulting in the defeat of alliance candidate and international wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt in the Baroda bypoll.Data showed that of the 26.45 per cent vote share of the JJP in the 2019 Assembly elections in Baroda, the BJP candidate got only about 10 per cent in the current election, improving his vote share from 30.73 per cent in 2019 to 40.70 per cent in 2020.In the 2019 Assembly elections, the BJP and the JJP had individually polled 57.18 per cent votes and it was expected that their combined vote share would stand Dutt in good stead.However, Congress candidate Induraj Narwal improved the voting percentage of late legislator Sri Krishan Hooda from 34.67 per cent to 49.3 per cent from 2019 Assembly elections to the current bypoll. The 14.63 per cent increase in the Congress vote share is entirely at the cost of the JJP vote share and largely responsible for the party’s win in the bypoll.The Congress polled 60,636 (49.3 per cent) votes as compared to the BJP’s 50,070 (40.70 per cent), while former MP Raj Kumar Saini’s LSP (5,611) and INLD (5,003) polled over 4 per cent each.It is believed that some portion of the vote share of the JJP shifted to its parent party INLD, which improved it’s performance from about 2.5 per cent to over 4 per cent from 2019 Assembly polls to current bypoll. The LSP, which stood third with 4.56 per cent votes, also pocketed some of the JPP’s vote share.Our vote share up, says KhattarCM Manohar Lal Khattar said that their party had won despite loss in Baroda bypoll. Interacting with mediapersons today, he said, "Till now, we (the BJP) have never crossed 50,000 votes in Baroda, whether in Lok Sabha or in Assembly election. The Congress has lost 6,000 votes from the previous poll, despite victory this time. They have won four times. It is their traditional seat. The margin has decreased. We have got maximum votes as compared to previous polls and our workers are happy about it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chunk-of-jjp-votes-shifts-to-congress-169516
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||DCs to draft collector rate list by December 15||The government has directed all Deputy Commissioners (DCs) to publish a draft list of collector rates by December 15. The publication of collector rates will be done by March 2021.Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary and Financial Commissioner, Revenue and Disaster Management, said guidelines regarding fixing of collector rates in each colony and area had been issued to all Divisional Commissioners and DCs.As per guidelines, a committee would be formed in each tehsil and sub-tehsil to assess collector rates. The committee would consult non-officials knowledgeable about market rates of property. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dcs-to-draft-collector-rate-list-by-december-15-169517
12-11-2020||---||‘Neki Ki Deewar’ gutted in Karnal||Karnal, November 11The ‘Neki Ki Deewar’ (wall of kindness), established with a cost of around Rs 5 lakh under the Smart City project, was reduced to ashes in a major fire which broke out in the wee hours on Wednesday. The reason behind the fire is not known so far, but it seems to be an act of miscreants. Earlier, a few days back, some people had stolen LED lights from there.Karnal Smart City Ltd CEO Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “I have asked for an inquiry to determine the reason behind the incident.”He said the recording of a CCTV camera installed there was being checked.As per information, some passers-by noticed the incident and informed the police and the fire brigade.The initiative of the wall was started for the people who are willing to donate things like clothes, shoes and other items, for the needy people, where they could get the items easily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/neki-ki-deewar-gutted-in-karnal-169518
12-11-2020||Parveen Arora||Ex-MLAs’ pension, perks cost exchequer Rs2.54 cr per month||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 11The pension and perks of 286 former MLAs of Haryana are costing the exchequer Rs 2.54 crore every month. This was revealed in a reply to an RTI filed by a Karnal-based activist Shakti Singh, who has sought information regarding the pension being given to former MLAs along with the hike in salaries of the Speaker, Deputy Speaker and MLAs. Besides, he has sought details of dues of building and car loan which are lying pending with the MLAs and former MLAs.“As many as 286 former MLAs are getting Rs 2,54,46,000 as pension per month. Of them, 21 former MLAs are entitled to get more than Rs 1.5 lakh pension each per month,” said the reply.“The new government employees are not entitled to pension benefits, but the MLAs are entitled to get pension. Moreover, multiple pension benefits are given to the MLAs if they are elected for more than one time. It should be stopped as the public representatives claim to come in politics for serving the society,” said Shakti Singh.Information furnished by the Haryana Assembly in response to the RTI application has revealed that the salaries of a Speaker and Deputy Speaker have been hiked five times in 10 years. It was Rs 12,000 per month in 2006 and was raised to Rs 60,000 in 2016. At present, the Speaker and Deputy Speaker are drawing Rs 60,000 each.Similarly, the salary of the MLAs has also been hiked to four times in six years. Each MLA was given Rs 10,000 per month in 2010-2011, and it was raised to Rs 40,000 in 2016. At present, each MLA is getting Rs 40,000 per month, the reply added.Calculations has further revealed that 33 former MLAs have taken advance of Rs 16,78,56,785 between 2014-2019, of which they have returned only Rs 6,94,22,668 while Rs 9,84,34,117 is lying pending. Similarly, nine MLAs have taken house advance of Rs 3.75 crore, of which Rs 1,67,51550 had been deposited back by them and Rs 2,07, 48450 was pending.The details further said 100 MLAs and former MLAs had taken advance of Rs 13.80 crore for cars between January 1, 2014, to August 2020. A sum of Rs 9.28 crore had been recovered while the remaining was pending.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-mlas-pension-perks-cost-exchequer-rs2-54-cr-per-month-169519
12-11-2020||
||Major cremated with honours||Jhajjar, November 11  Major Vineet Gulia (29), who died in Rajouri of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, was cremated with full military honours at his native Dariyapur village under Badli subdivision on Wednesday. A large number of people from nearby villages attended the funeral and paid tributes to Major Gulia. Badli MLA Kuldeep Vats and BJP district president Vikram Kadian were prominent among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/major-cremated-with-honours-169520
12-11-2020||---||Bank guard ‘shoots’ self in Kaithal||Karnal, November 11A 55-year-old security guard of a bank in Kaithal city allegedly committed suicide using his service revolver inside the branch.The deceased has been identified as Balinder Singh of Kotra village in the district. An ex-serviceman, Balinder was living in Nehru Garden Colony of Kaithal.The incident took place when the security guard was alone in the branch in the morning. SHO Baljinder Singh said he was found lying in the pool of blood. The body had a bullet injury on the neck.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bank-guard-shoots-self-in-kaithal-169521
12-11-2020||Nitish Sharma||KDB told to frame strategy for Gita festval||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, November 11The Haryana Government has asked the Kurukshetra Development Board to come out with a strategy regarding the celebrations of International Gita Mahotsav, one of the biggest festivals of this region. This year, the festival was scheduled to be organised from the second week of December with Saras and craft fair and conclude on December 25.Sources said the festival was likely to be shortened to a 10-day festival and events like reciting of Gita shalokas by 18,000 children and seminars may go online. No decision had been taken regarding the Saras and craft fair.A board official said besides the KDB and district administration, different departments and institutions, including the Education Department, Tourism Department, North Zone Cultural Centre and Kurukshetra University also collaborate for the festival and they all have been asked to submit their proposals.Sources said over 40 lakh people had attended the festival last year and the craftsmen had sold crafts worth around Rs 20 crore during the mahotsav. Local traders said that they also garnered good income during the festival. There are people who depend on fairs and setup shops during such events. The way other markets and institutions have been opened, the government should come out with a strategy and make arrangement for the fairs as well. It can impose restrictions on number of visitors and set up limited number of shops,” they said.Madan Mohan Chhabra, honorary secretary of Kurukshetra Development Board, said “The International Gita Mahotsav is a big event not only for Kurukshetra but for the entire state. Like other events, Gita Mahotsav is also set to bear the affect of Covid. The Mahotsav will be celebrated but the scale wouldn’t be as grand as previous years. We are exploring the possibilities of organising events without crowding. There will be live streaming on the website of KDB.”“The fairs were scheduled to start from second week of December and Gita Jayanti is on December 25 but we have to see what permissions we will get this year. ” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kdb-told-to-frame-strategy-for-gita-festval-169522
12-11-2020||Nitish Sharma||Ambala mixie industry sees recovery in festive season||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, November 11Reopening of markets, followed by the festival season, has brought some relief for the local mixer and grinder industry of Ambala that has reportedly seen a recovery of nearly 80 per cent so far. However, an increase in the input costs due to inflated rates being charged by suppliers of raw material continues to be a concern for the manufacturers.Ajay Aggarwal, president of the Mixie Manufacturers’ Association, said: “The business is reviving and we have started getting orders from Punjab and Rajasthan, besides the local demand. Some firms are even supplying the products in Madhya Pradesh. The market has seen a recovery of nearly 80 per cent. The industry was fighting for survival before the Covid restrictions hit the market and now, the margins have drastically come down due to higher input costs.”The businessmen said the prices of plastic powder and copper had increased sharply after the lockdown. With higher input cost, and 18 per cent GST, it was very hard to compete with Chinese products and big brands. It was unfortunate that kitchen appliances, including mixer, chopper, blender and juicer, and light weight iron were being treated as luxurious items and kept under the 18 per cent GST slab. The government should give some relaxation in goods and services tax (GST) and keep the products that range up to Rs 500 in the 5 per cent, while the products above Rs 500 should be in the 12 per cent slab.“The local industry failed to switch to new technologies due to high cost of investment and lack of proper guidance. A cluster at a cost of Rs 1.67 crore was approved by the state government for the local industry, but it is yet to come on ground. Around 70 units are engaged in manufacturing unbranded products in Ambala. The industry has a turnover of nearly Rs 10 crore and it provides jobs to nearly 6,000 people in Ambala. The government should make some favourable policies for the local brands so that the local industry can be revived,” the association president said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-mixie-industry-sees-recovery-in-festive-season-169523
12-11-2020||Karnal||Procurement of paddy restarts in Karnal mandi||After a gap of 14 days, procurement of PR paddy has restarted at the Karnal grain market. Procurement had been stalled by agencies on account of an inquiry following an anonymous complaint to DC Nishant Kumar Yadav that ‘fake’ gate passes were being issued in various grain markets.The DC had constituted four teams led by SDMs concerned. In Karnal mandi, SDM Ayush Sinha found that 294 gate passes were issued without PR paddy having arrived, after which an FIR was registered against the market committee secretary, eight gate operators and arhtiyas.“Probe is under way at all grain markets, but procurement has been restarted,” said Yadav. District Food Supplies Controller Nishant Kumar Rathi said almost 90 per cent of the total paddy had been procured.Rajnish Chaudhary, chief of the Karnal Arhtiyas Association, said a large number of arhtiyas and farmers had not received payment even after an assurance by CM Manohar Lal Khattar on payment in seven days. “Farmers are visiting the shops of arhtiyas for payment, but we have no answer as procurement agencies have not paid the dues.” They had demanded a list of arhtiyas who had received payment, but it was not given to them.Meanwhile, the DC said 12.1 million tonnes of paddy, worth around Rs 2,400 crore, had been procured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/procurement-of-paddy-restarts-in-karnal-mandi-169524
12-11-2020||Ravinder Saini||Tardy bajra lifting in Rewari to be probed||Tribune News ServiceRewari, November 11The lifting of bajra at the Rewari grain market has come under the scanner, with Deputy Commissioner (DC) Yashendra Singh ordering an inquiry into allegations of sloppy and tardy lifting.Rewari SDM Ravinder Yadav has been directed to look into the matter. The DC has told the transporter to speed up lifting in accordance with serial numbers to evade action.Sources said the inquiry was ordered by the DC after inspection of the grain market on Tuesday. He went to look into complaints of tardy and sloppy lifting. Arhtiyas complained of lifting on a pick-and-choose basis by ignoring serial numbers allotted for procurement.“Slow and arbitrary lifting of bajra is being done despite the issue having been raised by arhtiyas before the authorities. The situation leads to delay in payment to farmers and causes trouble to arhtiyas. The mandi is running out of space with procured bajra not being lifted,” said Radheshyam Mittal, president of the Beopar Mandal at the new grain market in Rewari.Mittal pointed out that the process of payment to farmers was initiated after procured bajra reached the godown. He said the produce of many farmers had not been lifted even 10 days after procurement and they were making rounds of the mandi to enquire about payment.Rajender of Manethi village said he sold 60 quintals of bajra on October 21, but payment had not been released even after 20 days though the government had promised it within 72 hours of procurement.Manoj Kumar, Hafed manager, said the payment of some farmers had not been released due to technical reasons and rubbished the allegation of arbitrary lifting by arhtiyas.“About 45,000 bags are procured from 750 farmers daily. Around 30,000 bags are lifted everyday. Since the number of farmers is high, it takes time to lift the entire produce,” he said. Around 33,429 tonnes had been procured and around 25,000 tonnes lifted so far, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tardy-bajra-lifting-in-rewari-to-be-probed-169525
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cracker ban in Haryana dists near NCR||In accordance with National Green Tribunal (NGT) guidelines, the government has decided to impose a complete ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers in districts adjoining the National Capital Region (NCR) from midnight of November 9 to midnight of November 30.In other districts of the state, people can burst crackers only for two hours on Diwali, as announced by CM Manohar Lal Khattar earlier.As per the data of the Central Pollution Control Board, Fatehabad, which is outside the NCR, has recorded ‘severe’ air quality in November. Similarly, Hisar, Bahadurgarh, Ballabgarh, Dharuhera, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Manesar are in the ‘very poor’ category. Ambala, Narnaul, Palwal and Sirsa are in the ‘poor’ air quality category. Therefore, adhering to NGT orders, the sale and use of crackers will be banned completely in these districts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cracker-ban-in-haryana-dists-near-ncr-169526
12-11-2020||
||Trader held for illegal sale||Yamunanagar, November 11 The police have arrested a shopkeeper for allegedly selling firecrackers illegally in his shop in Gulab Nagar Colony of Yamunanagar. The police have arrested the accused, Deepak Kumar, and recovered a huge quantity of firecrackers kept in four plastic bags in his shop. A case was registered against the shopkeeper under Section 9B of the Explosive Act 1884 at the City police station, Yamunanagar, on Tuesday. Shamsher Singh Rana, in-charge of the Hamida police post falling under the City police station, Yamunanagar, said on a tip-off, a police team raided the grocery shop of Deepak on Tuesday. He said the accused failed to produce a licence or permit required for the sale of firecrackers before the police team. He said the team had recovered four bags containing 44.3 kg of firecrackers from the shop. “The accused was arrested and later released on bail,” Rana added. Ban order issued Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar onWednesday issued an order to prohibit the sale and use of firecrackers in Yamunanagar district with immediate effect till November 30 midnight. “The Superintendent of Police (SP), Municipal Corporation Commissioner, allsubdivisional magistrates (SDMs), duty magistrates, station house officers (SHOs) along with secretaries of the Radaur and Sadhaura municipal committees shall ensure the strict implementation of the rules,” the order reads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/trader-held-for-illegal-sale-169527
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||25 more succumb; 2,546 fresh cases||A total of 25 patients died due to Covid on Wednesday. With 2,546 fresh cases, the tally reached 1,90,323. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/25-more-succumb-2-546-fresh-cases-169528
12-11-2020||---||PNG supply starts in Karnal industrial area||Karnal, November 11The supply of piped natural gas (PNG) was started in the industrial area in Sector 3 today. However, industrialists have shown very less enthusiasm as only 11 out of around 200 owners signed the agreement to switch to PNG.In 2019, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had directed the industries to switch to PNG instead of using the existing fuel in the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) by August 2019. Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL), a distribution company, was assigned the work by the government to lay pipeline for PNG supply in Sector 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 13 and part of Sector 13 extension, along with industrial area in Sector 3. The company had started the work in March 2019 and the deadline was fixed for March 2020, but the work was delayed due to Covid-induced lockdown.The company has laid the pipeline in the whole industrial area and the supply was started today. Karnal Mayor Renu Bala Gupta and SK Arora, Regional Officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), inaugurated the supply in the presence of Vineet Bhatia, Additional GM, HSIIDC; Manoj Arora, president, Karnal HSIIDC Welfare Association; Amit Gupta, state vice-president of Haryana Chamber of Commerce; and Som Sachdeva, patron of Karnal Agricultural Implement Manufacturers Association.“M/s Modern Industry has become the first industrial unit in Karnal to switch over to PNG. More industrial units will switch over in the coming days as the gas is now available at their doorsteps. We are spreading awareness among other industrialists to switch to PNG,” said Ankush Jain, DGM, Haryana IGL.Industrialists should also come forward to switch over to cleaner fuel and contribute towards a cleaner environment. This would surely help in curbing environmental pollution from industries to a greater extent, he added.ONLY 11 FIRM OWNERS INTERESTED||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/png-supply-starts-in-karnal-industrial-area-169529
12-11-2020||
||Kurushetra govt departments set to go paperless with e-Office||Kurukshetra, November 11 In order to ensure transparency and speed up file work at offices, the Kurukshetra district administration has decided to go paperless by November end and implement e-Office software in 42 departments.  In the first batch, 22 offices, including DC office, ADC office, CTM, SDM, Tehsildar, DRO and Panchayat offices, will go paperless, for which training of eight departments has started.  Deputy Commissioner Sharandeep Kaur said: “It has been decided that no hard copy of any new file will be accepted after November 30. The officials have been directed to ensure that the files are sent through e-Office. From December 25, which is also the Good Governance Day, even old files will be accepted through e-Office. Training has started and the department heads have been directed to procure the required hardware, including computers and scanners, from their respective headquarters.” She also held a meeting with the officials at Mini Secretariat regarding the implementation of the e-Office. “With the implementation of e-office, the entire data in the government offices will be safe and every file will be accessible to the officers at the district level and those at the headquarters. This will bring transparency in government offices and all work will be completed within the stipulated time,” she said. While holding the meeting, the DC informed the officials that one officer in each office would be appointed as the nodal officer. The officer will also serve as the master trainer in the respective office. The DC has also asked the heads of the departments to start using computers themselves and not depend on computer operators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurushetra-govt-departments-set-to-go-paperless-with-e-office-169530
12-11-2020||Ravinder Saini||Haryana Government yet to renew recognition of 3,200 private schools||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 11As many as 3,200 private schools across the state are in a fix as the Department of School Education is yet to extend their temporary recognition, eves as the process of submitting forms for annual examinations of Classes IX to XII is underway. The schools cannot submit the exam forms until they are granted the recognition.“Fate of over 10 lakh students enrolled in these schools hangs in balance following the delay in renewal of recognition. The Department of School Education grants these schools temporary recognition every year that facilitates them in submitting exam forms of their students. But this time the process for submission of exam forms has already started while the schools are still waiting for extension of their recognition,” said Ravinder Nandal, president, Haryana Private School Sangh.Nandal said various associations of the private schools had not only written to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, but also approached Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar and other ministers, requesting them to ensure renewal of recognition to all 3,200 private schools at the earliest so as to secure the future of lakhs of students but nothing had been done yet in this direction, he added.Rishi Raj, owner of a private school, said all school owners were concerned over the delay and parents, too, were worried and contacting the principals for latest updates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-yet-to-renew-recognition-of-3-200-private-schools-169531
12-11-2020||Our Correspondent
||Harass home buyers, face penal action: HARERA to promoters||Gurugram, November 11 To ensure that the home buyers are given relevant information about the plan, specifications and timeline,  the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HARERA) has warned of penal action against the violaters. The HARERA Bench, headed by KK Khandelwal, Chairman, and members SC Kush and Samir Kumar, observed that many complaints regarding allegations of misbehaviour and improper treatment to the allottees by the promoters had been filed before the authority. The Bench has directed two promoters, Emaar and JMD, to train the customer relation management department and ensure that the allottees are treated with dignity. “An allottee has the right to visit the site and check the quality of construction work. However, even after persistent requests, no such opportunity is being given to allottees. When they visit the site, the security guards of the promoters not only prevent them from inspecting the work, but also misbehave with them. The treatment meted out to allottees is illegal,” said Khandelwal.  The authority had observed during the proceedings that representatives of promoters rebuke, reprimand and scold allottees, he said.  “This kind of hostility demands attention. The real estate sector is currently going through a critical stage due to less demand and loss of faith of consumers,” said Khandelwal.  The authority is in the process of finalising a code of conduct for the promoters and their staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/harass-home-buyers-face-penal-action-harera-to-promoters-169532
12-11-2020||---||Gurugram to be developed as ‘smartest city’, says Khattar||Chandigarh, November 11In a bid to bring Gurugram on the world map, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday announced to develop it as the ‘smartest city’.For this, the CM also proposed to set up a new municipal corporation in Manesar and develop a new Gurugram city in that area.Khattar was speaking after virtually inaugurating Project Air Care and two plans for the beautification of the gateway of Gurugram.The CM said Gurugram and Faridabad being the metropolitan cities of the National Capital Region (NCR), separate Metropolitan Development Authorities had already been constituted for both the cities.The Chief Minister said along with Gurugram and Faridabad, Karnal had also been included in the Smart City project. In these cities, there is a need to develop facilities such as water management, security system, public transport, buildings, good governance, e-education, telemedicine in accordance with smart norms and infrastructure. He said the two projects inaugurated on Wednesday were a part of this plan.The CM said with a view to provide prompt administrative services to the people of Gurugram, a ‘Tower of Justice’ is also being constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 180 crore.To get 65 air purifiers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-to-be-developed-as-smartest-city-says-khattar-169533
12-11-2020||---||November 30 deadline to make Karnal stray-cattle free||Karnal, November 11The municipal corporation (MC) Karnal has fixed the deadline of November 30 to shift all stray cattle to gaushalas to free the city of these animals. The stray cattle pose a threat to commuters, particularly at night and on foggy days.Out of around 250 estimated heads of cattle, around 30 have been shifted to gaushalas. Since both gaudham and nandishala are packed to the capacity, now the MC has started the process to shift the stray cattle to the nearby gaushalas.“We have fixed a deadline of November 30 to make the city free of stray cattle. So far, we have shifted 30 stray cattle and before the deadline, we will shift all of them,” said Municipal Commissioner Vikram Singh.Seven employees with one vehicle have been assigned the duty to catch the cattle roaming on the roads and soon, two more vehicles will be added to the campaign, he said.“Our employees will also keep a vigil on the people who leave cattle on roads after they turn non-productive,” he maintained.Karnal was given the tag of stray-cattle free district in 2018, but that does not seem to be the case anymore as scores of stray cattle can be seen roaming on district roads. Sometimes, they can be seen sitting in the middle of the roads, thereby blocking the traffic and way of pedestrians.Sources in the MC said the non-shifting of dairies out of the city was also a major contributor to the menace. The shifting of dairies was a long pending project. It was announced during the INLD government in 2002, later by Congress government and thereafter CM Manohar Lal Khattar had announced the same but nothing much was done in this regard.Menace back on roads||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/november-30-deadline-to-make-karnal-stray-cattle-free-169534
12-11-2020||Kurukshetra||Adesh group to adopt 5  villages||HS Gill, chairman of Adesh Group, on Wednesday announced that they would adopt five villages in the 25 km radius of the medical college and provide free OPD, ambulance and normal delivery facility to the residents. Gill said: “The aim is to provide better healthcare services to the residents of this region, so we have decided to adopt five villages in the 25-km radius of Adesh Medical College.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/adesh-group-to-adopt-5-villages-169535
12-11-2020||Fireworks and Diwali have been synonymous for ages||Gift ‘smoke-free air’ this festive season||Ravinder Kwatra, ShahabadCelebrate green DiwaliIN the view of Covid-19 and the threat looming due to escalation of cases caused by air pollution, it is imperative to explore alternatives to crackers. Using environment friendly smokeless green crackers, planting saplings and using rechargeable multicoloured LED flashlight batons are some of the ways to enjoy Diwali. Community bursting of crackers at only one prime location in each city can also be explored. Ramit Bagga, panchkulaSay no to crackersBursting of crackers is display of affluence and an evil practice that should be done away with completely. Deriving joy or making money from activities that are detrimental to others is unjust in a civic society. I appeal to the readers to abstain from crackers.—Lalit Bharadwaj, Sector 20, PanchkulaTohana Town Park lacks basic amenitiesIN Town Park, Tohana, Fatehabad, many people go for walk at 4.45 am, when there is no light. The morning walkers have to exercise in the dark. Some people play music in the park, which disturbs the peaceful atmosphere for those who do meditation. Nobody uses earphones. The park is situated opposite to the main city. The elderly and children have to cross Tohana-Hisar road, which remains congested with traffic. The stray dog menace is also a trouble for the walkers. There are two toilets, which remain shut, without any caretaker or attendant. These problems should be resolved without any delay.—Dilwar Ali, TohanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gift-smoke-free-air-this-festive-season-169546
12-11-2020||Rohtak||Students take out cycle rally||MDU Prof among top scientistsRohtak: Dr CS Pundir, Professor Emeritus in Faculty of Life Sciences of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has been included in the list of top scientists of the world curated by experts of Stanford University, USA, and published in reputed global journal PLOS Biology. Prof Pundir has been placed at the 245th rank with C-score of 3.5856. He has published 249 research papers. Notably, he has been working in the area of bio-sensors, bio-sensing technology and enzyme technology. The list has been prepared on the basis of standardised citation indications, including information of the number of citations, H-index, co-authorship and a composite indicator. It has 1,59,683 scientists from around the world, with 1,492 Indians on the list. Prof Pundir has been included in the list owing to his sterling research contribution in the field of bio-technology. MDU Vice-Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh congratulated Prof Pundir for the achievement.Sainik School invites applicationsKarnal: Applications have been invited for All-India Sainik School Entrance Examination (AISSEE) for admission to Sainik Schools across the nation for the 2021-22 academic session. Boys and girls willing to take admission in the two Sainik Schools in Haryana namely Sainik School, Kunjpura (Karnal), and Sainik School, Rewari, can apply online. It is for the first time that girls are being given an opportunity to study in Sainik School from Class VI. The entrance examination for admissions will be held on January 10, 2021, at the scheduled examination centres. Giving information in this regard, an official spokesperson said admissions for Class VI and Class IX were being carried out through entrance examination. He said students born between April 1, 2009 to March 31, 2011 were eligible for admission in Class VI. Similarly, students born between April 1, 2006 to March 31, 2008 were eligible for admission in Class IX.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/students-take-out-cycle-rally-169547
