13-01-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Abhay Chautala should support no confidence motion rather than resigning: Hooda||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday said rather than resigning, Abhay Chautala should vote against the coalition government on a no-confidence motion as that will benefit the farmers and be true support.In Gurugram, Hooda said the farm laws harm not only the farmers but also every consumer and poor section of the society and this is why the movement has received support from all sections of the society.He said the government should accept the demands of the farmers and bring an end to the agitation.Hooda said they have been continuously opposing the three agricultural laws since they were introduced and fully support the demands of farmers.“About 70 farmers have been martyred but instead of accepting their demands, the government is entangling them with dates for meetings which yield nothing. The government should understand the gravity of the situation and factor in the condition of the farmers. They should accept the demands of the farmers without any further delay,” he said.The leader of the opposition also appealed to the state government to withdraw a large number of cases filed against the farmers and said the state government should not act with malice or revengeful intentions towards the farmers.
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 2 more Covid deaths, 225 fresh cases||Haryana on Wednesday reported two more coronavirus-related fatalities, taking the death toll to 2,966, while the infection tally rose to 2,65,616 with 225 fresh cases.According to the state health department’s daily bulletin, a fatality each was reported from Karnal and Yamunanagar districts.Other districts which reported new cases include Gurgaon (51), Faridabad (39) and Panchkula (15).The number of active cases in the state stands at 2,414 and a total of 2,60,236 people have so far been discharged after recovering from the disease.The recovery rate in the state is 97.97 per cent. PTI
13-01-2021||New Delhi||Increasing e-flow for Delhi stretch of Yamuna can lead to 'environmental disaster': Haryana govt||The Haryana government has said it is "completely in disagreement" with suggestions to increase the quantum of environmental flow in the Delhi stretch of the Yamuna as it can cause an "environmental disaster" in the state.According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature, environmental flow is the water provided within a river, wetland or coastal zone to maintain ecosystems and their benefits where there are competing water uses and flows are regulated.A study conducted by the National Institute of Hydrology (NIH), Roorkee had earlier recommended that 23 cubic metre per second (cumec) water be released in the river from the Hathnikund barrage in Haryana's Yamuna Nagar district instead of 10 cumecs in January and February (lean season) for sustaining downstream ecosystems.The Hathnikund barrage regulates the flow of the river for irrigation in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh through Western Yamuna Canal (WYC) and Eastern Yamuna Canal (EYC), respectively, and the municipal water supply to Delhi."The State is already releasing 10 cumecs of Yamuna water from Hathnikund barrage on a daily basis as per the MoU of 1994. Further, this MoU can be revisited after 2025 if any of the partner States so desire," the Haryana government said in its response submitted to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) recently.The State is "completely in disagreement" with the recommendations of NIH to increase the quantum of e-flow as its implementation can cause an "environmental disaster" in Haryana, it said.The Haryana government has also taken up the matter with the Ministry of Jal Shakti (MoJS) and urged it "not to accept the NIH report in this regard".Based on the report, the NGT-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee had last year recommended revisiting the 1994 water-sharing agreement between Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi to ensure environmental flow in the river throughout the year.The NIH report had said 26 cumecs, 29 cumecs, 34 cumecs and 44 cumecs water should be released in the river in March, April, May and June, respectively.At present, 10 cumecs is being released in the river in March, April and May and 18 cumecs in June.A minimum release of 158 cumecs, 220 cumecs and 149 cumecs is recommended in July, August and September instead of 275 cumecs, 298 cumecs and 160 cumecs, the report had said.Based on the NIH report, the panel had said the Ministry of Jal Shakti, Upper Yamuna River Board and the riparian states should ensure release of 44 cumecs, 27 cumecs and 24 cumecs water in the river from the barrage in October, November and December, respectively.The NIH report had also recommended reduction in diversions to WYC and EYC by increasing irrigation efficiency in their command areas.At present, 78.5 per cent and 13 per cent of inflows at the Hathnikund barrage are diverted to WYC command and EYC command during non-monsoon season. Thus, only a meagre 8.5 per cent of inflows is released into the river."Regulate groundwater withdrawal in the basin, especially in the Mawi-Baghpat stretch and augment groundwater recharge to sustain baseflows," the report had said. — PTI
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers in Punjab, Haryana burn copies of farm laws on Lohri||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana burnt copies of Centre’s three farm laws on the festival of Lohri on Wednesday to protest against the legislations.The harvest festival of Lohri is celebrated in Punjab, Haryana and other parts of north India, and bonfires are an important part of the festivities.Also readOn Lohri, protesting farmers in Delhi burn copies of new agri lawsIn Ludhiana, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders also burnt copies of the new farm laws.Protesting farmers owing allegiance to different farm bodies held protest at many places in the state and burnt copies of the legislations.Farmers also shouted slogans against the BJP-led central government and slammed it for not acceding to their demands.Farmers, including women, under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, held a protest at Pandherkalan village in Amritsar.“We burnt the copies of the farm laws as a mark of protest against these legislations,” said committee’s general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher.Similar protests were also being held at other places in Amritsar.“Until the Centre accepts all the demands of farmers, our agitation will continue,” said Pandher.“We will not accept these farm laws as they are not in the interest of the farming community and the government should repeal these legislations,” said a protester.Farmers also burnt copies of the new farm laws at other places, including Hoshiarpur, Sangrur, Kapurthala and Ludhiana in Punjab and Karnal, Gohana, Dabwali in Haryana.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh greeted people on the occasion of Lohri.In a tweet, he said, “Let’s all take a minute to pray for strength to our farmers and their families who are braving the bitter cold and fighting for our future generations.”      In Ludhiana, the AAP leaders paid tributes to farmers who died during the ongoing agitation. They also observed a two-minute silence in their memory.Several AAP leaders were present on the occasion, including state unit chief and MP Bhagwant Mann, Leader of Opposition (LoP) in Punjab Legislative Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, Deputy Leader of Opposition Sarabjit Kaur Manuke, MLAs Principal Budhram, Baljinder Kaur and Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer.Mann said the farmers’ movement has now become a “mass movement”, claiming that these laws are “dangerous” for every section of the society.Farmers have been protesting peacefully on the roads for the last several months but Prime Minister Narendra Modi is not listening to their plight, he said.MLA Harpal Singh Cheema said that the AAP had been opposing the “black laws” from the day one.“Today the AAP was burning copies of black laws in every village, street and locality across the state and was paying homage to the martyred farmers,” Cheema said.Farmers who have been camping at the Delhi borders are demanding a repeal of the farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price for crops.The Supreme Court on Tuesday had stayed the implementation of controversial farm laws till further orders and decided to set up a 4-member committee to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers’ unions.  PTI
13-01-2021||---||SC takes cognisance of pollution in Yamuna, issues notice to Haryana||New Delhi, January 13Taking cognisance of pollution in the Yamuna, the Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Haryana Government after the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) alleged that water containing high pollutants was being released into the river from the state."We are issuing notice without argument. We are taking suo motu cognisance of pollution in the entire Yamuna river," a Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde said as the DJB pointed out that the water released by Haryana into the Yamuna had pollutants, including high ammonia content which becomes carcinogenic after mixing with chlorine.The Bench appointed senior advocate Meenakshi Arora as amicus curiae to assist it in hearing the case and posted the matter for further hearing on January 19.The DJB usually halts water supply in Delhi after the ammonia content in water rises. It has moved the court seeking a direction to Haryana to ensure that pollutant-free water was released in the river.They have to keep ammonia treatment plan in Haryana and even the National Green Tribunal had said that their STP was not working at Sonipat which is upstream, said Arora.
13-01-2021||Ravi S Singh||Facing heat over farmers' protest, Dushyant Chautala meets Modi||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 13A day after meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Although there was no official communication, sources said Chautala congratulated the Prime Minister on the country's indigenous vaccines against Covid.The prevailing political situation and the law and order in the state in the context of farmers' agitation are said to have figured during the meeting.He apprised Modi of his meeting with JJP MLAs on Tuesday and the feedback he got from them on the need to modernise farming and to make it more profitable.He also made requests regarding infrastructure projects, including making Haryana a textile hub and the issue of the East-West Corridor.  After emerging from the Prime Minister's residence, Chautala did not take questions from the media.After his meeting with the Prime Minister, he called on Union Minister of Law and Justice, Electronics and Information Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad at his residence. Sources said Chautala met Prasad to express his condolences following a bereavement in the latter's family. Chautala had met Shah on Tuesday in the company of Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar.
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Biting cold wave in Punjab, Haryana; Narnaul coldest||Intense cold wave conditions prevailed in most parts of Punjab and Haryana on Wednesday with Narnaul being the coldest place in both the states at 1.4 degrees Celsius.Narnaul in Haryana recorded a low of three notches below the normal. Hisar was the another place where the mercury settled below the 2 degrees Celsius-mark. It registered a minimum temperature of 1.7 degrees Celsius, five notches below the normal.Among other places in the state, Ambala, Karnal and Rohtak experienced cold conditions at 7.8, 6.5 and 5 degrees Celsius, respectively, an official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said here.Bhiwani and Sirsa reeled under cold conditions at 2.8 and 3.4 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the joint capital of both states, recorded a low of 5.7 degrees Celsius.Among other places in Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala registered their respective minimums at 3.5, 3.8 and 6.4 degrees Celsius, up to two degrees below the normal.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 9.2, 3.4, 3.6, 3.2, 4 and 8.2 degrees Celsius respectively.A thick blanket of fog enveloped many places, including Bhiwani, Sirsa and Bathinda in the morning. — PTI
13-01-2021||Mathura||Protesting farmers don't know what they want, says BJP MP Hema Malini||Farmers agitating at the borders of Delhi don't know what they want, said veteran actor and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Mathura, Hema Malini, and added that they are only protesting because someone had asked them to do so."It is good that the Supreme Court has stayed the laws. This will hopefully calm the situation. Farmers are not willing to come to a consensus even after so many talks. They do not even know what they want and what is the problem with the farm laws. This means that they are doing this because someone asked them to do it," Hema Malini said.She also said that it was 'not nice' to see towers being vandalised in Punjab."Punjab has suffered a lot of losses. It was not nice to see them (farmers) vandalise towers. The government has called them for talks repeatedly, but they don't even have an agenda," she added.Speaking about the COVID-19 situation, she reminded people that the pandemic is not yet over and masks should be used and safety protocols followed."Corona is not yet over. Some people from our party passed away due to the disease. The general public should continue to be more cautious. If we roam around freely (without precautions) it will increase again. Especially with this new bird flu, everyone should take care of themselves and their family," she said.The actor-turned-politician further said that she would definitely be vaccinated when her turn comes."Good that the vaccine is here now. I will definitely get the vaccine when my turn comes. The opposition has also said some things. Whatever the government says they have to say just the opposite," she said. — ANI
13-01-2021||Karnal||Talent hunt event at DAV college||Varsity inks pact for block chain techFaridabad: The Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) under the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has tied-up with the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, as an academic partner for its Apiary, a centre of excellence in blockchain technology, at STPI Gurugram. The university’s department of computer engineering will act as a nodal department to conduct and promote research and collaborative activities on blockchain between both partners. The MoU was signed by Registrar SK Garg and Additional Director, STPI, Sanjay Kumar. Vice-Chancellor Dinesh Kumar said the collaboration would give a boost to their startup initiatives. The VC said a business technology incubation centre had recently been established on the campus.Research workshop at MDURohtak: A two-day online research workshop on “Scientific research and authentic implications in social sciences” began at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) on Tuesday. It is being organised by Ch Ranbir Singh Institute of Social and Economic Change (CRISEC) and the faculty of social sciences, MDU. Director, CRISEC, Prof Inderjeet Singh said the workshop was being organised primarily for research scholars of social sciences. Workshop convener and dean, faculty of social sciences, Prof Nov Rattan Sharma exhorted scholars to equip themselves with appropriate tools for quality research. Prof Rajbir Singh, SGT University, Gurugram, said researchers must take cognizance of global as well as regional trends and contemporary issues while choosing their topic.DAV institutes remember founderYamunanagar: Tributes were paid to DAV institutes founder Jagan Nath Kapur. Chairman, DAV schools, Yamunanagar, Vijay Kapur said Jagan Nath Kapur came to Kurukshetra from Lahore after Partition. Later, he moved to Abdullapur village. He said Kapur had setup DAV educational institutes by raising funds. He provided free education to the needy and refugee.
13-01-2021||We are residing in Ward 13||Sewage water overflowing in Sonepat||Dog owners IrresponsibleMc should penalise a dog owner for not clearing the poop his canine deposits on a sidewalk - a rampant practice that has vexed morning walkers and other road users for long. There should be signs warning the owners who are letting their dogs poop on the sides of the road and leaving it there. Action by the MC is required to deter dog walkers from allowing pets to use public places as their toilet. Suksham, PanchkulaGet main road in Jind metalled at the earliestThe main road in the heart of Jind which is the hub of business here is not metalled, people commuting here have lots of problems. This district has always been the political capital of the state. In the past 54 years, the district as a whole has remained financially, industrially and educationally backward . There are no education, health and entertainment facilities. The authorities should look into the problem and develop the district as any other district in the state.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaMaintenance charges UnreasonableIt is very shocking to note that residents residing in societies are facing problems due to unreasonable actions taken by builders after giving possession to residents' associations. They take maintenance charges which are very high. But they are not providing the required facilities which are given in the broachers. Now, the residents of Sector 102, IMMAR, are facing problems. The authorities concerned must take action.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramRadium strips on stray animals will helpThe local administration and Animal Husbandry Department's officials should initiate trying night glow radium strips on the horns of stray cattle and glow bells on the necks of stray dogs/animals to ensure long-distance visibility as lakhs of such animals are roaming on city roads. The same will prevent collision with vehicles during foggy weather and help in eradicating the menace. The administration should also ear-tag or insert chip in such animals foridentification, vaccination and GPS tracking purpose.Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
13-01-2021||---||Child  gets life term for murder||Yamunanagar, January 12A local court has awarded life imprisonment to a child in conflict with law for sodomising and murdering a 12-year-old boy.The court also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 on the convict. According to information, the 12-year-old victim was from a village of the Radaur subdivision in the district.He went to a fair with his brother on April 11, 2017, but did not return. The next day, his body was found near a pond in his village. Medical examination confirmed that the boy had been sexually abused.On the complaint of the deceased’s father, a case was registered at the Jathlana police station. A CIA team arrested an adult and apprehended two juveniles and one child in conflict with law. The adult, identified as Manoj of Jathlana village, was awarded life imprisonment on December 6, 2018. The two juveniles were awarded three-year imprisonment on February 15, 2019.
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Order on Red Cross gen secy stayed||Less than a fortnight after extension in service granted to DR Sharma on the general secretary’s post in the Indian Red Cross Society, Haryana, was set aside, a Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana HC today stayed the operation of the order. The stay order by the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli came on a petition against the society and other respondents by Sharma through Anil Mehta.— TNS
13-01-2021||---||Today, Haryana to get first consignment of Covid vaccines||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 12Haryana will get its first consignment of Covid vaccines, Covshield manufactured by Serum Institute of India and Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech, tomorrow.The consignment containing 2,41, 500 doses of Covsheild and 20,000 doses of Covaxin will arrive at the Chandigarh International Airport by afternoon on Wednesday, confirmed Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department.From here, the vaccine will be sent to Kurukshetra, where Haryana has its state warehouse for vaccines, for further distribution to the districts. The Centre has already announced that the national vaccination drive will begin on January 16.First of all, the vaccine is to be provided to nearly 1.90 lakh healthcare workers, who have been placed on the top of priority list among over 67 lakh beneficiaries to be immunised in the first one year.After the health staff, frontline workers (nearly 4.5 lakh), residents above 50 years (58 lakh) and the population below the age of 50 having co-morbidities are to be administered the dose in that order of priority.The government has already announced free vaccination for healthcare and frontline workers.
13-01-2021||Hisar||2 held in paper leak case||The police have arrested two persons for alleged involvement in leaking the question paper for the post of gram sachiv in Hisar. The accused have been identified as Ankit of Jafrabad and Ashish of Juan village in Sonepat district. A police spokesperson today said an inspection team had caught candidate Praveen Kumar using an electronic device at an examination centre set up in a private school on Saturday. — TNS
13-01-2021||Rohtak||Haryana’s sex ratio at birth drops 1 point in 2020||The state has witnessed a drop of one point in the average sex ratio at birth (SRB) in 2020 compared to 2019 despite registering around 100 FIRs last year to check female foeticide. The birth of 922 girls per 1,000 boys was been recorded in 2020 while the figure was 923 in 2019.Significantly, 11 districts — Gurugram, Rewari, Bhiwani, Faridabad, Rohtak, Palwal, Jind, Mahendragarh, Karnal, Jhajjar and Charkhi Dadri — registered less than state average. The state recorded 5,37,996 births in 2020 — 2,79,869 boys and 2,58,127 girls.Sirsa topped the table with 949, followed by Panchkula and Nuh at 939 each. Dr Achal Tripathi, Deputy Civil Surgeon, PNDT, said eight sex determination rackets in Delhi, UP and Jhajjar were busted in 2020 . — TNS
13-01-2021||Hisar||Man kills wife with hammer||A truck driver killed his wife with a hammer under the influence of liquor in Sisai Kalirawan village in Hisar district today.The victim has been identified as Jyoti (25). Accused Naveen got married to Jyoti in 2014 and had three children. The police said Naveen came home in inebriated condition last night after which a scuffle broke out between the couple. The accused picked up a hammer and hit his wife on the head which led to her death. — TNS
13-01-2021||Ambala||Phone, SIM card seized from  2 jail inmates||The Ambala police have registered a case against two jail inmates in connection with the recovery of a mobile phone and a SIM card, and assaulting jail staff at the Central Jail, Ambala, on Monday.The inmates were identified as Ismail of West Bengal and Rahul of Ambala.Sanjay Bangar, Deputy Superintendent, Central Jail, Ambala, stated that during an inspection of Block-6 by the vigilance team of the jail, on Monday, a mobile phone was recovered from Ismail while a sim card was recovered from Rahul. Meanwhile, Rahul tried to chew the sim card, and later assaulted DSP Jail Rakesh Kumar during questioning. When the jail warder Jaswinder intervened, Rahul hit him as well. — TNS
13-01-2021||---||Minor boy among two held for cab driver’s murder||Faridabad, January 12Two persons, including a minor boy, have been arrested in connection with the murder of a cab driver, whose body was found on a roadside on January 7 near Sahapura village of the district. The deceased was identified as Raj Kumar, a resident of Sanjay Colony here.The police said Rahul (22) and a 17-year-old juvenile, both from Jajru Colony here, were arrested on the basis of their mobile phone location. The police have said the accused had hired an Ola cab on the night of January 6. En route, they stabbed the driver, Raj Kumar, near Sahapura village with the motive of looting the car and valuables. “Rahul was arrested from Jajru Colony, while the juvenile was found hiding at his sister’s house in Noida,” said a police official.
13-01-2021||---||ASHA worker held under PCPNDT Act||Karnal, January 12In a decoy operation, a Health Department team has arrested an ASHA worker for allegedly luring a pregnant women to get a prenatal sex determination test conducted. Kiran was arrested from the Hospital Chowk here, even as another tout Vikrammanaged to flee.The department has started an investigation to determine the involvement of the hospital. The ultrasound centre has been sealed.Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, said they received a tip-off that an ASHA worker along with a tout were luring pregnant women to get the gender of their foetus determined. The health authorities constituted a team led by Deputy Civil Surgeon and Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act (PCPNDT) Nodal Officer Dr Naresh Kardwal.They got a decoy ready for this raid and the deal was finalised for Rs 25,000. Vikram gave Rs 8,000 to Kiran, which has been recovered by the team members.Dr Sharma said Kiran had assured the decoy that she would get the sex of the foetus conducted and took her to a hospital. The team members nabbed Kiran red-handed with the money. “We are investigating the role of the hospital too,” he added.An FIR has been registered under the PCPNDT Act and various sections of the IPC at the Civil Lines Police Station.
13-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Rs 5 lakh reward for info on realtor’s killers||Gurugram, January 12The police have announced a cash reward of Rs 5 lakh to anyone who provides information about those who were involved in the murder of a 46-year-old property dealer near Gadoli village on the Pataudi road on December 24.Ravinder Yadav’s body was found near his abandoned car. An FIR was registered at the Section-10 A police station, but the police have failed to make any headway yet.Body was found in DecThe body of Ravinder Yadav (46) was found near his car near Gadoli village on the Pataudi road on December 24. His kin met the Police Commissioner seeking immediate arrest of the accused, after which the case was handed over to the crime unit.Earlier, kin of the victim’s family had met the Police Commissioner seeking immediate arrest of the accused. Following this, the police official handed over the case to the crime unit and announced the cash reward for providing information on the suspects. On January 2, the Manesar panchayat had given a seven-day deadline to the police to arrest the accused.The panchayat had threatened to block the national highway and hold protests if the police failed to arrest the accused within 10 days. ACP (crime) Preet Pal Singh Sangwan said the accused would soon be arrested.
13-01-2021||Yamunanagar||Seven quit zila parishad in Yamunanagar||The vice-chairman and six members of the zila parishad of Yamunanagar today resigned to express solidarity with the protesting farmers.Anil Sandhu, member from ward 2 and vice-chairman, said they had submitted their resignation to Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar.“Dharam Pal Tigra, Shamim Khan, Sainki, Karamwati, Navab, Ashok Kumar and I resigned today,” he said. There are 18 members in the zila parishad.
13-01-2021||New Delhi||Deadlock to cost govt: JJP MLAs||The Centre should repeal the three farm laws or it will cost the ruling BJP-JJP alliance in Haryana "heavily", a section of JJP MLAs said on Tuesday, hours before their party chief and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala meets Union Home Minister Amit Shah here.The BJP, which won 40 seats in the 90-member Assembly in the 2019 polls, formed government with the support of 10 JJP MLAs and Independents.The Centre should rollback the laws as farmers were up in arms, JJP MLA Jogi Ram Sihag said. — PTI
13-01-2021||---||Now, protest on canvas at Singhu||
13-01-2021||Karnal||Repeal forcibly introduced laws: Hooda||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today reiterated that it was the BJP, and not the Congress, which was inciting farmers and suggested to the ruling party to repeal the forcibly introduced laws to avoid any confrontation.His statement came in response to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s statement that the Congress had provoked farmers to ransack the venue of his event in the district’s Kaimla village on January 10.Hooda was in the city to visit Congress leader Jeet Ram Kashyap and express condolences on his wife’s death.“The state government should have not organised ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ when the Centre was in talks with farmers’ leaders. The BJP is to be blamed for provoking farmers in Kaimla village,” said the former Chief Minister.Hooda accused Khattar and local MLA Harvinder Kalyan for what happened in Kaimla village. — TNS
13-01-2021||New Delhi||Haryana govt let Centre down, says Birender||Senior BJP leader and former Union minister Birender Singh today said the party’s government in Haryana and its leadership in Punjab did not handle the issue properly and let the Central brass down.He said the intent of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Central Government behind the farm laws was the overall welfare of farmers.“The intent of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Central Government behind these three farm laws was to improve the quality of life of farmers and their overall welfare,” he said.Sounding critical of his party’s government in Haryana and its leadership in Punjab, Birender said the issue would have been resolved much earlier had they addressed farmers’ apprehensions effectively in initial days of the protest.“The BJP government in Haryana and its leadership in Punjab let the party down by not addressing the farmers’ apprehensions effectively when these were yet to be passed by Parliament and the protest was just beginning,” he said.Hoping for an early resolution of the issue, he said, “If the issue is not resolved early, it could have serious repercussions for the BJP-JJP government in Haryana in the long run.” — PTI
13-01-2021||---||Two-day kabaddi meet in support of farmers begins at Tikri border||Jhajjar, January 12A two-day kabaddi competition organised by khap panchayats in support of farmers commenced at the Tikri border today. About 40 teams are participating.Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda reached the border to express solidarity with the protesting farmers and paid tributes to those, who lost their lives during the agitation.“The demand for repealing the three farm laws is justified. Hence, the Centre should accept it without further delay. I also appeal to the state government to withdraw cases registered against farmers,” he told the media.“Public sentiment and non-violent movements in a democracy cannot be suppressed by using force. The use of water cannons and tear gas bullets on farmers protesting peacefully is undemocratic. The government should not act with malice or vengeance,” the Congress leader said.On the CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s “kisan panchayat” which was cancelled following a faceoff, Hooda said the aim of such events was to create confrontation. “Instead of organising a ‘kisan panchayat’, Khattar should talk to the Centre and convince it to revoke the laws. The Chief Minister is the representative of the people and must support farmers,” he added.
13-01-2021||Gurugram||Gangster nabbed from Dwarka expressway||The Gurugram police have nabbed gangster Aakash Yadav along with one of his aides, in connection with the shootout at Bamdoli village on November 15. The gang kingpin is wanted for many heinous crimes.On a tip-off, the Palam Vihar police team nabbed both accused from the Dwarka Expressway on Monday night. Aakash Yadav, a resident of Bamdoli village, was carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 on his head. The other accused has been identified as Jasveer of Amargarh Narvana in Jind district.On November 15 last year, panic gripped Bamdoli village after two local groups clashed with each other leading to open firing. Over 20 rounds were allegedly fired by Aakash’s gang. Three men, including a former sarpanch, were critically injured and a dozen others were hurt in the clash. Eleven accused were nabbed earlier.“The gang kingpin and his aide confessed that they were involved in the shootout at Bamdoli village. They revealed that they were involved in two dozen cases related to murder bid, kidnapping, brawl, snatching and carrying of illegal weapons in Gurugram, Ambala, Jind and Delhi. We are questioning the accused,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime. — OCCarried Rs25k reward
13-01-2021||---||Govt employees protest in support of their demands||Karnal, January 12Hundreds of employees under the banner of Sarav Karamchari Sangh and CITU today protested at the Mini-Secretariat to press their long-pending demands, including reinstatement of sacked employees, restoring of the old pension scheme, status of employees working in various programmes, regularisation of employees on contract basis and others.Malkiyat Singh, district president, SKS, and Satpal Saini, district president, CITU, lambasted state governments for not considering their demand. They said the state government had assured them that their demands would be fulfilled, but it did not do so.The employees took their protest march from park and when they reached near the Mini -Secretariat, they were stopped by the police outside.
13-01-2021||---||Karnal’s Central Govt store gets 4 lakh doses||Karnal, January 12The city’s Government Medical Store Depot (GMSD) in Nehru Place market, which is among the four Central GMSDs of the country with Mumbai, Chennai, and Kolkata being the other three, has received the first consignment of 4 lakh doses of Covid vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. These doses were brought from Delhi in a container and have been kept at the GMSD.However, the authorities are yet to receive any release order, but, as per sources, these doses are for Haryana and other states of North India.Confirming the arrival, Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, said the GMSD had received the first consignment of 4 lakh Covid-19 vaccine Covishield. It has been stored at the required temperature in the GMSD. “The GMSD authorities have not received any release order, but we are expecting it tomorrow,” he said.
13-01-2021||---||One-time registration portal for Group C & D posts launched||Chandigarh, January 12Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday launched ‘One-Time Registration Portal’ for Group C and D category posts and non-gazetted teaching posts in government departments.Also, he announced a Common Eligibility Test (CET) to be conducted by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission for filling posts of Group C and D.Khattar told the media that with the launch of the portal, aspirants would be required to apply and submit fee only once, which would be Rs 500 for the general category candidates and Rs 250 for candidates belonging to reserved categories.The registration on the portal would commence from today onwards and would continue till March 31.The Chief Minister said the students who were appearing for Class X and XII examination this year could also provisionally apply on the portal.Each candidate registering on the portal would be issued a unique identity number on the basis of which he or she could apply as per their educational qualification and experience. A separate CET would be conducted for Group C and D posts and it would be valid for three years.The selection for the Group D posts would be made on the basis of merit of the CET, including marks under social-economic criteria and experience, whereas in the case of Group C posts, the candidates would also have to clear the departmental examination in addition to the CET.The weightage under socio-economic criteria would not be more than 10 per cent for Group D posts and 5 per cent for Group C posts.Khattar said the portal would be integrated with the Parivar Pehchan Patra and the details of family members of the candidate would be automatically generated while filling the form. The candidates would also have the facility to update the family details on the portal. If any candidate does not have the Parivar Pehchan Patra, he could get it prepared from any nearby authorised centre.
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Protection not sufficient  if nasal area exposed: High Court||Taking cognisance of the fact that the public is not properly masked up for fighting Covid, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the very purpose of issuing instructions and imposing penalty for not wearing mask stands defeated.“Though the state has provided for penalty for not wearing masks in public, it has not taken into consideration the fact that mere wearing of masks will not suffice if the nasal area is exposed,” the Division Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted.192 fresh casesChandigarh: The Covid tally in the state reached 2,65,391 on Tuesday with 192 fresh cases being reported. The death toll went up to 2,964 in the state with eight more deaths.Gurugram reported a maximum of 56 cases, followed by Faridabad (34). TNSThe assertion came after the Haryana counsel did not dispute the fact that masks were to be used properly and the public was required to be educated in this regard. Faced with the situation, the counsel submitted that a “larger question” was involved and as such, he would seek instructions from the state before apprising the court.The direction came on a petition filed against Haryana and other respondents by Rishi. His counsel had told the Bench that the petitioner, a jail inmate, tested positive for Covid on December 27, 2020. He was taken to a quarantine centre in Sector 12, Panchkula, but did not receive attention from the medical authorities. With jail no bar for Covid infection, the Bench hearing his petition had called for details regarding availability of masks for inmates.As the case came up for resumed hearing, reply by way of affidavits was placed before the Bench. It was told that 1,23,250 masks had been distributed till January 8 among inmates confined in jails of Haryana.For creating awareness among prisoners and the staff regarding proper wearing of masks and other preventive measures, detailed instructions were issued vide a letter dated June 16, 2020, to all jail superintendents for necessary compliance.Flex boards and posters were placed at prominent locations in jails. Messages regarding precautionary measures, including mask etiquette, were being broadcast in jails over the public address system. Banners in vernacular on “do’s” and “don’ts” for preventing the spread of the virus had been affixed at strategic locations, including barracks, hospitals, kitchens, control rooms and main gates.“We have perused the instructions. A perusal thereof reveals that these do not specify any guidelines as regards the nasal area, which can easily lead to spread of disease,” the Bench noted.The case would come up for further hearing later this week.Digvijay seeks free vaccine for students
13-01-2021||Ravi S Singh||Step up security, Amit Shah tells Haryana||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 12Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala met Union Home Minister Amit Shah today and apprised him of the law and order situation in the state in the context of the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws and upcoming Republic Day.After the meeting, Khattar said smooth conduct of Republic Day celebrations, which was a national festival, was the top priority and the issue figured in the meeting with Shah.Sources said Shah asked Khattar and Dushyant to step up security and vigil and take no chances. “Unfortunately, one of the epicentres of the agitation is Haryana and it borders Delhi,” Khattar said.He said the Supreme Court had taken up the farm laws for consideration and had constituted a committee to seek the views of farmers.He said that in the light of the apex court stepping in, farmers should return to their homes. “Now, our farmer brothers should go back home,” he said.Responding to a specific question, he said withdrawal of police cases registered during the farmers’ protest was in the police domain. “The government has no role in it. It is for the police to investigate and take a call on the matter,” he said.In reply to another question, he said there was political stability in Haryana. There was no basis in media speculations, he added, implying that the BJP-JJP government in the state was stable.He said this in reference to speculations that some JJP MlAs were very unhappy with the farm laws, casting doubts over the longevity of the coalition government.State BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar, state JJP president Nishan Singh and state Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar also attended the meeting, which lasted about an hour and 45 minutes.Earlier, Dushyant held a meeting with his party MLAs, lasting more than two and a half hours, and sought their views on measures that could improve farming prospects in the state.Harnessing of technology in farming, thrust on drip irrigation than on open canal system, crop diversification and marketing of agricultural produce were among the suggestions that were put forth by the JJP MLAs. Efforts to make farmers aware of the government’s welfare schemes were also among the suggestions.JJP MLA Davinder Babli said the legislators were of the view that the three laws had dented the image of the JJP and Haryana Government. They expressed the view that opposition parties had spread canards against the recent farm laws and were stoking passions among the farmers.They were of the view that the issue of farm laws, farmers’ protest and related matters were now under the consideration of the Supreme Court. They expressed the hope that the imbroglio would end soon following the Supreme Court’s intervention.
