13-06-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Explaining windfall of discharged cases in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 13Since the implementation of the new discharge policy in Haryana brought under pressure owing to the mounting cases as it doesn’t require testing of “pre-symptomatic”, “very mild”, “mild” and “moderate” cases, there has a been windfall in the number of recovered cases, which has seen a jump by five times.The Centre recommended states, on May 8, to discharge COVID-19 patients without test except for the “severe” cases. Prior to the order, before discharging the patient, two negative tests were required.But the Haryana Health Department chose to be cautious and, on May 11, decided to make mandatory one negative test instead of two before discharging the patient. But as the cases were mounting and putting pressure on the medical infrastructure, Haryana decided to follow the Centre’s discharge policy on June 3.Till June 3, there were 1,089 discharged cases. In the next 10 days, the cumulative number of discharged cases jumped to 2,803, a rise of 157.4 per cent. It also implied that 171.4 cases were discharged per day from June 4 to June 13 on an average.After the previous discharge policy, which was introduced on May 11, which required one negative test before discharge, the rate of discharge was only 34.2 cases per day, from May 12 to June 3. So, the overall discharge after implementation of June 3 policy has jumped by five times when compared to the May 11 directive.As per June 3 policy, the “mild”, “very mild” and “pre-symptomatic” cases are now discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days. There is no need for testing prior to discharge and the patient is advised to follow home isolation for further seven days.In case of “moderate cases”, if the fever resolves within three days and the patient maintains oxygen saturation above 95 per cent for the next four days (without oxygen support), such cases are discharged after 10 days of symptoms onset, in case of absence of fever without antipyretics, resolution of breathlessness and no oxygen requirement, without any test. Home isolation is recommended for seven days here too.The severe cases are discharged after clinical recovery and one negative test.State Nodal Officer for COVID in Haryana, Dr VK Katyal said: “There is no need of occupying your resources for pre-symptomatic, mild, very mild and moderate cases. Severe cases need more attention. About 12 doctors are required to run a COVID-19 ward, along with 18 other health staff and 18 class-4 employees. After a week, they are quarantined too.”He added: “The cases have been rising. We don’t want resources to get dried up. While discharging people without tests we clearly guide the person for taking consultation on phone, if any symptoms develop again.”“Ideally, they should have tested a patient before discharge. But they are also asking people to go for seven-day home-isolation following the discharge after 10 days, which is fine. Haryana has taken a conscious decision based on health infrastructure,” said Dr Digamber Behera, senior professor of pulmonary medicine at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.On May 31, there were 2,091 cumulative cases in Haryana but it jumped by more than three times in just 13 days, during Unlock 1.0, to 6,749, with 358.3 cases coming per day on average. So, despite an increase in discharge of cases, the recovery rate is still lower at 41.53 per cent. There are more active cases than recovered ones in Haryana, which is a cause of worry.
13-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Covid crisis: No room for former Lt Governor Chandrawati at Rohtak PGIMS||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 13Veteran leader and former Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry Chandrawati had to be admitted to a private hospital here in the wee hours of Saturday after the 92-year-old suffered a hip fractured at her Charkhi Dadri residence and could not find a room at the Rohtak PGIMS.“We took her to the PGIMS last night, but we were told that no VIP room was available as the ward in which VIP rooms are situated has been earmarked as isolation-cum-quarantine facility for the COVID patients and doctors. Hence, we shifted her to a private hospital in Rohtak,” said Jagjit, Chandrawati’s grandson.Jagjit said they had to suffer inconvenience due to rush of patients at the PGIMS, but had no complaint against the hospital authorities as the shortage of rooms was due to the prevalence of COVID pandemic.Chandrawati is the first woman member of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha. She is also the first woman Member of Parliament from the state. Apart from holding the position of Lieutenant Governor, she has twice served as Haryana minister.Dr Sandeep, Deputy Medical Superintendent (Accidents and Emergencies) at the PGIMS, said the veteran leader was brought to the casualty wing last night, but her family members later took her to a private hospital as no VIP room was available at the institute owing to the creation of COVID-related quarantine facility at the special ward.“Chandrawati was brought to our hospital around 1.30 am in the night with a fractured hip. As surgery was not advisable due to the age factor, we decided to put her on conservative treatment and installed a traction. She was discharged this afternoon,” said Dr Amit Batra, consultant orthopaedic surgeon at Holy Heart multispecialty hospital.
13-06-2020||Kurukshetra||Haryana: Woman poisons husband, teen daughter, commits suicide later||A 45-year-old woman allegedly poisoned her husband and teenage daughter before consuming it herself in a village here resulting in the death of all three family members, police said on Saturday.All the three died in hospital, police said, adding that they have registered a case of murder based on the complaint made by the woman's father-in-law who alleged that she served food laced with poison to his 50-year-old son and granddaughter before consuming some poisonous substance later.The complainant alleged that his daughter-in-law was having an extra-marital affair with a man and this used to result in quarrels between his son and her.Recently, the paramour again visited the home on June 9. When the woman's husband learnt about this, he tried to explain its implications and her 18-year-old daughter also tried to convince her mother that whatever she was doing was wrong, police said.Later, a quarrel broke out between the couple over the issue and the woman allegedly even beat up her husband.On Thursday evening, the woman allegedly mixed some poison in the dinner and served it to her husband and daughter.Later, she also consumed some poison, police said.After some time, her father-in-law, who was away, reached home to found all the three in unconscious condition.The complainant then called his younger son and other relatives who took them to the hospital where all the three died during treatment, police said.Investigating Officer Jai Karan said on Saturday that a case of murder has been registered against the woman and her alleged paramour.Further investigations were under progress, he said. PTI
13-06-2020||---||Final-semester Haryana students of higher, technical courses have to take exam from July 1 to 31||Chandigarh, June 13The Haryana government has ordered that all terminal examinations of final semesters, for higher and technical education courses, will be conducted from July 1 to 31 in conventional mode and the results will be declared by August 7.For the students from outside Haryana, the average of all previous exams may be taken or they can opt either for taking the exam or improvement of grades later on by physical examination, if they haven't taken any exam earlier.During examination, hostels will not be opened for students but social distancing norms will be strictly followed.Principal Secretary Higher Education Ankur Gupta’s order says that for intermediate semester examination all students will be promoted to the next semester with 50 per cent weightage of marks of internal assessment or assignment plus 50 per cent weightage of marks in the previous examinations. However, if a university intends to give examination of such students of campus departments, they may do so. Those students who have academic arrears may be exempted from examination and are to be promoted to the next semester and reappears are to be carried forward.For first-year students, only the internal assessment may be calculated for promotion to the next year.For practical exams, average of previous practical exams will be taken or 80 per cent average of theory examinations marks of previous semesters, whichever is higher.The admissions to university teaching departments will be conducted at individual university level whereas for undergraduate levels and postgraduate levels centralised online admissions for the colleges will be conducted.Haryana NSUI president Divyanshu Buddhiraja said, “It is because of our protest and campaign from the online petition to the high court that the state government has been forced to promote students.” He said the final-year Haryana students should also have been promoted like the non-Haryana ones.
13-06-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana doubling rate 8 days, worst in country||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12Haryana’s doubling rate, as per the Union Ministry of Health website, is eight days — the worst in the country. Karnataka and J&K have a doubling rate of 13 days each, the second worst. The national doubling rate is 18 days.Haryana’s recovery rate at 37.87 per cent (till June 12) is the second worst after Delhi (36.70 per cent).In cases per million population (based on 2011 Census), Haryana is the sixth worst among states with more than 2,000 cumulative Covid positive cases at 235.41 per million. Test positivity rate in the state has been constantly rising. Recorded at 1.84 per cent on May 31, it jumped to 3.15 per cent on June 7 and further 3.80 per cent on June 11. However, the fatality rate in Haryana is 1.07 per cent while the national average is 2.86 per cent.“The recovery rate will improve in the coming days. We are preparing to meet challenges regarding health infrastructure,” said Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General (Health Services). Haryana Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora has directed the DCs to ensure that the availability of oxygen cylinders in hospitals and Covid care centres is up five times. “Final-year MBBS, paramedics and nursing students need to be trained to tackle an alarming situation,” she stressed.
13-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Man robbed by cabbies in Gurugram||Gurugram, June 12Cab robbers have got active again in the city. An accountant from Delhi was robbed of around Rs90,000 and mobile phone after being given a ride on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway during the day on Thursday.  Thrashed & dumpedThe accused took away from the victim Rs2,700 cash, mobile phone and ATM card. They used it to withdraw Rs 87,000.The victim was thrashed and dumped on the road. An FIR has been registered at Sector-18 police station.According to the police, the victim, identified as Dev Ashish (28), a resident of Vipin Garden in Delhi, works as an accountant with a city-based private company.On Thursday morning, he visited his company to complete some GST-related work. At around 3.30 pm, he was waiting for a ride home at IFFCO chowk that a cab came by. It appeared to be a shared ride and three passengers and driver were already there.He took the ride and started for Delhi. The moment they crossed Sirhaul toll plaza, they thrashed Dev, snatched his mobile phone and wallet containing Rs2,700 and took his ATM cards.“They asked for the PIN of the ATM card. When I refused, they thrashed me. Fearing for my life, I gave them the PIN. They withdrew Rs87,000 from two ATM cards and fled away after leaving me on the roadside near a CNG pump in Sector 31. I somehow returned home and moved the police today,” the victim told the police.As per the complaint, an FIR has been registered under Section 379-A (snatching), 34 (common intention) of IPC at Sector 18 police station.“We are trying to identify the accused and their cab with the help of CCTV footage from the nearby area,” said inspector Krishan Kant, SHO of Sector 18 police station.
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bonanza for retirees of aided schools||The Haryana Government has announced monthly honorarium ranging from Rs6,000 to Rs20,000 for the teaching and non-teaching staff of government-aided schools who retired between July 28, 1988, to May 10, 1998.The monthly honorarium, which will be paid under the Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Honorarium Scheme, will be paid to the teaching and non-teaching staff who retired from sanctioned and aided posts from privately managed schools with effect from January 1, 2019.Retired principals to get Rs20,000Under the scheme, while the retired principals would be paid Rs20,000, the headmasters would get Rs18,000. The lecturers would be paid Rs16,000 and masters Rs14,000. The JBTs, drawing teachers and PTIs would be entitled to Rs12,000 per monthAdditional Chief Secretary (School Education) Mahavir Singh said the honorarium would be given only to those retirees who were not getting any other pensionary benefits. “Besides, they would not be entitled to any DA or other allowances,” he added.Under the scheme, while the retired principals would be paid Rs20,000, the headmasters would get Rs18,000. The lecturers would be paid Rs16,000 and masters Rs14,000. The JBTs, drawing teachers and PTIs would be entitled to Rs12,000 per month.As far as Class-III non-teaching staff is concerned, they would get Rs11,000 while non-teaching Class IV employees would be paid Rs6,000. The retirees must have completed a minimum of 10 years in service to be eligible for the honorarium. — TNS
13-06-2020||Hisar||Khap meets Sonali, seeks fair probe into assault case||A week after BJP leader Sonali Phogat allegedly assaulted market committee secretary Sultan Singh in the district’s Balsamand town, a delegation of the Binain khap met Phogat at her residence here on Friday to know her side of the story.A couple of days ago, Sultan Singh, who belongs to the Binain khap, narrated the sequence of events of June 5 when he was allegedly assaulted.After meeting Phogat, the delegation called on Hisar SP and urged him to investigate the matter fairly. Sources say the khap’s support to Sultan Singh dwindled a little bit after meeting Phogat.Pritam Singh, a khap leader who was part of the delegation, said: “We have listened to both parties. We urged the SP to press for the early completion of the inquiry.” — TNS
13-06-2020||Nitish Sharma||Sunflower crop from Punjab at Haryana's Shahabad mandi, BKU objects||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, June 12Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union objected to a stock of nearly 80 quintal sunflower seeds allegedly procured from Punjab and being unloaded at a shop in Shahabad grain market. The farmer union accused the commission agents of buying sunflower seeds from Punjab at cheaper rates and selling them at minimum support price (MSP) in Shahabad.While the MSP for sunflower seeds is Rs5,650 a quintal, the private players are offering around Rs4,300 to 4,500 a quintal to farmers. Krishan Malik, Shahabad grain market committee secyCrop registered through e-NAMThe crop belonged to two farmers of Rajpura, Punjab. Their crop was registered through e-NAM portal which got auctioned in the private market.BKU spokesman Rakesh Bains said, “A total 238 bags of sunflower seeds were brought from Punjab and were being offloaded at a shop in the grain market. When we reached there, the commission agent who was getting the stock offloaded, failed to give satisfactory reply about the sunflower seeds. Such practice is not possible without the support from the government officials. While the local farmers are struggling to sell their produce, as the procurement agencies have stopped buying after their quota for sunflower procurement exhausted, commission agents are bringing the produce from other states to reap profit. There are a large number of farmers who are yet to get registred at the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal as it is yet to be opened.”After the farmers raised objection, the market committee officials took the stock into their custody. The BKU has requested the Deputy Commissioner to get the matter investigated.Shahabad grain market committee secretary Krishan Malik said, “The crop belonged to two farmers of Rajpura, Punjab. Their crop was registered through e-NAM portal which got auctioned in the private market. Only the crop of registered Haryana’s farmers will be purchased at MSP by the procurement agency.”
13-06-2020||Karnal||Woman, son killed in mishap||Around 55-year-old woman and her son (32) were killed, while her daughter-in-law sustained injuries as a pickup van allegedly hit the bike they were riding on Friday. The deceased were identified as Dhateri Devi and her son Ram Niwas, of Shekhpura village. — TNS
13-06-2020||Yamunanagar||Truck with 30 quintals khair wood impounded||The police arrested two persons and impounded a truck carrying about 30 quintals of khair wood (147 pieces) illegally from Tajewala police check post, situated close to Pratap Nagar town of Yamunanagar district on Friday.Subhash Chand, SHO, Pratap Nagar police station, said that the arrested persons had been identified as truck driver Ikbal of Ibrahimpur village and Salamu of Makarampur village. — TNS
13-06-2020||
||Woman freed from kidnappers in three hours||Jhajjar, June 12  A young woman was abducted by two persons in a car at Chhawani Colony here today when she along with her mother was coming back home from a sewing centre. Though her mother and an elderly man present on the spot resisted the kidnappers but could not rescue the woman. The incident was captured on a CCTV camera. The police on getting information rushed to the spot and launched a hunt to trace the woman.  “A police team managed to rescue the woman from the Quilla Jafargarh locality in Jind district after three hours. Two youths identified as Manjeet of Birdhana and Rohit of Quilla Jafargarh village were also nabbed,” said the police spokesman.
13-06-2020||
||No arrest for Cong leader as of now||Chandigarh, June 12 The High Court yesterday granted 18-day interim protection to Congress leader from Karnal Pankaj Punia, booked in six cases in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh after he allegedly posted an “inappropriate tweet” criticising the UP Government. One case was registered in Haryana, while three were registered in UP and two in MP. He was directed to be released on bail by Karnal Additional Sessions Judge after he was arrested on May 21. But the petitioner did not furnish personal bonds, apprehending arrest at the hands UP and MP Police. He was, in the meantime, produced and granted the concession of bail by a Noida Chief Judicial Magistrate on June 5. Taking up the matter, Justice Anil Kshetarpal granted interim protection for enabling the petitioner to avail the remedies available to him. “Till June 29, the arrest of the petitioner in four criminal cases shall remain stayed subject to objections, if any, to be filed by the states of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh to the order passed,” Justice Kshetarpal added. In his petition, Punia through counsel Sukhwinder Singh Nara had sought transit pre-arrest bail for four weeks to enable him to apply for relief. Nara told the court the petitioner, after realising his mistake, withdrew the tweet and even apologised.
13-06-2020||---||Man withdraws pension of dead father||Rohtak, June 12The role of officials at the Rohtak and Faridabad branches of Central Bank of India and employees of the treasury office in Rohtak and Faridabad have come under the scanner of the Rohtak police.They are probing a pension fraud case in which a Faridabad man withdrew arrears and pension of his dead father for eight years (from 2011 to 2019) by using bogus life certificate and duplicate signature. Rs 92 lakh taken out in 8 yearsThe accused, identified as Naresh, withdrew a total amount of Rs 92.61 lakh in an unauthorised manner from his father’s bank account during the time span. The Rohtak branch of the bank credited the pension amount to the accused father’s account till 2016 on the basis of life certificate given by its Faridabad branch.Thereafter, the case was transferred to the Rohtak treasury as a regular (alive pensioner) case. Interestingly, the Rohtak treasury and Pension Disbursing Cell, Haryana, too paid him the pension till September 2019, said the FIR lodged by the Civil Lines police station in Rohtak last evening.In the FIR, Rajveer Singh, Treasury Officer, Rohtak, said Naresh’s father died on December 1, 2011; the bank should have stopped the pension from December 2, 2011, but it continued to credit the pension to the deceased’s account till September 30, 2019, on the basis of life certificates given by its Faridabad branch.“The amount was withdrawn through ATM/cheques. It was the responsibility of the bank cashier to match the signature and identify the person withdrawing the money,” said Rajveer Singh.Lalit Yadav, SHO, Civil Lines police station, said Naresh’s father retired from the post of principal. “The role of bank officials and treasury employees posted at Faridabad and Rohtak is under scanner. All those concerned will be questioned. The bank and treasury office have recovered the entire amount,” he said.
13-06-2020||Gurugram||Youth booked for raping minor||A 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped repeatedly by her neighbour after he threatened to kill her. Scared, she kept quiet. But after having acute abdominal pain, she went to the hospital and was found to be pregnant.  She then confided in her family. The accused is absconding and an FIR has been registered at the Sector-40 police station. According to the complaint filed by the mother of the victim, the family lives in the Sector-40 area. “My daughter is a Class VIII student and got in touch with a boy in the neighbourhood. He would often call her. I was shocked to know he was blackmailing and raping her. She was unwell and I took her to the civil hospital and got to know of her pregnancy. She then broke down and confided in me,” the mother of the victim told the police. An FIR has been registered under Section 6 of the POCSO Act. “We only have the mobile phone number of the accused who is absconding. His mobile phone is not in use,” said Inspector Mahesh Phogat, SHO, Sector-40 police station. — OC
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||2 IAS officers transferred||The Haryana Government today gave additional charge of Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC), Sonepat, to Additional Labour Commissioner, Gurugram, Munish Sharma. Additional Deputy Commissioner, Sonepat, Lalit Kumar, is now ADC Yamunanagar. — TNS
13-06-2020||---||Why appoint Kisan Mitras, asks Hooda||Chandigarh, June 12Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda here questioned the state government’s announcement of appointing 17,000 “Kisan Mitras”. Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Ex-CM‘Govt anti-farmer’The state government should reconsider its anti-farmer policies instead of coining new phrases. All ministers, officers and government employees should first act like friends of farmers. .“What is the benefit of appointing ‘Kisan Mitras’ as the government is anti-farmer? It should reconsider its anti-farmer policies instead of coining new phrases. All ministers, officers and government employees should first act like friends of farmers,” he said in a statement here on Friday.The former Chief Minister asked the government to fulfil the demands of farmers if it wanted to be called a ‘Kisan Mitra’ in real sense. The demands are implement the Swaminathan Commission report, give fair price for crops, reduce the input costs, remove taxes on equipment, reduce the price of diesel and waive loans.“Instead of giving relief to farmers, the government has made agricultural inputs expensive, stopped the purchase of crops and imposed restrictions on farmers,” Hooda said, adding “instead of working on the ground, the government coins new words and phrases”.
13-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Court: Cannot seek bail on pretext of Covid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that an accused cannot take advantage of the pandemic to seek bail on the grounds that the trial had come to a standstill. The Bench ruled that the functioning of courts had been affected and the prosecution could not be blamed for non-examination of prosecution witnesses.Justice HS Madaan, HC judge‘Can’t take advantage of the situation’The pandemic has affected almost the entire world, including India... The functioning of courts has been affected. The prosecution cannot be blamed for non-examination of prosecution witnesses. The petitioner cannot take advantage of this fact and start asking for bail.The assertion by Justice HS Madaan came in a case wherein an accused moved the High Court for the second time for regular bail without any change in circumstances after the dismissal of his first petition. The second plea was filed by Sant Lal in an FIR registered on January 18, 2011, for dacoity with murder under Section 396 of the IPC and provisions of the Arms Act at the Ratia police station in Fatehabad district.Justice Madaan asserted that the petitioner had craved for grant of similar relief earlier, but his petition was dismissed vide a detailed and well-reasoned order on February 5. The concluding part of the order read that the allegations were grave and serious. Sant Lal had been on the run and was declared a proclaimed offender vide an order dated March 7, 2019, before he was arrested on July 23, 2019.The trial was at a very advanced stage of final arguments, as contended by the state counsel, and as such, there was no reason to grant regular bail to the petitioner keeping in view the gravity of the allegations and his past conduct.The order added: “The petitioner has got a long criminal record since, as per list supplied by counsel for the complainant, he is shown to be involved in 10 other criminal cases. In several cases, he is shown to have been acquitted. Although convicted in a few cases, the fact that he was booked in 10 criminal cases clearly speaks about his criminal tendencies.”Justice Madaan noted that there was no change in circumstances since the dismissal of the first petition and the reason that the trial had come to a halt was “least convincing”.“The pandemic has affected almost the entire world, including India. Curfew and lockdown have been imposed throughout the country for several months. The functioning of courts has been affected. The prosecution cannot be blamed for non-examination of prosecution witnesses. The petitioner cannot take advantage of this fact and start asking for bail,” Justice Madaan asserted.
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Six deaths, 366 fresh cases in Haryana||With six deaths and 366 fresh cases, Haryana’s Covid tally reached 6,334 today.So far, 70 persons have succumbed to the virus with a fatality rate of 1.11 per cent. Today’s deaths were reported from Faridabd (4), Sonepat (1) and Palwal(1).An 84-year-old man from Sector 28 and 72-year-old resident of Sanjay Colony in Faridabad, who were found to be suffering from chronic diseases, succumbed to the viral disease. A 65-year-old man from NIT having a history of coronary artery disease and a 52-year-old man from Sector 23, who had been suffering from uncontrolled diabetes, were also among the casualties. A 42-year-old woman from Umedgarh village of Sonepat succumbed to the viral disease.The fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (185), Faridabad (57), Sonepat (31), Ambala (28), Palwal (28), Kaithal (11), Nuh (5), Yamunanagar (5), Hisar (4), Jhajjar(3), Kurukshetra (3), Panipat (2), Fatehabad (2), Charkhi Dadri (1), and Jind (1).Localities from where the fresh cases came today included Ballabgarh, Old Faridabad, NIT, Jawahar Colony, AC Nagar, Bharat Colony, SGM Nagar, Dabua Colony, Sanjay Colony, Adarsh Nagar, Sehatpur village, Kheri Kalan village and Panhera Khurd village.Meanwhile, 215 patients were cured taking the tally of recovered cases to 2,475 today. As many as 116 patients were discharged from Gurugram today.Private lab put on notice for wrong reportJhajjar: The district health authorities have put a private lab on notice for giving wrong Covid test report to an ex-serviceman from Bahadurgarh."Randeep Singh Punia, Civil Surgeon, informed that the ex-serviceman was declared Covid positive by the private lab in its report some days ago. On suspicion, his test was repeated at Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh where he tested negative, he added.COVID-19 Cases                                DISTRICT-WISE COUNT
13-06-2020||Ambala||Rs 12 lakh stolen from ATM||Cash amounting to Rs12.05 lakh was stolen from a Bank of Baroda ATM at Dosarka in Mullana near here on Thursday, the police said.Bank branch manager Manoj Kumar reported to the local police that he had left the branch office last evening at 5.40 pm after getting the ATM booth locked as there was no security guard available for the night. “At around 3.40 am, I got a phone call from the Mullana SHO that cash had been stolen from our branch’s ATM,” he said. He immediately rushed to the spot and saw the cash counters at the ATM missing.The branch manager further stated that the miscreants sprayed black spray on the CCTV installed above the ATM while the CCTV outside the branch showed that around 1.35 am, some unidentified persons came in a car.The police have registered a case of theft, trespass and mischief causing damage under Sections 380, 457 and 427 of the IPC. — TNS
13-06-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram MC starts clearing waste dumped in Aravallis||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, June 12The Municipal Corporation (MC) has finally started lifting tonnes of construction waste dumped illegally in the Aravalli forest over the years. Since March 22, it has cleared 75 dumping sites; areas such as IFFCO Chowk and NH-48 have been cleared.The MC has hired an agency for the drive. Municipal Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh launched the drive when the construction activities are at minimal in view of the Covid-induced restrictions.As per norms, building contractors are liable to collect and dispose of the debris, but a majority of them choose to dump it in the Aravallis. The MC has been issuing challans to contractors, but to no avail.According to some surveys, the debris covers more than 30 per cent of the forest between Gurugram and Faridabad. It is one of the reasons for the degradation of the environment. The dust from the construction waste has been identified as the biggest contributor to smog in the city.With the air quality index (AQI) hovering between poor and high-risk category for several months, the authorities would ban construction for a few days. But that was never enough to improve the situation.Joint Commissioner Inderjeet Kulharia, nodal officer of the drive, said, “The MC cracked down on the transport network of tractors and dumpers, which dumped the waste. The vehicles were painted in a way that these resembled MC’s. We have also issued challans to authorities such as the NHAI for dumping the waste.”Environmentalist Jatinder Bhadana said, “The forest on the Gurugram-Faridabad road has been turned into a dumping yard that has stalled the natural replenishment of the flora and fauna. The forest is dying under debris. If it isn’t stopped, Aravalli forest will be a thing of the past.”
