13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Assembly monsoon session from August 26||The monsoon session of the Haryana Assembly would begin on August 26, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said here on Thursday. The House has been summoned to meet at 2 pm on August 26, Khattar told reporters here after chairing a meeting of the state Cabinet.                   He said the duration of the session will be decided by the Business Advisory Committee of the House, which will meet here on August 26. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-assembly-monsoon-session-from-august-26-126047
13-08-2020||---||Baljeet Singh Daduwal elected HSGMC ad hoc president||Karnal, August 13Baljeet Singh Daduwal, supported by senior vice president Didar Singh Nalvi, was elected president of the Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (HSGMC ad hoc) on Thursday.The election went peacefully in the historic Chhevin-Nauvin Patshahi Gurdwara, Cheeka, Kaithal, on Thursday.In a cut-throat election, he defeated Jagbir Singh Khalsa, who was supported by former president Jagdish Singh Jhinda, with only two votes. Election Officer Darshan Singh Barari confirmed the result and said Daduwal had been declared the winner.The Election Officer added that as many as 36 members were eligible for voting.Of the 36 votes, Daduwal got 19 votes while Khalsa received 17 votes.Nalvi congratulated the newly elected president and said they would strongly contest the case of a separate committee in the Apex Court. Daduwal said he would make efforts to promote Punjabi language across the state.The election process was stopped for an hour when Daduwal filed a complaint to district authorities against the election officer of being biased. Daduwal raised questions over the validation of four votes, saying three persons have already joined the SGPC and one member has not joined any meeting. Later, at around 2.40 pm, the election process was started.Kaithal SP Shashank Kumar Sawan, along with heavy police force, remained there to maintain the law and order situation.SDM Kaithal and SDM Cheeka were also appointed there for conducting election peacefully.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/baljeet-singh-daduwal-elected-hsgmc-ad-hoc-president-126014
13-08-2020||Ravinder Saini||100 Rohtak villages waterlogged||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 12Farmers in over a 100 low-lying villages of Rohtak district have been battling waterlogging and salinity problems that threaten to render their land unfit for cultivation.Though groundwater has been rising alarmingly in several blocks, it has reached up to 1.5 metres from the surface level in 16 villages and between 1.5 and 3 metres in around 100 villages.Rohtas, Deputy Director (Agriculture), said groundwater could prove disastrous for farming if it reached one metre from the surface. “All crops need at least one metre space in the soil to flourish,” he added. The average groundwater level in the district was 4.30 metres in 2010 and it was recorded at 3.58 metres this year, according to a survey by the Agriculture Department in June.Kalanaur block witnessed the highest decadal rise of 1.45 metres, followed by Rohtak block at 0.94 metre and Meham and Lakhan Majra at 0.66 metre each. The count stood at 0.1 metre in Sampla.Ankit of Karotha village in Rohtak block said due to the rising water table, their fields got submerged even during light rain. Dalvir Singh Rana, a hydrologist, said Rohtak district was geographically shaped like a bowl. Rohtas said horizontal surface drainage was the only solution to counter the menace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/100-rohtak-villages-waterlogged-125780
13-08-2020||Karnal||74 bank branches, ATMs in Kaithal lack security guards||In spite of several directions by the police officials, several bank branches in Kaithal district have failed to deploy security guards on the premises. This has been revealed in a security audit of 126 bank branches and automated teller machine (ATM) kiosks.The results are surprising: 74 bank branches and ATMs do not have security guards, and 31 are without sensor alarms. Apart from this, closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in 13 branches and ATMs are out of order.The audit was based on 12 security parameters.As per the police, there are 201 bank branches and 135 ATM kiosks in the Kaithal district.“The security audit has revealed several lapses at banks and ATM kiosks. We will write to bank officials to take measures,” Superintendent of Police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan said.He said he had earlier held a meeting with bank officials and told them to comply with security measures, but they failed to do so. “By not adhering to security guidelines, banks become easy target of robbers,” the Superintendent of Police said.In the past seven months, seven ATM loots have been reported. In a couple of cases, the police faced a challenge in tracing the accused because guards were deployed at the kiosks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/74-bank-branches-atms-in-kaithal-lack-security-guards-125680
13-08-2020||Jhajjar||HSIIDC official shot at in Bahadurgarh||Four unidentified miscreants shot at a draughtsman of the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) and took away his car at Industrial Area, Sector 4 B in Bahadurgarh town here on Tuesday. Identified as Sanjay Kumar, he had been admitted to trauma centre. He is stated to be out of danger.The crime happened when Sanjay stopped his car at a tea shop. The miscreants reached there and tried to snatch car keys from him. In the meantime, one of the miscreants opened fire on Sanjay and later, sped away in his car.IO Hari Prakash said a case of attempt to murder, snatching and one under the Arms Act had been registered against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hsiidc-official-shot-at-in-bahadurgarh-125681
13-08-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Lawyer hangs herself, blames senior for sexual abuse in Gurugram||A local lawyer, daughter of an Inspector of the Chandigarh Police, committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at a rented room in Sector 38.A two-page suicide note has been recovered from the spot in which she accused a senior lawyer of sexually exploiting her and forcing her to take the extreme step. The police have booked the senior lawyer for abetment to suicide.According to the police, the 25-year-old victim was living as a paying guest in Sector 38 and practising in the Gurugram court for the past two years. After getting information, a police team reached the spot and took the body into custody. Her family was informed and a suicide note was recovered from her room.The father of the deceased, in his complaint, said she was in touch with a senior lawyer who lured her on the pretext of marrying her and then sexually exploited her after which she took the extreme step.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the lawyer under Section 306 of the IPC at Sadar police station on Wednesday.“In her suicide note, the deceased mentioned the name of a local lawyer. We are investigating all angles. Action will be taken as per law,” said Inspector Dinesh Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lawyer-hangs-herself-blames-senior-for-sexual-abuse-in-gurugram-125682
13-08-2020||Yamunanagar||Two jaggery units found recycling ‘outdated’ sugar in Yamunanagar||Two units were allegedly found preparing jaggery by recycling outdated sugar and jaggery in Yamunanagar district.On Tuesday, the jaggery units situated in the Bilaspur subdivision were raided by a team of the local administration, comprising Food Safety Officer Prem Singh, Naib Tehsildar, Bilaspur-cum-duty magistrate Tarun Sahota and Additional SHO of Bilaspur police station Chandra Pal Sharma.According to information, the team found that the units were preparing the product by recycling outdated sugar and jaggery.The team also found that the jaggery was being prepared in unhygienic conditions and most of the workers were not wearing masks and adopting social distancing.The team members took the samples of the jaggery and sent for examination.“We conducted a raid at two jaggery units on Tuesday. Samples of jaggery have been sent for examination. Further action will be taken after the arrival of the report,” said Chandra Pal.Sources said the colour allowed for food items was costly and some of the jaggery units used substitute of edible colour, which was toxic for humans.Notably, there are about 350 jaggery units in Haryana, of them about 300 are in Yamunanagar district alone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-jaggery-units-found-recycling-outdated-sugar-in-yamunanagar-125684
13-08-2020||Karnal||Farm ordinances pave way to loot farmers: Arhtiyas||The Haryana Arhtiyas’ Association criticised the Centre’s three farm ordinances and announced to hold a joint meeting of the executive bodies of the commission agents from the state, Punjab, Rajasthan and Chandigarh on August 16 in Sirsa to decide future course of action.This was decided in a state-level meeting here on Tuesday. Besides, they have also announced to extend support to the farmers’ protest against these ordinances on August 15 across the state.“With these ordinances, the Centre is giving a free hand to certain capitalists to loot farmers. These ordinances should be revoked with immediate effect,” said Ashok Gupta, state president, Haryana Arhtiyas’ Association.He said despite the state government order, the procurement agencies were not giving payment to arhtiyas and farmers. “If our demands are not met, we will be forced for a hard movement,” Gupta added.Meanwhile, Rajnish Chaudhary, chief, Karnal Arhtiyas’ Association, said as per the new ordinances, the farmers’ crop could be purchased by any buyer who has a PAN card, while those purchasing in the grain markets must have the GST details, market licence along with other documents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-ordinances-pave-way-to-loot-farmers-arhtiyas-125727
13-08-2020||Panipat||30-year-old Panipat trader goes missing||A 30-year-old cosmetic shop owner has reportedly gone missing. His car was found parked near Delhi Parallel Canal here with his two mobile phones lying inside the car.He was identified as Ankit Sehgal of Sector 11. His family members alleged that he was under pressure due to some financial issue. The police suspected that he had jumped into the canal and divers are searching for the businessman.In his complaint to the police, Madan Lal, Ankit’s father, said his son had left for his shop in his car on Tuesday morning but did not return home. “We received a call from the Israna police about our car being parked near Sewah bypass between Western Yamuna link canal and Delhi Parallel Canal and we reached the spot,” he said.The car was locked and Ankit’s mobile phones were also inside the car, he added. He also said his son had to give money to some people due to which he was mentally upset for some days.We recovered the car and two mobile phones that were on flight mode after breaking the glass, said SI Vineet, incharge, Sector 11/12.She said, “We have registered a case on the complaint of Ankit’s father and started searching for him. We have called divers and launched an operation to search him in the canal also but did not get about his whereabouts so far.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/30-year-old-panipat-trader-goes-missing-125731
13-08-2020||Rohtak||V-C pushes for digital learning||REFRESHER COURSE ORGANISEDChandigarh: Sumit Narula, director, Amity School of Communication, Amity University, Gwalior, said people pursuing PhD must check once if the journal was listed in the UGC's approved list before sending their research articles for publication. He, who is also an expert of detecting fake journals, was speaking at a refresher course organised by UGC-HRDC and IMCMT, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra. "In universities, professors are asked to send research papers and articles for publication in journals, for promotions and increments. For research scholars, it is a must to publish their two research articles regarding their PhD topic to get their doctoral degree," he added. He also enlightened media educators about fake, predatory, and cloned journals. He talked about some fact-check websites and URL links like pre-evaluation of Scopus submission, ready for scopus.com. He explained how to cross-check the UGC-Care list and the fake journal URL. Explaining which was fake and which was UGC listed, he advised the gathering to go through the guidelines.Plantation drive at KVA DAV collegeKarnal: A tree plantation programme under the government launched campaign 'Harit Haryana Abhiyan' was organised at KVA DAV College for Women. Saplings of amla, lemon and hibiscus were planted by principal Sujata Gupta, along with other staff members. Nodal officer for the campaign Dr Ashima Gakhar, coordinators Sanjana Raheja, Dr Sunita Salaria and Dr Nadia Chauhan; members Meenu Sharma, Dr Anuradha Nagia, Dr Anju Narwal, Lakhwinder, Dr Poonam Kundu, Kawaljeet, Dr Isha, Shivangi, Anshul and Divya motivated and encouraged the students to participate in the drive, and fostered a sense of responsibility towards nature in them. "The campaign was launched by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on the auspicious occasion of Raksha Bandhan under the 'Vriksha Bandhan Abhiyan'. Around 700 students planted saplings at their homes, nearby parks and fields," said the Principal.Webinar on Nematode problemHisar: The nematology department organised a webinar on the problem of nematodes in horticultural crops, and their management. The webinar was organised in view of the gravity of the problem in Guava and poly houses in the state. Dr RK Walia, former professor, nematology department and former project coordinator, All India Coordinated Research Project (Nematodes), ICAR, was the main speaker at the webinar. Besides, students and scientists of the department, 125 participants from 14 states participated in it. He explained that the main reason behind the spread of nematodes in these crops was the use of nematode-infected nursery and other planting material. Farmers and nurseryman are often ignorant about the nematode infection in these crops. He emphasised on the need to test the soil and planting material before erection of poly house and planting of orchard. He also laid stress on the use of nematode-free nursery, and integrated nematode management in poly houses. At the end of webinar, speaker answered the queries and questions of participants. Vice-Chancellor of CCS HAU, Hisar, Dr Samar Singh, and Director of Research, Dr SK Sehrawat congratulated the scientists of the department on organising the webinar.Online recruitment training beginsHisar: A one-week online campus recruitment training (CRT) programme for BTech final year students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, has started. More than 100 students are getting training on topics like communication skills, group discussion skills, interview skills, entrepreneurship skills, e-mail writing, etc. Pankaj Chaudhary, director, TIME, Hisar will train the students. Pratap Singh Malik, director, placement, inaugurated the programme, and told that this was in continuation of the employability skill training (EST) programme which was conducted last year also to improve the aptitude and soft skills of students, and prepare them for market and life. Malik took the session and taught the students about the structure of the programme, followed by some mathematical reasoning questions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/v-c-pushes-for-digital-learning-125732
13-08-2020||Given that it is a rainy season||Thick vegetation blocks road||Want to Prevent horse-trading? Amend anti-defection lawAfter what happened in Madhya Pradesh, the similar political imbroglio in Rajasthan has lent credence to the necessity of an amendment to the anti-defection law to prevent horse-trading of MLAs and toppling of the elected government. In an event where any MLA resigns to evade action under the anti-defection law then his seat should not be filled until the bye-election is held. This way, not only the chances of horse-trading will be eliminated, but also the ruling dispensation will be saved from being toppled by rebel MLAs. — Dr PP Lamoria, RohtakGurugram bus stand toilet in lamentable conditionOn Tuesday, while at Gurugram bus stand, I had gone to use a toilet, only to return disappointed. The condition of the toilet was lamentable, with a foul smell emanating from the area. It seemed as if the toilet area had not been cleaned for long. Empty bottles were lying there. Public toilets should be used properly so that others do not have to face any inconvenience. — Subhash C Taneja, GurugramIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needsto be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/thick-vegetation-blocks-road-125734
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana traces contacts of 92% Covid patients||Even as the number of Covid confirmed cases have surged past 44K in the state, Haryana has been doing a good job as far as contact tracing of the positive cases is concerned as 92 per cent of the contacts of 41,635 cases till Sunday had been traced.797 new casesWith 797 new cases reported on Wednesday, the Covid tally in the state crossed the 44,000-mark. Three more persons succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 503.In fact, four districts of Haryana — Faridabad, Charkhi Dadri, Jind and Rewari — had traced contacts of 100 per cent cases while Jhajjar and Kaithal (98 per cent each), Hisar (96 per cent), Ambala (95 per cent), Panchkula (94 per cent), Karnal (91 per cent) and Mahendragarh and Nuh (90 per cent each) are among the districts to have recorded contact tracing of 90 per cent or more.Faridabad had recorded the highest 10,129 cases in Haryana till Sunday and still, the district was able to trace contacts of all these cases.The desirable contact tracing is considered to be 80 per cent.Gurugram (89 per cent), Fatehabad (86 per cent), Sonepat and Yamunanagar (84 per cent each) and Rohtak (80 per cent) are some other district performing within the desirable range.However, Sirsa with just 68 per cent of contact tracing is the worst performing district in this matter and is at the bottom of the table. Panipat (78 per cent) and Kurukshetra (75 per cent), too, are below the desirable parameters.In fact, contact tracing is one of the most valuable methods to contain the spread of the virus as it helps in isolating all contacts of Covid positive cases and hence preventing the spread further.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, Haryana, said that ever since the outbreak of Covid, timely contact tracing has been one of the most effective ways of halting the spread of the pandemic.“Even after five months, the importance of intensive testing and contact tracing within 72 hours was reiterated by the Prime Minister yesterday. The high contact tracing shows that we have to keep concentrating on basics of testing, tracing, tracking, isolation and treatment,” Arora said.The state Health Department had tested 7,44,080 samples till Sunday. Of these, 5,62,010 were through the RT-PCR method while 1,82,070 samples were tested by rapid antigen tests.On Tuesday, of the nearly 16,000 samples, nearly 7,000 were tested by antigen tests while the rest were through the RT-PCR technique.“We are working towards ramping up the testing further. New labs are being opened at civil hospitals in Rewari, Sirsa, Jind, Panipat and Yamunanagar,” Arora added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-traces-contacts-of-92-covid-patients-125736
13-08-2020||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Deal goes awry, two attacked in Gurugram||Tension prevailed in the district’s Begumpur Khatola village on Wednesday as two Muslim brothers were attacked with sticks after a deal to buy a buffalo went awry.A case has been registered and the police have arrested two men in connection with the incident. The accused — identified as Adesh and Dilbag, residents of Begumpur Khatola village — have been booked under Sections 323 and 506 of the IPC.The brothers are under treatment in the Civil Hospital here.In his police complaint, Nasir said: “Mursalim and I struck a deal with Adesh to buy a buffalo. On reaching his place, Adesh and his friend Dilbag told us they had already sold off the buffalo. We were surprised. When we questioned him on why he wasted our time, Dilbag started abusing me and hit me with a stick. When Mursalim tried to save me, Adesh slapped and punched him. As we cried for help, Dilbag threatened to kill us.”Haji Shahjad Khan, chairman of the Muslim Ekta Manch, alleged it was a pre-planned attack.However, ACP (Crime) Preet Pal Singh Sangwan said it was a brawl between two groups.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deal-goes-awry-two-attacked-in-gurugram-125737
13-08-2020||Panipat||Man dies in mishap in Panipat||A-29-year-old man was killed in an accident near Sanjay Chowk on the National Highway 44 here on Tuesday night.The deceased has been identified as Vinod of the district’s Mohali village.In his statement to the police, deceased’s cousin Deepak of Rajkheri village said he and Vinod was going to the bus stand for some work on a motorcycle around midnight on Tuesday. When they reached near Sanjay Chowk, a car coming from the wrong side hit their bike. They fell and Vinod suffered head injuries. Commuters took them to the General Hospital, where doctors declared Vinod dead.The car driver fled after the incident. The police have registered a case against an unidentified car driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-dies-in-mishap-in-panipat-125739
13-08-2020||Chandigarh||Seven IAS, 4 HCS officers transferred in Haryana||The state government has transferred seven IAS officers and four HCS officers.Among IAS officers, Preeti, Bhiwani ADC, has been posted as Ambala ADC, while Rahul Narwal, Beri SDM, will be new Bhiwani ADC.Abhishek Meena, Meham SDM, has been transferred as Mahendragarh ADC. Akhil Pilani, Assistant Commissioner, Ambala, has been posted as Thanesar SDM. Aparajita, Assistant Commissioner, Gurugram, will be new Ballabhgarh SDM. Ayush Sinha, Assistant Commissioner, Karnal, has been posted as Karnal SDM. Sachin Gupta, Assistant Commissioner, Bhiwani, will be Ambala SDM.Among HCS officers, Belina, Ballabhgarh SDM, will join the same post at Hansi. Ravinder Kumar, Bawal SDM, had been shifted as Beri SDM. Jitender Singh, Hansi SDM, will be Meham SDM. Manoj Kumar will be Bawal SDM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seven-ias-4-hcs-officers-transferred-in-haryana-125741
13-08-2020||Faridabad||Couple shot dead in Faridabad village||The police have registered a case and launched a hunt in connection with a double murder that took place in Jasana village in the district on Tuesday.A couple was found dead on Tuesday night at their house in the village, about 10 km from here. The reason for the murder is yet to be ascertained.Though the incident took place around 2 pm on Tuesday, it came to light around 9 pm when a relative of the woman reached their house to deliver milk. He found the couple — identified as Sukhbir Chandila (28) and his wife Monika (26) — lying dead in a pool of blood.Monika, who hailed from the same village, used to get milk from her parents’ house in the evening. “As she failed to turn up on Tuesday till 8.30 pm, we decided to deliver the milk at her house,” said Ramvir Singh, her father. He said the couple was found dead and the door of the house was open.He claimed Sukhbir and Monika had been residing here for the past two years and they had no enmity with anyone. He suspected that they could have been murdered with an intention of robbery as cash, jewellery, laptop and phones were missing.According to the police, four unidentified youths shot dead the couple soon after entering the house and decamped from there on two motorcycles parked in the street in 10-15 minutes.The miscreants had put a tape on the mouth of the victims and tied their limbs. The CCTV camera and DVR of the house were also stolen.“We have collected CCTV footage from the neighbourhood in which four youths are seen entering and leaving the house,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/couple-shot-dead-in-faridabad-village-125743
13-08-2020||Karnal||Kaithal SP to be awarded for speedy probe||Kaithal Superintendent of Police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan will be honoured with “Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation 2020” for speedy investigation in the rape of a six-year-old girl. It resulted in life imprisonment to the convict at Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar district.Sawan is among 121 police personnel of the country who will get this medal that was constituted in 2018 with the objective of promoting high professional standards in investigation of crime.Apart from Kaithal SP, two sub-inspectors of the Haryana Police — Anil Kumar and Rita Rani — will also be honoured with this medal.Sawan was then posted as ASP in Jhajjar district and he was assigned the case. The six-year-old girl was a daughter of a migrant labourer and lived in a rented accommodation in Bahadurgarh.She was raped by another tenant in the building in September 2018. Sawan completed his investigation and also filed chargesheet in just six days. After trial, the convict, Nawal Kishore, was awarded life imprisonment in POCSO and SC/ST Act in 10 months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-sp-to-be-awarded-for-speedy-probe-125744
13-08-2020||Karnal||Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee goes to poll today||The Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (HSGMC-ad hoc) is set for election of the next president at the historic Gurdwara Patshahi Chhevin and Nauvin in Cheeka town of Kaithal on Thursday. As per sources, the election is likely to be stormy as there could be an issue on the number of eligible members for voting.Election Officer Darshan Singh Barari said there were 36 eligible members, while senior vice-president Didar Singh Nalvi claimed the number of eligible members was 32. “Initially there were 41 members. Three died, one resigned and one has never attended any meeting,” said Barari.Kaithal SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said, “Cheeka DSP and the police force have been assigned the duty of peaceful conduct of poll. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-sikh-gurdwara-management-committee-goes-to-poll-today-125746
