13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 2,526 COVID-19 cases, 19 fatalities||Haryana on Sunday reported 2,526 COVID-19 cases and 19 deaths, officials said.The state’s caseload has reached 93,641 and the death toll mounted to 975.Haryana had reported the biggest single-day spike of 2,783 COVID-19 cases on Saturday.Of the 19 deaths, four were reported from Karnal, three each from Faridabad and Ambala, two each from Gurugram, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Yamunanagar, and one in Kurukshetra, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Among the districts which reported fresh cases are Gurugram (339), Faridabad (298), Karnal (295), Ambala (182), Sonepat (167), Rohtak (142), Hisar (126), Kurukshetra (130) and Panchkula (120).The number of active cases in the state is 20,079, while 72,587 people have been discharged.As of Sunday, the state has a recovery rate of 77.52 per cent.The fatality rate stands at 1.04 per cent, while the rate at which infections are doubling is 28 days. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-2-526-covid-19-cases-19-fatalities-140773
13-09-2020||Faridabad||Woman held for killing 8-year-old daughter over occult practices||Police said they arrested a 35-year-old woman on allegations of murdering her 8-year-old daughter three days after the child disappeared suddenly.The woman was arrested after footage from a security camera in the neighbourhood showed the child was last seen leaving the house with her mother, sources said. The sources claimed the woman had “admitted” to killing the child because she believed that she had been possessed by “some spirits” and she believed that such an event bring her relief.Police began looking for the child after her father, Rajesh Kumar---who is employed as a security guard at a private company--- filed a missing person’s report.Police sources claimed the suspect took the child to Bhagola village, strangled her and dumped her body. Police claimed they found the victim’s body on Friday evening.The victim is the youngest if three siblings. Originally from Pratapgarh district in Uttar Pradesh, her family has been staying in rented accommodations in the city for many years now.A local court remanded the suspect in police custody for a day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-held-for-killing-8-year-old-daughter-over-occult-practices-140739
13-09-2020||Yamunanagar||689 boxes of liquor seized in Yamunanagar||The police have seized 689 boxes of country liquor from near Radaur town of Yamunanagar district.The bottles of liquor bear the brand label ‘Masti Malta’, a product of Piccadily Agro Industries (distillery) at Bhadson village of Karnal district.Deep Chand, SHO, Radaur police station, said Yudhvir, executive officer of the distillery, said the consignment didn’t belong to them, as it was not produced in their distillery.Reportedly, the police had got a tip-off on Friday that a canter (truck) loaded with illegal liquor bottles was standing on the Bubka road near Radaur town. Subsequently, the police team in the presence of Ram Prakesh, Inspector of the Excise Department, seized 689 boxes of country liquor from it.A man, Pradeep of Mathana village in Kurukshetra, has also been arrested after he failed to produce the permit (bill) of the consignment. He also revealed that Raju, a resident of his village, Vikas of Panipat and some other persons were involved in the illegal trade. A case has been registered against all accused under the relevant sections of the Excise Act and the IPC.Niraj Sehgal, group secretary of Piccadily Agro Industries, refused to comment.“I think now there is no need to call the authorities of the distillery to join the investigation,” the SHO said.DSP Randhir Singh told the media that preliminary investigation revealed that the said consignment of illegal country liquor was brought here from Panipat. However, where it was meant to be supplied hadn’t been ascertained yet.“We will carry out a thorough investigation into the case to expose the nexus behind the illegal supply of liquor,” the DSP said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/689-boxes-of-liquor-seized-in-yamunanagar-140532
13-09-2020||Rewari||Haryana, Rajasthan police join hands to curb drug menace||The Haryana and Rajasthan Police have joined hands to break the supply chain of narcotics and drugs in the National Capital Region (NCR) by sharing vital information about drug smugglers and gangsters operating in the states. At a meeting of senior officers of both states held here on Friday, they decided to form special teams for curbing the smuggling of ganja, sulfa and heroin, besides working on a joint strategy to find out the source of narcotics and arresting those involved in the illegal business. The meeting also discussed the rising incidents of cyber crime and fraud at Palwal and Nuh in Haryana and Alwar and Bharatpur in Rajasthan by using fake SIM cards. Police officers of both states talked about chalking out a plan to apprehend retailers involved in the drug racket. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-rajasthan-police-join-hands-to-curb-drug-menace-140534
13-09-2020||---||Rohtak farmers meet BJP panel,  give suggestions on ordinances||Rohtak, September 12A three-member committee of BJP MPs comprising Dharambir Singh, Brijendra Singh and Nayab Singh Saini reached Rohtak on Saturday to take suggestions from farmers, arhtiyas and traders’ organisations about the three new ordinances pertaining to agriculture ordinances.Over 25 organisations called on the committee in the Circuit House here and lodged their complaints and presented suggestions regarding the ordinances. The committee listened to the organisations and assured them of apprising the party high command of their suggestions.A five-member delegation of the Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha (ABKS) led by its vice-president Inderjit Singh submitted a memorandum over the ordinances to the committee.“We explained our objections before the committee regarding long-term ruinous effects of the patently anti-agriculture and anti-farmer ordinances. Even the three MPs have been urged to oppose the ordinances in the Lok Sabha, commencing from September 14 for the sake of farmers,” Inderjit said.Sumit Singh, ABKS state secretary, said the delegation also cited the example of Punjab, where the Assembly had passed a formal resolution demanding the withdrawal of the move, describing it a serious threat to livelihood and food security.“Besides, we also demanded a judicial probe into the police lathicharge at Pipli, special girdawari of damaged cotton, release of long awaited tubewell connections and lifting of various specious conditions on the purchase of crop produce,” said Preet Singh, district president, ABKS.Talking to the media, Dharambir said: “We received 30 suggestions from different outfits. They also informed us about some problems being faced by the farmers. The committee will take the suggestions from across the state and send a compiled report to the party high command.”In Karnal, farmers turnup in small numbersKarnal: The BJP panel also visited Karnal on Saturday to take farmers’ suggestions on the ordinances. However, a few farmers turned upand raised their issues at the PWD Rest House here.Those present demanded to continue the arhtiya system. “We want our payment through arhtiyas and this system should be continued,” said a farmer. Another farmer Surinder Singh demanded a special court for farmers on the pattern of consumer court.However, several farmers’ outfits skipped the meeting. “This isn’t the way to take suggestions from farmers. It is just eyewash by the BJP. Agriculture experts along with the representatives of farmers’ bodies and political parties must be present. All proceedings must be held before the media,” said Rattan Mann, BKU state chief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-farmers-meet-bjp-panel-give-suggestions-on-ordinances-140536
13-09-2020||Our Correspondent---||92 Metro commuters fined||Gurugram, September 12 Over 150 passengers were caught lowering or removing their masks in the Metro and 92 were penalised late evening as a pilot project.  A special team will be deputed in trains to ensure that all travellers wear mask for the entire journey. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) collected the fine by cashless transactions through Metro cards. Metro has now restored full operations from 6 am to 11 pm. According to DMRC officials, they noticed that some passengers were lowering or removing their masks after sitting in the Metro. Then, they started having long conversations on their mobile phones. “We caught 150 passengers who were lowering or removing their masks during the journey and 92 were penalised. 20 per cent offenders were caught in yellow line Metro between HUDA city centre and Samaypur Badli stations. Our team is not only present in the Metro, but also monitoring through CCTV cameras,” said the DMRC spokesperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/92-metro-commuters-fined-140537
13-09-2020||Parveen Arora||Karnal govt school opens on trial basis||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 12Students of Class XII of Government Senior Secondary School, Nigdhu village in the district, on Saturday attended their classes after a gap of six months amid the Covid pandemic. Around 60 per cent students came to the school.The school was scheduled to open for two days on trial basis as well as for shooting a video for adopting all standard operating procedures (SOPs).As per the authorities, the video will be shown to other schools to follow SOPs at the entry of students in the school as well as while holding classes and assembly.There are 120 students in Class XII of the school, but 70 students came for this trial.These students were divided into five sections having separate colours like red, yellow, blue, green and pink. They will not interact with one another.The students were also excited at the opening of their school after a long gap. They opined that direct classes are better than online classes.“We are happy that our school has been shortlisted for the trial. We pray all the schools will be opened at the earliest. The study in the classroom is much better than online study,” said students Sonam and Nisha.Similarly, Ashita and Ankit maintained that it was a wonderful experience for them to have direct classes after a long gap.On the arrival of the students in the school as well as in the classrooms, an SOP was followed comprising maintaining social distancing and getting their shoes disinfected.Their temperature was also checked before the entry into the classroom, said Dharampal, Principal, adding that there were proper arrangements for washing hands as well as sanitisation.The Principal maintained that all the 45 teachers attended the school. On being asked whether it was too early to start classes, he said that when the markets, gyms, sports complexes, trains and buses have started operations, then schools must also be opened for studies.He said that the school was opened for three hours on Saturday and it would also be opened on Sunday for the same duration.The video is being shot under the supervision of assistant director of the Education Department Kuldeep Mehta, Parmod Kumar, project officer, and Rohtash Verma, DEEO Karnal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-govt-school-opens-on-trial-basis-140539
13-09-2020||Hisar||Wife, paramour held for murder||A woman and her paramour were arrested on Thursday for allegedly killing her husband in Bapora village of Bhiwani district. The police said the victim, identified as Shrikant, was killed on August 28. The accused have been identified as Narender alias Gagan and Madhubala. Bhiwani SP Sangeeta Kalia said during interrogation, Narender admitted that he along with his accomplice Sandeep killed Shrikant at the behest of Mahdubala, with whom he allegedly had an affair. Kalia said Narender and Sandeep took Shrikant with them and got him drunk. Later, they pushed him out of the car they were driving and ran it over him near Jatu Lohari village of Bhiwani. Madhubala had reportedly planned to take the claim of Rs 5 lakh of Shrikant’s insurance policy as she was his nominee. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wife-paramour-held-for-murder-140541
13-09-2020||---||In Panipat, 3 women found dead in 3 days||Panipat, September 12The Superintendent of Police (SP) constituted a special investigation team (SIT) led by the DSP (Crime) to probe the blind murders of two unknown women, whose bodies were found in the Samalkha area last week. One more body was found the GRP.On Monday, a partially naked body of a woman was found near drain number 6 here. The Samalkha police initiated an inquest proceeding under Section 174 of the CrPC and began a probe into the matter.On Tuesday, another woman’s burnt body was found near Chulkana railway crossing after which the GRP registered a case and began an investigation into the matter.Both the deceased were aged between 20-25 years.On the third consecutive day, one more woman’s body was found near the canal on Bursham-Diwana Road. Her face and chest were burnt and the body was partially naked.The Samalkha police have registered a murder case and began a probe into the matter.Meanwhile, Panipat SP Manisha Chaudhary along with DSP (Crime) Rajesh Phogat, Samalkha DSP Pradeep Kumar, CIA-I incharge Inspector Rajpal Singh, Samalkha SHO Inspector Harwinder Singh and GRP SHO Rajkumar and the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) team on Friday visited the crime spots to collected evidence.The post-mortem report of the first victim reveals she was assaulted and murdered, while the woman found dead in the canal was strangled to death, said Inspector Harwinder Singh.The women were raped before murder or not would be clear after the reports of the swab samples, which had been sent for examination to the FSL in Madhuban, he added.SP Manisha Chaudhary said a SIT under the supervision of DSP (Crime) Rajesh Phogat had been constituted to probe the two cases registered in the Samalkha police station. We have visited the crime spots and discussed the future course of action in both the cases, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-panipat-3-women-found-dead-in-3-days-140543
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||24 die; 2,783 cases||With 2,783 new cases of Covid reported today, the state’s tally reached 91,115. Besides, 24 persons succumbed, taking the toll to 956.In all, 322 patients are critical. Of them, 280 are on oxygen support and 42 on ventilator.A maximum of 326 cases were reported from Gurugram, while Faridabad reported 278 cases on Saturday. Karnal reported 272 cases and Hisar 213. The others districts reported less than 200 cases each.Meanwhile, five deaths were reported from Karnal, and three each were reported from Faridabad and Ambala.In all, 2,188 patients were discharged today, taking the tally to 70,713 with a recovery rate of 77.61 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/24-die-2-783-cases-140545
13-09-2020||Hisar||After cotton, moong under whitefly attack||After the cotton crop, moong-growers are facing similar conditions as almost the entire moong crop is suspected to have perished due to whitefly attack in Hisar and adjoining areas. Moong is cultivated on 22,000 hectares in Hisar.The farmers complained that it would be difficult for them to repay the seasonal loan taken under the Kisan Credit Cards (KCC) this season as the losses have accumulated and they have no other source of income.Farmer Charan Singh of Bandaheri who sowed moong on 20 acres has lost the entire crop and incurred a loss of around Rs 2 lakh. He is set to overturn his entire moong crop which has been damaged due to whitefly attack.Agriculture officials said the moong crop was also under whitefly attack. “Like with the cotton crop, farmers are unlikely to get a profitable yield from the ‘moong’ crop. The yield of ‘moong’ is likely to go down by around 70 per cent,” said an official.Farmers Naresh Kumar of Gorchi village, Dilip Singh of Dobhi village, Ramniwas of Kharia village and others said that despite the spray of pesticides, they were unable to save the crop from getting damaged due to whitefly.Deputy Director Agriculture Balwant Saharan said that both cotton and moong have been attacked by whitefly. “The moong plants have started becoming yellow and the yield is likely to go down. We will submit a report to the state government about the condition of the kharif crops,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-cotton-moong-under-whitefly-attack-140547
13-09-2020||Ravinder Saini||Medical Superintendent in dock over safai sewak dressing wound||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, September 12Taking cognisance of a report published in these columns of The Tribune on September 9, Civil Surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya has sought a reply from the Medical Superintendent of Jhajjar Civil Hospital over a safai karamchari dressing and stitching the wound of a patient in the casualty ward.A safai karamchari in khakhi uniform along with the help of another Class IV employee was caught on camera dressing and stitching the wound of an old man in the casualty ward of the hospital. The man was allegedly kidnapped by unidentified persons from Dhaaurhera (Rewari) and was later dumped near Dubaldhan village here on Sunday. The police took him to the hospital for treatment.Later, the safai karamchari disclosed that the doctor on duty used to call him for help if there was rush of patients in the casualty ward. His work was to keep the ward clean but many times, he also helped the attendants to bring their patients to the casualty ward from outside, he added.Sources said only one doctor remains available at the casualty ward in the hospital to treat the patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/medical-superintendent-in-dock-over-safai-sewak-dressing-wound-140549
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||111 mining guard posts get CM’s nod||State Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has accorded his approval to the proposal to create 111 posts of mining guards in the Mines and Geology Department. A spokesperson said the 111 posts of mining guards would be filled by recruiting ex-servicemen through outsourcing policy. Besides, the expenditure would be incurred from the sanctioned budget of the department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/111-mining-guard-posts-get-cms-nod-140551
13-09-2020||Saurabh Malik---||Bar Council’s powers to notify online poll under High Court scanner||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, September 12 A vital question of law revolving around the powers of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana in issuing a notification for online elections to the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association and all Bar associations of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh has been placed before the Punjab and Haryana High Court for adjudication. The issue: whether or not the respondent-Bar Council is justified in issuing a notification for conducting elections online on September 30 and October 1 for the Bar Association of Punjab and Haryana High Court and all Bar associations of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. This point has been raised by three former presidents of the District Bar Association of Chandigarh and two members. The petition is to be argued by senior advocate Anand Chhibbar. Among other things, Shankar Gupta and other petitioners submitted that the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana has shut its eyes to the plight of needy lawyers, who are in need of money during the Covid pandemic. A few unfortunate ones were even finding it hard to make ends meet.  “The Bar Council does not want to help them financially. Instead it hurriedly wants to hold online elections and is ready to spend a whopping amount on it. It’s a sad state of affair that our brother lawyers who are facing acute financial crunch are left to fend for themselves despite the fact that the Bar Council is generating huge finances through welfare tickets affixed on every Power of Attorney filed in the courts...,” the petition stated. The petition further stated that two Judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court recused to be chief supervisors for the online elections. One Judge recused before the notification was issued and the other Judge did so after the notification was issued. “This raises a serious doubt over the election framework.”  The petition added that conducting elections was not a cakewalk, but an arduous task involving a host of people for monitoring, supervising, managing and organising the poll. “In such a grim situation, especially when the contagion is spiraling out of control and spreading its tentacles across the globe, conducting elections is an insensitive and preposterous act,” it stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bar-councils-powers-to-notify-online-poll-under-high-court-scanner-140553
13-09-2020||Palwal ||Sex-determination test racket busted, three nabbed||An operation carried out by the district Health Department officials has led to the arrest of three persons involved in pre-natal sex determination racket.The team also recovered Rs 20,000 from the accused.According to Civil Surgeon Dr Brahmdeep Singh, the raid was conducted after a tip-off that some persons, involved in the sex detection work take expectant mothers to a laboratory in Delhi or Uttar Pradesh for sex test against a payment ranging between Rs 40,000 and Rs 50,000.He said a tout identified as Rajuddin told the woman to reach a private hospital in New Delhi.He said Rajuddin, who was present at the chosen spot in Delhi, made the decoy patient accompany one Manoj Kumar.Manoj took the woman to a spot in Loni area of Ghaziabad of UP. There, the woman was asked to accompany another youth identified as Gyan. He took her to a private laboratory in Ghaziabad where a test was done to reveal the sex of the unborn child.As the decoy customer was brought back to the original spot in New Delhi by another person identified as Joginder, the health team which had been following the decoy customer nabbed Rajuddin, Joginder and Sunil and recovered the Rs 20,000 taken as advance from the woman. Gyan and Manoj, the two other accused, managed to flee. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sex-determination-test-racket-busted-three-nabbed-140555
13-09-2020||---||Panipat girl tops UP civil services exam||Panipat, September 12City girl Anuj Nehra has topped the Uttar Pradesh civil services examination in her first attempt. The result was declared by the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) on Friday.She is a native of Jauli Lath village in Sonepat district.After passing Class XII in the non-medical stream with 94 per cent marks, Anuj joined Delhi University and completed her graduation and post-graduation in chemistry honours from Hansraj College.“I gave the UPSC examination twice, but couldn’t make the cut. The preparation for the UPSC exam helped me crack the UP civil service examination,” said Anuj.“The feeling is yet to sink in. I have checked the result several times just to be sure that I have topped. It is unbelievable. My hard work has bore fruit,” the Panipat girl said.Her next target is to clear the UPSC examination.Anuj’s father, Ashbeer Singh, said he had shifted to Panipat so that his children could attain higher education. “I could not study beyond Class X as I joined the Army as a teenager. But it was my dream to see my children attain higher education.”Anuj’s mother Usha said, “It is a proud moment for the family. My daughter has brought laurels for the family.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-girl-tops-up-civil-services-exam-140557
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||State 1st in North India to introduce SDP facility||The state Health Department’s efforts to ensure that the common man receives finest medical facilities without burning a hole in his pocket are palpable, as the state is the first in the northern region to start free single-donor platelets (SDP) facility for dengue patients.  Besides, the dengue test is being done free of cost in government laboratories across the state. The department has been on its toes in ensuring containment of Covid-19 and monitoring the prevalence of diseases like dengue.  Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, said there had been a declining trend of dengue in the state since 2017, and so far only 33 confirmed dengue cases were reported in the state in September this year. The cases were mainly reported from two districts — Gurugram (20) and Bhiwani (10).  Arora said the SDP facility had been started for patients admitted in government hospitals. Dengue patients with severe thrombocytopenia required SDP for immediate recovery. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-1st-in-north-india-to-introduce-sdp-facility-140559
13-09-2020||Our Correspondent---||Gurugram woman wants parole of daughters’ stalker cancelled||Gurugram, September 12 A woman has moved the police and sought cancellation of parole granted to her neighbour amid Covid. Threatening to commit suicide with her two daughters, the woman, a resident of Naharpur Roopa here, claims that the accused had been stalking and molesting them. The accused was jailed two years ago for allegedly stalking and molesting her elder daughter, driving her to suicide.  Complainant said the accused was their distant relative who lived across the street. He was let out in April and had been troubling them ever since. On Thursday, he allegedly molested and thrashed her 15-year-old daughter, breaking her jaw. “Two years ago, my eldest daughter committed suicide as he constantly stalked her and forced her to marry him. He was sent to jail but when he came out due to Covid, he started troubling my other two daughters. I have to take them with me everywhere as I can’t leave them alone. He follows and harasses us everywhere. My youngest daughter was going to buy milk yesterday when he held her hand. When she screamed, I ran out along with my husband but he punched her in the face and fled. We are living under constant fear and may have to end our lives as we cannot handle this anymore,” she told the police. An FIR has been registered against Ranjit under Section 12 of the POCSO Act. “The accused is absconding but we are conducting raids to nab him. He will be arrested soon,” said SHO Dinesh Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-woman-wants-parole-of-daughters-stalker-cancelled-140560
13-09-2020||---||2,500 illegal structures in Aravallis to be razed||Faridabad, September 12 The Faridabad Municipal Corporation (MC) is prepared to remove over 2,500 residential structures that have come up illegally on over 30 acres in Khori-Lakkadpur village in the Aravalli region. It will be the second major drive in the forest land falling in the Surajkund area, after the demolition of all 44 residential structures in Kant Enclave last year.  “Unauthorized constructions have come up in the revenue area of Lakkadpur village over the past two decades despite the ban on construction on the land covered under Section 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA), 1900,” says an official on condition of anonymity. He said the land mafia had carved out the colony and had sold it to unaware persons. A majority of the residents here were migrant workers and labourers. Varun Sheokand, a local, who had lodged a complaint in 2013, said the then Deputy Commissioner had written to the MC and the DHBVN for an action against the power and water supply connections provided here. The Food and Supply Department was also asked to withdraw the ration card facility to the locals. Though a demolition had also been carried out in 2010, it failed to remove the encroachments, it is learnt.  Claiming that the MC was all set to raze the illegal constructions as per the Supreme Court direction, Prashant Atkan, MC Joint Commissioner, said the apex court in its order on February 19, 2020, authorised it to take an action against the encroachments on its land falling under the PLPA Act.  Meanwhile, the next date of the SC hearing is September 16.  However, Nirmal Gorana, a human rights activist, has demanded suspension of the drive till the rehabilitation of the affected persons as he claimed that they were poor and the eviction amid Covid was wrong.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-500-illegal-structures-in-aravallis-to-be-razed-140562
13-09-2020||Jhajjar||Woman, mother commit suicide||A 20-year-old woman and her mother (40) reportedly committed suicide by hanging themselves in separate rooms at their house in Badli village here on Friday night. They have been identified as Manju and her daughter Tania. Domestic feud is stated to be the reason behind this extreme step. The police have registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPc. The incident came to the fore when Manju’s husband Naresh found the women hanging in separate rooms.  IO Naresh said the bodies were handed over the relatives after autopsy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-mother-commit-suicide-140563
13-09-2020||Faridabad||Man held for killing paramour’s spouse||A man (22) has been held in connection with the murder of his paramour’s spouse here on September 7, the police have said.The police said in June, Madhu (21) was married off to Rajat (25) against her wishes, as she was in a relationship with Narender from Baghpat (Uttar Pradesh). On the night of September 7, Madhu gave Rajat a glass of milk laced with sleeping pills, following which the latter fell unconscious. Narender hacked him to death and dumped the body in a drain near Khekra village of Baghpat district, the police said.The investigation zeroed in on Madhu, who feigned about the whereabouts of her husband. Her call details led the police to Narender.Rajat’s body was recovered from the canal on Friday. Subsequently, Narender was arrested. He was sent to a three-day police remand. “Madhu will be arrested soon,” a police official said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-killing-paramours-spouse-140564
13-09-2020||---||6 booked for murder||Palwal, September 12 The police have booked six persons, including a woman, on the charge of killing a resident of their village Ismailpur on Thursday late evening.  The deceased was identified as Shravan (30). His elder brother, Duli Chand, in his police complaint, said his brother was invited to a birthday party at the house of Devi Dyal on Thursday. There, he was held captive and beaten up with sticks on the suspicion of having an illicit relationship with a woman member of Devi Dyal’s family, he alleged. “When Shravan did not return home, I went to Devi Dyal’s house only to find him lying in a pool of blood,” Duli Chand said. The accused — Devi Dyal, Vinod Kumar, Raju, Gaurav, Bal Mukund and Champa Devi — were booked under Section 302 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-booked-for-murder-140565
13-09-2020||---||6-year-old electrocuted in Faridabad||Faridabad, September 12A six-year-old boy was killed and his eight-year-old sister critically injured after coming in contact with 11 KV power lines passing over their house in SGM Nagar of Badkhal area here today.The incident took place around 11 am. A local resident said the victims, Ayushi (8) and Ayush (6), were playing in the verandah (porch)of their rented house in the colony when a metallic inch tape held by one of the kids came in contact with the overhead high tension power line. They were rushed to a hospital in Sector- 21B with serious burn injuries.“While Ayush succumbed on the way to the hospital, the condition of his sister is critical as she has also suffered more than 60 per cent burn injuries,” said Monika, a neighbour.She said the family, hailing from Deoria district of UP, had shifted here about two years ago. Blaming the power department for gross negligence, she said dangling overhead lines in the congested residential area in the colony posed a serious risk to the lives of the locals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-year-old-electrocuted-in-faridabad-140566
13-09-2020||---||Sand, gravel quarries to be leased out||Chandigarh, September 12The Haryana Government has planned to lease out sand and gravel quarries or blocks in the state that have been suspended or cancelled and those having no appeal pending against them.While the public will get the construction material at reasonable prices by this move, it will also curtail the illegal mining activities.Mines and Geology Minister Mool Chand Sharma gave these directions to senior officers of the department during a review meeting.Mool Chand Sharma said the payment of dues from the leaseholders should be ensured and asked the officers to chalk out a plan so as to recover the department’s money and to fix responsibility in this regard.During the meeting, Sharma took stock of the mining blocks that had been leased out or given on contract from November 2019 till now and the status of the mines opened during this time period. Furthermore, several important issues, including contracts and lease granted through auctions, lease granted through applications, stone crushers, mineral dealer licences, short-term permits, illegal mining cases and vehicles seized during this time-frame, were discussed.The minister was told that the department would receive total revenue of about Rs 574 crore from mining activities, of which Rs 254 crore had been received so far this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sand-gravel-quarries-to-be-leased-out-140591
13-09-2020||Ambala||Liquor  with fake labels seized in Ambala||The police have seized illicit liquor in bottles with labels of popular IMFL brands —McDowell’s No 1, Old Monk, Imperial Blue and Royal Challenge — from two godowns at Mandour village here.Sources said the liquor was allegedly smuggled to Gujarat and Rajasthan in boxes of aloe vera juice. The police identified the key suspect as Nikhil Patel from Gujarat. The lid was blown off the scam after a transporter, whom Patel allegedly approached to ferry 150 boxes in a Canter to Gujarat, got suspicious and hastened to inform the police.Targeting brandsThe police impounded the Canter and further investigation led them to the two godowns in Ambala. The owners of the godowns said they had rented out the properties and had ‘no idea’ about the liquor stock.Rajesh Kalia, SP, said, “Excise officials have been called to check the stock and labelling. One of the godowns belongs to a retired policeman.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/liquor-with-fake-labels-seized-in-ambala-140415
