13-05-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Police nab man for gym owner’s murder in Gurugram||The Gurugram police on Wednesday nabbed a man for allegedly gunning down a gym owner in Naurangpur village.The accused, identified as Dheeraj alias Dhiru, resident of Nakhrola village, has reportedly confessed to his role in the crime and cited professional rivalry of distributing newspapers in Vatika City as the motive behind it. He allegedly contacted Rathi gang and had him eliminated.“He was nabbed from IFFCO following a tipoff and told us that he wanted to replace the deceased in caretaking and newspaper distribution business in Vatika City. They had a long standing tiff over the same and he had even made threat calls,” said the investigating officer.The police claimed he has a criminal record and had stayed in jail with slain gangster Ashok Rathi and became friends.Police recovered one country-made pistol and nine live bullets. Police have taken him on two days police remand after producing him in a city court today.It was on Monday early morning when 36-year-old gym owner was gunned down in front of his kids in mini stadium Naurangpur.The deceased identified as Manjeet Yadav had gone for a morning walk with his 15-year-old daughter and 8-year-old son when unidentified assailants came in a Creta car and fired on him, killing him and fled away.“We have taken him on police remand and conducting raids to nab others who were involved in the murder,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP Crime.
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports six new cases, state tally rises to 786||Haryana on Wednesday reported six new coronavirus cases, taking the state's case tally to 786.Kurukshetra reported a new case of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to four. A 38-year-old woman, a resident of Laxman colony in Kurukshetra, tested coronavirus-positive. Her sample was taken at the Alchemist Hospital in Panchkula. The woman has been shifted to LNJP hospital in Kurukshetra for resampling.Faridabad reported two new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 119. The new cases were reported from Mujesar area of NIT and Mohala village.Jhajjar reported a new case of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 84.Rohtak reported a new case of coronavirus, taking the total in the district to six.Rewari reported a new case of the contagion, taking the total in the district to five.
13-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Private schools seek safety guidelines before reopening||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12To ensure students’ safety, private schools in Chandigarh want the government to issue health and safety guidelines before they are allowed to reopen amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The schools management are looking forward to reopen, but not in the absence of proper guidelines by the government. “We will surely take protective measures for the safety of students, but the government should form certain guidelines so that we don’t face any kind of trouble later. The government must clarify on adopting safety measure. We have already faced a setback regarding the submission of fee,” said HS Mamik, president, Independent Schools’ Association.“Safety measures are not only restricted to spraying sodium hypochlorite solution or wearing masks/gloves. This is not enough and to make it clear, we want the government to frame guidelines,” said Sanjay Thareja, Director, The Gurukul, Panchkula.On March 10, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued guidance to help protect children and schools from Covid-19 transmission. “Education can encourage students to become advocates for preventing diseases at home and in school and community by talking to others about how to prevent the spread of viruses. Maintaining safe school operations or reopening schools after a closure, requires many considerations, but if done well, can promote public health,” stated the release.UNICEF has also urged schools – whether operating or helping students through remote learning – to provide pupils with holistic support.“I agree that the government should come forward to frame guidelines for the schools. We have to survive amid Covid-19. Schools will obviously play their part and will ensure safety of students to the extent possible, but we have to be very careful and precise in dealing with the problem. The government’s guidelines will help us and also parents to ensure the safety of children,” said Ranjan Sethi, Director, The British School, Sector 44.
13-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Consider new policy for premature release of lifers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12Nearly 12 years after a policy for premature release of life convicts was issued by Haryana, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today held that it had resulted in an anomalous situation before directing the state to consider the feasibility of drafting a fresh policy. The exercise was directed to be completed expeditiously, preferably within three months.The direction by Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill came in case of lifer Raj Kumar, alias Bittu, seeking premature release in a murder case. His counsel Vijay K Jindal and Vipul Jindal contended that the policy dated August 13, 2008, was issued by the state government in exercise of its powers under Sections 432 and 433 of the CrPC. The previous policy dated April 12, 2002, was, on the other hand, issued in exercise of the Governor’s powers under Article 161.Jindal added that the 2008 policy could not have precedence over the earlier policy flowing from powers conferred by the Constitution. Bittu’s case was fully covered under by the 2002 policy, while the authorities concerned were insisting on considering it under the 2008 policy.Referring to provisions regarding remissions, Justice Gill asserted that the power was vested with the President and the state Governor by Article 72 and 161 of the Constitution. A similar power was vested with the state under Sections 432 and 433 of the CrPC.Justice Gill further asserted that the 2008 policy was purportedly issued in exercise of powers under Sections 432 and 433 of the CrPC. There was no reference to the Governor’s powers under Article 161, even though it was issued in supersession of the earlier policies.The guidelines in the 2008 policy could not be made applicable, when a convict’s case was to be examined for exercise of the Governor’s powers. But the guidelines were not in existence for the exercise of powers under Article 161 as all earlier policies stood scrapped vide notification dated August 13, 2008.Justice Gill further said the Governor’s powers under Article 161 were unfettered. But some uniformity and consistency was expected so that it did not smack of arbitrariness even though it might be involuntary.Justice Gill added that the authorities would be in a dilemma on the policy’s applicability. The anomaly was going to show its effect all the more in 2020 as once convicted in 2008 and later would come in the consideration zone as they would have completed about 10 years of actual confinement.“The state should consider the feasibility of drafting a fresh policy in the matter of exercise of powers for the premature release of life convicts, particularly in respect of exercise of powers under Article 161 of Constitution of India,” Justice Gill added.2008 policy could not be made applicableGuidelines in the 2008 policy could not be made applicable, when a convict’s case was to be examined for exercise of the Governor’s powers. But the guidelines were not in existence for the exercise of powers under Article 161 as all earlier policies stood scrapped vide notification dated August 13, 2008.
13-05-2020||---||Migrant on way to his native village hit by car, dies||Ambala, May 12A migrant labourer, was killed while another suffered injuries, after they were hit by Innova car on the Ambala-Jagadhri road in Ambala Cantonment on Tuesday. They were reportedly on way to their native villages in Bihar.The deceased has been identified as Ashok Kumar (40s) and the injured was identified as Pinku (30s), both residents of Bihar.As per information, Ashok along with Pinku and Binjal were walking on the Ambala-Jagadhri road when they were hit from behind by a Toyota Innova car near Chhota Khuda village.While Ashok died on the spot, Pinku was rushed to Civil Hospital in Ambala Cantonment from where he was referred to the PGI, Chandigarh.A labourer, who was walking along with them, said “We were not getting any work or food and the money we had earned was also over, so we decided to leave for our native villages in Bihar. While we were walking, a car hit Ashok and Pinku from behind.”A case has been registered under Section 304-A, 279 and 337 of the IPC at Mahesh Nagar police station, on the complaint of Vinod Mandal, a labourer. In his statement, Vinod has stated, “We were walking towards Khudda village. Ashok, Pinku and Binjal were walking alongside the road when a car hit Ashok and Pinku. The car driver managed to flee from the spot.The car was recovered a few kilometers away from the accident spot, while the driver managed to flee. Ambala Cantonment Deputy Superintendent of Police Ram Kumar said, “These labourers had been living here in Ambala. Today, they left for their native place. The car has been recovered and efforts are on to nab the suspect.”Deceased identified, case registered
13-05-2020||---||3 children run over by engine||3 run over by engine Hisar: Three children were run over by an engine on the Hisar-Ferozepur railway track in Satya Nagar locality of the town on Tuesday. The children were playing on the railway track. — TNS
13-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||Poor air quality returns to haunt Gurugram||Gurugram, May 12 As Gurugram limps back to normalcy, poor air quality has returned to haunt Millennium City. The city that managed to breathe easy after decades following the lockdown, found its air quality in poor category in just six days of easing of restrictions owing to high vehicular movement and resumption of industrial and construction activity. The city’s AQI stood at 69 on April 1, increased to 110 on May 3 and jumped to 240 on May 9. However, the rain and storm managed to bring down the AQI to 130 on May 10. For the last three years, the average AQI during these months hovers around 350. According to the Meteorological Department, there is a possibility of strong winds and rain by May 14. After that, possibility of increase of PM 2.5 and PM 10 in AQI cannot be ruled out. Environmentalist Sunil Harsana said the lockdown highlighted the key culprits behind poor air quality.
13-05-2020||Ravinder Saini---||Lockdown impact: Pharma company sacks 100 workers||Tribune News Service Jhajjar, May 12  In what is being seen as lockdown impact on jobs, a Bahadurgarh-based pharmaceutical company is alleged to have shown the door to over 100 of its workers, many of them working with the firm for several years.  The workers, including several women, have approached the Labour Department in a written complaint for restoration of their jobs alleging that they have been removed from jobs without serving any notice or assigning any reason. “All the sacked employees had been working on posts of helper, assistant operator and operator in the Belco Pharma Company for past several years. The majority of us were on regular scales. On March 25, all of us were sent home by the company manager stating that the company would remain shut due to the lockdown. We were told that we would be called as soon as the operations are resumed but later, no one contacted us,” said Sushil Kumar, a sacked employee. He maintained they went to the company this morning on getting information about its opening but were not allowed to enter. The company manager later informed them that they had been sacked, he added. Another sacked worker, Suman, who is also president of the Company Workers Union, said they were shocked on losing their jobs without getting any notice, she added. Kuldeep Budhwar, Labour Inspector, said both the parties have been asked to appear in his office on May 18 for inquiry.  Company manager Anup Maheswari denied the allegations stating that no one had been sacked and all of them had quit on their own on March 25 .
13-05-2020||Sushil Manav||High surveillance in 5 NCR districts with 80% active cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12With over 80 per cent of active Covid cases in Haryana concentrated in five NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Panipat and Bahadurgarh town of Jhajjar, the Health Department has launched intensive surveillance programmes, particularly in the urban slums on these districts.Haryana has reported 780 Covid cases as of today, of which 427 are still active while 342 have been discharged after they were cured and 11 others died during treatment. Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, Haryana, said due to the proximity with Delhi, where the Covid outbreak was more pronounced, people from these districts too had been affected.While a large number of cases, particularly at Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar, infection came from Azadpur vegetable market of Delhi, many others Sonepat, Panipat and other towns contracted this disease from employees of the Delhi Government residing in these districts of Haryana.“During the surveillance, patients complaining of influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infection, breathlessness and pneumonia, etc are being tested for Covid so that those infected could be isolated. This is also one of the reasons for surfacing of a large number of cases from these areas in the past couple of days,” he added.In Gurugram alone, the state Health Department has covered 3,59,046 households in urban slums of the town for screening of 11,23, 350 persons for influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infection so far.Similar surveillance programme carried by the ASHA workers has been launched in Panipat, where a population of 2 lakh living in slums has been identified and over 35,045 households have been covered in the past three days.The health authorities plan to cover the slum population of 10,34,678 in Faridabad, 1,70,000 in Bahadurgarh (Jhajjar) and 68,500 in Sonepat. By Monday, 25,378 persons had been screened in Faridabad, 3,389 in Jhajjar, 10,112 in Panipat and 3,056 in Sonepat.
13-05-2020||---||Law needed to make masks mandatory: Anil Vij||Chandigarh, May 12Home Minister Anil Vij today batted for the need to frame laws to make six-feet distance between two persons and wearing of masks mandatory after the lockdown.He said the lockdown will be extended, but with more relaxations and that states have been asked to submit their plans by May 15. “When you allow industry and enable employment for workers so that they may not go hungry, industrialists want markets to open to generate demand. All these are interdependent,” he said.“We have to live with Covid now. We need to frame laws to make six-feet distance between two persons and wearing of masks mandatory. Legal backing is required (to enforce these protocols) for post-lockdown period,” he said. “Otherwise, the Covid would increase and put pressure on hospitals.”
13-05-2020||---||50 test +ve in 24 hours, Haryana tally 780||Chandigarh, May 12With a whopping 50 cases in the past 24 hours, Haryana’s Covid tally touched 780 on Tuesday.Of the fresh cases, 16 were reported from Gurugram, 13 from Sonepat and 15 from Faridabad and one each from Ambala, Panchkula, Jind, Karnal, Rewari and Kurukshetra.Of the cases in Gurugram, three are trainee nurses, five are from Sirhaul village and two are vegetable vendors. Now, the district’s tally has touched 161.In Faridabad, the district tally reached 117 with 15 new cases. Health Department officials said all the new cases were contacts of positive cases. Six persons tested positive from Adarsh Nagar in Ballabgarh, all contacts of a person admitted on May 9 who had visited Azadpur Mandi in New Delhi. Another four cases are found from Mujessar area. They were contacts of a vegetable seller of Mujessar sabzi mandi found positive on May 8.In Sonepat, the 13 fresh cases included six women. The district tally touched 118. A 60-year-old woman of Hanuman Colony, a 45-year-old woman Rishi Colony, five members of a family living in TDI Kundli, including a 57-year-old arhtiya at Azadpur Mandi, tested positive. Three family members of a patient also tested positive at Jainpur village.In Kurukshetra, an 11-year-old girl from Dhanani village of Babain block tested positive. The case is linked to the woman cook of Harigarh Bhorak village of Pehowa who worked at a police station in Panchkula and tested positive on May 9. The child’s aunt is the cook’s roommate and had reportedly visited the village recently.In Hisar, a BSF jawan tested positive and has been admitted to the isolation ward at Agroha Medical College. Consequently, the BSF camp in Hisar has been declared a containment zone.A Haryana Police constable tested positive in Rewari, taking the district count to four. The constable is the brother-in-law of a Covid patient.A 22-year-old youth of Banso Gate in Karnal city tested positive, taking the number of active cases to nine in the district. Another 22-year-old youth from Ambala tested positive in a Panchkula hospital and so did a 55-year-old from Raipur Rani in Panchkula.With five patients recovering in the last 24 hours, the number of cured cases touched 342 in the state. The recovery rate of the state stands at 43.85 per cent. Over 62,000 tests have been conducted with test positivity rate of 1.36 per cent and the tests per million have reached 2,461.
13-05-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||No Uttar Pradesh wheat, purchase dips 37.5%||Tribune News ServicePalwal, May 12The sealing of border due to Covid has curbed the arrival of wheat from UP to the tune of 21 lakh quintal in Palwal. This has led to a 37.5 per cent dip in the overall procurement here this season.Revealing that the share of UP wheat in the mandis here has been sizable in the past, market sources here said the trend had come to an end this year due to the strict checking of movement on the borders with UP and other states. This has led to a decline in the overall procurement level as the total purchase this yearis expected to be around 36 lakh quintal against 57 lakh quintal done last year, when there was no curbs.Admitting that strict curbs have been put in place in view of the Covid threat, DC Naresh Narwal said this had also prevented the entry from neighbouring districts of UP like Aligarh, Gautambuddh Nagar and Mathura. Over 25 tractor-trailers loaded with wheat attempting to enter the district have been impounded since the beginning of the procurement process, he added.About 40 per cent of the total 55,000 wheat growers have registered on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Beora’ portal of the state government this time. An official said computer operators were deputed at 130 spots mainly in government schools to assist the farmers in registrating on the portal at no additional cost.
13-05-2020||Nitish Sharma||Kurukshetra University employees await salaries||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, May 12The teaching and non- teaching staff of Kurukshetra University are yet to receive their salaries for April. Besides, the staff hasn’t received arrears of DA and education allowance for the last fiscal too.The KU has an annual budget of Rs480 crore, of which the government gives a grant of Rs108 crore for planned and non-planned expenditure, while rest of the funds are generated by the university itself.Kurukshetra University Teacher’s Association chief Sanjeev Sharma said, “Usually the university gets quarterly grants from the government and it starts from June. Due to shortage of funds, the KU is yet to release the salaries for last month. Teachers are contacting the administration daily. The university has also not paid the arrears of DA and education allowance and contingency grant which was due since last financial year, even though income tax has been paid for these emoluments by the employees.”“Last week, we were assured by the VC that the salary will be disbursed within two days but nothing happened. There are 370 teachers, 1,450 non-teaching staff, 700 persons employed through outsourcing and over 3,000 pensioners. The KU has a monthly budget of about Rs16 crore for payment of salary and pension. It”s for the first time that there is a delay in payment of salary,” he said.KU Non-Teaching Employees Association president Neelkanth Sharma said, “Employees of Group C and D used to get wheat loan but this year that too was not given. We were given assurance for the salary but none for wheat loan, arrear and allowances. The employees should be given salaries, loan, arrears and allowances soon.”
13-05-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Now, patients testing -ve once to be discharged||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 12Health Minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said the state wouldn’t follow the revised discharge policy as recommended by the Centre under which very mild, mild and moderate Covid cases can be released without RT-PCR tests for negative confirmation but would follow one-negative test norm.The minister clarified that the decision was taken after talking to experts. Vij further said the rapid kits failed verification tests.On May 9, the Centre had recommended that “mild, very mild and pre-symptomatic cases admitted to a care facility will undergo regular temperature and pulse oximetry monitoring and the patient can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days”. Also, there will be no need for testing prior to discharge, but at the time of discharge, the patient will be advised seven-day home isolation.If prior to discharge, patient’s oxygen saturation dips below 95 per cent, he will be moved to a dedicated Covid health centre. The Centre had added, “Only severe patients, including immune compromised HIV, transplant and malignancy patients, will need to test negative once by RT-PCR before discharge.”South Korean rapid test kits put on holdThe use of rapid testing kits, bought from a South Korean firm, has been put on hold. “Before their use, we had put them for verification on Covid-positive cases. But the results didn’t confirm,” Vij said.The state had earlier bought 25,000 rapid testing kits from a firm based in Gurugram. They were to be used for those coming to Haryana from outside and in containment zones.On April 27, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had put on hold the use of rapid testing kits as they failed quality checks. But Haryana claimed that the ICMR directions were related to the Chinese kits whereas they would be using South Korean kits.The rapid test uses blood instead of nasal or throat swabs, like in the RT-PCR tests, and checks for Covid antibodies. It takes around 30 minutes while the swab test takes eight to nine hours.The WHO also didn’t recommend antibody tests as it says they are produced over days to weeks after infection with the virus. “The strength of antibody response depends on several factors, including age, nutritional status, severity of disease and certain medications or infections like HIV that suppress the immune system. In some people with Covid, disease confirmed by molecular testing (e.g. reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction: RT-PCR), weak, late or absent antibody responses have been reported,” it adds.Gurugram lab reports wrong, confirms PGIMSVij on Tuesday also confirmed that Gurugram-based SRL Diagnostics produced wrong testing results. As per him, the final confirmation had come from the PGIMS, Rohtak.“I am studying the MoU with SRL and strictest action will be taken against them,” Vij said. About 11 tests of Ambala and Gurugram, conducted by SRL Diagnostics, were in dispute. Vij said the ICMR would be informed about the development.
13-05-2020||Kaithal||Safai worker dies in manhole||A safai worker died after he got stuck in a sewer manhole behind the local civil hospital in HUDA Sector 18 on Tuesday afternoon. His colleague who entered the manhole to rescue him was taken seriously ill due to poisonous gases.  Civil Lines SHO Parhlad Rai said Satish of Kakout village died in hospital, while Monu of Guhna village was referred to PGIMS-Rohtak. It is learnt that sewerman Monu got stuck in the manhole and Satish jumped in to help him, but both fell unconscious. As news of the accident spread, people from the neighbourhood and other safai workers rushed to the spot and alerted the police control room. A police team and Fire Brigade workers reached the spot and started a rescue operation. Both workers duo were pulled out and rushed to the civil hospital. — OC
13-05-2020||Yamunanagar||2 from Punjab killed in mishap in Yamunanagar||Two persons of Punjab were killed in a mishap, when their motorcycle was hit by a truck near Ratangarh village on Kurukshetra-Radaur road in Yamunanagar district. The deceased have been identified as Rajat and Raju, both residents of Moga, Punjab.Both of them were earthmoving machine operators. They were going towards Radaur town on Monday, when they reached near Ratangarh village, their motorcycle was hit by a truck and they died on the spot. — TNS
13-05-2020||Gurugram||Woman jumps to death in Gurugram||A 50-year-old woman from Assam jumped to her death from the balcony of her 8th floor flat here on Monday evening.  Hiron has been living with her husband in the Power Grid Society in Sector 43 here since July last year. Her husband is working as senior deputy manager in Power Grid, while their two children study in Assam. Hiron was alone at home at the time of the incident around 5 pm and her husband was at work. The police found no suicide note and is probing why she took the extreme step, but said her husband claimed that she was suffering from depression.  The security guard spotted Hiron’s body and informed the society’s office, which called up the police as she had died on the spot. The police took the body into custody and handed it over to Hiron’s family today after a postmortem. — OC
13-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||60,000 marriages cancelled in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 12The wedding industry has been hit hard by the lockdown as around 60,000 marriages scheduled for March, April and May have been cancelled in Haryana.“These three months signify the peak wedding season. The industry has suffered a loss of Rs 300 crore with the cancellation of 60,000 weddings. Hundreds of bookings at marriage palaces and hotels were cancelled when the lockdown came into force on March 25. Initially, weddings scheduled for March-end and April were cancelled but now all May marriages have also been cancelled,” said Dilbagh Saini, secretary of the Haryana Tent Dealers’ Welfare Association. Rs 300 cr loss in 3 monthsThe wedding industry comprising businesses related to marriage palaces, tent houses, jewellery, catering, flowers, invitation cards, dress designing, lighting, DJs and beauty parlours is in a deep crisis as the possibility of holding big weddings seems remote in the months to come due to the Covid pandemic. Over 2,500 weddings were cancelled in Rohtak alone, Saini said, adding that a few weddings with just a handful of guests, however, have been solemnised during the lockdown.Deepak, a local youth, said his wedding was scheduled on April 25 but it had to be cancelled in the wake of lockdown restrictions that did not allow more than 50 attendees.The wedding industry, which provides livelihood to lakhs of families across the state, is among the businesses worst affected by the lockdown, president of the association Anil Rao said, adding that the crisis has pushed several families to the brink.“The state government should come forward to bail out the families by providing them monetary aid as there is little possibility of marriages being solemnised with much fanfare up to November this year,” said Naresh Bhardwaj, chairman of the association.
