13-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||After PTI recruitment case, HSSC ex-member booked in DA case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 13After registering a case in Physical Training Instructors (PTIs) recruitment scam, the State Vigilance Bureau, Haryana, has now booked a former member of Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) Ram Sharan Bhola and his wife Krishna in a disproportionate assets (DA) case.Also, it has been alleged that Bhola and a Karnal resident, Rajbir Singh, have been involved in taking money from candidates for jobs.Bhola was a member of HSSC from 2005 to 2014.According to Vigilance Bureau, they evaluated Bhola’s earnings and expenditure where it has been found that till 2011, he made movable and immovable property of worth Rs 1.87 crore, though he and his wife had an income of Rs 39.40 lakh from the known sources of income.“In this way, his movable and immovable property has been found to be of Rs 1.48 crore more than his known sources of income,” said the FIR.He is found to have spent nil from 2012 to 2014, being a member of the HSSC, said the Vigilance Bureau. He allegedly sold agriculture land of Rs 1.23 crore in 2012, but no detail of this income had been shown by him or his wife.The FIR has claimed that Bhola had taken and paid back loans for his house and an Innova car, and had given car in his daughter’s wedding. Also, a plot of Rs 23.35 lakh in his nephew’s name Vikas was also purchased. All these dealings are under investigation, according to Vigilance Bureau.Bhola and his wife have been booked under section 13 (1) (e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act for disproportionate assets and section 120-B of the IPC for criminal conspiracy. Bhola and Rajbir have been alleged to have committed offences under section 420 (for cheating), 120-B (for criminal conspiracy) under the Indian Penal Code, and Section 8 (for taking gratification by corrupt or illegal means to influence public servant) and section 10 (for abetting the offence of taking illegal gratification being a public servant) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.Bhola was appointed HSSC member during Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress regime, and was removed along with other members in November, 2014, during CM Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP’s first tenure.The State Vigilance Bureau in Haryana has earlier registered a case against former chairman, members and officials of the HSSC for fraudulent recruitment of 1,983 PTIs during the Hooda-led Congress regime. Bhola was a member of HSSC when the scam took place.“I don’t want to comment about the case. We are yet to be called for questioning,” said Bhola, when contacted on phone.
13-07-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram catches fancy of Covid drug black marketeers||Tribune news serviceGurugram, July 13Owing to the shortage of Covid treatment drugs like Remdesivir in Delhi and other cities of NCR, Gurugram has caught attention of black marketeers.Gurugram so far is only city in NCR that has ensuredconsistent supply of drugs to critical Covid patients at MRP. Taking an advantage of the same many fraudulent agents after procuring the drugs from city are out selling them at ten times the price in Delhi and NCR areas like Noida.Priced at Rs 5,400 a vial, Remdesivir is being sold at as high as Rs 30,000 at vial by black marketeers who are reportedly sourcing the same from Gurugram.Already on high alert, the local drug department has barred dispensing of drugs to any non-IPD patient by city hospitals.“From day one we ensured that the drug is procured on direct company-to-hospital basis and it cannot be sold or bought over the counter from chemists. We have stringently ensured compliance of capped price. Every evening the hospitals submit the available stock and injections used and report to us so that we can keep tabs on the consumption. Gurugram, as of now,has no shortage, but following reports of people and agents trying to procure the same from hospitals through fraudulent prescriptions we have stepped up vigilance. The Covid hospitals have been restricted onprescriptions and dispensing of the drugs only to the IPD patients admitted to their facilities. The drugs are then procured by the hospital and not patient,” said Drug Controller Amandeep Chauhan.According to Chauhan, the drug is used in critical Covid patient management and thus is required by IPD patients only and as per protocol is directly procured by hospital.“There is seamless procurement in the city so far with no reported shortage or waiting period. To keep things going we need to keep a check on any black marketeering attempt,” he said.Though the city has enough stock, the alarm has been sounded on active black marketeers trying to procure Remdesivir, Favipiravir and Tocilizumab. The social media groups are full of requests of people seeking drugs and agents advertising the provision of same in not just NCR but across the country.Such social media posts have put cyber crime branch of police also on alert. The crisis, according to doctors, has risen owing to massive demand and supply gap.The demand for Remdesivir soared as it managed to cut the duration of Covid symptoms from 15 days down to 11 in clinical trial at hospitals around the world. Though there is no corroboration to prove its absolute effectiveness, in the absence ofany proven drug doctors are increasingly prescribing it in India creating huge demand.US-based Gilead Sciences, which originally developed Remdesivir to treat Ebola, has allowed four Indian companies -- Cipla, Jubilant Life, Hetero Drugs and Mylon -- to produce it. However, only Hetero has produced the drug so far.
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Absconding rape accused held by Haryana Police after 10 years||A rape accused, who had been absconding for 10 years, was nabbed from Hisar, a spokesperson of Haryana Police said on Monday.“Since 2010, the accused changed locations, even jobs to evade arrest. However, the rape accused was on Sunday nabbed after 10 years of the crime from Hansi in Hisar,” he said.The spokesperson said that the accused, identified as Suresh alias Kalia, a resident of Hansi, had in September 2010 raped a woman who lived in a village temple.A case in this connection was registered in Sadar police station Hansi and the accused had been absconding since then, he said.Investigations revealed that after committing the crime, the accused fled to Delhi and continued to change his job to evade arrest.He worked as a flower seller, driver and also served at a private company in the national capital. He remained in hiding there for about 10 years, he said.During the course of investigations, the court had also declared him a proclaimed offender in 2012. Police, in July 2018, announced a cash reward of Rs 25,000 on his arrest. PTI
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar accords approval to set up three new medical colleges in Haryana||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has accorded approval to set up three new medical colleges in the state, an official spokesperson said here on Monday.In a major push to the health infrastructure of Haryana, Khattar has also approved the opening of a new primary health centre and a sub-health centre and the upgrading of a sub-divisional civil hospital, a community health centre, a primary health centre and a sub-health centre, he said.                        The chief minister also accorded approval to start a DM Cardiology course at the Pt B D Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, he added.The new medical colleges will come up in Sirsa, Kaithal and Yamunangar districts, the official said.In Sirsa, the institution will be set up on the land of the Haryana Agricultural University. In Kaithal, it will be established in Sarpankheri village and in Yamunanagar, the college will come up on panchayat land, the spokesperson added.He said the DM Cardiology course at the PGIMS, Rohtak, would be run under the Medical Council of India (MCI).The institute already has all the requisite infrastructure, equipment and full-time faculty to start a separate course in DM Cardiology as per the requirement of the MCI, the official said.It was decided to upgrade the Sub Divisional Civil Hospital, Jagadhari (Yamunanagar), to a 100-bedded facility. The Community Health Centre, Hodal, in Palwal district would be upgraded to a 50-bedded civil hospital, he said.The spokesman said the primary health centre in Sambhli village of Karnal district will be upgraded to a community health centre, and the sub-health centre in Urlana Kalan village of Panipat district will be upgraded to a primary health centre. He said the chief minister has also accorded approval to open a new sub-health centre in Bataur village of Panchkula district and a primary health centre in Khambi village of Palwal. —PTI
13-07-2020||Karnal||Coronavirus: Karnal reports 11 new cases; Haryana tally rises to 21,251||Haryana on Monday reported 11 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s case tally to 21,251.Karnal reported the 11 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 530. The eleven cases include two from Sector-13, three of a family of Sector-6, two from another family of Sector-6, a man from Sector-4, a man from Vikas Nagar, a man from Uttam Nagar, and a man from Shivaji Colony. The recovery rate is also increasing day by day as 25 patients have been discharged on Sunday.
13-07-2020||Amit Bathla||After Covid, 50-yr-old Panchkula man now battles stigma||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 12Even though Hari Krishan (name changed), a migrant, has already completed the mandatory home isolation period after his treatment at BRS Dental College in Barwala on June 27, the 50-year-old, who successfully defeated Covid-19, now battles the stigma attached to the infectious disease.He is not being called back to work by his employer in the Industrial Area, Phase 1, mounting his financial struggles. As per the discharge slip signed by the Medical Officer, Primary Health Centre, Kot, he was asked to isolate himself for seven days between June 28 and July 3. On July 4, he attained a medical fitness certificate from the Civil Hospital that mentioned that he was fit to join duty from July 6.I have been associated with the firm for years; it’s heartbreaking how they are treating me. I have been struggling to make ends meet. I don't know for how long I can survive on borrowed money.— Krishan (name changed)He went to his office, where officials told him to wait for some more time to join duty. On July 8, he again underwent a Covid test and the result came out to be negative. He approached the company, but again met with disappointment.Was sampled after return from BiharThe Bihar nativee was sampled at the flu corner in the Civil Hospital on June 16 upon his return from his home state, where his family lives. He was asymptomatic.
13-07-2020||Sushil Manav||Locust keeps Haryana farmers on tenterhooks||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12For the third consecutive day on Sunday, swarms of locust continued to keep farmers and officials of the Haryana Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department on the tenterhooks. A large swarm, 4 km in length and 2 km in width, settled on the fields in Karkhara Bass, Dhanonda, Aghiar and Pathera villages of Mahendragarh district.Another 3-km-long swarm was spotted over the Behal block of Bhiwani and Loharu block of neighbouring Charkhi Dadri and a third, a scattered one, over Sirsa’s Ellenabad area.Surender Dahiya, Additional Director, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, said while the first swarm was moving towards Charkhi Dadri, the one in Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri was moving towards Rajasthan.On Saturday, eight locust swarms — two each in Mahendragarh and Jhajjar and one each in Rewari, Sirsa, Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri — are reported to have damaged the standing crops extensively. Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal said a special girdawari would be conducted to assess the loss. He visited the locust-affected area of Charkhi Dadri today. “We have reports that about 50 per cent of the swarm has been eliminated with tractor-mounted spray guns,” he said.
13-07-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Mud makes way into residents’ homes||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comMud makes way into residents’ homesTo provide gas connections in Sector 9 of Karnal, a company was given a contract for laying of underground LPG pipeline. The company dug a number of pits outside every house by uprooting the cement tiles from the road. After the completion of the work, the workers filled the pits with soil, but never placed back the cement tiles. Given it is a rainy season, the mud has started to come into every house, giving a hard time to the residents. I request the Karnal Municipal Corporation to take necessary action against the company, and address our grievances. Rajiv Anand, XEN, Sector 9, KarnalEmissions from diesel generators a threatAll the policies to control pollution in the NCR have gone down the drain, as two diesel generators installed in the park have been releasing poisonous gases in the air. In Sai Park located in Sector 31, Faridabad, a decades-old diesel generator had been recently installed inside the park. The generator operates for hours day in and day out to draw water from a borewell, causing pollution. The polluted environment in the park is detrimental for the health of people doing yoga there. Another diesel generator set, owned by one of the residents, has been installed in the north-west corner of the park. As per the CPCB guidelines, one can install the generator either in the basement or on the rooftop. However, no one has dared to question the resident for violating the guidelines. Both generators use diesel as fuel and emit hot poisonous gases, which worsens the quality of air. Ram Deswal, Sector 31, FaridabadNo end to power cutsFrequent power outages in Sector 7, Kurukshetra, has made the lives of residents miserable in the present season. Several complaints have been made on 1912, but to no avail. The Uttar Haryana Bijili Vitaran Nigam (UHBVN) authorities have cited poor line maintenance, incompetent officials and mismanagement in the department as the reasons behind the frequent power cuts. Anshu Gupta, KurukshetraProperty tax portal closedThe Faridabad Municipal Corporation had temporarily closed the online portal of property tax three years ago on the pretext of streamlining its working. As a result, residents of the city and those living outside it, especially senior citizens and NRIs, have been facing a lot of inconvenience. Residents are not even able to deposit the tax offline. In June, it was said that the portal would open from July 1, but now the date of opening has been further shelved to July 15. Dolly Moga, Sector 21C, FaridabadWaterlogged road a problemA heavy spell of rain on the intervening night of last Saturday and Sunday here in Narwana has brought the entire city to a standstill. The road from Vishwakarma Chowk to Dhakal Road, which was already in a dilapidated condition, was waterlogged, making the lives of residents a hell. It appears that the administration does not care about the welfare of the common man. Ramesh Gupta, Narwana
13-07-2020||Rohtak||Academic, administrative meeting||Skill training programmeFaridabad: In order to impart skill training to economically weaker students to make them self-reliant, the Community College of Skill Development (CCSD) of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has signed an MoU with Prayas Social Welfare Society, an NGO working for imparting free education to underprivileged children belonging to economically weaker section of the society. Revealing it, a spokesperson of the university said the agreement would facilitate those students who were pursuing skill development courses at training centre at Prayas Society to further take advantage of skill courses being offered by the CCSD. Describing this collaboration as a part of the university’s community service initiatives, Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar said it was a part of the move towards making various sections of the society skilled and able so that they could become independent in terms of employment or work. “The university is committed to impart qualitative skill education to the students so as to enable them to face challenges of the competition,” he said adding that there was a need to conduct more training and collaborative programmes for skill development of marginalised people, especially women in rural areas.‘Use fertilisers for higher yield’Hisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University Vice-Chancellor KP Singh said due to deficiency of essential nutrients, plant yield decreases therefore fertilisers and manure must be used to replenish the deficiency of any element in the soil. “While determining the amount of fertilisers required, it is necessary to take into account the fertility of the soil and the amount of nutrients absorbed by the crop,” he said. He said farmers plant orchards of fruit-bearing plants but due to lack of information they fail to get good yield. Therefore, it is important to check the soil before planting orchards so that it can be determined whether the soil is right for planting the orchard or not, he said. “Tests to detect the composition and nature of the soil such as alkalinity and salinity should be get done, and if the soil is not favourable for sowing, improvements can be made accordingly,” he said. He advised farmers that if there is a difference in the soil of the field, then the soil sample should be taken from different fields. He said farmers should not take samples from areas where chemicals or fertilisers have been recently used. Also, do not allow samples to come in contact with manure, ash, or dung and do not place samples on fertiliser bags. He said samples should be air-dried in shade. Many farmers heat the samples or dry them in the sun, which is incorrect, he added.Vet varsity board of management meetsHisar: To ensure better hygiene at poultry farms across the state, Haryana Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora has directed Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (LUVAS) in Hisar to devise a robust mechanism to redress the problem of flies arising due to poultry farms. The Chief Secretary gave these instructions while presiding over the 26th meeting of the Board of Management, LUVAS, through videoconferencing. She said to redress the problem of flies, a WhatsApp group should be created for poultry farmers so that information related to poultry could be made available from time to time to the farmers. It was also decided at the meeting that the instructions issued by the government to the LUVAS should be incorporated in the statutes of the LUVAS for ensuring transparency in the working of the university. It was informed at the meeting that the LUVAS had already created a helpline number (93000-00857) which caters to the need of farmers and provides advise/services regarding animal health management, feeding, telemedicine, preliminary treatment of animals, poultry etc. by expert scientists of the university. She was also informed that services of expert, scientists were also being made available to the farmers during training and animal health camps were being organised from time to time at various Haryana Pashu Vigyan Kendras. The meeting was attended by Finance and Planning Departments Additional Chief Secretary TVSN Prasad and Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department Principal Secretary Raja Sekhar Vundru, LUVAS Vice-Chancellor Gurdial Singh and ICAR Deputy Director General (Animal Sciences) BN Tripathi, and others.Ban misleading posts: SchoolsYamunanagar: The Yamunangar District Public Schools’ Association and the Haryana Schools' Welfare Association on Sunday gave a representation to Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar, Superintendent of Police Kamaldeep Goyal and District Education Officer Namita against mis-representation of facts about monthly tuition fee on social media. The representation was handed over by educationists MS Sawhney, SP Baveja, Sushil Jaiswal, Dr MK Sehgal, Ram Niwas Garg, Sube Singh Panjeta, Usha Sharma, Sanjay Kamboj, Vikram Luthra and Varun Sharma at Mini-Secretariat here. Dr MK Sehgal, media in charge of Yamunanagar District Public Schools Association, said the teachers at all schools were continuously imparting education to students through online education system. He said they had been requesting the parents/students to deposit the tuition fee every month till the lockdown period was over. He further said some people were misleading public that private schools could not charge monthly tuition fee and were putting Facebook posts and videos on social media. “Such type of posts on social media has troubled genuine persons as well as has been tarnishing the image of schools in the eyes of the public. Therefore, such unnecessary posts and videos should be banned in the interest of natural justice,” said Dr Sehgal.
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Soon, online appointment with ministers in Haryana||Soon, Haryana will launch e-Sachivalaya, a digital platform, where the general public will have the facility of seeking appointment for meeting ministers and various officers.The e-Sachivalaya aims at bringing the government and its functionaries under one roof for better functioning, coordination and ensuring effectiveness in the citizen interface, especially during the Covid pandemic, said a government spokesman.Haryana Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora held a meeting though video conferencing with all Administrative Secretaries to review the implementation of e-Sachivalaya and updating of data on the human resource management system (HRMS) and litigation management system (LMS).The Chief Secretary directed the officers to swiftly ramp up their preparation for ensuring timely implementation of work related to these projects. During the meeting, the Chief Secretary informed that the e-Sachivalaya system, would allow a functionary to schedule virtual meetings with the public through a video link. — TNS
13-07-2020||Karnal||Drug peddler held with 31 kg opium||A team of the CIA-2 unit of Kaithal police has arrested one person allegedly with 31 kg opium costing around Rs 62 lakh in the market.He was produced in court and was taken on two-day police remand. They are yet to determine the source of the opium. Shashank Kumar Sawan, Superintendent of Police, Kaithal, said on a tip-off, team members arrested a person from Sanjay Basti in Cheeka with 1 kg opium. Two of his accomplices managed to flee. Later, the police seized 30 kg opium from his home. — TNS
13-07-2020||Mukesh Tandon||BJP councillor alleges ‘corrupt’ practices in Panipat civic body||Tribune News ServicePanipat, July 12The local Municipal Corporation is again in the news for the wrong reasons. A BJP councillor, Anjali Sharma, has written to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, alleging “corrupt practices” in the civic body.Sharma, the councillor from ward number 3, alleged that be it any work related to the development of the city or issuing death and birth certificates, officers demanded bribe. “MC officers have fixed a commission between 18 and 20 per cent for clearing bills of contractors,” she alleged.Pramod Vij, Panipat City MLA‘Erring officers to be shifted’Corruption in the MC cannot be tolerated. If any other officer is found involved in any corrupt practice, he or she will be shifted.Rs The councillor also mentioned the percentage share of commission of officers, including the MC Commissioner, in her letter. She claimed MC officials took Rs 5,000 for birth and death certificates, and domicile certificates.This is not the first time that a councillor from the ruling party has raised question on the working of the civic body.In June last year, Mayor Avneet Kaur had talked about corrupt practices prevalent in the MC during a programme in the city. Besides, BJP councillor from ward number 25 Dushyant Bhatt has been accusing MC officers of corruption.The Mayor could not be contacted in spite of repeated attempts.When contacted, Panipat City MLA Pramod Vij said, “Corruption in the MC cannot be tolerated. Some officers, including the Superintending Engineer, an Executive Engineer, a Junior Engineer and the Commissioner, have been shunted out. If any other officer is found involved in any corrupt practice, he or she will be shifted.”
13-07-2020||---||Unauthorised structures in Yamunanagar razed||Yamunanagar, July 12A team of the District Town Planner (DTP) has demolished several unauthorised structures in the restricted belt of the Ambala-Saharanpur National Highway 344 on Saturday.“In Sabalpur village, the office of an automobile agency, the boundary wall of a plot, a car washing centre, four shops and four damp proof courses (DPCs) were razed,” said Amit Madholia, DTP, Yamunanagar.In Bambholi village, a hotel, two dhabas, five hoardings, six rooms, four boundary walls, a garage and a parking shed were demolished.“An FIR has been lodged against the owner of one of the dhabas situated in Bambholi village,” the DTP said. Ravinder Kumar, naib tehsildar, Saraswati Nagar, was appointed the duty magistrate for the demolition drive.“No construction is allowed in the 60 m radius of national highways and 30 m radius of scheduled roads in Yamunanagar district without the permission from the Director of the Town and Country Planning,” the DTP added.
13-07-2020||Parveen Arora||State-of-the-art roads for Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 12The Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) has started the tendering process for the project of laying underground wires for electric transmission in the city to get rid of the existing overhead power lines.The tenders will be floated in August, and the work will start from September. The deadline for the completion of work will be six months after the work is allotted.The project is being initiated under the smart city project by Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL). The project had difficulty in getting its wings, as it was plagued by some hurdles.“The project is being initiated for the beautification of the city under the central business development area plan of the smart city project. All the overhead electric wires will be converted into underground power lines. The UHBVN has started the tendering process, and the tenders will be floated in August. After the allotment of work in the month of September, six months will be given to complete the work,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO, KSCL.He said four roads, including a road from Committee Chowk to Mahatma Gandhi Chowk, Namastey Chowk to Meera Ghati Chowk, Tau Devi Lal Chowk to Maharana Pratap Chowk, and Hospital Chowk to Valmiki Chowk, would be covered under the project.A sum of Rs 20 crore would be spent on the project. After completion of the work, the roads would become state-of-the-art roads, devoid of electric poles and wires, Yadav said.
13-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||6K Rohtak auto drivers no longer behind wheel||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 12Conditions have forced over 6,000 autorickshaw drivers in the district to switch to other fields. A majority of drivers are ready to sell their vehicles, but there is no buyer in the market. Rohtak has over 10,000 autorickshaws.Wazir Sindhu and his family had shifted from Kheri Sadh village to Rohtak four years ago to drive an autorickshaw. He returned to the village recently as he had no money to pay house rent.“I waited for a month for the situation to normalise, but it did not happen. I have started farming to make ends meet. I want to sell my autorickshaw even if I get a low price,” he said.Raju had gone back to his work as denter-cum-painter. “I began driving an autorickshaw after quitting this work around seven years ago. Circumstances have compelled me to switch to my previous job,” he said.Jitender had opened a juice corner and was in no mood to drive an autorickshaw again. Ram Chander switched to the vegetable market for work. Rohtash joined a private company as salesman. Dinesh and Rampal were now engaged in manual labour.Rajender Dahiya, president of the New Rohtak Autorickshaw Kalyan Samiti, said the financial condition of autorickshaw drivers had gone from bad to worse. “We have asked the state government to provide some monetary relief, but to no avail,” he said.Ready to sell their vehicles, no buyers
13-07-2020||Gurugram||Jilted lover kills woman, ends life hours later||A jilted lover allegedly shot dead a woman, who got married on June 29, and committed suicide hours later in the district’s Nanu Kalan village on Saturday.The deceased have been identified as Rajesh (38) and Priyanka (20). Their bodies were found behind a shop in the village. A liquor bottle and a country-made pistol were found near the bodies. A murder case has been registered at the Pataudi police station.Rajesh, a dhaba owner, was married with three children. Sources say Rajesh and Priyanka were in a relationship before her wedding.Priyanka came to Nanu Kalan village on Saturday to visit her parents.On Saturday night, Rajesh reportedly called Priyanka in the market and shot her dead before killing himself.“The woman was shot in the chest. The reason behind the murder is yet to be ascertained,” said Deepak Saharan, DCP, Manesar. — OC
13-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||DC inspects ‘killer’ Dadri-Narnaul highway, says will get it repaired||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, July 12Taking note of a news report in The Tribune about the deplorable condition of the Dadri-Narnaul state highway, which was earlier NH 148 B, Deputy Commissioner RK Singh, along with other officials, inspected the “killer stretch” on Sunday.The DC found potholes on the 42-km stretch of the highway from Kuksi to Mandola villages. “We will ensure the repair of the highway to curb accidents and to ensure a smooth journey. I have written to the Additional Chief Secretary (PWD, B&R) in this regard,” RK Singh told The Tribune.The DC said the highway, which was declared NH 148 B some years ago, had now been de-notified as a state road. “The highway is in a pathetic condition as heavy vehicles ply. The road users face inconvenience in the absence of four-laning in Mahendragarh district,” RK Singh added.Fed up with the bad condition of the road, local residents have put up hoardings at several places on both sides of the highway calling it a “jaanleva road (fatal highway)”.“About 20 people have lost their lives in the past eight to 10 months. Hence, be careful on the road as it is full of potholes,” state the hoardings.
13-07-2020||---||SIT to probe ‘murder’ of 3 Panipat children||Panipat, July 12The Superintendent of Police on Sunday constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to inquire into the alleged murder of three children of Binjhol village.Besides, the family members and villagers on Sunday constituted a 21-member committee to pursue the case.MP Sanjay Bhatia, along with MLA Mahipal Dhanda, on Sunday morning reached Binjhol village to meet the parents of the deceased children.The parents, along with villagers, expressed dissatisfaction with the police investigation.The family members alleged that the police were not investigating the case properly and demanded that an SIT must be formed.The MP assured the family members and villagers of a fair investigation into the matter.Following the demand of the villagers, MP Bhatia called up Superintendent of Police Manisha Chaudhary and asked her to constitute a special team to investigate the case.Besides, members of the Kashyap community from across the state also held a meeting in the afternoon at Binjhol village. It was presided over by Indri MLA Ramkumar Kashyap.The bodies of Lakshya (10), Vansh (10) and Arun (12) were found in a canal flowing along an illegal bleaching house in Binjhol village on Wednesday.SP Manisha Chaudhary said an SIT headed by DSP Sandeep Kumar, along with SHO Model Town and in-charge CIA-3, would investigate the case. It has been directed to conclude the case at the earliest, the SP said.Police probe shoddy: family
13-07-2020||Deepender Deswal & Ravinder Saini||Locusts active in Bhiwani, Mahendergarh||Tribune News ServiceHisar/Mahendergarh, July 12The state authorities have managed to control between 40 per cent and 70 per cent of the locust swarms during the night-long operation in six districts even as two swarms are active in Bhiwani and Mahendragarh.The swarms are in the process of settling down in Bhiwani’s Chahar Kalan and Chahar Khurd villages. Pratap Singh, Deputy Director, Agriculture (DDA), Bhiwani, said they had managed to control nearly 40 per cent of the locusts during the operation.“The swarm in Bhiwani left for the Rajasthan early in the morning, but returned to our region and was in the process of settling down. We will again carry out the operation to eliminate the pest at night,” he said. The swarm, 5 km in length and around 4 km in width, was active in the region, he said.Babulal Varma, DDA, Sirsa, said the swarm in Sirsa district had crossed to Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh district with change of wind. “There was no active swarm today. We will assess the loss to crops in Ellenabad,” he said.The Rewari authorities pressed into service eight fire tenders and 35 tractor-mounted spray pumps to tackle locusts atop trees in Maleshiawas village. DC Yashendra Singh claimed 45 per cent of locusts were killed. The insects later moved towards Mahendragarh, with over 10 per cent loss having been reported in the village.“The swarm eight km in length and five km in width entered Kosli from Mahendragarh district. Farmers on alert rushed to their fields, banged utensils and made noise to scare the insects away. The swarm settled on both sides of the canal in Maleshiawas village,” he said.The swarm moved towards Mahendragarh district and was flying over the villages till the filing of this report. A team led by DDA Jaswinder Singh was chasing them.Another swarm which entered Mahendragarh villages from Rajasthan settled in Khudana Bas village on Saturday night. The team could not conduct a spray at night as it could have damaged the cotton crop.“We waited for sunrise to carry out the spray, but it rained in the morning. The spray was conducted for an hour. The locusts moved towards Charkhi Dadri in the afternoon,” said Jaswinder Singh, DDA, Narnaul. There was 15 per cent damage to the crop in Khudana Bas and Kheri villages, sources said.Agriculture Minister Jai Prakash Dalal was present during the operation in Biththan village in Bhiwani last night. He stated that the night-long operation was a success.“Officials are working in tandem. Farmers need to be alert and make loud sounds to ward off locusts,” he said. They would assess the loss and compensate farmers, he added.The minister they had deployed fire tenders filled with chemicals and tractor-mounted spray guns to kill the insects. “Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed the DCs of affected districts to remain on alert. The government has sought a preliminary report on any loss to crops,” he added.
13-07-2020||Kurukshetra||Teenager hangs himself in Kurukshetra||A 16-year-old Class X student reportedly hanged himself from a ceiling fan at the service quarters of Gurukul campus in Kurukshetra last evening after failing in the X examination.The deceased was identified as Sagar. He was taken to a private hospital, where he was declared brought dead. He was upset as he had failed in the examination.“The body was handed over to his family after postmortem examination today.” said police post incharge Dharambir. — TNS
13-07-2020||yamunanagar||2 cousins killed in road mishap||Two cousins were killed when their car was allegedly hit by a truck near Buria Chungi in Jagadhri town late on Saturday.The deceased have been identified as Vikrant Kamboj of Nabh village and Parjuwal Kamboj of Fatehpur village of Yamunanagar district.Ghashitu Ram of Vijay Nagar of Jagadhri said his nephews Vikrant (brother’s son) and Parjuwal (sister’s son) had come to Jagadhri for some work last evening.He said when they were returning to Nabh village, their car was hit by a truck coming from Buria town side near Buria Chungi. The boys sustained injuries and were taken to Civil Hospital, Jagadhri, where they were declared brought dead.The unidentified driver has been booked in the case. — TNS
13-07-2020||Parveen Arora||Rain a pain for paddy growers in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 12Rain in the district in the last two days has flooded hundreds of acres in more than 10 villages in Assandh and Nilokheri blocks. Paddy crop in these fields has been submerged, leading to losses to farmers. They have urged the government to order a special ‘girdawari’ to assess the losses.“Around 50 acres have been submerged in Ruksana village and we are facing losses as the paddy crop has been flooded,” said Darshan Singh, a farmer.Gagandeep Singh of Uplana village said the main reason for the flood-like situation was non-cleaning of drains. He claimed the authorities did not pay heed to their grievance despite requests.Rishpal Singh of Borshyam village said: “Due to continuous rain and poor drainage, my crop had got submerged. I request the government to conduct a special ‘girdawari’ to calculate the losses of farmers.” Assandh MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi inspected the area and alleged that the authorities did not bother to clean the drains before the monsoon, leading to the present situation.“I visited various areas and found farmers having suffered losses. I have sent details to the Chief Secretary and DC and will apprise the CM about the poor drainage in the Assandh block,” said the Congress MLA.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said: “A ‘girdawari’ will be conducted to determine the losses.”
13-07-2020||Sushil Manav||Haryana in ‘top 5’ in testing||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12A vast imbalance continues in the tests per million (TPM) of population being conducted in various districts of Haryana although the state has increased its testing to some extent during the past some days.Also, while computing its tests per million, the state Health Department is using population figures of the 2011 Census as against the 2019 population projection as per the National Population Commission being used at the national level.A senior officer of the Health and Family Welfare Department, Haryana, claimed that Haryana was among the first five in testing among the bigger states.Gurugram and Faridabad continue to be almost equally worst-hit districts with 6,860 and 5,420 cumulative number of cases and 1,026 and 932 active cases respectively.However, while Gurugram had conducted 40,740 tests per million (4,074 per lakh) of population till July 9, the tests per million in Faridabad stood nearly at its half at 20,450.In total numbers, Gurugram had collected 61,692 samples against 37,002 in Faridabad.Sonepat district, which is also among the badly hit districts with 1,989 cumulative positive cases and 700 active cases, had conducted merely 17,560 tests per million till July 9. It had collected 25,468 samples till July 9.On the other hand, Panchkula, with only 144 positive cases till date, had tested 11,259 samples at the rate of 20,060 tests per million.Haryana, overall, claims to have conducted 14,699 tests per million. Though counted at the 2019 population figures, the figure comes to be 12,289 as on July 9.As against this, Goa had TPM of 57,055 followed by Ladakh (51,829), Andaman and Nicobar (45,456), Delhi 37,706, Dadra, Nagar Haveli and Daman 36,904, Jammu and Kashmir 33,169, Andhra Pradesh 21,364, Tamil Nadu 20,201, Tripura 19,897, Arunachal Pradesh 19,836, Manipur 19,622, Sikkim 18,252, Puducherry 16,280, Assam 15,323, Himachal Pradesh 13,187, Rajasthan 13,062 and Mizoram 13,312. Even Punjab was better placed at 12,661 tests per million.Among some other districts to have performed better than the state level are Rohtak which conducted 23,556 tests at 22,200 tests per million and Ambala with 17,797 tests at 15,770 tests per million.Rewari with 477 cumulative positive cases has conducted the lowest tests per million at 6,840 followed by Sirsa where 9,119 samples were tested till July 9 at the rate of 7,040 tests per million.The senior officer of the Health and Family Welfare Department, Haryana, said that computing with the 2019 figures would not make much difference to the overall TPM of the state.As far as the disparity among districts, particularly the lesser number of tests in Faridabad in comparison with Gurugram, is concerned, he said it is because of the presence of a number of private labs in Gurugram.
13-07-2020||---||Cases go past 21K, toll reaches 301 in Haryana||Chandigarh, July 12The spike in Covid cases continued unabated, with 658 fresh cases taking the tally to 21,240.The death toll reached 301 with four more deaths. While Sonepat reported two more deaths, one death each was reported from Gurugram and Nuh.Faridabad reported the maximum of 222 cases, followed by Gurugram (112), Sonepat (101) and Palwal (35). The tally of recovered patients rose to 4,389, with 142 patients having been discharged in the past 24 hours.Karnal reported 21 cases, taking the total to 519. Of the fresh cases, five infections surfaced in Jamalpur. In Panipat, 14 cases were detected. As per details, five of these cases were reported from Samalkha.Twelve cases were detected in Bhiwani and 26 in Hisar. Twelve cases in Ambala took the district tally to 507. Seven of these were linked to the famous cloth market. Yamunanagar reported three cases, taking the tally to 133.
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Extension for 5 HSSC members||The government has given nine-month extension to five members of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC), mandated to make Group C and D appointments in the state.The members who have been given extension are Neelam Awasthi, Amar Nath Sauda, Bhopal Singh, Vijay Pal Singh and Pradeep Jain.Their one-year extension ended on July 11. — TNS
13-07-2020||Parveen Arora||Low footfall, fixed expenses send shop owners packing in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 12Far from breaking even due to low footfall of customers and high amount of fixed expenses, over 20 persons had to shut their businesses in the city.Due to the prevailing slowdown in the economy, most of the restaurateurs and shopkeepers selling mobiles and garments were forced to take this step.A 30-year-old Nikhil had invested his father’s hard-earned money to fulfill his dream of opening a restaurant in Model Town, but he never imagined that he would have to close it so soon. The burden of fixed expenses, such as rent, electricity charges and salary of the employees, left him with no option, except to shut down the restaurant.“I have invested a lot of money in the business, and had hoped of good returns. However, with the prolonged and unprecedented lockdown, all my dreams and hopes have been dashed. It would cost me over Rs 1 lakh to pay the rent and salary of the staffers, and Rs 7,000 to Rs 13,000 for electricity and food. With no income, the fixed expenses of running the business were draining my financial resources,” said Nikhil.Likewise, a 36-year-old man had to shut down his mobile store in the city. He said: “I had to close my mobile store in the city, as I was unable to pay the high rent.”While some have shut down their businesses, others are on the verge of closing down their business operations. “I have been running a garment shop on the Kunjpura road for the last six years, but the prevailing situation has got me thinking if I should close my store. With zero income, to pay rent and salaries of the staff is like a nightmare to me,” said a shopkeeper.A couple of shopkeepers have shifted their establishments to other locations to cut down on their rent. “I was running a restaurant in Sector 12, but the monthly rent of Rs 53,000 burnt a hole in my pocket. Since the dine-in facility has been allowed in restaurants under Unlock 1.0, I have decided to shift my establishment to another location to cut down on my rent,” said a restaurant owner of the city.
13-07-2020||New Delhi||Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala meets Shah||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala today met Union Home Minister Amit Shah. They discussed the upcoming Baroda byelection and Cabinet expansion, among other things, during the 40-minute meeting.The JJP leader emphasised that his party had a strong base in Baroda, but left the choice of nominee to the BJP leadership.It was emphasised that the BJP and JJP would contest the byelection jointly. The JJP leader sought speedy expansion of the Cabinet. He reminded Shah that a slot for the JJP in the Council of Ministers was pending.Shah indicated that the Council of Ministers would be expanded soon. Dushyant stressed filling up of posts of chairpersons of boards and corporations with a suitable share for the JJP.Fighting Covid well: ShahGurugram: "We currently are in a good position in the ongoing war against Covid. We are and will continue to fight with determination and enthusiasm," Union Home Minister Amit Shah said.He was here to take part in a mega plantation drive initiated by the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) at the CRPF training campus in Kadarpur village."The entire world was scared as to how a large country like ours would face this challenge. They said that having a federal structure of governance, dense population of 130 crore people and no single chain of command would be our key challenges, but everybody has fought like one nation. That's our strength," Shah said.He also lauded the role of the security forces in the battle against Covid. — TNS
13-07-2020||Palwal||School named after martyr||New retail outlet launchedKarnal: ‘Farm Mantra’, a retail outlet, was launched on NABARD’s 39th foundation day. Dedicated to products of Farmer Producer Organisation and self-help groups, it would provide impetus to direct marketing of farm-based products. The initiative was being managed by the MIECS, an NGO working with NABARD for capacity-building.Outfit cremates 300th bodyJhajjar: Moksha, a social body, cremated the 300th unidentified body in Bahadurgarh. All members of the organisation were present during the last rites. “We cremate unidentified bodies and immerse their ashes in the Ganga as per rituals. It gives us satisfaction and encourages us to work for this social cause with more enthusiasm,” said Surender Chug, president. He said they had cremated the first body in November 2011.Sapling plantation drive heldPanipat: The Panipat Refinery and Petrochemical Complex (PRPC) celebrated its 22nd foundation day on Sunday by planting 250 saplings at the CISF Complex. GC Sikdar, executive director, PRPC, congratulated the staff for regular production and supply of fuel during the lockdown. Mahua Basu, chief general manager; SK Tripathi, general manager; VM Joshi, Commandant, CISF; and KPS Saini, Deputy Commandant, were present during the sapling plantation drive.Contributed by Bijendra Ahlawat, Parveen Arora, Ravinder Saini and Mukesh Tandon
