13-11-2020||APROPOS of the TNS report from Karnal||MLAs must shun pension||Redesigned roads for GurugramINDEED, it is a matter of great satisfaction that the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is planning to redesign streets in South City I and Sushant Lok by freeing footpaths of encroachments. Besides, the service roads adjoining the Vyapar Kendras, which are being used as garbage dumps and for car parking, is also to be cleaned to ease the situation for commuters. Subhash C Taneja, GurugramNewly laid road caves in, traffic hitA road which was laid just two days back caved in and has badly affected the traffic on the road. The reason behind the damage is said to be a leaking underground pipeline. The damage is significant and could have been fatal but fortunately, nobody was injured. Those responsible for this irresponsibility should be punished and the concerned authorities must get the needful done immediately. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
13-11-2020||Karnal||New session of college commences||PRARAMBH holds online orientationJhajjar: Prarambh, a state institute of advanced studies in teacher education, organised online orientation for its newly enrolled students. Institute Director Rishi Goel called upon the students to work hard and make their future bright and to ensure their contribution in the betterment of the society. Savita Yadav spoke about cultural and co-curricular activities of the institute while Assistant Professor Rakesh Sheoran spoke about the journey of the institute and expectations from the students and teachers.Admission ON for distance coursesRohtak: Maharishi Dayanand University (MDU) has issued admission notice for Distance Learning Programmes for the session 2020-2021. Prof Kuldeep Singh Chhikara, Director, Directorate of Distance Education (DDE), said admission in distance education will be under semester mode for new students, whereas for old students registered earlier, admissions would be in annual mode. Prof Chhikara said the last date for submission of online applications would be November 30. Notably, BA, B Com, M Com, M Sc (Mathematics), MA (Hindi/English/Sanskrit/political science/public administration/economics) and MA (final) history (only for those registered in session 2016-17 and 2017-18) are available through distance education. Details of the programmes’ admission procedure etc were available on MDU website, the Director added.
13-11-2020||Deepender Deswal---||Hisar varsity develops high-protein sorghum||Tribune News Service Hisar, November 12 Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (HAU) here has developed a new improved variety of sorghum CSV 44F. The variety is developed by the Forage section of the Department of Genetics and Plant Breeding of the university.  Dr AK Chabra, Head of the Department of Genetics and Plant Breeding, said the newly developed variety was notified and released by the ‘Crop Standards, Notification and Approval Central Sub-Committee’ of the Department of Agriculture and Co-operation of the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare.  He said the variety was developed by the team of scientists namely Dr Pammi Kumari, Dr Satyawan Arya, Dr SK Pahuja, Dr NK Thakral and Dr DS Phogat, Dr Satpal, Dr Jayanthi Tokas, Dr Harish Kumar, Dr Vinod Malik and Dr Sarita Devi. The variety is recommended for southern states, mainly Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Vice-Chancellor of the University Professor Samar Singh congratulated the scientists for the achievement and called for continuous efforts in future as well adding that the variety has 10 per cent higher protein content, good in taste and also high digestibility than other varieties, due to which it is helpful in increasing milk production of animals. The VC said the variety had no lodging problems and was most suitable in moderate to high rainfall areas. Naturally poisonous dhurin content is also very less in this variety and is moderate tolerant to stem borer and shoot fly. The average green fodder yield of the variety is 407 q/ha, which is 7.5 per cent and 5.8 per cent higher than other improved varieties of sorghum such as CSV 21F and CSV 30F, respectively.
13-11-2020||Sunit Dhawan---||Raids, arrests no bar, narcotics trade unabated in Rohtak||Tribune News Service Rohtak, November 12 Despite frequent raids, registration of cases and arrest of drug peddlers by the police under the NDPS Act, the sale of narcotic drugs is going on unabated in Khokhra Kot, Rainak Pura, Indira Colony, Gandhi Camp, Kartarpura and certain other pockets of Rohtak. As per police record, as much as 267.68 kg of narcotic drugs, apart from a large quantity of medical intoxicants, were seized in 2018 and 2019. Thanks to the easy availability of drugs and other intoxicants, school, college and university students and other youngsters are falling prey to drug abuse, which is a cause of concern. “A number of youngsters visit our centre for de-addiction. They tell us that narcotic drugs are openly sold in certain localities of the city. Besides, they get certain medical drugs, like cough syrups, sleep-inducing tablets and capsules and pain-killer injections, from medical stores and use these as intoxicants,” said NS Deswal, project director at Red Cross Centre for De-addiction and Rehabilitation, Rohtak. As per a study conducted by consultants at the State Drug Dependence Treatment Centre, a considerable number of children in their teens, mainly students and school dropouts, have reported for treatment at the centre in the recent years. Sandeep Khirwar, Haryana ADGP-cum-Rohtak Range Inspector-General of Police, said based on tip-offs, the police had been conducting raids and arresting drug-peddlers from the pockets notorious for sale of drugs in the city, apart from seizing big consignments of drugs being smuggled from other states. “The Haryana Government has also set up a Narcotics Control Bureau to curb the menace. We will take effective steps to comply with the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s recent order to target the ‘big fish’ involved in narcotic trade,” he asserted.         The district police authorities have appealed to the residents to inform the Police Control Room on phone numbers 100, 01262-228113, 9996464100 or their nearest police station if they come across any instance of sale, purchase or possession of narcotic drugs. The residents can also inform the Anti-Narcotic Cell on WhatsApp No. 8307202071.
13-11-2020||Parveen Arora---||Agricultural equipment industry limping back to normalcy||Tribune News Service Karnal, November 12 The Karnal agricultural implements industry, which supplies equipment to more than 100 countries of the world and also caters to around 60 per cent demand of the country, is limping back to normalcy after witnessing several hiccups during the lockdown and restrictions.  The wheat cultivation season has given a boost to the industry as it is getting orders for various implements, like happy seeder, super seeder, seed drill machine, rotavators, multi-crop planters and others, from various parts of the country, which is 10-20 per cent higher as compared to the paddy season. “We witnessed a slump during the lockdown and subsequently, the setback was covered to some extent with the ease in restrictions. Now, ahead of the wheat season, we have witnessed a rise of 10-20 per cent in demand, in comparison to the paddy season, which may compensate for the loss suffered during the lockdown,” Som Sachdeva, patron, Karnal Agricultural Implements Manufacturers Association (KAIMA), said.  Sachdeva said with the bumper paddy crop this season, farmers now had the purchasing power and they were buying the equipment.  Ravinder Dhull, president of KAIMA, said the industry would be back on track soon.  “We are hopeful that the industry will be back on track as the owners are getting orders from various parts of the country. Farmers are also coming directly to the industries to purchase equipment. The stock lying with the dealers has almost exhausted, leading to an increase in the demand,” he said. Meanwhile, Bhavuk Mehta, general secretary, KAIMA, demanded that the government ensure smooth supply of raw material at viable rates.  “No doubt, we have witnessed good demand but due to short supply and high price of raw material, it has become a big challenge to cater to the demand. Prices of raw material, like iron and steel, are soaring high because of exports, due to which domestic industry is suffering,” he said. Also, the GST rate on input material was 18 per cent, while that on selling agricultural implements was 12 per cent.
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||College admission date extended||Apart from all government universities in the state, the last date for online admission in graduate classes in government, aided and private colleges has been extended from November 14 to 20. An official spokesman  said directions had been issued by the Director General  to the Registrars of all universities and principals of government, aided and private colleges. — TNS
13-11-2020||Parveen Arora---||10 Karnal villages prone to drug abuse||Tribune News Service Karnal, November 12 As many as 11 areas, including 10 villages of the district, have been identified as being prone to drug abuse. These areas were earmarked under the Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyan, an initiative of the Union Government. Jaisinghpura and Jalmana villages are in the Assandh block of the district, Dachar and Nissing are in Nissing block, while Ram Nagar colony is in Karnal block, Kaimla and Gagsina in Gharaunda block, Chandrao and Dera Halwana in Indri block and Samanabahu and Bairsal are in Nilokheri block, said Sahil Gupta, Assandh SDM and district nodal officer of the Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyan. Under the campaign, Karnal is among the 272 most affected districts in the country.  Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said to eradicate drug menace from these villages and spread awareness among the masses, the district administration had roped in volunteers of the Nehru Yuva Kendra, students of various schools and colleges and volunteers of the NSS, NCC and various NGOs. These volunteers had started working to educate people through awareness rallies and seminars. Besides, sarpanches, panches, members of zila parishad and block samitis have also been assigned duties for rural areas and members of the local bodies are being assigned duties to spread awareness in urban areas, he said, adding that a new de-addiction centre was being established at the civil hospital. “We have chalked out a plan to bring the drug addicts into the main stream of the society, for which we have approached several industrialists to provide them job if they are unemployed,” Yadav said. The DC further stated that the success stories of the drug addicts would be highlighted to motivate others. “We have assigned duties to volunteers to counsel the drug addicts even after being discharged from rehab centres,” he maintained.
13-11-2020||---||Couple, toddler found dead in Fatehabad||Hisar, November 12 A couple and their one-and-a-half-year-old girl were found dead in their rented accommodation in Tohana town of Fatehabad district on Wednesday night. The police said it was suspected that the man has killed his wife and the child and then committed suicide.  The police said the deceased, identified as Sunil Kumar, his wife Manju Devi and Ayadi, were residing in a rented house for the past four months. While Sunil was found hanging, Manju and Ayadi were found dead lying on the bed.  Complainant Ramchander, father of Manju Devi, said he got the information about the incident on Thursday. He said Sunil and Manju got married about five years ago and her daughter was working as a schoolteacher in a village near Tohana.  The police said it was suspected that Manju and the child were strangulated by Sunil, who later hanged himself to death. The police sources said the couple was having strained relations and used to quarrel all the time.
13-11-2020||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar woman raped in car, three booked||A woman was allegedly raped by a man in a car in Bilaspur area of Yamunanagar district. As per the victim’s complaint, two more persons helped the accused in committing the crime. On the complaint of the victim, who belongs to a village but is at present living in a rented room in Bilaspur town of the district, a case was registered against Balbir of Chhachhrauli town, Deshraj of Kheri village of Kurukshetra district and Subhash of Manakpur village of Yamunanagar district under Sections 376-D and 506 of the IPC at women police station, Yamunanagar, on November 11. In her police complaint, the victim said that her parents wanted to marry her off against her wish. Therefore, she had been staying alone at a rented room in Bilaspur town for some time. She said Subhash was known to her as he used to come to her village situated in Bilaspur area. She added that Subhash, along with Balbir and Deshraj, came to her room at about 6.30 pm on November 1. She said that Subhash told her that her parents had changed their mind and would not marry her off against her wish. So, they had come to drop her back at her village. “Believing them, I got into their car. On the way, Subhash — with the help of Balbir and Deshraj — raped me,” alleged the victim. She said, “After the rape, Subhash was again forcing me to have physical relations with him. He threatened me that he had prepared a video and would upload it on social media sites. Therefore, I decided to move the police.” — TNS
13-11-2020||---||Finish works on priority in Mewat, CM tells officers||Chandigarh, November 12 Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday directed officers to complete all works required for providing education and drinking water supply in Mewat region on priority basis.  Besides, he also directed the officers concerned to hand over eight Mewat Model Schools being run under the Mewat Development Authority to the Education Department to ensure that education quality in the area could be further improved. He said the shortage of teachers in the district should be resolved on priority basis. The CM was presiding over the 30th meeting of the Mewat Development Board here. He said till the recruitment of regular teachers in Mewat cadre was completed, registration of retired teachers as well as educated youth on Saksham portal should be done and they should be engaged for teaching work. He directed that along with the Mewat Development Board’s budget, the maximum share of state Budget received under the Jal Jeevan Mission should be spent in Mewat district. He further directed that the girls’ hostel in Khanpur valley should be re-opened so that the drop-out rate of girls there could be reduced. On the matter regarding renewal of driving licences, Khattar said licence of any person registered on the SARTHI portal should be renewed after complying with the condition of one month. Regarding the licence of heavy vehicles, he said completing three conditions would be made mandatory, which included that the applicant should be literate, should have a licence of light vehicle and should have completed training in the Haryana Roadways. He said training for licence could be taken in any district. The CM was informed that 100 sanitary napkins will be provided free of charge to the girl students studying in 332 government schools and SHKM Government Medical College, Nalhar, and General Hospital, Mandikhera, Nuh, every year.
13-11-2020||---||19 more die; 2,788 cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, November 12With 2,788 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state crossed the 1.93 lakh mark on Thursday. A total of 19 deaths took the toll to 1,979.Six deaths were reported from Hisar, four from Faridabad, three from Gurugram, two each from Bhiwani and Jind and one each from Sirsa and Jhajjar.The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (692), followed by Faridabad (598), Hisar (285), Bhiwani (174), Sonepat (160), Rohtak (120), Mahendragarh (95), Rewari (92) and Sirsa (91).A total of 2,015 persons recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of recovered patients to 1.72 lakh.
13-11-2020||Yamunanagar||Illegal structures razed in two Yamunanagar colonies||A team of the District Town Planner (DTP), Yamunanagar, carried out a demolition drive in two newly carved out unauthorised colonies in Sarawan and Saraswati Nagar villages of Yamunanagar district. Amit Madholia, DTP, Yamunanagar, said the demolition drive was carried out in Sarawan village on Thursday. “The total area of the colony was about 3.5 acres. In this colony, 10 damp-proof courses  and eight boundary walls with newly laid kutcha road network were demolished,” Madholia said. He said a demolition drive had also been carried out in a newly carved out unauthorised colony at Saraswati Nagar village on Wednesday. — TNS
13-11-2020||Ravinder Saini---||Winged guests flock to Rewari’s Masani barrage||Tribune News Service Rewari, November 12 With the advent of winter, migratory birds from Siberia, Russia, Mongolia, Alaska and other parts of the US have started flocking to Masani barrage, 11 km from the district headquarters on the Delhi-Jaipur highway. Bird watchers say more than 20,000 birds of 50 species have been spotted at the barrage, which is spread over Dungerwas, Kharkhara and Nikhri villages. Favourable habitat and easy availability of food have been the main reasons for the rising number of birds visiting Masani barrage, they say. Sunder Sambharya, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Rewari, said: “It is for the first time that winged guests in such large numbers have arrived at shallow water bodies spread over 300 acres around Masani barrage. Significantly, a rare bird Pacific golden plover from Western Alaska has been spotted. The vast spread of water bodies is the main reason for the arrival of winged guests in large numbers.” Sambharya said wagtails, common teal, pintail, Northern shoveller, garganey, Eurasian coot, redshank, common sandpiper, ruff, wood sandpiper, marsh sandpiper, stint, kentish plover, sand plover, Pacific golden plover, little ring plover, white-tailed lapwing, greater flamingo, common pochard, ferruginous pochard, gulls and pied avocet had been spotted. Besides, more than 4,000 migratory birds have been spotted at a water body near HSIIDC in Bawal. Naresh Chauhan, a resident of Masani village, said: “The area has the potential to become a tourist destination, especially for people of Haryana, New Delhi and Rajasthan, if the state government starts boating and opens a food court and an adventure camp.”
13-11-2020||---||No MBBS fee subsidy for those who don’t serve in Haryana : Govt||Chandigarh, November 12 Facing shortage of doctors during the Covid pandemic, the Haryana Government today justified the hiked MBBS fee of Rs 40 lakh for those students who don’t want to serve in state hospitals after the completion of their course. Amidst criticism from various quarters over the hike, the state government has made it clear that medical education of those who want to serve in the private sector can’t be subsidised. The Haryana Medical Education and Research Department recently announced Rs 10 lakh per annum for four years as fee for the MBBS course in government medical colleges. Of this, Rs 80,000 for the first year with 10 per cent per annum increase in the subsequent years will have to be paid by the students. The rest of the amount will be a loan amount against them. The instalments of the loan will be paid by the government till the student continues to work in government hospitals or medical colleges of the state after completion of the course. But in case the student quits the job midway, the balance of loan with interest will have to be paid by him or her. V Umashankar, Principal Secretary to Haryana Chief Minister (PSCM), today clarified that those who serve in government hospitals in the state don’t have to worry about the loan amount. But the government can’t subsidise medical education of those who want to serve in the private sector or in hospitals in other states. Umashankar explained that the fee for MBA students in IIMs in the country ranges between Rs 11 lakh and Rs 23 lakh because the students passing out from there go to serve in the private sector. Similarly, if a medical graduate passing out from a government medical college wants to serve in the private sector for better remuneration, he or she should also not expect subsidy on their education. “The Covid situation has shown that the government needs doctors for its healthcare system as everyone can’t afford treatment in private hospitals. So, by asking students to fill a bond and either serve our government hospitals or medical colleges or pay up the bond amount, we are trying to address our shortage of doctors,” Umashankar added. According to Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General of Health Services, there are nearly 3,500 posts of medical officers in Haryana of which over 500 are lying vacant.
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Nikita murder case to be fast-tracked||The Faridabad District and Sessions Judge has accorded approval for fast-tracking trial in Nikita murder case. District and Sessions Judge Deepak Gupta has written to the Faridabad CP that Additional District and Sessions Judge Sartaj Baswana, who heads the fast-track court, will conduct trial in the case.“In view of HC instructions dated January 11, 2013, an exclusive court for fast-tracking cases of crime against women has been set up in Faridabad,” the judge wrote. — TNS
13-11-2020||---||Farmers start march to Delhi on Nov 18||Kurukshetra, November 12Farmer leaders, who gathered at Kurukshetra to chalk out a strategy regarding the November 26 rally in Delhi to protest against the three farm laws, have decided to start a foot march for Delhi from Shambhu border (Haryana-Punjab border) on November 18.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh said, “It has been decided that farmers will start a foot march from Shambhu border on November 18 and reach Delhi on November 26. The farmers who will be coming from the Delhi-Ambala national highway will gather near education city near Kundli border and those coming from Rohtak, Hisar, Punjab, and Rajasthan side will gather near Bahadurgarh. We will request the leaders of khap panchayats and religious organisations to extend their support.”He said, “We had sought permission for the Ramlila ground for the protest but no permission has been granted yet. We don’t need any permission as we are protesting against the government. In case, barricades are installed anywhere in the state to stop the farmers, then, all barricades will be broken. The police can beat or arrest us forcibly but we will continue our protest.”
13-11-2020||Saurabh Malik---||Govt can sack civic body prez: HC||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, November 12 In a significant judgment on the powers of the state government to remove a municipal committee president, the High Court has ruled that action can be taken only in three circumstances — abuse of power, habitual failure to perform duties and findings by the competent court on these two counts. The High Court also ruled that a president could not be held liable merely because of signing documents duly put to her with proper recommendations by an officer assigned duties in accordance with the Haryana Municipal Business Bylaws, 1981. The ruling came as Justice Augustine George Masih set aside an order passed by the Haryana Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Local Bodies Department, for removing petitioner Rubina from the post of municipal committee president in Punhana after ruling that the power exercised could not be said to be in accordance with the statute and the law. Justice Masih made it clear that the impugned order was also in violation of Section 22 of the Haryana Municipal Act, 1973, dealing with abuse of power for the president’s removal from office. Going into the background of the matter, Justice Masih observed that the allegations against the petitioner were that installation of interlocking tiles was carried out on land belonging to Uttar Pradesh and no-objection certificate, sought to have been obtained, was not from the state’s competent authority. Justice Masih asserted that the benefit of the road, if any, was to be reaped by Haryana residents and not by Uttar Pradesh or its residents. Justice Masih noted that it had been admitted that the work carried out after due sanction by the Haryana Government’s competent authority was of good quality and in accordance with the request, need and requirements of residents of the area for public convenience. Justice Masih stated that except for the canal stretch, land on both sides belonged to Haryana and it was not in dispute that it was a dusty, kutcha and bumpy passage, causing inconvenience and hardships to the residents. “The passage being beneficial to the residents of  the municipal committee, Punhana, cannot be said to be with any ulterior  motive, except for betterment of the residents for providing them  convenience while commuting,” Justice Masih observed. Justice Masih added that the Uttar Pradesh Government had not raised objection to the laying of interlocking tiles on land on the bank of the canal owned by it, understandably so as the adjacent land on both sides did not belong to the state. Justice Masih further held that it was the municipal engineer’s responsibility to have looked into the resolution passed by the municipal committee, see whether it could be given effect to and check all aspects relating to the proposed passage.
13-11-2020||---||Spurious liquor deaths: State SIT begins probe||Sonepat/panipat, November 12The special investigation team (SIT) set up by Home Minister Anil Vij has began a probe into the death of 50 persons due to consumption of spurious liquor. It has also begun a probe into the sale, purchase and supply chain of extra neutral alcohol (ENA).Shrikant Jadhav, ADGP, State Narcotics Control Bureau, who is heading the SIT, and members visited Sonepat and Panipat on Thursday to inquire into the deaths.They met the family members of the deceased who had died reportedly after consuming spurious liquor in Gumar village of Ganaur.The ADGP grilled Rajbeer of Gumar village, Ajit alias Jeeta of Sitawali and Vicky, the accused arrested by the Sonepat SIT.The SIT also held a meeting with the Panipat SIT and grilled Naresh alias Neshi, Kuldeep, Mohit, Sandeep alias Mama, Vijay, Manish and Mandeep alias Setha. Panipat SP Manisha Chaudhary was present during the meeting.Ambala men ‘supplied’ ENAThe Panipat SIT headed by DSP (Crime) Rajesh Phogat has nabbed two persons of Ambala who had procured ethanol from a Mumbai-based company and supplied it to the spurious liquor manufacturer.Satish Vats, DSP (Headquarters), said the accused had been identified as Manish Kashyap and Vijay Kumar. The SIT recovered 3,400 litres of ENA in 17 drums from a godown. A local court sent the accused to four-day police custody.
13-11-2020||Mahendragarh||Cop accuses BJP MLA’s son of tearing uniform||In a video that went viral on social media on Thursday, constable Bhupender is seen accusing the son of BJP MLA from Ateli, Sitaram Yadav, of manhandling and tearing his uniform.The complainant, claiming to be posted at Ateli police station, said that initially, the MLA’s nephew misbehaved with him when he intercepted his pick-up vehicle in Ateli. Later, the MLA’s son called him to his office and manhandled him.The MLA denied the allegations, stating it was a political conspiracy against him. — TNS
13-11-2020||Pradeep Sharma||‘Black Diwali’ for unpaid Haryana staff||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 12With no salary for the past four months, at least 2,400 Haryana Government regular employees have been staring at a lacklustre Diwali.The Sarv Karamchari Sangh has sent an SOS to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to intervene in the matter. “We have apprised the CM through a tweet. It is ironical that while the government is giving Diwali advance (repayable loan) to employees, their salaries for four months remain pending,” said sangh chief Subhash Lamba.Of the affected employees, 1,000 work with Haryana Tourism, 900 are supervisors in the Women and Child Development Department and 500 are teachers at Mewat model schools. Sources cited financial crunch in the wake of Covid for delay in the release of salaries.
