13-12-2020||---||PGIMS doctors contemplating administering plasma therapy to Anil Vij||Ambala, December 13Doctors of PGIMS, Rohtak were contemplating on administering plasma therapy to Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij.PGIMS issued a health bulletin of Vij, who was tested positive for Covid-19 and shifted to PGIMS Rohtak on Saturday night. A PGIMS spokesman said Anil Vij was undergoing treatment at Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, and he had almost recovered, but some symptoms and patches in lungs came into observation during scanning following which he came to PGIMS, Rohtak. The entire team of the PGIMS is monitoring his health. Doctors of the PGIMS have been seriously contemplating on administering plasma therapy to Anil Vij.Days after getting a shot of Covid vaccine, Anil Vij tested positive for Covid on December 5, and was taken to Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment.On November 20, Vij was given a shot of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine Covaxine as a volunteer.The official said some people had been questioning that how he got infected even after getting the Covaxine.The official explained that the antibodies develop after 40-42 days of getting Covaxine but in this case the minister got infected within 10 days so there should be no confusion. In clinical trials, of the four, three doses contain vaccine. The clinical trial is a different process and getting infected is a different thing.“We are grateful that he showed faith in us. We are hopeful that he will recover and will be discharged within a week,” the spokesman said.
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Fog engulfs Punjab, Haryana||A thick blanket of fog enveloped Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on Sunday, the Meteorological Department said.Fog was dense in the morning at many places, including Amritsar, Ludhiana, Bathinda, Pathankot and Bhiwani. The night temperatures hovered close to normal at most places, the officials said.Chandigarh recorded a minimum temperature of 13 degrees Celsius. In Haryana, Ambala recorded a low of 11.1 degrees Celsius, Karnal registered 10.5 degrees, while Rohtak’s minimum settled at 11.6 degrees.However, Bhiwani and Narnaul experienced a cold night, recording respective minimums of 6.7 degrees and 7.3 degrees.Amritsar in Punjab recorded a low of 8.3 degrees, followed by 10.5 degrees in Ludhiana, 11.3 degrees in Patiala and 8.6 degrees in Bathinda. PTI
13-12-2020||Amit Bathla||BJP bets on Kulbhushan Goyal for Panchkula Mayor’s post, gives four seats to JJP||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 12After hours of deliberations by its state election committee at party’s office in Sector 2 here, which saw participation of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and senior leaders, the BJP on Saturday decided to put its stamp on Kulbhushan Goyal, a former Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader, as candidate in race for the Mayor’s post in the forthcoming Panchkula Municipal Corporation (MC) polls. It will be a direct contest between the BJP and Congress. Goyal joined the BJP ahead of 2019 Assembly polls.The BJP also announced its seat sharing pact with the JJP for the Panchkula local body elections, giving four councillor seats to the alliance partner.Sixteen candidates of the BJP are Narinder Lubana (Ward No. 1), Suresh Verma (Ward No. 2), Ritu Goel (Ward No. 3), Sonia Sood (Ward No. 4), Jai Kaushik (Ward No. 5), Swati Malik (Ward No. 7), Harinder Malik (Ward No. 8), Dimple Loomba (Ward No. 10), Vaishali Kansal (Ward No. 11), Sonu Bidla (Ward No. 12), Suneet Singla (Ward No. 13), Sanjay Kumar (Ward No. 15), Rakesh Balmiki (Ward No. 16), Jagjeet Soi (Ward No. 17), Vijay Rani Budhiraja (Ward No. 19) and Satbir Chaudhary (Ward No. 20).The JJP will contest in Ward No. 6,9,14 and 18.Is Ahluwalia Congress’ Mayoral candidate?Even though the Congress has decided to officially announce its candidates for Panchkula MC elections tomorrow, an unconfirmed list suggesting the name of former Mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia for party’s mayoral ticket, is doing rounds in the local media and WhatsApp groups on Saturday.Sources in the party are also betting on her name as mostly likely candidate to get the Congress’ Mayor ticket.Pardeep Chaudhary, Kalka MLA, and party’s consultative committee member for the Panchkula polls, said they had finalised candidates, including for the post of Mayor, and sent the list for state Congress chief Kumari Selja’s approval.“The announcement will be made tomorrow,” he added.Ravinder Rawal, Ranjeeta Mehta, Sudha Bhardwaj, Tarsem Garg and five others have also applied for the Congress ticket.Goyal unsuccessfully contested Assembly pollIn 2014 Haryana Assembly polls, BJP’s Gian Chand Gupta had defeated Kulbhushan Goyal, who then was contesting on the INLD ticket, by a record margin of 44,602 votes. The 60-year-old is mainly a real estate developer. He is the Managing Director cum CEO of Amarnath Agarwal Group of Companies, which owns Amravati Enclave in Panchkula. Goyal’s group has also invested in a real estate business in Baddi.
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||No toll as protesters take charge of plazas in Haryana||On the call of various farmers’ organisations for toll-free movement for one day in support of their protest, farmers in Haryana took over several toll plazas in the state on Saturday, allowing commuters to pass without paying fee.They raised slogans at various toll plazas and staged dharna. The police were deployed to maintain law and order.Gharaunda MLA kalyan gheraoedKarnal: Farmers, who were staging dharna at Bastara toll plaza, on Saturday gheraoed Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan’s vehicle. They raised slogan against the government. The MLA was however allowed to cross the toll after five minutes. The MLA was going to Gharaunda to attend a programme. TNSKarnal: Farmers took over the Bastara toll plaza on the NH-44 and Peont toll plaza on the Karnal-Jind NH-709A, causing loss to the toll companies running into lakhs.Farmers closed the Bastara toll plaza around Friday midnight, but the toll authorities reopened it on Saturday morning. Farmers took charge again around 8 am. “We will continue our protest till the fulfilment of our demand of a complete rollback of laws,” said Joginder Singh, a farmer.Ambala: Punjab farmers reached the Shambhu plaza on the Ambala-Amritsar NH. Even before protesters started converging on the spot, the toll administration stopped charging toll.Waving black and red flags, a large number of farmers made a brief halt at the Shambhu barrier to hold a symbolic demonstration before marching towards Delhi.Toll plaza in charge Ravi Tiwari said to avert confrontation, the collection of toll was stopped at Friday midnight.Jhajjar/Rohtak: Farmers staged dharna at the Dighal toll plaza on the Rohtak-Jhajjar highway, Makrauli toll plaza on the Rohtak-Panipat road and Rohad toll plaza on the Rohtak-Delhi highway for more than five hours.Hisar: Farmers reached the toll plazas in Ramayan village on the Hisar-Delhi highway, Choudhriwas on the Hisar-Rajgarh road, Baddo Patti on the Hisar-Chandigarh highway and Landhri on the Hisar-Sirsa highway on Saturday morning.Officials at the toll plaza did not oppose the farmers’ demand of not collecting toll. Officials shut cameras installed for scanning FASTag stickers on vehicles.Gurugram: The district remained untouched by the farmers’ call. There was heavy police deployment on all borders and the Kherki Daula toll plaza. Five farmers who came in a car were detained and let off later.
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||Hopeful that logjam will end soon: Dushyant||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Food, Railways and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday to discuss the farmers’ protest.He said he was hopeful that the logjam would end in the next 24 to 48 hours. “The issue relates to the Centre and not Haryana as the laws have been enacted by the Union Government. On the basis of my discussions with the Central leaders, I can assure you that a solution will come within the next 24 to 48 hours,” he said.Asked whether there was any plan to send a fresh invite to farmers for talks, Dushyant said the Central leaders were very serious on this issue. He said he was sure that a fresh round of talks between the two sides would be held in a day or two and a solution would follow.
13-12-2020||Sonepat||Leaders ask women to turn up in large numbers at Singhu border||The united front of farmers on Saturday announced that leaders of 32 organisations would hold a day’s fast at the Singhu border on Monday against the three farm laws. Besides, it gave a call to women to reach the border in large numbers.Day 16 of the protest saw more farmers from Punjab and Haryana joining their brethren on the NH-44.Gurnam Singh Charuni of the BKU (Charuni) told the media he would sit on an indefinite fast on December 19, the martyrdom day of Guru Teg Bahadur.Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu, state convener, kisan sangharsh committee, said hundreds of farmers from Shahjahanpur (Rajasthan) would move towards the Capital and block the Jaipur-Delhi highway. “Four roads leading to Delhi are already blocked.”“It has been decided that farmers will protest at DC offices across the country on Monday. Besides, 32 farmer leaders will sit on hunger strike from 8 am to 5 pm at the main stage at the Singhu border,” Pannu said, adding women had been urged to join the protest in large numbers.For them, the united front decided to ensure basic amenities such as separate sitting arrangement, toilets and waterproof tents before December 15.“Any amendment to the farm laws will not be accepted. We want revocation of the laws. This is the one-point agenda of the talks,” Pannu added.
13-12-2020||Palwal||Police blockade hits supply of Palwal sugar mill||The police blockade of the National Highway-19 has disrupted the supply of a sugar mill here and at the same time held up 1,000 MP farmers from marching towards the Delhi border, where thousand others are protesting against the three controversial laws.As a result of the blockade, about 50 trucks laden with sugarcane are stuck on the highway and KMP expressway.Sugreev Bainsla of the district’s Badoli village said, “Some cane farmers from my village and surrounding areas took link roads to reach the sugar mill. It meant rise in transportation cost.”Subhash Kaushik, secretary, transport association, claimed that several trucks had stuck on the KMP eway and several others were running behind schedule.The local sugar mill caters to cane growers of Palwal, Faridabad, Mewat and Gurugram districts.Sources in the sugar mill said the situation could turn worse if the blockade was not lifted soon.Naresh Kumar, managing director of the sugar mill, however, claimed the functioning of the sugar mill had not been affected. “Truck drivers take alternative routes to reach the mill. Besides, the management has taken measures to ensure that the supply is not affected. In November, the mill crushed 4.8 lakh quintals of cane, the highest in the past four years,” he said.
13-12-2020||Rohtak||In for long haul, farmers arrange chapati makers, LEDs||Farmers from across the state, who are protesting at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border along with their counterparts from Punjab, are making optimum use of technology to make the long haul at the protest site bearable.They are using technology to the fullest by using two roti-making machines, which churn out chapatis and knead the dough. They also have washing machines and WiFi supported LED televisions to keep them updated about the latest news. For continuous power supply they have brought generator sets and solar panels at the site.“We brought the roti-making machine on rent here from Delhi around 10 days ago to serve langar to scores of farmers. With this, we are able to feed 10 to 15 thousand farmers daily without any trouble,” said Haryana Kisan Manch state president Prahlad Singh Bharukhera.Another group of farmers from Fatehabad have put up an LED screens and a washing machine under the Metro overbridge here.“Tractor-trailers and tents are our makeshift abode these days as we don’t know how long the protest will go. These facilities have made it easier for the farmers to stay updated about the latest goings-on and also have eased them in performing their daily chores,” said Navdeep Singh Nathwal, a farmer.
13-12-2020||Jhajjar||3,000 visit health check-up posts||Around 3,000 farmers protesting against the three farm laws at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border visit the Bahadurgarh civil hospital and health check-up posts at border every day, with one-third of them complaining about cold, cough, sore throat, body ache and fever.The Covid-like symptoms notwithstanding, farmers have refused to undergo the test.So far, six protesters have lost their lives during the agitation. Reason: cardiac arrest and ailmentsThousands of farmers have been camping on the 10-km stretch between the Jakhoda bypass and the Tikri border since November 27.“One-third of farmers being examined at the civil hospital and health check-up posts have complained cold, cough, body ache and fever. Doctors have recommended them Covid test, but they are unwilling to undergo the test. Even the Bahadurgarh SDM tried to convince them, but they refused categorically,” said Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, Jhajjar.He added the Covid test was not conducted on the six persons who died during the agitation. “As per the ICMR guidelines, the test will be conducted only on that person who had the symptoms.”When a farmer leader was asked about the reluctance of protesters to undergo the Covid test, he said, “Farmers have come to Delhi to protest against the farm laws and not to get themselves tested for Covid. If some farmers test positive, the Centre will have a reason to isolate them and that will weaken the agitation. It is using Covid as a pretext to disperse us.”
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||24.5% increase in MBBS fee proposed in private colleges||After increasing the MBBS fee in government medical colleges, the state government has now turned its attention towards private colleges. The proposal is to enhance the fee from Rs 10 lakh per annum to Rs 12 lakh from the 2020-21 session in private colleges.The increase in fee has been proposed at a time when the second round of counselling has started.As per a December 11 notice issued by the Director General-cum-Secretary (Medical Education and Research) Amneet P Kumar, the tuition fee, including development charges, will be Rs 12 lakh per annum with an annual increase of 7.5 per cent. This means a student will have to shell out Rs 53.68 lakh for a four-year course.Earlier, the yearly fee in private colleges was Rs 10 lakh with an annual increase of 5 per cent, which amounted to Rs 43.10 lakh for four years.If the proposal is accepted, the fee in private colleges will rise by 24.5 per cent.There has been no change in refundable college security, which is Rs 2 lakh, and hostel fee, which cannot increase beyond Rs 75,000 per year. Also, library fee, sports and medical charges, and internet charges remain unchanged.Once it gets notified, the new fee structure will remain in force for three years. But before that, the state government has invited suggestions or comments on the proposed fee structure within a week.On November 6, the Department of Medical Education and Research had notified the enhanced fee structure for MBBS course in government medical colleges. As a result, the yearly fee has increased to Rs 80,000 with 10 per cent rise every year. This comes to Rs 3.71 lakh for the entire course.The state has four private, five government and one government-aided colleges.Secretary (Medical Education and Research Kumar could not be contacted in spite of repeated attempts.An official of the University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, said: “About 50 per cent of seats remained vacant in the first counselling.”A state government official suspected that students were opting for other states because of hefty fee in Haryana.The registration for the second round of counselling started on December 12; seats will be allocated on December 16.
13-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||Gurugram court raps police for playing with liberty of citizen||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 12Rapping the Haryana Police for unwarranted acts of omission and commission in a case where an accused was arrested in an FIR after interrogating him till the wee hours in another matter, a Gurugram court has ordered initiation of action after bringing the matter to Haryana Home Secretary’s notice.Directing the forwarding of the order’s copy to the Home Secretary for “drawing appropriate action against the IO, SHO or ACP under intimation to this court”, the court advised the Gurugram Commissioner of Police to consider the desirability of getting further investigation conducted by a senior officer, preferably an IPS officer.Taking up the matter, Additional Sessions Judge Sanjay Kumar Sharma observed that it appeared to be a case of “shoddy investigation and playing with the liberty of a citizen” after asserting that the court would be failing in its obligations if the unwarranted acts of omission and commission were tolerated meekly and not brought to the notice of the senior officers for appropriate action.One of the arguments raised by the counsel for the accused was that the entire exercise was undertaken to bypass the order of interim anticipatory bail passed by the court. The matter has its genesis in an FIR registered on August 30 for criminal breach of trust and cheating under Section 406 and 420 of the IPC.During the course of investigation, a co-accused was joined in the probe and Sections 467, 468, 471 and 120-B dealing with forgery and criminal conspiracy were added. The accused before the court was granted interim protection till December 8 and asked to join investigation.The accused was interrogated by the investigating officer, SHO concerned and other police officials continuously for 16 hours, till 2 am on December 8. One of the police officials present then arrested him, stating that another FIR had been registered.Judge Sharma asserted that the defence counsel’s arguments could not be brushed aside outright that the exercise was to prove that the police would have the last laugh. Though the bail application pertained to the earlier FIR, the court could not be expected to be absolutely oblivious to the developments leading to the liberty of the accused protected by it.
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||11 more die; 1,008 cases in Haryana||With 1,008 fresh cases, the overall Covid tally in the state went past 2.51 lakh on Saturday. With 11 deaths, the toll reached 2,710.Three deaths were reported from Hisar, two each from Faridabad and Sonepat and one each from Fatehabad, Yamunanagar, Karnal and Gurugram.As many as 276 fresh cases came from Gurugram, followed by 182 from Faridabad, 76 from Ambala, 64 from Sonepat, 58 from Rohtak and 51 from Kurukshetra. In all, 1,365 people got cured in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of recovered cases to 2.38 lakh. — TNS
13-12-2020||Sonepat||BJP picks mayoral candidate||Laying all speculation to rest, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) declared Lalit Batra as its mayoral candidate on Saturday. The party also declared 15 candidates for the post of councillors.The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), in alliance with the BJP, will contest on five wards. Batra had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly elections in 2005 on the BJP symbol. The Congress, meanwhile, has not declared its candidate for the mayoral post.
13-12-2020||Faridabad||Funds delayed, Faridabad projects come to halt||The alleged delay in the receipt of funds, including the external development charges (EDC) to the tune of about Rs 30 crore, has led to the stalling some projects carried out by the HSVP here, it is revealed. One of these projects is the construction of an indoor stadium here which stands to miss the deadline of December.HANGING FIRESTP (sewage treatment plant) in Sector 77Girls nursing college in Dayalpur villageHalf a dozen internal roads in Sector 77 and 78 in Greater Faridabad“Delay in the release of funds required to clear the dues for the work already completed has resulted in stalling of the work by contractors,” say sources in the department. Claiming while work to the tune of Rs 19 crore has been completed for the upcoming indoor stadium in Sector 31 here, an official on condition of anonymity said the department was able to clear the payment of Rs 12 crore only, while an amount of Rs 6.5 crore was awaiting to be cleared for over past six months.The project costing Rs 24 crore is set to miss the deadline of December 31 as the construction work has come to a halt for the past over a month. It is revealed that the deadline can be revised by another five to six months even if the work resumes soon, as 20 per cent of the work is still lying unfinished. The work on this project was launched in January 2019.Another important project that is delayed on this account is the construction of the master road and storm water drainage network in the Greater Faridabad area. Only 78 per cent of the 172 crore project launched in 2013 has been completed and is set to miss the deadline of December 31, according to officials.Admitting to delay in some works, owing to funds, Rajiv Sharma, Executive Engineer, HSVP, said the matter had been taken up with the higher authorities.
13-12-2020||Ambala||Jan Chetna declares 14 candidates for Ambala City civic body poll||Former union minister and Haryana Jan Chetna Party chief Venod Sharma on Saturday announced 14 candidates of his political outfit for the upcoming Ambala Municipal Corporation election. He said few people had been getting all benefits in the system that had been developed over the last few years.HDF mayoral candidate files nominationSharma said they would contest the polls with the motive of developing Ambala. His party has declared candidates from 14 wards, including ward number 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19 and 20.While speaking to media on the occasion, Venod Sharma said, “Several people are contesting the election and everyone has the right to do so. We have no objection to anyone. City residents have many complaints and have been witnessing problems such as poor sanitation, poor lighting and unemployment, over the last few years. The general public is not getting all benefits provided by the system. We will break this system and work with the motive of public welfare. We will also simplify the procedure of obtaining no objection certificates from the corporation.There are 20 wards under the Ambala Municipal Corporation, soon the mayoral candidate and the remaining six candidates will also be declared. I promise all residents that we will work to develop Ambala.”On the other hand, former minister Nirmal Singh-led Haryana Democratic Front’s mayoral candidate Amisha Chawla on Saturday filed her nomination. Nirmal Singh said the incumbent government had misguided the people and corruption was rampant in corporation. The HDF candidates will win the election.
13-12-2020||---||Yamunanagar MC fails to recover rent for 20 yrs, lawyers file suit||Yamunanagar, December 12Two advocates of Yamunanagar district court have filed a civil suit before Civil Judge Junior Division Sandeep Kaur here against the municipal corporation.Advocates GD Gupta and Meenakshi Kashyap have filed the civil suit for failure to recover rent from 112 tenants of shops of MC, located in Meena Bazar, Yamunanagar, for the last 20 years.Gupta said the amount of pending rent was more than Rs 1.9 crore. He said before filing the suit, he had shot off a legal notice upon the MC under Section 389 of the Municipal Corporation Act in October.He further said he had pointed out therein that as per Section 408 A of the Municipal Corporation Act action for eviction of a tenant needed to be initiated if he defaulted in the payment of rent for a period of more than two months.“The MC remained mum and kept laid in slumber for 20 years for which no clarification or justification has been given by the authorities in response to his legal notice,” said Gupta in a press note.He said in his suit, he had prayed that arrear of rent might be recovered from the defaulters along with interest and simultaneously responsibility might be fixed.
13-12-2020||---||Addl charge for 15 naib tehsildars||Chandigarh, December 12With a view to expediting and completing the work of consolidation in villages, the government has decided to give additional charge of Assistant Consolidation Officer to 15 naib tehsildars.Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary and Financial Commissioner, Revenue and Disaster Management, said Deputy Commissioners had been directed to post a kanungo and two patwaris in each revenue estate or village where consolidation work was pending.The Deputy Commissioners would prescribe timelines for each stage of the consolidation work. They would closely monitor the work and review the progress on a fortnightly basis. Department-level review meetings would be held every month.
13-12-2020||Yamunanagar||Overloaded vehicles from other states hitting mining business||Overloaded vehicles coming from other states are adversely affecting the mining business causing huge loss to the stone crusher industry, mining contractors and transporters of Haryana.The Stone Crusher Association, Yamunanagar, has demanded that the state government stop the entry of overloaded vehicles coming from Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan in Haryana to save the business of sand, stone, stone dust, core-sand and bajri in the state.Rampal Kamboj, president of the Stone Crusher Association, said, “The state government is not allowing plying of overloaded vehicles in the state. Therefore, the stone crusher owners of Haryana are under-load building construction material, including sand, stone, stone dust, core-sand and bajri in trucks from their stone crushers and screening plants.”However, he said overloaded trucks were coming from Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan in Haryana causing huge financial loss to the Haryana stone crusher industry, mining contractors and transporters.“We (stone crusher industry, mining contractors and transporters) are facing huge financial losses as the rates of our material sand, stone, stone dust, core sand and bajri are higher due to underloading. However, the owners of the vehicles coming from other states in Haryana are selling their building construction material at lower rates due to overloading,” alleged Rampal Kamboj.He alleged that overloaded vehicles could be seen easily entering in Haryana from the Ponta-Yamunanagar border point, Kala Amb border point, Shambhu border point, Khanauri border point and other border points.He alleged that this was happening due to connivance of officers and officials of some departments. He said they also wrote a letter to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khatter in this connection in the last week of November.
13-12-2020||Gurugram||Netaji’s gunman Jagram Yadav dies||Freedom fighter Jagram Yadav, who served as Subhash Chandra Bose’s gunman, died in Gurugram on Saturday. He was 97.The last rites were performed at Ram Bagh with state honours.Yadav had hit headlines in 2015 when he claimed that revolutionary leader Subhash Chandra Bose did not die in a plane crash but was killed. A native of Badshahpur village, Jagram Yadav lived with his family at Sector 15 Part – 1 here.Yadav had joined the Kumau Regiment of the Indian National Army (INA) as Sepoy in April 1943.He served as Netaji’s gunman for 13 months during his four year and 308 days tenure at the INA. — OC
13-12-2020||---||MC official among 2 held for bribery||Yamunanagar, December 12A team of the State Vigilance Bureau nabbed municipal corporation (MC) chief sanitary inspector Anil Nain on Friday night on the charge of taking Rs 2 lakh as bribe from a contractor.The team also arrested Nain’s friend Deepak Kumar in this connection. On the complaint of contractor Jindal Kumar, a case was registered against the duo on Saturday.They were produced before Judicial Magistrate First Class Sher Singh, who remanded Nain in two-day police custody and sent Deepak to judicial custody.The complainant said the MC had invited tenders for sanitation work on October 27. He claimed that Nain had called him up to demand Rs 3 lakh, of which his son had already paid Rs 1 lakh.Two other MC officials were on the State Vigilance Bureau radar after their names surfaced in the police complaint lodged by the contractor.
13-12-2020||Hisar||NHAI told to expedite work on highway||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has approved the construction of road from Barwala in Hisar district to Bhiwani via Hansi for an estimated cost of Rs 300 crore. The 70-km stretch from Hansi to Bhiwani is in a dilapidated condition.Hisar MP Brijendra Singh directed officials of the National Highways Authority of India to furnish details of the project and asked them to expedite work.The National Highways Authority of India officials informed the MP that they had prepared the detailed project report of the road and would soon embark on the construction work. The MP chaired the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee.
13-12-2020||Chandigarh||ACS moves High Court||Additional Chief Secretary (Home-cum-Health) Rajeev Arora moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Saturday for setting aside the summoning order issued by the Panchkula Special CBI Court in the Manesar land scam. The petition is scheduled to come up for hearing on Monday.The court had summoned Arora to face trial and appear on December 17. It was contended that the trial court order was without jurisdiction and ex facie illegal. — TNS
13-12-2020||IN 1927||Why ‘The Protester’ deserves to be person of the year||It is also worth bearing in mind that many, if not most, of the Punjab farmers came from Pakistan, after the subcontinent was partitioned in 1947. They arrived from across the border, often on foot, traumatised and usually penniless, having lost their land and worldly belongings, amidst horrific bloodletting. A majority of them were Sikhs. Yet, leaving the bitter past behind, they rose phoenix-like, and made Punjab the most prosperous and thriving state in a remarkably short time. They also ushered in the Green Revolution, turning a famine-prone land into a food self-sufficient one. And they freed us from the humiliating PL-480 Act, whereby we were importing American foodgrains for our survival. The nation has much to thank them for. It is another matter that the indiscriminate use of water, pesticides and fertilisers degraded the soil, and that the gains from the Green Revolution are now being widely questioned by environmentalists. The state has also suffered from maladministration in recent years. That, along with the twin menace of militancy and the ruinous use of narcotics, blighted Punjab, bringing it several notches down from its earlier primacy. Nevertheless, the resilience and enterprise of the Punjabi farmers remains embedded in the national consciousness.The voice of dissent also made itself heard in the beginning of the year. On December 11, 2019, Parliament passed the Citizen Amendment Act (CAA). Three days later, a movement began that soon snowballed into thousands of protesting women — mostly Muslim — in a Delhi locality called Shaheen Bagh. The protesters claimed that the CAA unfairly targeted Muslims, as did the National Population Register (NPR), which is due to be implemented. As proof, they held up the relevant passages of the Constitution. The protest movement lasted from mid-December up to March 24, after the lockdown announcement. It captured the imagination of the nation, with many thoughtful Indians, not just Muslims, wondering why one particular community was being singled out for citizenship. Shaheen Bagh became a symbol of protest against an Act that reeked of sectarianism.The lockdown became the occasion for more protests. Somehow, the Prime Minister and his government had overlooked the plight of millions of migrant labourers, left stranded far away from their homes, with no work and hence no food or roof over their heads. It was a monumental mistake and a little like the PM’s disastrous demonetisation, another measure the consequences of which had not been thought through. Yet, with his legendary communication skills, he was able to put a spin on it and make both measures sound positive. We now know that they caused immense suffering. Yet, the protesters and the dissenters were labelled “anti-national”.Let us now turn not to individuals but to institutions that have become a focus of dissent — our law courts. Though he has been mentioned before, the example of Justice Siddharth of the Allahabad High Court needs re-telling. He highlighted the misuse by the UP government of the law banning cow slaughter. He questioned the credibility of the state police in making arrests under this law — mostly of Muslims, needless to say. After the same state government had passed an ordinance against inter-faith marriages — targeting Muslims, yet again — that very High Court rendered another stinging judgment. Its strong wording bears repetition: “The right to choose a partner, irrespective of caste, creed or religion, is inherent under the right to life and personal liberty.” Yet, other BJP-ruled states intend to pass a similar law. The huge irony is that soon after the infamous ordinance, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had the gall to visit Mumbai to try and persuade Bollywood to set up a ‘film city’ in his state. Somebody there should have told him that, contrary to his sentiments, Bollywood shines in inter-faith unions. One also wonders whether once the Yogi’s ‘film city’ comes up, it will have a prominent sign at the entry: “Inter-faith couples not permitted”.Very few governments, even the most democratic ones, are comfortable with dissenters and protesters. Like Indira Gandhi, especially during her Emergency rule, the present government is behaving no differently, except for its marked anti-Muslim leaning. Hence, it takes guts to dissent, or to protest, thereby taking on the powers-that-be. You risk being called unpatriotic, or an “urban naxal”, especially when there is a majoritarian government in power, with a leader who is charismatic and still hugely popular. But dissent is the very essence of democracy, its lifeblood. And the Constitution should be one’s guiding spirit. The Bhagvad Gita put it another way: “Do your duty, no matter the consequences.”— The writer is a veteran journalist
13-12-2020||Given below are the three bare Acts related to farming and agriculture marketing that have led to the farmers' agitation||Read the full text of the three bare Acts related to farming and agriculture marketing||(For a brief explanation of the three farm laws, click here: Decoding farm Bills provisions & apprehensions)The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020
