14-04-2020||Ambala||Police party on Covid duty attacked in Ambala; escape unhurt||Two days after a police party was attacked and a cop’s hand was chopped off in Patiala, a police team on Covid patrol duty was attacked by a group of youths in Ambala Cantonment on Tuesday.As Sub-Inspector Jaswinder Singh, who was heading the police party, and two Head Constables Rajbir and Irshad Ali ducked to escape unhurt in the attack, the assailants fled the spot during broad daylight, the police said.The three assailants were equipped with sharp-edged weapons with which they attacked the cops in a narrow street where they had gone on patrolling duty to check the implementation of the national lockdown and sensitise the residents to follow the prohibitory order issued to this effect.The police party head revealed that no sooner they entered the Deha Colony in Ambala Cantonment, a group of three youths, equipped with sharp-edged weapons, started abusing them and threatened them with dire consequences for entering their street.“As we approached further on foot and started making public announcement regarding lockdown, the assailants attacked us with intent to kill us,” recalled SI Jaswinder Singh.As the cops ducked the assault and the area residents came out of their homes, the assailants fled the spot.“While running away, the assailants threatened us with dire consequences, saying today we had escaped their attack but if we again came to their area in future, they would kill us,” the attacked cops said.One of the assailants has been identified as Akbar alias Anna of Deha Colony while others were yet to be identified.A case under Sections 307, 506, 353, 332, 270, 188, 186 and 34 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, has been registered against the assailants and a manhunt has been launched to arrest them, the police added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-party-on-covid-duty-attacked-in-ambala-escape-unhurt-71088
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Village heads in Haryana persuade villagers to give up hookah sessions||Hookah smoking sessions—a common sight in Haryana villages—have now taken a break as village heads have prevailed upon locals not to share the smoking pipes to contain spread of coronavirus.Playing their role in spreading awareness on coronavirus in the hinterland, the village heads or sarpanch are also ensuring that farmers follow social distancing norms during the harvest season.“Smoking hookah is part of our culture as villagers, especially the elderly gather at a common place in the village to socialise and share the hookah. Initially, it was a bit difficult to make them understand, but we prevailed upon them and soon everyone realised that it can be dangerous in view of coronavirus and now no one can be found smoking hookah outside,” said Hoshiar Chand, sarpanch of Nazelda Kalan in Sirsa.Sarpanch of Pabra in Hisar district Rajesh Dhillon said that smoking hookah and playing cards is quite common in villages and that too in big groups.“When we told villagers such things can be counter-productive to the efforts of the government to check spread of coronavirus, they gave it up within some days,” said Dhillon.Haryana has so far reported 183 coronavirus cases. Majority of the cases have been reported from four districts of Nuh, Palwal, Gurugram and Faridabad.Sarpanch or village head of Handi Khera in Sirsa district, Atma Ram, said he makes it a point to go even door-to-door to ensure the directives of the government pertaining to COVID and lockdown are followed by all.With harvesting season currently on, he has made one point clear to farmers—ensure social distancing while working in fields.The government will start procurement of mustard from April 15 and wheat from April 20. The procurement has been delayed this time in view of the COVID-19 outbreak and lockdown which has been enforced to check its spread.“The government keeps emphasising the importance of social distancing and everyone including farmers have been told this is the key if we have to keep everyone safe,” Ram told PTI.While Handi Khera Sarpanch Atma Ram said his village has a population of nearly 2,200, Nazadela Kalan and Pabra are big villages with population of over 9,000 and 10,000, respectively.The sarpanches said they regularly share the information, updates and government directives pertaining to coronavirus and lockdown with villagers.Village heads said as wearing turbans and sporting a cotton wrap around the neck was part of village culture, everyone already has got into the habit of covering their face by using them as masks.In several villages, locals are enforcing “Thikri Pehra”, under which a few villagers, especially youth form teams to guard village boundaries to make sure that no outsider except those providing essential services or government officials enter the village during the lockdown period, a measure taken in view of coronavirus spread.Hoshiar Chand said shops selling essentials open in his village between 10 am and 2 pm each day and he ensures that social distancing is maintained by villagers.The sarpanches said they coordinate with the district administration to ensure the villages are sanitised. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-village-heads-in-haryana-persuade-villagers-to-give-up-hookah-sessions-71083
14-04-2020||Faridabad||Coronavirus: Haryana reports new case from Faridabad||Haryana on Tuesday reported a new coronavirus case from Faridabad district, taking the total cases in the district to 187.A 72-years-old woman tested positive for the disease, taking the total in the district to 33. The woman is the mother of a youth, hailing from Badkhal village, who was found positive a couple of days ago.Eight persons have been discharged after recovery in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-haryana-reports-new-case-from-faridabad-71061
14-04-2020||Vijay C Roy||Startups transform diesel purchase in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13Now, farmers and industry across Haryana can order diesel using a mobile app and the fuel will be delivered at their doorstep. To facilitate the consumers, three startups in the state are delivering fuel through mobile dispensers.The services were primarily restricted to the NCR region and provided by startups such as FuelBuddy and Pepfuels. Now, another startup ‘Humsafar’ has launched its services across the state for bulk buyers and stationed equipment users.The startups deliver diesel at the doorstep of consumers such as farmers, housing societies, hotels, hospitals, malls, construction sites, industries, banquets and other bulk buyers for stationary equipment.According to the startups, the service is fast, safe, easy and ensures hassle-free supply of fuel to the end-users.“We have formally launched our services today and entered into an agreement with oil companies and petrol pumps locally. We commit fuel delivery within eight working hours,” said Nishit Goyal, Director, Humsafar.“The idea behind introducing this service is to help entities such as farmers as they need fuel for irrigation pumps and gensets; housing societies, and industries,” he said. The company has extended its services to various cities, including Panipat, Karnal, Sonepat, Hisar, Ambala, Rohtak, Bahadurgarh, Faridabad, Rewari and Gurugram.According to them, there is an immense potential which is still untapped.“We were the first private company to deliver fuel at the doorstep. We have been operating since May 2018 and servicing industries such as manufacturing, hotels, hospitals, schools, logistics companies, residential complexes among others,” said Adnan Kidwai, co-founder, FuelBuddy. The company also delivers diesel in jerry cans of 20 litres to small consumers.The startups automated the fuel delivery process using IoT, resulting in transparency for the end-customer. They use technology to ensure accurate quantity, quality fuel, timely delivery and most importantly, safety of everyone.FuelBuddy plans to expand its reach across the country and wants to be synonymous with last-mile fuel delivery. The company has presence in the Delhi-NCR region and Karnal.Pepfuels launched its operations in August 2019. “We launched our operation in Haryana, especially in the NCR Region such as Gurugram and Manesar. Currently, we are catering to industrial consumers having bulk requirement,” said Pratik Kathil, co-founder and director, Pepfuels. The company is supplying around 5 lakh litres of fuel per month.According to the companies, once the order is placed through an app, the delivery vehicles, compliant with Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation standards, bring fuel to the pre-set destination. The 4,000-litre and 6,000-litre capacity delivery trucks come with a mobile fuel dispenser for easy transfer of the diesel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/startups-transform-diesel-purchase-in-haryana-70990
14-04-2020||Karnal||A Covid survivor, Karnal doctor keen on rejoining duty||Discharged from Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College after six days, ENT specialist Dr Anjali is in high spirits and wants to rejoin the fight against Covid.She along with a staff nurse of KCGMC tested positive on April 6 and they both were discharged on Sunday evening after their two consecutive reports came negative.“If a doctor remains in the house then who will treat patients in the time of crisis? After the 14-day home quarantine period is over, I will resume my duty to fight against Covid,” said Dr Anjali while talking to The Tribune.Both Dr Anjali and the nurse, Poonam, did not show any symptoms after they came into contact with the first Covid positive case of the district. Poonam had attended him when he came to the emergency ward last month while Dr Anjali had taken his sample. Since both of them have small children, it wasn’t easy being in isolation, they said. “My husband and my two-and-a-half-year-old daughter were isolated in a room next to mine, but I could not meet them. I remained tense till my reports came negative,” said Dr Anjali.The staff nurse too said she wasn’t able to meet her kids, who were isolated in a room next to hers. They remained in contact through video calls. “I kept my spirits high and never lost hope,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/a-covid-survivor-karnal-doctor-keen-on-rejoining-duty-70715
14-04-2020||---||Cop dies, tests Covid negative||Hisar, April 14A policeman died at the medical college in Agroha in Hisar district on Monday. He was suffering from some ailments and was isolated in the medical college.His Covid report turned out to be negative. Five members of his family were quarantined in the medical college. Their samples were sent for Covid testing and results were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cop-dies-tests-covid-negative-70713
14-04-2020||Deepender Deswal---||Procurement drive delay sees mustard price dip||Tribune News Service Hisar, April 13 Farmers in the state are resorting to ‘distress’ sale of the mustard produce as the government procurement agencies have failed to start the procurement in grain markets so far. The affected farmers are also apprehensive about the government schedule of purchase being hassle free. This is in spite of  the officials claim that the farmers will be ensured a protected price of Rs 4,425 per quintal under the price protection scheme (PPS).  The farmers have already harvested the mustard crop and stored the yield in their fields or houses. With the harvesting of wheat at its peak, the farmers are now busy in their fields and are unsure whether they will be able to sell the produce at the protected rate under the PPS of the government. Pawan, a farmer from Lalhana village said that he was in contact with private arhtiyas for selling his mustard yield. “The arhtiyas are offering to purchase the produce at much below the protection price for the produce. They are offering Rs 3,400 to Rs 3,600 per quintal when the protection price is Rs 4,425 per quintal”.  But he is ready to sell it for less as it would save him from the hassles of transporting the yield to the mandi and waiting for his turn to sell it there. “The private trader will pick the yield from my home”, he said. Another farmer Jagjeet Singh of Surpura village in Bhiwani district maintained that a trader had struck a deal with him. “He has offered Rs 3,500 per quintal, but has assured that he would pay me Rs 4,100 per quintal if the produce was procured in the mandi at government price. The trader has asked me to get the token from the procurement agency during the procurement which will start from April 15”, he said adding that it was a good deal for him as this way he would be able to save time and money in transporting the yield to the mandi. “I am busy in wheat harvesting right now and don’t have time to visit the mandi and wait for my turn for procurement”. Commenting on the situation Dayanand Punia, the Kisan Sabha leader said the farmers were resorting to distress sale as the government had so far failed to take measures for efficient procurement of the yield at its purchase centres. “The government procurement agencies should reach out to the farmers to pick up their yield from their places”, he said. Giving clarification on the issue, District Food and Supplies Controller Subhash Sihag said they had made all arrangements to commence the procurement of mustard from April 15 at the purchase centres. “We will ensure that the farmers face no problems in the process and are also able to maintain social distancing in view of Covid-19 spread”. As for the “distress” sale, he said, “If some farmers are selling produce to private traders, the authorities have no role in it.” He also stressed that the government would ensure that all farmers are paid protection price under the PPS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/procurement-drive-delay-sees-mustard-price-dip-70709
14-04-2020||Sonepat||Sarpanch, banker, 11 others booked for graft||A case of embezzlement has been registered against Hasanpur sarpanch Jai Narain, gram sachiv Surjit, IDBI Bank Manager Deepak and 10 others on panchayat officer Surender Khatri’s complaint. Surjit hanged himself about a week back. Khatri alleged that Rs 1.67 crore was withdrawn from the panchayat’s fixed deposit between November 1 last and March 23 using fake letters from the DC’s office. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sarpanch-banker-11-others-booked-for-graft-70708
14-04-2020||Karnal||Isolation ward patient threatens to jump off 6th floor||High drama prevailed for an hour at KCGMC as a suspected Covid patient locked himself up in a room of the isolation ward and threatened to jump from the window of the sixth floor room.  He was demanding to either be sent home or his family be allowed to meet him and kept asking for his report. Doctors and staff members managed to pacify him and made him unlock the door. He was counselled by the psychiatrist and discharged. Later, his report came as negative.  Director Dr Jagdish Dureja said the patient had been creating a ruckus ever since his sample was taken. “He insisted on going home soon after he gave the sample. But as per Covid protocol, a person whose sample is sent for testing is admitted in isolation ward till his/her report comes negative. Nobody, except doctor and paramedical staff with complete protection, are allowed to meet isolated patient who are provided only hospital food,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/isolation-ward-patient-threatens-to-jump-off-6th-floor-70706
14-04-2020||---||Cops on lockdown duty attacked in Nuh, 6 held||Gurugram, April 13 In yet another attack on police personnel ensuring lockdown compliance, 11 men attacked a head constable and a special police officer (SPO) late Sunday night in Tauru block of Nuh. Both were seriously injured in the attack.   A video of the incident that went viral shows youths without masks snatch a lathi from the policeman’s hand and beat him up with it. The group even pelted stones at SHO Ajit Singh and the police team that visited the spot after the attack and injured him. The police has nabbed six of the accused.   According to the police, Head Constable Anil Kumar and SPO Nirajan were patrolling Ward 14 of Tauru when they saw a group of men loitering around. They asked them to go into their homes and obey the lockdown. This enraged the group and they attacked them both with sticks and stones and chased them away.   The injured personnel went back to the police station to report the matter. Ajit Singh reached the spot with a police team. The accused attacked them with stones, injured the SHO and fled. The police registered an FIR on Monday and carried out raids managing to arrest six of the culprits.   “They were just asked to abide by the lockdown, but they attacked cops. We are risking our lives to keep them safe and they attack us. We are looking for the other accused and they shall be dealt with in the strictest manner,” saidAjit Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cops-on-lockdown-duty-attacked-in-nuh-6-held-70705
14-04-2020||---||Economic activity to restart from green zones, says Khattar||Chandigarh, April 13Emphasising on the need to maintain social distancing in spite of some relaxations being allowed by the Prime Minister at the end of the 21-day lockdown period, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar highlighted the need to resume economic activity in areas that had hardly any reported cases of Covid-19.Haryana has as many as 30,000 big and small, registered and unregistered NGOs and their budget, put together, adds up to more than the state’s budget as these organisations have experience of working with the people and people trust these to deliver.—Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief Minister In his address, here today, the Chief Minister also lauded the role played by the non-government organisations during this pandemic in distributing food packets and dry-ration kits to the needy.“Haryana has as many as 30,000 big and small, registered and unregistered NGOs and their budget, put together, adds up to more than the state’s budget because these organisations have experience of working with the people and people trust these organisations to deliver,” Khattar said.He said that 90 lakh food packets and 4.80 lakh dry-ration packets had been distributed in the state so far. “I feel inspired by the NGOs when I look at the extent of their work during these trying times. They have been in the forefront when natural calamities like earthquakes and floods have struck,” Khattar said.He said contribution of Rs75 crore was already been made and another Rs70 crore would come as contribution by government employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/economic-activity-to-restart-from-green-zones-says-khattar-70704
14-04-2020||---||Goverment to resume property registration||Chandigarh, April 13 The government is set to resume  property registration, which has been suspended since March 24 on account of lockdown  in the wake of Covid. With an anticipated revenue loss of  over Rs4,000 crore staring the government in the face of the lockdown, the state government has sent an SOS to the Centre to allow it to resume property registration to make up for the loss due to suspension of property transactions. Dhanpat Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management, confirmed that the state government had sent a formal proposal to the  Centre to allow it to restart property registration. Sources said though the state government was competent to restart registration, the Centre’s permission had been sought as a matter of abundant caution in view of the lockdown due to Covid. Stamp duty is a major revenue earner for the state government, contributing over Rs500 crore a month to the state government’s coffers. Annual revenue from stamp duty collections up to March 31 was pegged at Rs6,100 crore. Officials said property registration could start in phases in the state after a nod from the Centre as guidelines on social distancing and hygiene would have to be maintained in view of the Covid pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/goverment-to-resume-property-registration-70703
14-04-2020||Karnal||Irrigation Dept gets nod to execute flood prevention works||District authorities have allowed the Irrigation and Water Resources Department to go ahead with flood protection and other time-bound works on the Yamuna during the lockdown period.    The department has been instructed to ensure proper health and safety measures, as prescribed by the Union and state governments in the wake of the Covid pandemic, at the work sites.   The Irrigation Department has to construct one new stud and repair three existing ones at Dakwala complex. Four studs will be repaired at a cost of Rs60 lakh at Kundakalan complex. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/irrigation-dept-gets-nod-to-execute-flood-prevention-works-70702
14-04-2020||---||No more disinfection tunnels for Faridabad||Faridabad, April 13 After setting up four body sanitisation tunnels at public places, the district administration has decided to suspend the move of installing more such machines. The move follows an advisory issued by the World Health Organisation (WHO). A letter issued by the office of the Director, Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Chennai, on April 11, quoting WHO guidelines, says disinfection tunnels will create a false sense of security and people may be diverted from handwash to disinfection tunnel. In addition, spraying alcohol, chlorine or lysol on human beings is harmful and ineffective, says the communication  issued to all Deputy Directors for Health Services and subordinate officials in various states.  The letter advised the authorities not to instal disinfection tunnels. Deputy Commissioner Yash Pal Yadav said the authorities would focus on maintaining hygiene, using sanitisers and masks and social distancing. Four disinfection tunnels had already been installed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-more-disinfection-tunnels-for-faridabad-70701
14-04-2020||---||Sirsa mosque cook tests +ve, state tally 186||Chandigarh, April 13Haryana’s Covid tally reached 186 on Monday, with one case each reported from Sirsa and Faridabad.A 40-year-old woman, who used to work as a cook in a mosque in Rori in Sirsa district tested positive for Covid. Health Department officials claimed she had come in contact with Tablighi Jamaat followers. The woman and five of her family members have been admitted to the isolation ward at the civil hospital. Samples of 19 contacts of the woman, including her family members, have also been collected. So far, the district has reported four cases.In Faridabad, a 30-year-old man from Green Fields Colony became the fourth member of his family confirmed with coronavirus. Earlier, his parents and brother had tested positive, but have recovered since.Till today, Nuh tops the state Covid tally with 45 cases, followed by Gurugram (32), Faridabad (32) and Palwal (29). So far, 4,489 samples of people have been taken for testing and results of 1,346 are still awaited. Thirtyseven persons have been discharged from hospital and three died.6 more Jamaatis bookedTwo more FIRs were registered against six Tablighi Jamaat members for attempt to murder for failing to report to authorities before 5 pm on April 8. So far, five FIRs have been registered — one each in Yamunanagar and Palwal and three in Nuh against22 persons.Follow mask disposal protocol: Chief SecyChief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora, while presiding over Crisis Coordination Committee meeting, told DCs to ensure following of protocol for disposal of face masks. She directed DCs to involve self-help groups for making reusable cloth masks which can then be further sold in the markets. Meanwhile, state government said it had adequate stock of essential protective equipment. It said it has 1.83 lakh N-95 masks, 53,300 PPE kits and 10.49 lakh hydroxychloroquine 200 mg tablets as on April 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sirsa-mosque-cook-tests-ve-state-tally-186-70700
14-04-2020||---||Ambala starts water train on Kalka-Shimla section||Ambala, April 13To fulfil the requirement of water for railway stations and staff between Kalka-Shimla section, the Ambala division has started running a special water train on this section.As per the information, earlier, trains running on this section used to take water tanks to fulfil the need but after the trains were stopped, due to lockdown, the water supply at this section also got disturbed.Divisional Railway Manager, Ambala Division, Gurinder Mohan Singh said, “Due to current lockdown all passenger train services have also been discontinued over the world heritage narrow gauge section. Earlier, trains running on this section used to take water tanks along with passenger coaches to fulfil the need of water at small stations but after the trains were stopped, the supply of water also got disturbed. There are 20 stations (including Kalka and Shimla stations) on this section. It is a 96-km track. There are several places in Himachal Pradesh where the facility of water supply isnot available.”“Further, it was noticed that water consumption has increased throughout the Kalka-Shimla section during Covid pandemic for precautionary steps such as regular hand washing, cleaning, sanitisation of tools and station building and staff quarters. In wake of the upcoming summer season, a workmen/water train comprising one water tank coach and one SLR coach has been started to run between Kalka-Shimla stations on alternate days till the normal train services are restored. The train will provide water services to staff at level crossings, stations and railway accommodations enroute so that their needs of water consumption may be met”, he added.The DRM said, “Only water tanks and maintenance staff will travel with the train for the maintenance of track. The water is fetched from Barog and then the concrete water tanks, constructed on the route, are filled.”To meet demands||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-starts-water-train-on-kalka-shimla-section-70699
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||DCs asked to review containment plan||Haryana Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora said as per the directions of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the number of mobile OPDs should be increased. She added that every district, block and village should be intimated about these so that maximum number of people can avail the services of these OPDs.She directed to link the telemedicine and mobile OPDs with the Covid helplines so that non-Covid patients can also get the necessary medical consultation. Apart from this, it should be ensured that private clinics are also opened so that people suffering from regular ailments do not have to run from pillar to post. She gave these directions while presiding over the meeting of the Crisis Coordination Committee with the nodal officers appointed for Covid, through a video conferencing here today.Speaking over the implementation of protocols regarding disposal of masks issued by the Union Health Ministry, the Chief Secretary directed deputy commissioners to ensure these are strictly adhered to. She directed that the weekly roaster of grocery shops including their opening time and the time duration should be prepared.The Chief Secretary asked every Deputy Commissioner to follow-up the containment plan. She directed that planning of containment zone should be reviewed regularly so that the categorisation of zones as per the red, green, and orange can be done. Telemedicine is linked to the helpline numbers 1075 and 85588-93911. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dcs-asked-to-review-containment-plan-70698
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Wear mask, follow curbs, DGP appeals to citizens||Haryana Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava today thanked citizens for extending their unstinted support and cooperation to the police by continuously following lockdown and social distancing norms in the state and added that collective efforts would be fruitful in the battle against Covid.In a message issued here today, the DGP appealed to people to follow instructions issued by the government and police to avoid the spread of Covid. He said citizens should not go out of home unnecessarily and use masks while going out for any essential work.He said all others engaged in essential supplies should follow social distancing norms and use masks. He said in this way, citizens would be able to protect themselves and others by preventing the spread of Covid.Yadava said all district police chiefs had been directed to take necessary action by educating and sensitising people leaving homes unnecessarily and without wearing masks.Emphasising the need for a mass movement in fighting Covid, he said the world was grappling to contain spread of the disease. He said the civil and police administration could not break the chain of the disease without strong public support.He said as preventing this dreaded disease was the collective responsibility of all, citizens should continue to cooperate with the civil and police administration with solidarity, restraint and discipline by abiding lockdown order and social distancing norms.The DGP appreciated officers and jawans and added that they should continue to work in the same spirit and dedication to serve the needy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wear-mask-follow-curbs-dgp-appeals-to-citizens-70697
14-04-2020||Ravinder Saini||Cross-border movement of central staff sans pass barred||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, April 13In order to prevent the spread of Covid pandemic, the district authorities have restricted cross-border movement without valid permission of those who are employed with the Delhi or Central Government and various private hospitals in Delhi but reside in different places of the district.They would now have to obtain permission certificate from the authority concerned for the cross-border movement. More than 500 such people used to go daily to their workplaces in Delhi from here the morning and return in the evening. Employed with Delhi Police, fire services, Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), and Delhi Jal Board, they are engaged with essential services during lockdown, said the sources.The action came after a 33-year-old woman from Dharampura locality in Bahadurgarh town here working as a staff nurse at Maharaja Agrasen Hospital, Delhi, tested positive in Delhi recently. She, along with some other employees of the hospital, used to come to Bahadurgarh daily in an ambulance. Sources said the police officials deputed at Delhi border were sending back those having no official permission from their department concerned to move cross-border. Though many of the employees are bound to main headquarter during lockdown period. Despite all, they don’t hesitate to return to their home after the working hours, the sources claimed.“The movement of such people has gone down by more than 50 per cent since we are not letting them cross the border without any valid pass while a considerable number of such people is moving cross-border daily stating that they are engaged with essential services of Delhi/ Central Government,” said Ajaib Singh, DSP, Bahadurgarh.RS Punia, Civil Surgeon, said a doctor had also been deputed at Delhi border in Bahadurgarh town to prevent the cross-border movement of those who personate themselves as patient and move to Delhi in an ambulance on the pretext of getting medical treatment there as there is no restriction for genuine patients.“Since Delhi is a high-risk state form Covid infection, the ban on cross-border movement is imperative to protect Jhajjar district from this fatal disease,” said Punia.What prompted move||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cross-border-movement-of-central-staff-sans-pass-barred-70696
14-04-2020||Karnal||4 drone cameras keep vigil in Karnal||The Karnal police has deployed four drones for keeping an eye on lockdown violators in different parts of the district.The Karnal police already has one drone, while three have been taken on rent. Bharti Arora, IGP Karnal Range, said drones will help check lockdown violations. “It has been observed that people continue to violate lockdown norms in some parts of the district. They come out from their houses and go inside after seeing the police. We have turned to drones to keep a strict vigil in vulnerable areas. Violators will be dealt with as per the law,” she said.Soon, the Kaithal and Panipat police (part of the Karnal Range) will also use eyes in the sky in their districts. “I have asked the SPs of Karnal, Panipat and Kaithal to ensure vigil by drone cameras in their district. Karnal has started it, while the remaining will start in a day or two,” Arora said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-drone-cameras-keep-vigil-in-karnal-70695
14-04-2020||Rohtak||Mobile medical teams reach out to residents||With a view to reaching out to patients suffering from chronic diseases and screening residents for Covid, 15 mobile medical teams of the Health Department moved in Haryana Roadways buses today and camped in rural as well as urban localities across Rohtak district.“Mobile health teams comprising doctors and paramedical staff conducted medical check-up camps in 11 villages and four urban localities today. This will be a regular exercise and doctors and paramedics of the PGIMS will also be included in mobile teams,” said Dr Anil Birla, Civil Surgeon.He said all-out measures were being taken for the management and control of Covid as well as the provision of healthcare facilities in the district amidst the ongoing lockdown.“Many patients suffering from chronic diseases like diabetes and hypertension are unable to reach hospital due to the lockdown and unavailability of public transport. Efforts are being made to provide them medical consultation and medicines on their doorstep, apart from detecting Covid patients,” said Dr Satyawan, Deputy Civil Surgeon-cum-district surveillance officer.The PGIMS authorities had reserved 500 beds and constituted rapid response teams for Covid patients from five districts — Rohtak, Jind, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri and Jhajjar.“The state government has given responsibility for the management and control of Covid cases in these districts to the PGIMS. Requisite beds have been reserved and rapid response teams constituted to take appropriate action as and when required,” said Dr Gajendra Singh, public relations officer of the PGIMS. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mobile-medical-teams-reach-out-to-residents-70694
14-04-2020||Nitin Jain||With containment plans in place, Ambala divided into 913 pockets||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, April 13The district administration had put in place containment and micro plans to check the spread of Covid in Ambala. The timber market area in Ambala Cantonment, where the deceased patient lived, was declared hotspot of the pandemic in the district and sealed.The district was divided into 913 pockets and district officials assigned responsibility of each pocket, said Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma. He said the official in charge would make residents of the do’s and don’ts and keep an eye on enforcement of the lockdown.He said they would arrange immediate help and support to any resident showing flu-like symptoms or requiring medical aid due to any other ailment. He said the situation was under control and the district administration was fully equipped to deal with any eventuality.Teams comprising doctors, health workers, police personnel, teachers and anganwari and sanitation workers were visiting every house in their pocket to check health status, cleanliness arrangements and precautions being observed.A door-to-door health survey had been launched to trace, track and treat any resident suffering from Covid-like symptoms. A total of 36 health teams were on the job.So far, 36 teams of health workers had visited almost 18,000 houses and screened around 76,000 residents. Around 100 persons were found with flu-like symptoms. They were home quarantined and their samples collected for clinical examination.Police personnel on duty during the lockdown period were being screened for fever and flu-like symptoms. As a precautionary measure, they were being administered Vitamin C and hydroxychloroquine tablets.Around 850 of the 1,205 foreign-returned residents in the district had already completed their mandatory home quarantine while others were undergoing the same.Of the floating population of over 5,000, mainly migrants, 3,480 were stationed at 22 shelter homes in the district. Besides food and medicines, other essentials were being provided free to the migrants.Govt hospitals sans ventilatorGovernment hospitals in Health Minister Anil Vij’s home district have no ventilator. The twin towns have a 200-bedded Civil Hospital each, which the government claims are equipped with state-of-the-art facilities.The Health Department tied up with private hospitals and the local Military Hospital to arrange at least 83 ventilators in the district for Covid patients. The number of isolation beds, which was a mere 545 in the government sector, was enhanced to 1,200 to deal with any eventuality.Dr Kuldeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, said the state government had already initiated the process of providing ventilators in government hospitals. He said the Military Hospital and 13 private hospitals had offered the services of 83 ventilators in case of any emergency.1 death, 7 positive cases so far||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-containment-plans-in-place-ambala-divided-into-913-pockets-70693
14-04-2020||Palwal||17 mobile teams to scan villages in Palwal||The district health department has pressed into service as many as 17 mobile teams to screen the residents for suspects suffering from Covid symptoms in all villages. Civil Surgeon Dr Brahmdeep Singh said each of the mobile team comprising a doctor, nurse, and a paramedic would travel in a mobile van to screen the residents in the designated villages daily. “While information about the health history will be collected and a sample of those suffering from cough, fever, and flu will be collected for test, such persons could also be isolated till they are declared negative,” he said.  Claiming that mobile teams will visit each of the 280 villages in the next 10 to 12 days, he said the exercise would ensure that the district become Covid-free within the minimum possible time. Three ambulances will also be deputed to carry suspected patients to the hospital. He said an awareness drive regarding the personal hygiene and the precautions to be followed, especially for the residents of those villages where a positive case has been found, will be carried out in this period. He claimed that majority of the cases were of the residents (Tablighi Jamaatis) hailing from outside the state. As many as 10 persons found positive were Bangladesh nationals. The district has reported a total of 29 cases so far. One patient who has recovered has been discharged. While, a total of 346 samples have been collected, 173 have been found negative and result of 140 samples is awaited. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/17-mobile-teams-to-scan-villages-in-palwal-70692
