14-09-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19 death toll in Haryana rises to 1,000 with 25 more fatalities, case tally 96,129||Twenty-five people succumbed to coronavirus infection in Haryana in the last 24 hours taking the death toll to 1,000 on Monday, while a daily spike of 2,488 cases pushed the tally in the state to 96,129.Of the fresh death, six were reported from Panchkula, four each from Karnal and Kaithal, two each from Faridabad, Gurugram, Nuh, Sirsa  and one each from Kurukshetra, Hisar and Sonepat, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases include Gurugram (336), Faridabad (279), Sonepat (205), Ambala (185), Karnal (179), Kurukshetra (164), Hisar (139) Rohtak (133), Panipat (129) and Panchkula (95).Haryana had recorded its highest single-day spike of 2,783 coronavirus cases on Saturday.Among the 1,000 fatalities, 698 are males and the rest females. The state has 20,417 active cases while 74,712 have been discharged following recovery.As of Monday, the state has a recovery rate of 77.72 per cent, fatality rate was 1.04 per cent, doubling rate is 27 days and positivity rate 6.38 per cent, according to the bulletin.Meanwhile, state Health Minister Anil Vij on Monday said three exclusive critical Covid care centres will be set up in the state. These centres will be set up at PGIMS, Rohtak, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Karnal and Maharaja Agrasen Medical College, Agroha, he said.“Arrangement of 100 beds will be made in these Covid Care Centres,” he said in a statement, adding Nodal Officer of the State for COVID-19, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary, will monitor these Centres and provide feedback to the government.Adequate arrangements have been made by the state to ensure that there is no shortage of oxygen in both government and private hospitals, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Rajeev Arora said. — PTI
14-09-2020||New Delhi||Delhi environment minister calls crucial meeting ahead of stubble burning season||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai will hold a crucial meeting with senior officials on Tuesday to discuss ways to deal with extreme levels of pollution in the city in winters, officials said.They said the minister will review progress of the annual plantation exercise. The issue of stubble burning in neighbouring states will also be taken up during the meeting.The Delhi government has set a target of planting 31 lakh saplings during the year 2020-21.Around 19 lakh saplings have already been planted in the city by various agencies since March this year, according to government data.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, stubble burning by farmers in Punjab and Haryana contributed significantly to air pollution in Delhi last year with the share of farm fire smoke in particulate matter peaking to 44 per cent in November.Last year, Punjab produced around 20 million tonnes paddy residue. Farmers burnt 9.8 million tonnes of it.Haryana produced seven million tonnes of paddy residue last year, of which 1.23 million tonnes was burnt.Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh attract attention during the paddy harvesting season between October 15 and November 15.Farmers set their fields on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue left behind after harvesting and before cultivating wheat and potato. It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution in Delhi-NCR. PTI
14-09-2020||New Delhi||Senior bureaucrat Rajesh Khullar appointed World Bank Executive Director||Senior bureaucrat Rajesh Khullar has been appointed as Executive Director, World Bank, Washington, a Personnel Ministry order issued on Monday said.Khullar, a 1988-batch IAS officer, is currently serving in his cadre state Haryana. He is the principal secretary to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.He will have a tenure of three years or till the date of his superannuation, i.e. August 31, 2023, the order said.In another order, the Personnel Ministry said Sameer Kumar Khare has been appointed Executive Director of the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Manila.Khare is a 1989-batch IAS officer of Assam-Meghalaya cadre and is currently the additional secretary in the Department of Economic Affairs.He has been appointed Executive Director of ADB for a tenure of three years, it said. — PTI
14-09-2020||Faridabad||Faridabad Municipal Corporation carries out demolition drive in village located in Aravali forest area||In a major demolition drive carried out on Monday, the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) razed as many as 1200 residential constructions which had come up on its land in Lakkadpur-Khori village located in the Aravali forest area.While land measuring 30 acres was recovered, the authorities deployed as many as 1500 cops on duty for the drive.More than a dozen JCBs and a staff of about 50 people was used for the demolition drive.Around 500 cops were requisitioned from other districts. According to officials concerned, 85 persons were detained in order to prevent protest or problem during the demolition.The encroachments here have come up in the past two decades. Though the authorities claim that demolition was carried as per the direction and permission from the Supreme Court, protesters said that it was wrong as the residents were not rehabilitated prior to demolition as per the order of the high court passed several years ago.
14-09-2020||Gurugram||Sahara Mall in Gurugram sealed for flouting environmental laws||Taking a stern stance over alleged consistent violation of sewerage treatment and discharge bylaws, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board has sealed Sahara Mall in Gurugram.The mall according to HSPCB was served first show cause notice regarding the same in 2018 and fined Rs 2.5 lakh but even after almost two years they have failed to rectify operations and have been polluting environment by toxic sewerage discharge.The mall authorities will not only be fined but will be paying environmental damage compensation and a case is also being filed.“We will not spare any polluters. They had been ignoring our notices, warnings and have led to massive pollution of water and ground. In addition to our stipulated punishments we will be moving to court. The mall has been sealed,” said Kuldeep Singh, Officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, Gurugram.
14-09-2020||Hisar||Farmers seeks special girdawari in mahapanchayat in Hisar||The farmers of about 20 villages of the district congregated in Balsamand village demanding special girdawari of damaged crops of cotton and moong in the region, on Monday.  Around 2,000 farmers from 20 villages of the region who attended the mahapanchayat demand a written assurance from the deputy commissioner and threatened to intensify the stir by tomorrow if the authorities continued to ignore their demands.Upset over a report prepared by an official which showed only 10 per cent crop loss due to whitefly in the 20 villages, the farmers demand an apology from the official concerned.Meham Independent MLA Balraj Kundu and other farmer leaders including Jal Sangharsh Samiti pradhan Kurdaram Nambardar and Surender Arya also reached the spot and supported the demand for the special girdawari by the farmers.The farmer leaders alleged that they have been taking up the demand for about 10 days as almost entire kharif crops, including cotton, moong, guar, bajra, have perished due to the whitefly attack and other diseases.“We have been holding dharna at the mini secretariat on the demand. But there has been no response of the district administration and the state government on the issue. Unfortunately, the local authorities have prepared a report which showed only 10 per cent crop loss which is completely false report,” said Kurdaram Nambardar.Seeking an apology from the concerned official for submitting a false report of damage of only 10 per cent crops in the 20 villages of Balsamand region, the Meham MLA urged the farmers to took cudgels to snatch their due rights from the authorities.“It’s unfortunate that the police unleashed lathis on the farmers in Pipli town of Kurukshetra district recently. The farmers don’t need to beg from the government for their due rights. It’s time to get up and assert for our rightful demands,” he added.The district spokesperson said the report of 10 per cent crop loss was a rough estimate and not a final report.
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Khattar recovers from Covid; urges people to religiously follow all guidelines to stay safe||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday returned to state capital Chandigarh after recovering from COVID-19 and urged people to religiously follow all the guidelines like wearing masks and social distancing to stay safe.He asserted that there was no need to be afraid of coronavirus, but we have to remain vigilant.After testing positive for novel coronavirus on August 24, barely two days before the day-long monsoon session of the state assembly, Khattar was admitted to Gurgaon's Medanta Hospital for treatment. Khattar, 66, had developed fever and body ache three days prior to testing positive for COVID-19.He was taken to the hospital around 2.30 am on August 25 where he remained admitted for the next 17 days and after being discharged he rested for a few more days in PWD rest house in Gurgaon.After being admitted to the hospital, a multidisciplinary team of doctors from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi; PGIMS, Rohtak, Gurgaon Civil Surgeon Dr Virender Yadav, Medanta's Dr Sushila Kataria had reviewed his condition, line of treatment and progress made, a state government statement had said earlier.Talking to reporters in Gurgaon shortly before leaving for Chandigarh, Khattar said he has fully recovered though doctors have advised him to monitor his health for the next 10 days."I want to thank all those who wished and prayed for my speedy recovery as well as the doctors who were involved in my treatment," he said.Replying to a question, Khattar urged people to religiously follow all the guidelines issued by the government and other authorities in the wake of the pandemic. "We all have to act responsibly and follow all the guidelines like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and hand sanitising to stay safe," he said."We don't have to be afraid of coronavirus, we have to be vigilant. Being vigilant is essential to defeating this pandemic," the chief minister said.Khattar also advised people, especially those who are at a higher risk, To avoid going out of their homes."Because we have seen instances where an entire family became infected after one of its members contracted the virus," he said.Replying to a question, he said while he was on road to recovery, he tried to keep himself engaged in some official work.To another query, he said he cannot say for sure from where he contracted the infection, but just before catching the virus, he had been attending many official meetings in Delhi.One of the meetings Khattar had attended days before he tested positive was with Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who also tested positive for COVID-19 later. PTI
14-09-2020||Jupinderjit Singh||Farmers’ Ordinances: Akalis to join hands with Haryana’s JJP, Jat Mahasabha, UP farmers for joint strategy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 14Left red-faced after its coalition partner-led NDA government tabled the controversial ordinances on farmers produce in the Parliament on Monday, the Shiromani Akali Dal is seeking support for Chautalas and Cats in Haryana, and farmers from Uttar Pradesh to plan a joint opposition to the ordinances.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, along with senior leader Prem Singh Chandumajra, has scheduled a meeting with Dushyant Chautala-led JJP at 4 pm in New Delhi today to prepare a joint strategy against the ordinances.Another meeting is scheduled with leaders of the Jat Mahasabha of Haryana in the evening.“The two Akali leaders have scheduled another round of meetings with farmer leaders of Uttar Pradesh tomorrow morning in New Delhi,” said Chandumajra.The JJP is a coalition partner of the BJP in Haryana while the Akalis are partners in the NDA government. Farmers are the main vote-bank for these parties.Sources said the Akali leadership was under pressure to sacrifice personal interests for the sake of farmers on the issue. The Akalis have been supporting ordinances earlier but in thence of stiff opposition from farmers, it took a u-turn on Saturday and asked the NDA government to put the ordinances on hold till farmers are convinced about its benefits for them.The Punjab Congress and the AAP have been opposing the ordinances tooth and nail. They have also made potshots at the Akalis for not standing by the farmers.Farmers’ organisations say the new ordinances will end the minimum support price (MSP) system on crops produce. It will leave farmers at the mercy of the traders. They cite the market-driven prices often end in losses to farmers as happens often potato and tomato produce.Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar while tabling the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, had insisted that the Bill would have no effect on the MSP.
14-09-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Chinks in the armour||FOR years, the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system for crops has benefited farmers in north India through guaranteed income for their produce. No wonder the system is held sacrosanct by farmers, politicians and policy-makers in this region. Even the slightest attempt or talk of tinkering with the MSP meets with stiff resistance from the farmers and the politicians who rely on them for electoral support.The nearly five-decade-old system of MSP has contributed to the country attaining food security — at least in the staple foodgrains — besides making agriculture economically sustainable for farmers. It has helped the country come a long way from the mid-1960s, when India did not have enough foodgrains to feed its then 49 crore population, and 10 million tonnes of foodgrains were imported from the US. “The MSP regime has proved to be very beneficial because it has spurred farmers to grow crops with a guaranteed price,” says BS Sidhu, Commissioner, Agriculture, Punjab.Over the years, however, the increase in MSP announced by the Centre before each crop marketing season has been rather low. This has contributed to high rural indebtedness as input costs in agriculture keep rising and the MSP announced by the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) is minimal, thus squeezing the income of farmers. Sidhu says the system of calculating the input costs while fixing the MSP requires a relook. “The farmer should be treated as a skilled worker and the capital cost of land should be included. This will make the MSP more remunerative,” he adds.Besides this inherent weakness in the MSP model of capping the income of farmers, it has also led to regional disparities as the regime is successful only in states having a well-developed agricultural marketing system. In most states, the crops are not being bought at the MSP as FCI intervention there is minimal and focused largely on Punjab and Haryana. Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), says the MSP regime is often targeted for helping farmers of only a few states and those that grow only wheat and paddy. “To ensure that it benefits all farmers, it should be made legally binding on all to buy crops at the announced MSP,” he adds.Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads another faction of the BKU, says not only should crops other than wheat and paddy be bought at the MSP, but government should also encourage the processing industry for these other crops. “Earlier, pulses like moong and urad were cultivated here and we had small dal polishing units in Jagraon. Farmers stopped growing these because against the MSP of Rs 6,000, they would get just Rs 2,500 per quintal. Farmers found these non-remunerative and stopped growing pulses, which also led to the closure of these polishing units,” he laments.Umendra Dutt, executive director of Kheti Virasat Manch, says the monoculture supported by the MSP regime has led to the destruction of agricultural biodiversity and massive consumption of pesticides. “If buying of other crops at the MSP is ensured, we would become self-sufficient in all crops,” he says.Noted agro-economist MS Sidhu says though the MSP regime is sacrosanct, there is a need to increase farmers’ income by making them move to non-farm activities along with farming. Also, he says, it is time for value addition in agriculture by promoting food processing.Monoculture a roadblockWith the MSP regime being primarily restricted to wheat and paddy, this has led to monoculture, where only crops having a buy-back guarantee are being cultivated by farmers. As a result, the country has ample stocks of wheat and rice, but has to frequently import pulses and oilseeds.
14-09-2020||A Amarender Reddy||Ensure fair deal for farmers||KHARIF harvesting operations are going to begin soon. Agricultural production is likely to surpass last year’s record production by 7-8%. The higher production inevitably puts downward pressure on market prices. The problem of low harvest prices has been compounded by the steep fall in the GDP growth rate in the first quarter of 2020-21; it will reduce overall demand for the agricultural produce. Hence, ensuring the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for farmers is a gigantic task.There are huge imbalances in the MSP operations. Various states have diverse levels of implementation capabilities. Punjab and Haryana are historically in a better position to procure at the MSP than states like Bihar and Odisha. Paddy farmers in Punjab are able to sell at the MSP, while farmers in Bihar have to settle for prices below the MSP. The focus is on paddy and wheat, with negligible procurement of pulses, oilseeds and other crops at the MSP.This discriminatory policy blocked crop diversification towards pulses and oilseeds and also led to the neglect of rain-fed areas, where pulses and oilseeds are grown. This resulted in a huge shortage of crops like oilseeds. India is importing 70% of domestic consumption of edible oils each year by spending about Rs 75,000 crore on foreign exchange. It is incurring huge losses in storing excessive stocks of paddy and wheat procured under the price support scheme.Procuring excessive stocks is a waste of resources. Procurement operations are flawed in many ways — lack of awareness among farmers; lack of working capital with procurement agencies; lack of gunny bags; delayed payments to farmers; inadequate logistical arrangements like godowns, processing mills in the procuring areas; disposal of procured stocks.NITI Aayog recently recommended to the Food Ministry to limit procurement of foodgrains to the level needed for distribution under social welfare schemes and maintenance of buffer. The FCI procured 115 million metric tonnes (MT) of foodgrains in crop year 2020, whereas the maximum buffer stock is fixed at 41.12 million MT.To overcome these problems in foodgrain operations, the Centre introduced PM-AASHA (Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay Sanrakshan Abhiyan) in 2018. This is in line with the broader objective of gradually replacing physical procurement with direct money transfer to farmers, wherever required. PM-AASHA has three sub-schemes: Price Support Scheme (PSS), Price Deficiency Payment Scheme (PDPS) and Private Procurement & Stockist Scheme (PPSS).The PSS involves procurement by the government agency at the MSP from the farmers during the harvest period; it has been in operation for paddy and wheat for the past four decades. Under PM-AASHA, PSS is now broad-based to cover pulses, oilseeds and copra in addition to paddy and wheat. Under this scheme, the Centre will compensate the states for any losses in procurement operations up to 25 per cent of production.Under the PDPS, farmers are paid the difference between the MSP and the modal price, without actual procurement. It is a more market-friendly and efficient method as it eliminates the logistic costs faced under PSS. It is more practical to implement in crops like pulses and oilseeds with scattered and thinly distributed production, where actual procurement is costly and not feasible.Under the PPSS, private players can procure oilseeds at the MSP during the notified period in select markets, for which they would be paid a service charge not exceeding 15 per cent of the MSP. However, private participation has been limited so far.States are free to choose between the sub-schemes, depending on local conditions. In the long run, PDPS has an edge over others. Price deficiency payment through direct money transfer can curb inefficiency and corruption in foodgrain operations and the benefits will reach farmers through the already built JAM (Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile) trinity.The author is an agricultural economist at ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad. Views are personalSend your feedback to infocus@tribunemail.com
14-09-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Garbage raises stink||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comGarbage raises stinkLast month, Municipal Committee officials had announced that the garbage dumping site on the LIC road in Narwana would be shifted. The work began, but it was stopped suddenly. When residents contacted MC officials, they said they were looking for an alternative site. That is a sham. The reality is they are simply befooling the people as they have no intention of shifting the dumping site. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaNo end to stray menaceStray animals on roads are a man-made evil concerning the entire country, and not just Haryana. The problem is highlighted regularly in the media, but the authorities fail to take action. It is shameful for the state governments that even after 73 years of independence, we have not been able to get rid of the stray cattle menace. Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaCyber fraud on the riseIt was sad to learn that a 44-year-old man from Sector 12-A in Panchkula was duped of Rs 1,47,500 in a credit card fraud. My heartfelt sympathies lie with him, but the blame lays with him for divulging the one-time password (OTP) and his card details to the caller. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has been advising bank customers not to reveal bank account and credit/debit card details to strangers. Even banks regularly inform their customers that they never ask for such information over telephone. However, people continue to ignore these warnings and end up losing their hard-earned money. We must remain vigilant. SK Gupta, PanchkulaState revenue record a total messAFEW decades ago, several departments of Haryana such as the HSVP, HSIIDC, Public Health, Irrigation Department and PWD acquired land for development projects. To this day, the revenue authorities have not approved the mutations of the land in favour of these departments, raising questions on the functioning of the state government. The departments even gave compensation to landowners, but didn’t acquire the land. Landowners, on their part, sold the land to other persons. The state government must sanction all pending land mutations in favour of the departments and take possession of the land. Shakti Singh, Karnal
14-09-2020||Karnal||Webinar on fake news verification||7 profs felicitated for excellenceRohtak: The department of statistics of Maharishi Dayanand University (MDU) in collaboration with the Indian Association for Reliability and Statistics (IARS) felicitated seven professors of various subjects for their academic excellence on the 100th birthday of the doyen of Indian statistics Prof CR Rao. A documentary on the life of Prof Rao was also screened. “CS Pundir (Biochemistry), Anil Kumar Chhillar (Biotechnology), Renu Chug (Mathematics), Rajesh Dhankar (Bioinformatics), Arun Nanda and Sanju Nanda (Pharmaceutical science) were honoured with the IARS-Excellence awards in three categories for their outstanding contribution to research and academics. The names were selected by a panel of prominent academicians,” said Prof SC Malik, head, department of statistics. Prof Pundir highlighted the significance of statistics in the field of scientific research and data analysisWorld Physiotherapy DayYamunanagar: World Physiotherapy Day was celebrated at the TDTR DAV Institute of Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation by organising free tele-consultation physiotherapy camp and digital poster competition through the online medium in collaboration with the Indian Association of Physiotherapy Women Cell, Yamunanagar branch. Dr Himanshu Sekhar, principal, TDTR DAV Institute of Physiotherapy, gave online session on general fitness of body and mind. He said in the camp, diseases related to bones, joints, muscles and nerves were discussed with patients telephonically and through video-calling.Training on flight vehicles beginsKurukshetra: A six-day online training course on ‘Control guidance and estimation of flight vehicles’ was launched by the electrical engineering department of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) on Friday. It is jointly organised by the NIT and Engineering College, Bikaner, under the Technical Education Quality Improvement Program (TEQIP-3). The training focuses on PhD scholars, MTech and BTech students. Participants will be provided with knowledge about advanced control and guidance systems of flying vehicles, their dynamic modeling and simulation as well as designs used in real flight vehicles. NIT director Satish Kumar said the DRDO was making the country proud by doing a good job in the design and development of missile systems. He said technical institutions, research and development organisations and industries should work in solidarity. In all, 450 participants from technical institutes of the country are attending this online trainingGJUST Vice Chancellor awardedHisar: Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice Chancellor, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST) has been conferred with the "Most Dedicated Vice Chancellor" award by the Golden AIM Awards. He has been awarded for his leadership and immense contribution to the growth of education. The jury has undertaken the criteria to select on the basis of academic innovations, integrity and ethics, track record, process management, services quality and specific contribution. The VC said this award was the recognition of the university, which in 25th year of its inception had acquired the international rank announced by Times Higher Education, UK. He dedicated the award to the teaching and non-teaching employees and students of the GJUST.
14-09-2020||Yamunanagar||Honour for legal officer||Award for plasma donorsKarnal: Karnal Range IGP Bharti Arora organised a webinar, in which at least 200 police personnel participated. It was aimed at encouraging those who had recovered from Covid. Dr Sachin Garg, incharge of the KCGMC plasma bank, Dr Sanjay Verma, regional blood transfusion officer at the Civil Hospital, and Dr Ajit Singh of the KCGMC blood bank, interacted with police personnel. The IGP honoured plasma donors with certificates and Rs 1,000 each.Contest on saving waterSirsa: Ramesh Goyal of Sirsa has won the ‘Water Heroes: Share Your Stories’ Contest organised by the Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti, to promote water conservation and sustainable development of water resources. An income tax specialist and senior citizen, Goyal is founder-cum-national president of the NGO ‘Paryavaran Prerna’.Contributed by Shiv Kumar Sharma, Parveen Arora and Deepender Deswal
14-09-2020||---||Haryana farmers to hold protests, block roads on September 20||Hisar, September 13The Haryana Kisan Sabha has decided to organise a series of protests against issues affecting the crisis-ridden agrarian sector.The members have decided to block roads for three hours and hold demonstrations across the state on September 20.At a meeting held in Hisar today, presided over by farmer leader Phool Singh Sheokand, the farmers’ body decided to observe September 20 as the protest day to demand withdrawal of three ordinances, notification for special girdawari to assess damage to cotton crop and withdrawal of police cases against farmers.The members will gherao the office of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, who holds the revenue portfolio, in his assembly segment Uchana Kalan in Jind on September 17 to press for notifying cotton girdawari.The Bharatiya Kisan Union at a meeting held in Jind presided over by Gurnam Singh Chadhuni said 19 farmer organisations had joined hands on the issue and if their demands were not accepted they would resort to road blockade for three hours on September 20. A Haryana yatra will also begin from September 27 to mobilise farmers and people in support of the issues.INLD To hit streets from Sept 23Kurukshetra: The INLD on Sunday announced protests at the district level from September 23 over farm ordinances, lathicharge on farmers at Pipli and cases against peasants. Announcing the decision, INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala questioned the government’s decision to constitute a three-member committee to resolve farmers’ issues. “If our demands are not met by September 21, we will start demonstrations on September 23. The first protest will be held in Ambala,” he said. TNS
14-09-2020||---||119 Haryana govt high school heads to be demoted||Rohtak, September 13In all, 119 headmasters of Government High School across the state would be demoted in compliance with a Punjab and Haryana High Court verdict. The Department of School Education has issued them show-cause notices to explain why they should not be demoted. More than 60 headmasters have already retired.Sources say that in 2014, 860 Elementary School Headmasters (ESHMs) were promoted to the post of High School Headmaster under the Haryana State Education School Cadre (Group B) Service Rules, 2012. Some challenged the promotion in the High Court, raising questions over the eligibility of those appointed as Classical and Vernacular (C&V) teachers for subjects such as Hindi, Punjabi and Sanskrit.In December 2015, the court had directed the department to consider the candidature of all eligible applicants who fulfilled the criteria of qualification and experience as per the amended Rules of 2012.Subsequently, “the department re-examined the candidature of all 860 ESHMs and found 119 of them not entitled to the promotion. Before issuing the order of demotion, the headmasters have been issued show-cause notices”.The communiqué further stated that teachers were ineligible for promotion because they had neither been appointed to the post of Trained Graduate Teacher (TGT) nor they had completed eight years of service on the post of ESHM.An affected headmaster said, “All 119 C&V teachers were given the status of TGT in 2012. So, the move to demote us is inappropriate. We will approach the HC.”District Education Officer Vijaya Lakshmi said the headmasters had been asked to file their replies within 15 days.
14-09-2020||Chandigarh||BJP panel’s aim is to mislead, says Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today questioned the committee of three MPs formed by the BJP to talk to farmers. Hooda said the aim of the committee is to mislead farmers.“If the committee has any power, it should first take action against those who hit farmers. The committee should withdraw the cases filed against farmers. On the one hand, the government is suppressing farmers by showing them the fear of cases and, on the other, they are putting up the facade of a dialogue,” Hooda said.Hooda added the BJP should add provisions guaranteeing MSP under the C2 formula of Swaminathan Commission, as it had promised. — TNS
14-09-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||With Randeep Singh Surjewala’s rise, Haryana Congress dynamics set to change||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 13The elevation of AICC media in charge and former Kaithal MLA Randeep Singh Surjewala within the Congress has altered the dynamics within the faction-ridden state unit of the party in Haryana.In the latest organisational reshuffle, Surjewala has been promoted as AICC general secretary, Karnataka, and has been made a regular CWC member.Counter to Hooda?Randeep Surjewala has been promoted as AICC general secretary, Karnataka, and a regular CWC memberHe is among five leaders who will assist Congress chief Sonia Gandhi in organisational mattersHis elevation assumes significance since so far in Haryana, CLP leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s faction has been dominating party affairsHowever, the most “weighty” assignment among his new duties is his inclusion in the list of five leaders who will assist Congress president Sonia Gandhi in organisational matters.Surjewala’s elevation assumes significance since so far in Haryana, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader and former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s faction has been dominating the party scene.Having the support of a majority of MLAs, Hooda managed to have his way when his son and former Lok Sabha member Deepender Hooda beat state chief Kumari Selja to become Rajya Sabha member. Deepender has also found a place in the CWC as a special invitee.While the former MLA’s elevation is being seen as an attempt of the party top brass to balance power dynamics within the state unit and create a parallel leadership, it is also being seen as a reward for Surjewala’s behind-the-scenes efforts in the Rajasthan Congress imbroglio, where he stayed put for over a month and handled the crisis.Also, though Surjewala has had hands full with party affairs at the national level, he has travelled through Kurukshetra, Jind and Kaithal and kept the heat on by raising issues against the BJP-JJP government all through the Covid lockdown and later.Realising the need to stay connected to his home state and his constituency despite losing the Assembly election, he visited mandis during the procurement season and had been distributing PPE kits and sanitisers in the three districts.Further, in the state unit, the removal of Ghulam Nabi Azad as party general secretary is a setback to Hooda since the two shared a close relationship.Though Azad held a few meetings in Haryana and could not do much to bring various factions within the party together, the new in charge of Haryana, Vivek Bansal, has a lot to settle in the divided party.With Azad’s exit, a new party in charge in place, Surjewala’s elevation and Hooda already firmly in control in the state, it remains to be seen how the party affairs will pan out and the permutations and combinations change in view of these developments.
14-09-2020||Panchkula||BJP panel meets peasants, traders in Haryana||The three-member panel of BJP MPs Brijendra Singh (Hisar), Dharambir (Bhiwani) and Nayab Saini (Kurukshetra) today met representatives of farmers and traders at the PWD rest house in Sector 1 to end the deadlock over the Centre’s agri ordinances.Bhiwani parliamentarian Dharambir, after the meeting, said: “We held meetings with farmers, traders and other stakeholders in Rohtak, Karnal and Panchkula and heard their grievances. We received several suggestions from them.”The committee will now submit its report to state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar.He said: “Every possible effort will be made to organise a meeting between farmers’ representatives and Union Minister of Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar before September 16 to allow them to put forth their grievances.” — TNSDalal blames CongHisar: Agriculture Minister JP Dalal has said the Congress was responsible for the lathicharge on farmers in Pipli last week. Interacting with mediapersons at his residence in Bhiwani on Sunday, the minister said the Congress is desperate to get political mileage and thus has been trying to create disharmony in the state. tns
14-09-2020||---||19 more succumb, 2,526 fresh Covid-19 cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, September 13With 2,526 fresh cases, the number of Covid cases reached 93,641 in Haryana today. The death toll went up to 975 with the addition of 19 deaths.Gurugram reported a maximum of 339 cases, followed by Faridabad (298), Karnal (295), Ambala (182) and Panipat (155).Karnal reported a maximum of four deaths, followed by Faridabad and Ambala (three each). Rohtak, Gurugram, Bhiwani and Yamunanagar reported two deaths each and Kurukshetra reported one death.In Karnal, a 77-year-old man from Sadar Bazar, a 65-year-old woman from Sector 13, an 81-year-old of Sector 14 and a 72-year-old man of Khora Kheri village died of Covid, taking the toll to 72. The district reported 176 fresh cases and the total number of positive cases reached 5,457.With three more deaths in the past 24 hours, the toll in Faridabad went up to 191. The number of Covid cases rose to 15,860 with the highest single-day spike of 298 cases today.
14-09-2020||Faridabad||Woman held for killing daughter in Faridabad||The police have arrested a 35-year-old woman for murdering her eight-year-old daughter, who went missing on September 10 from her house in Sanjay Colony here.According to the police, the mystery got resolved within 36 hours when the police grilled the mother of the deceased on the basis of the CCTV footage collected from the neighborhood in which the victim was found to be taken by her mother on the morning of the same day.Rajesh Kumar, woman’s husband, had lodged a complaint that his daughter had gone missing on September 10. The accused woman, who was interrogated on Friday, broke down and told the police she had murdered her daughter due to her belief in occult practices and superstitions, as she was in the grip of some spirits since 2001 and wanted a relief by killing her daughter. — TNS
14-09-2020||---||Two stabbed to death in Sonepat||Panipat, September 13Two persons were stabbed to death, while two others were injured during a clash between two groups of labourers working at a socks manufacturing factory on Saturday night at Gannaur in Sonepat district. Five persons have been booked for murder.The deceased have been identified as Narsi (60) and his nephew Jagmohan (40) of Ram Nagar, while Anil and Navratan, whose condition is stated to be critical, have been referred to the PGIMS, Rohtak.Anil of Ram Nagar worked as an electrician at Jindal socks manufacturing unit. On Saturday night, he clashed with other labourers — Kuldeep, Sonu, Bittu and Sanjay.After being injured, Anil informed his friend Dinesh around 12.15 am who informed Anil’s family about the clash. When Anil’s uncle Narsi along with his sons Pawan and Navratan and nephew Jagmohan reached the factory, they found that some persons were beating up Anil. As they tried to save him, the assailants attacked them and managed to escape.Narsi, Jagmohan, Anil, Navratan and Pawan were rushed to hospital, where doctors declared Narsi and Jagmohan brought dead.Kuldeep, Sonu, Bittu, Sanjay and others have been booked under Sections 323, 324, 326, 302, 34 of the IPC. No accused has been arrested so far.Farmer killedPanipat: A 29-year-old farmer of Mudlana village of Sonepat district was allegedly beaten to death on Saturday. The police have registered a case against five persons. The deceased has been identified as Amit (29). His brother Sumit said Ramniwas and Rohtas, along with three others, took Amit to a gym and beat him up. After getting information, he reached the gym and brought his brother home but on Saturday morning he was found dead. TNS
14-09-2020||---||Space under flyovers to be beautified in Karnal||Karnal, September 13Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL) has chalked a plan to convert leftover space below the seven flyovers on the National Highway-44 into recreational areas, which will work as an effective public space.The KSCL has earmarked the flyovers and the consultant has been directed to design and develop these spaces with modernised parking provision for improving pedestrian connectivity through crossings, graffiti, lightning and public amenities.Nishant Kumar Yadav, Karnal DCMakeover on the cardsBeautification will be done at leftover spaces under the seven flyovers. The development of spaces will create a sense of belongingness among citizens and create an identity for the city.Presently, these spaces are in a shabby condition. Some graffiti work was done a few years back on the walls below the flyovers, but with the passing of time, nobody paid attention towards it.Some irresponsible residents have pasted posters on the walls. The KSCL has taken up these spaces under the Smart City project.“Beautification will be done at leftover spaces under the flyovers near Karan Lake, Baldi bypass, Nirmal Kutiya Chowk, Sector 6 Chowk, Tau Devi Lal Chowk and Namastey Chowk,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC-cum-CEO, KSCL.He said the development of spaces would create a sense of belongingness among citizens and create an identity for the city. “It is our attempt to utilise the leftover spaces below the flyovers and make these beautiful,” he said.
14-09-2020||---||Anil Vij seeks time from Rajnath for Ambala airport project||Ambala, September 13State Home and Health Minister Anil Vij has sought time from Defence Minister Rajnath Singh for a meeting to seek his intervention in the issue pertaining to land requirement for a domestic airport in Ambala.Anil Vij, Home MinisterRUNWAY ISSUEThe Air Force just has to give a passage for the runway. I’ve sought a personal meeting with the Defence Minister to resolve the issue.Nearly 20 months ago, the civil airport project in Ambala Cantonment was approved by the Central Government under the Udan 3.0 scheme, but the project has been hanging fire ever since, as the land for the project hasn’t been finalised yet. The air force runway is to be used for the airport.Speaking to The Tribune, Vij said: “We have identified an Army land near the Air Force station in Ambala, and it is suitable for the project. We will either offer the Army equal land against the identified land, or the price of the land. The Air Force only requires to give a passage for the runway. I have written a letter to the Defence Minister in this regard, and have sought a personal meeting so that the issue can be resolved.”
14-09-2020||Parveen Arora||For not providing info, officials fined Rs 3.79 cr in 14 years in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 13The State Information Commission, Haryana, has imposed a penalty of Rs 3.79 crore on various State Public Information Officers (SPIOs) and first appellate authorities of the state for not providing information to applicants on time in 3,128 cases from 2006 to July 2020.Besides, the commission has also directed the SPIOs in 3,154 cases to pay Rs 81.37 lakh to applicants as compensation for the harassment they had faced due to delay in information in the past 14 years.Apart from it, the commission has also recommended disciplinary action against SPIOs in 1,640 cases since its inception in 2005-06. This came to light in the information provided by the commission in response to an RTI application filed by city-based advocate Shakti Singh, who sought information regarding the kind of action taken against the SPIOs who have failed to furnish information on time and those who have not deposited the penalty amount with the commission.In his reply, the commission said it had imposed a penalty of Rs 3.79 crore. Of it, the commission has recovered Rs 1.48 crore. The commission also said it does not have the power to take action against the SPIOs who do not deposit the penalty. It said now, the state had issued strict instructions in this regard to all departments to recover penalty either from the salary of the SPIOs or pension of officers who have retired.In a reply to another question, the commission said 93,616 applicants went for appeal. Of them, 71,482 applications have been disposed of and 22,134 are pending.RTI activist Singh said there should be an office of the State Information Commission at the divisional level for ensuring speedy information to applicants.
14-09-2020||---||Ex-councillors accuse govt of delaying Ambala MC election||Ambala, September 13Former councillors, whose wards fall under the Ambala Sadar Municipal Council, have accused the government of delaying the process of the election as the delimitation process for the council is yet to be completed. The final notification for delimitation of wards of the Ambala Municipal Corporation has already been issued.Sudhir Jaiswal, Ex-deputy MayorDelimitation still not overThe delimitation process is going on at a slow pace and we’ve been completely ignored by the administration. All members of the panel formed for delimitation process belong to the BJP. We’ll soon meet the DC in thei regard.The former councillors have also accused the government of not including the councillors belonging to Opposition parties in the ad hoc committee formed for the delimitation process in February.As per the notification issued in March, there will be 31 wards in the council against 9 wards, when it was the part of Ambala Municipal Corporation in last tenure that ended in July 2018. Last year, the corporation was bifurcated into Ambala Municipal Corporation and Ambala Sadar Municipal Council.Parvinder Pari, a former councillor from ward No.18, said: “While the final notification for the corporation has been issued, the process in the council is still at the delimitation stage. The tenure completed two years ago but we are still attesting certificates as former councillors. No one listens to us when we approach officials for any work related to our wards.”Former Deputy Mayor Sudhir Jaiswal said: “The delimitation process is going on at a slow pace and we have been completely ignored by the administration. All members of the committee formed for delimitation process belong to the BJP. We will soon meet the Deputy Commissioner and submit a memorandum in support of our demands and concerns. The election must be conducted at the earliest so that the elected members can raise the issues of their respective areas and get the development work done.”Lalita Prasad, a former councillor from ward 20 and member of the committee formed for delimitation, said: “A survey is being conducted and hopefully the work will be conducted soon. The councillors, who have worked for people, shouldn’t be afraid of any change in the limits of the wards as people have faith in them and they can win easily but those who haven’t worked for people are always afraid of changes in wards.”Ambala Sadar Municipal Council Secretary Rajesh Kumar said the delimitation process for the wards was still on and it might take at least one more month to complete. “Once the process is complete, it will be sent to the government for proposed notification,” he added.
14-09-2020||---||Haryana Excise and Taxation Department unearths Rs 355 crore GST scam; 5 cases lodged||Panipat, September 13The state Excise and Taxation Department has unearthed a GST scam involving seven companies, which fraudulently claimed input tax credit worth Rs 123.60 crore through bogus invoices worth Rs 355.84 crore. On paper, all seven firms were shown to be based out of Sonepat district.The police have registered five cases against owners of as many bogus firms under the IPC and the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.Sources say the seven bogus firms are Bawa International, Kundli; Jogender International, Rai; The Best Overseas, Sonepat; AS Enterprises, Sonepat; Vimal Plastic Industries, Rai; Tarun Enterprises, Rai; and Gautam Enterprises, Rai.The owners of the bogus firms did not upload any proof of ownership or rent agreement while registering the firms on the GST portal in the last financial year. Instead, they uploaded forged documents and bank details.Surender Singh, Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner (Sales), said the seven firms came under scanner because of their huge turnover (Rs 355.84 crore) and input tax credit claims.“The department has recommended the police to register criminal cases against the proprietors of the bogus firms. Of the Rs 123.60 crore input tax credit, the department has blocked the input tax credit to the tune of 6.24 crore. The pending amount of Rs 117.36 crore will also be recovered,” he added.
