14-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Haryana govt does away with ‘no struck off name’ provision in schools||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 14In a major move, the Haryana government has done away with the provision of not allowing schools to strike-off students’ name falling to non-payment of fees.In an order issued on June 1 (as per point 9), the department stated: “...as per the directions issued on April 23 and May 22 for the compliance, private schools will not strike off the name of any student due to non-payment of fee...”However, on June 9, the department said: “In a partial modification, reference made at serial number 9 (above mentioned) of the order dated on June 1 may be read as ‘deleted’.” Interestingly, on the orders dated May 22, there was no mention of any ninth point, as the orders were of only eight pointers and there was no mention if the schools can strike off names or not.Additional Chief Secretary, when contacted, said the orders of May 22 stood valid.“The orders of May 22 stand valid and very clear. The focus point is that the May 22 order is to comply. There was some confusion as the department had issued two orders (April 23 and May 22), however, it was made clear that the effective order is of May 22,” said Dr Mahavir Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, who undersigned the orders.When asked on the clarity over if the schools had been given the authority to strike off names or not, Singh said: “I don’t want to get into further discussion, the people have already moved to court. The orders (dated May 22) are very clear.”Meanwhile, as per May 22, students have been asked to pay the tuition fee from June onwards and for the month of April and May, and if any parent requested the school to give relaxations, the request should be accepted. In that case, the pending amount should be paid in instalments within the coming three months.“We welcome the decision as there have been many incidents wherein those parents who can pay the fee were not doing so deliberately. The schools are already helping the genuine cases by not asking them any kind of fee in this pandemic, but those who can easily pay a reasonable amount should not make excuses. This has brought in discrimination and anger among parents,” said Piyush Punj, finance secretary, Panchkula Public School Association.“The school must have given the authority to keep on it. We ensure that no genuine parent will be affected by this order,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-does-away-with-no-struck-off-name-provision-in-schools-99098
14-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||15-km portion of NH-10 to be made model stretch of international level||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 14A 15-km portion of road on the Rohtak-Hisar stretch of Delhi-Fazilka National Highway No. 10 is all set to be developed as a model road stretch of international standard.The engineering and infrastructural work on the 15-km stretch identified for the purpose has commenced under the supervision of L. N. Malviya Infra Company and the project is being directly monitored by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).As per official sources, the model stretch will have features like proper junctions, entry and exit points, functional drains, clearly visible road-signs, road furniture and safety items like crash-barrier, kerb-painting, road studs, delineators, aesthetic footpaths and foot over-bridges, highway lighting, landscaping and plantation, user facilities and wayside amenities, advance traffic management system, CCTV cameras, rainwater harvesting system and other eco-friendly measures.“It will be ensured that this aforesaid stretch has all features of an ideal road which can set an example for the other NHAI and PWD projects in India,” said Col Virendra Singh Shekhawat, General Manager, Sadbhav Engineering Company, which manages the Rohtak-Hisar toll-way.Videography of the road-stretch proposed to be developed as a model has been carried out and the work would be completed within the time stipulated by the central NHAI authorities, he asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15-km-portion-of-nh-10-to-be-made-model-stretch-of-international-level-99043
14-06-2020||Karnal||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 17 new cases, state tally rises to 6,766||Haryana on Sunday reported 17 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s case tally to 6,766.Karnal reported 13 new COVID-19 cases, officials said. A 25-year-old female doctor at KCGMC and six cops at Haryana Police Academy were among the new cases.The others who tested positive in Karnala were a 19-year-old woman from Kalram, a 20-year-old man from Gharaunda, a 30-year-old man from Shiv Colony, a 30-year-old woman from Namastey Chowk, a 42-year-old man from Sadar Bazar and a 24-year-old from Aryapuram.Yamunanagar reported four new cases, district officials said.On Saturday, with eight deaths and 415 fresh cases, Haryana witnessed another big spike in COVID infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-haryana-reports-17-new-cases-state-tally-rises-to-6-766-99027
14-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Kaithal administration stops construction by Vishva Hindu Parishad at disputed site||Kaithal, June 13The local unit of Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) had to abandon the construction at a plot in front of Bhai Uday Singh Fort here today due to resistance by local residents and the administration.The VHP is claiming ownership of the plot by virtue of donation by some shareholders in this piece of land. It used to be a part of the historical pond “Bidhkayar” in the heart of the town, adjoining the local municipal council building.The MC claims ownership on the basis of revenue record. A case is pending in the High Court on this issue. The court had ordered status quo but had allowed the VHP to erect fencing on the plot to prevent encroachment.The VHP had erected fencing on the plot years back. Today, they started erecting a boundary wall by digging plinths, bringing bricks to the spot and pressing into service masons and labourers.When the administration received information about the construction, the SDM and Naib Tehsildar reportedly reached the spot and directed its stoppage till the matter is settled by the court.SDM Kamalpreet Kaur said that she reached the site on the directions of the DC who was informed by some local resident about the VHP’s move to start construction on the site. She said the police have been asked to keep vigil on the spot and not allow any construction till the matter is decided by the High Court.PC Mittal, president, VHP Kaithal district, claimed they had won the case years back and now wanted to construct the boundary wall. “We met the DC in the presence of MC officials today. He informed us that we should not do any construction as the matter is pending in court,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-administration-stops-construction-by-vishva-hindu-parishad-at-disputed-site-98730
14-06-2020||Rohtak||Won’t pay market fee: Commission agents||Commission agents at vegetable markets across the state are at loggerheads with the government over 1 per cent market fee on sale of fruits and vegetables. The Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board has told commission agents to pay the fee on a weekly basis.“The government imposed the market fee on May 1. We have paid the fee for three weeks in May, but have now decided against it as the prices of vegetables and fruits have gone up with the fee,” said Sonu Chhabra, president of the Rohtak Fruit and Vegetable Commission Agents Association.Deepak Lohchab, secretary of the local market committee, said: “There are more than 100 commission agents here. We have started issuing notices, asking them to pay the market fee with 25 per cent penalty at the earliest. If they fail to do so, their cases will be sent to the DC.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-pay-market-fee-commission-agents-98731
14-06-2020||---||Gujarat cops take liquor theft kingpin on transit remand||Panipat, June 13In another development in the liquor theft case, the Gujarat Police have taken liquor smuggling kingpin Bhupender Singh to their state on transit remand after his network’s Gujarat connection come to the fore during investigation.The police said Bhupender, his brother Jitender, Satish and former SHO Jasbeer Singh (who has been dismissed from service) allegedly smuggled illicit liquor to states, especially those where prohibition is in force.The Junagarh police (Gujarat) had approached the Sonepat court for Bhupender’s transit remand. The court on Friday granted the permission, following which the police took him away the same day.During his police remand here, Bhupender had revealed that Jitender and Satish smuggled liquor to other states, while he was responsible for stealing illicit liquor from distilleries. The investigation also brought out that Dhiernder Karya of Junagarh was the main supplier who managed the business there.Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said the Gujarat Police had already arrested Karya and one of his accomplices from Sonepat’s Jharoth village.The liquor theft from a sealed godown in Kharkhoda came to light after the SP directed the inspection of the warehouse. About 5,700 boxes of liquor were found stolen.A Special Investigation Team (SIT) found that that some police officials were hand in glove with Bhupender. Police officers, including two Inspectors, have been booked in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gujarat-cops-take-liquor-theft-kingpin-on-transit-remand-98732
14-06-2020||Nitish Sharma||5 phones seized from Ambala jail inmates||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, June 13The seizure of mobile phones and subscriber identification module (SIM) cards from Central Jail Ambala has become a regular feature. Three such incidents have been reported from the jail over the past week and three separate cases have been registered at Baldev Nagar police station.On June 11, a SIM card was seized from the jail premises on the disclosure of Deepu, who was taken on production warrant from Central Jail Ambala and was produced before a court in Chandigarh in connection with a firing incident in Chandigarh on May 31.OfficialspeakPeople use different techniques to throw phones and SIM cards inside the jail. Phones packed in packets, while SIM cards are hidden in balls. —Vishal Chhiber, DSP, Central jail, AmbalaThe Chandigarh Police had said that during interrogation, Deepu disclosed that he was using a mobile phone to communicate with Lawrence Bishnoi and other criminals active in the region.However, Jail Superintendent Lakhbir Singh didn’t comment on the claim of the Chandigarh Police and said that it was a matter for investigation. He added, “A SIM card was recovered from the jail following which a case was registered at Baldev Nagar police station. The matter is being investigated by the police. We are making efforts for joint search operations with the police to curb the use of any type of mobile phone from inside the jail.”On June 9, a phone was seized from the pocket of an inmate during frisking. On June 7, two packets, containing four mobile phones and four chargers, which were thrown from outside the jail were recovered by the guards.DSP, Central Jail, Ambala, Vishal Chhiber said, “Checking is done twice a day and mobile phones and other items are seized from the prisoners. People use different techniques to throw phones and SIM cards inside the jail. Phones packed in packets, while SIM cards are hidden in balls.”Superintendent of Police Abhishek Jorwal said, “Cases have been registered following the seizure. Our team of CIA along with the jail staff will inspect the jail and check if more such phones and SIM cards are being used inside the jail.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-phones-seized-from-ambala-jail-inmates-98733
14-06-2020||Kurukshetra||Three of family die of poisoning at Ghradsi village in Kurukshetra||Three members of a family have died due to poisoning at Ghradsi village in Kurukshetra district. The deceased have been identified as Rishipal (50), his wife Saroj (45) and their daughter Muskan (18).Rishipal’s father Ramkumar alleged that Saroj was having an extramarital affair. He said a quarrel broke out between his son and daughter-in-law on June 9 over the issue.He alleged Saroj served food laced with poison and consumed it herself. Ramkumar found them unconscious on June 10. They were taken to a hospital, where Rishipal and Muskan died during treatment. Saroj died last night. A case was registered against Saroj and her alleged paramour on Ramkumar’s complaint.In a statement before a magistrate prior to her death, Saroj blamed her husband for the incident. “The woman, in her statement, has blamed her husband. We are yet to get any evidence and investigation is on,” said SHO Suraj Kumar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-of-family-die-of-poisoning-at-ghradsi-village-in-kurukshetra-98734
14-06-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||New discharge policy lifts recovery count in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 13Since the implementation of a new discharge policy by the state, there is a sudden five-fold jump in the number of recoveries from Covid.The policy has been implemented under pressure due to mounting cases as it does not require testing of pre-symptomatic, very mild, mild and moderate cases.On May 8, the Centre recommended states to discharge Covid cases, except severe ones, without testing. Before that, two negative tests were required before discharge.The Health Department in Haryana chose to be cautious. On May 11, it decided to make one negative test mandatory before discharge.With cases mounting and putting pressure on medical infrastructure, Haryana decided to follow the Centre’s discharge policy on June 3.Till June 3, there were 1,089 discharged cases. In the next 10 days, the cumulative number jumped to 2,803, a rise of 157.4 per cent.It implied that 171.4 patients were discharged per day from June 4 to 13, on an average. The rate of discharge was 34.2 cases per day from May 12 to June 3.The number of those discharged after implementation of the new policy jumped five times compared to those during the previous directive.“There is no need of using resources on pre-symptomatic, mild, very mild and moderate cases. Severe cases need more attention. Twelve doctors are required to run a Covid ward, with 18 other staffers and 18 Class IV employees. They are quarantined after a week,” said Dr VK Katyal, state nodal officer for Covid.“They should ideally have tested a patient before discharge. They are asking people to go in for seven-day home isolation following discharge, which is fine. Haryana has taken a conscious decision based on health infrastructure,” said Dr Digamber Behera, senior professor of pulmonary medicine, PGI, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-discharge-policy-lifts-recovery-count-in-haryana-98735
14-06-2020||---||Haryana reports 8 deaths, toll 78||Chandigarh, June 13With eight deaths and 415 fresh cases, Haryana witnessed another big spike in Covid infection today as the state’s Covid-positive tally reached 6,749.Gurugram and Faridabad again had a major share in the state’s virus load as well as in the deaths due to Covid — six deaths were reported from Gurugram and two from Faridabad today.In Faridabad, a 64-year-old man from Sai colony of Mawai village suffering from several chronic and acute ailments like cholecystitis, prostomegaly and peritonitis died today. The other victim was a 67-years-old person from Sector-7 who had co-morbidities like COPD and hypertension.An 80-year-old Covid-positive woman inmate of Jan Sewa Sansthan shelter-home in Rohtak died today but is yet to be counted in the state health bulletin.The fresh cases came from Gurugram (203), Faridabad (100), Rohtak (30), Sonepat (3), Jhajjar (7), Nuh (2), Ambala (16), Palwal (5), Panipat (4), Panchkula (1), Karnal (3), Sirsa (6), Bhiwani (14), Mahendragarh (7), Hisar (7), Rewari (3), Charkhi Dadri (1) and Kurukshetra (3).A two-year-old boy of Uncha Samana village, 57-year-old man from Gharaunda and 37-year-old of Sector-16 of Karnal were among the positive cases.In Kurukshetra, a 30-year-old man from Rampura village of Babain who had returned from Faridabad, a 34-year-old man from Ladwa who works at a private firm in Gurugram and was in contact with a Covid-positive case of Ambala, and a 53-year-old man of Babain who visited Fortis hospital recently and works at a nationalised bank in Shahabad were among the new cases.The fresh cases in Ambala included five each from Ambala City and Ambala Cantonment, two each in Boh and Mullana and one each Kala Amb industrial area and Yamunanagar.Meanwhile, 328 persons got discharged today taking the tally of recovered ones to 2,803 with a recovery rate of 41.53 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-8-deaths-toll-78-98736
14-06-2020||---||BJP leader’s son held with 60-gm heroin||Ambala, June 13The Special Task Force (STF) unit of Ambala has arrested the son of Ambala BJP district chief along with another person and seized 60 gm heroin from their possession at Ambala Cantonment on Saturday.The accused have been identified as Amit Kumar, a resident of Ambala City, and Kalap Nath, a resident of Manav Chowk in Ambala City. Kamal Nath basically belongs to Uttar Pradesh.In-charge STF DSP Kulbhushan said, “We have arrested two youths and seized 60 gm heroin from their possession. They were on their way from Delhi in a car and were arrested on the national highway near the traffic lights of Ambala Cantonment. They were arrested under the jurisdiction of Parao police station. They will be produced in court on Sunday. Amit is the son of a BJP leader. He was arrested in Punjab in April last year by the Punjab Police in an NDPS case.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-leaders-son-held-with-60-gm-heroin-98737
14-06-2020||Gurugram||Man looted at gunpoint in Gurugram||ChandigarhBJP’s virtual rally todayThe stage is set for the first virtual rally of Haryana which is being organised by the state unit of the BJP on Sunday to mark one year of the second term of the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre. The rally will be addressed by Union Agriculture Minister Narender Tomar, BJP in-charge of Haryana Anil Jain, CM Manohar Lal Khattar and state party president Subhash Barala. TNSKaithalATM with Rs 14L uprootedThieves uprooted an SBI ATM containing about Rs14 lakh in Keorak village on Friday night. A fingerprints expert reached the spot to help the police. In another case, robbers made a bid to loot a PNB ATM in the Siwan gate area. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-looted-at-gunpoint-in-gurugram-98738
