14-01-2021||Chandigarh||Aviation services launched between Chandigarh and Hisar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday launched aviation services between Chandigarh and Hisar at the international airport here by handing over a boarding pass to the first passenger.This service has been started by Air Taxi Aviation Company, an official statement said here.He said Air Taxi has ordered four-seater airplanes. Besides the pilot, three passengers will be able to travel in these air taxis.    The distance from Chandigarh to Hisar will be covered by this aircraft in 45 minutes, he said adding that the service had been started under the ‘Udaan’ scheme of the Centre. The scheme envisages to make flying affordable. He said the company has fixed a very economical fare of Rs 1,755 from Hisar to Chandigarh.आज #मकर_संक्रांति के शुभ अवसर पर केंद्र सरकार की UDAN योजना के तहत चंडीगढ़ से हिसार के लिए एयर टैक्सी सेवा का शुभारम्भ किया। प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी ने कहा था कि चप्पल पहनने वाला व्यक्ति भी हवाई सफ़र कर सके, यह पहल उस दिशा में एक ओर कदम है। pic.twitter.com/lIbQcKd4KL  Bookings can be made online at “http://flyairtaxi.in”. The company has also provided the facility of private booking, the fare for which will be different. There will be a daily flight between Hisar and Chandigarh at its scheduled time even if only one passenger has booked a ticket.After starting Chandigarh-Hisar air service from Thursday, the company will start air service from Hisar to Dehradun from January 18 and from Hisar to Dharamshala on January 23. — PTI
14-01-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur ||Haryana claims to have imposed Rs 300-crore penalty on units polluting Yamuna||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, January 14 Haryana has claimed before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that it has been imposing Environmental Compensation on all the violators for polluting Yamuna and till November 2020 penalties worth Rs 300 crore had been imposed on erring units. The government though submitted that only Rs 4.67 crore had been collected so far. In its reply, dated January 6, on the findings of Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC), the state has submitted that Haryana State Pollution Control Board “is also in the process of imposing EC for untreated effluent in drains/STPs, and Chief Secretary has taken up the matter with individual administrative secretaries for taking action against the erring officers”.The YMC, in its report last month, had pointed out that Haryana didn’t comply with the September 2019 directions of the NGT regarding compensation for not able to fix deficiencies in STPs, delay in construction of new STPs and not starting works with regard to sewerage network and its connectivity.“It will be open to Government of Haryana to recover the said amount from erring officers/contractors,” said the NGT.  The YMC in its report indicated that out of 24 STPs inspected in the Yamuna catchment towns, 16 were found to be having operational deficiencies and were not in compliance with the standards.It was concluded that the status given by the line departments were incorrect and Haryana State Pollution Control Board officials had failed to perform their duties.Haryana has now told the NGT that working of 10 STPs had improved and six were still non-compliant. Regarding the observation that none of the four Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETPs) and three STPs were working in Sonepat, the government admitted that the trunk sewer line had settled down due to which the whole sewage was not reaching two of the STPs and as a result they were not functioning up to their potential.   The work on replacement of trunk sewer line would be completed by June 30, the government said, adding that as far as the four CETPs were concerned, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) was in the process of upgrading the same.On discharge at Sonepat, which is affecting drinking water treatment plant at Wazirpur (Delhi) due to the higher BOD (Bio-chemical Oxygen Demand) and ammoniacal nitrogen concentration, Haryana submitted that tenders had been floated for conduit to carry the effluent separately.On no functional STP in Faridabad, it has been submitted that they are under construction. The YMC had pointed out that construction of seven new CETPs at Faridabad, Gurugram and Yamunanagar had not started, which will lead to discharge of 131.25 MLD of industrial effluent into Yamuna.Haryana replied that three CETPs in Faridabad would be constructed by 2023 and in Gurugram, two CETPs were getting commissioned. Regarding industrial effluents from Yamunanagar and Jagadhri towns, the government said they were considering shifting of industrial units.
14-01-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram police bust hi-tech gang of luxury car thieves||Gurugram police on Thursday busted a hi-tech gang of luxury car thieves nabbing three men.Two of them have stolen over a hundred cars in the last two years and sold them in grey market in Nagaland. The receiver of stolen cars and mastermind behind the gang has been caught from Nagaland.An unlock device tab, two fake number plates, three sockets, one plate instrument, one amulater device, one master key has been seized.Police said that the unlock device tab which was used to unlock any car is of Rs 2 lakh in market. Two Fortuners were also recovered from Nagaland by police. The arrested accused confessed to committing recent nine cases and revealed they used to steal Innova and Fortuner car from Delhi-NCR on demand. After this they sold these type of high-end cars for five lakhs to Nagaland accused.In the last two years, the accused have stolen and sold over 100 cars.The arrested accused are identified as Ankit, resident of Pyau Majra village in Hisar, Jalal, native of Ghaziabad in UP, and the receiver in Nagaland is identified as Kikheto of Dimapur in Nagaland.The trio was produced in a city court and police have taken two on eight days police remand for questioning while Nagaland accused has been sent to judicial custody.“After unlocking any luxury car with the help of a device tab they stole the car and then hid the car for a few days. After that they approached Kikheto in Nagaland. Kikheto used to prepare fake papers and number plates of stolen car from Nagaland and send it to them. After that they used to drive the car to Nagaland by road. Kikheto gave them Rs 5 lakh for a car and then sold them for Rs 10 to Rs 20 lakh,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, crime.The main accused Kikheto revealed during interrogation that he had sold over 50 cars in Gurugram and nearby areas which were stolen from Gurugram, Delhi, Faridabad, Rajasthan and Haryana.“The accused confessed that they used to sell the stolen cars after preparing their fake engine and chassis numbers. They sold the stolen cars at cheap price like 48 percent less. We are questioning the accused,” added ACP Sangwan.
14-01-2021||Sunit Dhawan||BJP-JJP regime has lost people’s trust: Hooda||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, January 14Former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition in Haryana Assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday said that the BJP-JJP government in the state had “lost people’s trust” and was looking for a “troubleshooter”.“The goings-on in the BJP-JJP alliance indicate that the regime has lost people’s trust and is looking for a troubleshooter to save the coalition government,” Hooda told reporters here.The senior Congress leader was replying to a query on the recent meetings of Haryana Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister with the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister.Hooda said that the Haryana Government was taking decisions against the aspirations of the people, due to which different sections of society were staging protest demonstrations.“The BJP-JJP leadership is concerned only about saving the coalition government, but the regimes that go against people’s sentiments fall by themselves,” he remarked.The former Chief Minister maintained that nearly 70 farmers had lost their lives during the ongoing agitation, but the government was insulting and inciting them instead of empathising with them.“The situation in Haryana has taken a serious turn. People are dejected with the state government and are opposing the leaders of the BJP and JJP. In view of the prevailing atmosphere, we have urged the Governor to convene a special session of the state Assembly,” Hooda said, adding that the Congress would bring a no-confidence motion against the government during the special session.
14-01-2021||---||Will fill political vacuum in Haryana as soon as it arises: Selja||New Delhi, January 14Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja on Thursday said many ruling party lawmakers were in touch with the opposition Congress MLAs and the Congress was ready to fill a political vacuum should any arise in Haryana.Selja said many MLAs of the ruling alliance are unhappy and anguished over the attitude of the BJP in the farm agitation and laws.Asked if the Congress could attempt to form a government in the state, she said: “Let those circumstances arise first. There can never be a vacuum in politics. We are ready to fill the vacuum in Haryana as and when it arises.”Selja had last week demanded the resignation of Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar, saying he had lost the faith of the people and the authority to stay in power.Haryana Assembly Opposition leader BS Hooda has been demanding that the Governor call an assembly session and the Khattar government be asked to prove its majority.
14-01-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: BSF jawan attempts suicide||A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan deployed at the BSF campus at Bhondsi in Gurugram attempted suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan, the police said on Thursday.According to the police, Sonu Kumar (38) belongs to Bhiwani district in Haryana. He was first rushed to the campus hospital and after first-aid, he was admitted to a private hospital in Gurugram where he is undergoing treatment.Sources said that the constable was a habitual drinker, and he was recently posted in the battalion against his wishes as he wanted to join the BSF's Delhi office and due to this he took the extreme step on Wednesday.The BSF has ordered an inquiry into the matter. A case in this regard has been registered at Bhondsi police station. — IANS
14-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold wave sweeps Punjab, Haryana||Punjab and Haryana continued to reel under severe cold wave conditions on Thursday with Narnaul being the coldest place.Narnaul in Haryana shivered at 1.8 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here.Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced cold wave conditions at 3.1, 3.7 and 4 degrees Celsius, up to three notches below normal.Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa braved the chill at 3.8, 4.3 and 5.8 degrees Celsius respectively.Chandigarh, the joint capital of both states, recorded its low at 3.8 degrees Celsius, one degree below normal.Among other places in Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala registered their minimums at 6.5, 4.8 and 5.1 degrees Celsius respectively.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur were 2.5, 2.1, 4.2, 3.6, 5 and 8 degrees Celsius respectively.A thick blanket of fog enveloped many places in Punjab and Haryana in the morning. —PTI
14-01-2021||---||SC notice to Haryana over pollution in Yamuna||New Delhi, January 13Taking cognisance of the pollution in the Yamuna, the Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Haryana Government after the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) alleged that water containing high pollutants was being released in the river from the state.“We are issuing notice without argument. We are taking suo motu cognisance of pollution in the entire Yamuna river,” a Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde said as the DJB pointed out that the water released by Haryana into the Yamuna had pollutants, including high ammonia content which becomes carcinogenic after mixing with chlorine.The Bench appointed senior advocate Meenakshi Arora as amicus curiae to assist it in hearing the case and posted the matter for further hearing on Tuesday.The DJB usually halts water supply in Delhi when the ammonia content in water rises. It has moved court seeking a direction to Haryana to ensure that pollutant-free water was released in the river.They have to have an ammonia treatment plan in Haryana. The National Green Tribunal had said that their STP at Sonepat is not working, Arora said.
14-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC: Trial courts can award life term without remission||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 13Just about six months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court held that trial courts have no power to impose penalty of lifelong imprisonment without remission or parole, another Division Bench has asserted that it is unable to understand under what circumstances the Judges of a coordinate Bench gave such a finding.The assertion came in a petition by Anil Dass challenging the order dated August 28, 2020, whereby the Gurugram division commissioner rejected his application for four-week parole. The Bench of Justice SN Satyanarayana and Justice Archana Puri was told that the Hisar Additional Sessions Judge had recorded the finding that the petitioner, among other accused, was responsible for homicidal death of several persons before finding them guilty of murder and other offences punishable under Sections 302, 342 and 120-B of the IPC. The petitioner was subsequently sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for life without remission, pursuant to which he was undergoing sentence in the Gurugram district jail.FINDING GETS high court BACKINGWhen that was looked into, we really felt that the Additional Sessions Judge was right ... leaving these people out in society even for a minute at any time, after they were found to be guilty of these offences, was not in the larger interest of society. —Punjab and Haryana High CourtThe counsel for the petitioner, during the course of arguments, argued that the order passed by the Hisar Additional Sessions Judge in sentencing the petitioner to imprisonment for life without remission was wrong. The counsel pointed out that there was already a finding to that effect by a coordinate Bench in another matter, wherein it was held by the Division Bench that putting such a restriction was incorrect.After taking note of the contentions, the Bench asserted that it went through the judgment threadbare and considered the manner in which the petitioner and 14 other accused were involved in causing homicidal death of innocent persons, including women and children.The petitioner and other similarly placed accused had supported another hardcore criminal, whose arrest was opposed by them by using these persons as a shield.The Bench added: “When that was looked into, we really felt that the Additional Sessions Judge was right in giving such a finding for the reason that he felt leaving these people out in society even for a minute at any time, after they were found to be guilty of these offences, was not in the larger interest of society and they could be threat to the society at any point of time in any manner.”Appreciating the findings of the Additional Sessions Judge, the Bench added that he did not come to such a conclusion in a whimsical or fanciful manner, but after giving careful consideration with reference to the manner in which all accused in the case behaved.
14-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Back no-trust motion, Hooda asks Abhay Chautala||Gurugram, January 13Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has said INLD leader Abhay Chautala should not resign from the Assembly and instead vote against the BJP-JJP government during the no-confidence motion that, he said, the Congress would move when the House would be convened.“Farm laws will not only affect farmers, but also every consumer. This is why the movement has received support from all sections of society. The Centre should accept the demands of farmers and end the agitation,” he told the media here today.The former Chief Minister further said the Congress had been opposing the laws ever since the Centre introduced them.The Leader of Opposition also appealed to the state government to withdraw cases registered against protesting farmers. “It should not act with malice or vengeance,” he added.
14-01-2021||Deepender Deswal||Presence of women strengthens stir||Tribune News ServiceHisar, January 13The number of women protesters from Haryana continue to swell at the Delhi borders, where farmers from Punjab and other states have been camping for more than a month demanding the repeal of the three farm laws. The unprecedented participation of Haryanvi women has come as a shot in the arm for the agitation.Saroj Devi, a farmer who drove a tractor to reach the dharna site from Khatkar village, said, “The profession of farming is not defined by gender. Our fields don’t produce crops differently if tended by women and men. Many men and women from Punjab are protesting. Why should we sit at home?”“We were inspired by women from Punjab, who halted for a night in Haryana villages on their way to the Delhi border,” she added.Why sit at home? The profession of farming is not defined by gender. Our fields don’t produce crops differently if tended by women and men. Many men as well as women from Punjab are protesting. Why should we sit at home? —Saroj Devi, Khatkar village residentWomen from Khatkar, Pokhri Kheri, Baroda, Sangatpura, Barodi and Jangh Kalan Jangh Khurd had cooked meal for nearly 20,000 farmers from Punjab during their halt last month. They also played host to women farmers from Punjab.Sikkim Sheokand, a resident of Safa Kheri village, said Haryanvi women were quick in composing folk songs in accordance with events.In this case, they could be heard singing songs like “Ambani ke gahne dhare tha e bebe”, “paati se jaan” and “hum tractor leke aaye Delhi ke beech”, she said, adding that one of their self-made lyrics, “Dhokhe me bharat lootya e bebe, vadyan ki jhooth (Bharat is being betrayed by false promises o sister)” was much appreciated by one and all.She added that they had long juggled the demands of field and family, making sure both were tended to, and now hundreds of women from Haryana as well as Punjab had added another dimension to their busy lives — the protest sites at the Delhi borders.“We were impressed by the determination of women from Punjab. We, too, decided to take out time from our daily routine at home and fields and form jathas to reach the dharna site on tractor-trailers,” said another woman from Haryana.Phool Kumar, a khap leader, said, “The presence of women points towards their awakening. Apparently, they are inspired by women from Punjab,” he said, adding when women worked shoulder to shoulder with men in fields, why should they hesitate from joining the protest.
14-01-2021||Nitish Sharma||Rs 4.47 crore to be spent on Buddhist stupa in Kurukshetra||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, January 13A budget of Rs 4.47 crore will be spent on developing the mound of ancient Buddhist stupa situated at Kurukshetra University.As per the PWD (B&R), the site is under the Department of Archaeology and Museums, Haryana, and it has entrusted the PWD to execute the project. As per information, the site is among the state-protected monuments and sites.The Executive Engineer, PWD (B&R), Arun Bhatia, said, “A tender was floated for the project and it has been received. Its technical bid will be opened at the headquarters and the tender will be allotted this month. The project is set to start in February. Besides the beautification work, pathways, eatery shops, and toilet blocks will be constructed under this project. A budget of Rs 4.47 crore has been received from the Archaeology Department.”Mound spread over 3 acresThe Deputy Director, Department of Archaeology and Museums, Haryana, Dr Banani Bhattacharyya, said, “Buddhist stupa is an iconic site and it is being developed accordingly. We will preserve the mound and the sanctity of the site. A garden will be developed there and there will gazebo and fountain. There is also a provision to install a statue of Buddha. The tree plantation will be carried out by the Forest Department. The construction work has been handed over to the PWD (B&R).”Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha said, “Different projects are being carried out in Thanesar to develop it as a major tourist destination. A proposal to develop the Buddhist stupa situated at Kurukshetra University was sent to the state government and it was cleared. The project will start in February and it is to be completed within a year. Every year, lakhs of pilgrims and visitors come to Kurukshetra. After the completion of the project, it will become a new tourist destination near the Brahma Sarovar and we are hopeful that it will attract more visitors.”
14-01-2021||---||Haryana gets 2.41L doses of vaccine||Chandigarh/Kurukshetra, Jan 13The Health Department today received 2,41,500 doses of Covishield vaccine. Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, Panchkula DC, and BK Rajora, Director (Administration), National Health Mission, Haryana, received the doses from Pune.The department will start the process of administering the vaccine on January 16.Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajeev Arora said the doses were taken to the state vaccine store in Kurukshetra, where it was handed over to Civil Surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh.From Kurukshetra, the vaccine will be supplied to regional centres in Rohtak, Gurugram, Hisar and Kurukshetra.Arora said, “In all, 113 immunisation session sites have been identified across the state. Healthcare workers will be administered the vaccine first. Each session site will administer vaccine to 100 persons. The information in this regard has already been uploaded on the CoWIN portal.”He further said, “After having conducted the dry run, it came to light that one vaccinator can administer the vaccine to 100 beneficiaries. At each session site, a five-member team of officers will be deployed.”Dr Singh said, “We have received the vaccine and had already arrangements to store it. There are no separate guidelines for the vaccine.”Earlier, Health Minister Anil Vij shared the information about receiving the vaccine at the Chandigarh airport on social media. He tweeted, “Haryana has received 2,41,500 doses of Covishield vaccine today at Chandigarh airport. It is being transferred to State Vaccine Store at Kurukshetra. We will also receive 20,000 doses of Covaxin by today evening.”
14-01-2021||Chandigarh||Investigate all paper leak  cases  in 6 yrs, says  Surjewala||Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Wednesday demanded a judicial probe into all paper leak cases in the past six years.  He charged the BJP-JJP state government with playing with the future of the youth. Expressing anguish at the latest paper leak for the Gram Sachiv examination, Surjewala said that the BJP government had set a dubious record in paper leaks, earning the name of ‘paper leak government’. “Repeated paper leaks in examinations of various jobs have become a routine affair of this government which proclaims to be transparent in job selections but the harsh reality is quite the opposite. More than 35 papers have got leaked in the past six years but the culprits have no fear of the law as no action is taken against the real kingpins,” he added. “We demand a judicial probe into all paper leak cases in the past six years so that the youth get justice and all the job scammers and their kingpins get exemplary punishment ,” Surjewala said. — TNS
14-01-2021||Kurukshetra||3 booked in Kurukshetra obscene clip case||Raising suspicion over three persons for the obscene clip incident, the Kurukshetra University has got a case registered under Section 67a (publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act in electronic form) of IT Act at Kurukshetra University police station.An obscene clip was played during an online class of social work department on January 7 following which a committee was formed to investigate the matter. In his complaint to the police, assistant professor Balvinder Singh said, “On January 7, an online class for first-year students of the department of social work was in progress when someone played an obscene video. As many as 39 students were attending the class. When inquired into, 2-3 boys started shouting that you have played it. Meanwhile, the other students said that these were outsiders and they should be removed from the online class. I stopped the clip, took the screenshots of those students and informed the head of the department. I doubt that the three boys were behind the incident.” Dr Brajesh Sawhney, Director Public Relations, KU, said, “A complaint has been lodged and by the police.” — TNS
14-01-2021||---||MC identifies 22 illegal colonies||Karnal, January 13As many as 22 illegal colonies have been identified in the Karnal Municipal Corporation (MC) limits. The authorities have issued an advisory to residents for not purchasing plots in these colonies.The colony near Uttam Nagar in Phoosgarh, the area near Durga Colony, the colony behind Shelja mill on the Shekhpur Shuana road, a colony opposite JTPL on the Shekhpura Shuana road, the area of Karan Vihar opposite Kirpal Ashram, RK Puram part II near Mangalpur, the colony opposite Aviation Club on the Kunjpura road, Shaktipuram part-II behind Katabagh village, the colony near Baghpati on the Kailash road, a colony near Palm Residency on the Ranwar road, Ashok Vihar Extension opposite Madhuban, a colony opposite the new grain market, New Ramdev colony opposite the new grain market, Mangal Colony part-II on the Mandi road, Shashtri Nagar part-II, Anand Vihar part-II, Hakikat Nagar part-II, a colony near the Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan on the Kaithal road, a colony opposite the district jail, Sethi Colony near Saidpura village are among the illegal colonies declared by the MC.Vikram Singh, Commissioner, MC, said they had initiated a demolition drive against the illegal colonies. He appealed the residents to inquire first before purchasing a plot in any colony in the city. “Buyers should verify about the colony before purchasing a plot,” said the Commissioner.“We have constituted teams to prepare a list of the buildings which are being constructed without the approval from the MC. We have issued notices to 57 persons for construction without approval,” he said.
14-01-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Badkhal Lake project likely to miss deadline||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, January 13Launched in April 2018, the Rs 79 crore Badkhal Lake revival project has been marred with slow progress.The construction work on the Rs 26 crore sewage treatment plant (STP) to refill the lake has failed to take shape even after over two years.The STP is the most vital part of the project as it will supply 10 MLD of treated water daily into the lake bed. Sources say the lake is unlikely to get filled till April 2021 and the project is likely to miss the three-year deadline set by the officials concerned.An important tourist spot in the NCR till 2000, the lake has been lying dry since then. Its revival was one of the prominent promises of the current government.Though the construction of the STP was approved in November 2018, work on the ground remained stuck till December 2019 due to lack of clearances from the departments, including the Forest and Pollution Control. The Covid pandemic this year also proved to be a spoke in the wheel.Though the boundary wall of the STP has already come up, construction of the main building is likely to take one more year before the plant could start supplying water into the lake.After construction, the STP may take six to eight months to fill up the lake spread over 42 acres. The Faridabad Smart City Limited (FSCL), which is carrying out the project, is also waiting for the permission to remove trees and shrubs from the lake bed as the area is regulated by the Punjab Land Preservation Act and Forest Conservation Act.The approval is also required for the works connected with lake bed treatment and its strengthening.“With the STP work on full swing and likely to be ready by September 2021, the lake is expected to be filled up by April 2022,” said Arvind Kumar, an official of the FSCL.
14-01-2021||Yamunanagar||Rise above party politics: BKU leader to farmers||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Naresh Tikait has exhorted farmers to get united and rise above party politics. “It doesn’t matter to which party farmers owe their allegiance. They must not forget that they are farmers first. Therefore, they should rise above party politics and unite to save the future of our children,” he said while addressing farmers at a toll plaza in the district’s Gadhaula village district today. He claimed the Centre’s new farm laws would destroy agriculture. “The Centre’s rigid attitude has led to the deadlock. Its flip side is that farmers have come together to fight for a just cause,” the BKU leader added. — TNS
14-01-2021||Kurukshetra||Case filed for cutting power supply to tower||The police on Wednesday registered a case against unidentified persons for cutting off power supply to a Jio tower under the jurisdiction of Kurukshetra University police station on December 24. In his complaint to the police, Bhupinder Singh said essential telecom services were sabotaged by certain miscreants, who were also denying employees access to infrastructure and centres by threatening them and using force. — TNS
14-01-2021||rveen Arora||Karnal villages do their bit for langar sewa on NH-44||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, January 13Driven by the spirit of benevolence, farmers from the district have been contributing to langar stalls that have come up on the NH-44 and those at the Delhi border. It is a manner of opposing the “black” laws, they say.Farmers have been sending dry ration and other essential items to the four langar stalls in the district. One is located near Oasis Tourist Complex, while another one is near the National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources. There are two langar stalls at the Bastara toll plaza.Darar village resident Deepak Waraich, who is hosting langar near the tourist complex, said: “Initially, only four villages — Darar, Salaru, Kurali and Ramba — contributed to the langar. As the movement gained ground, more villages started contributing. People support the ‘langar sewa’ as per their capacity. Some contribute food items and milk, while some give money.”Spirit of BenevolenceInitially, only four villages contributed to the langar. As the movement gained ground, more villages started contributing. Some contribute food items and milk, while some give money. —Deepak Waraich, Darar village resident Salaru resident Gurinder Singh, who is volunteering at a langar stall, said: “Volunteers serve food round the clock to everyone passing by. Rice, dal, mix vegetable, chapati, and tea are served every day, while ‘jalebi’ and ‘kadhi’ are served on alternate days.”It is not about food alone. Some persons have been distributing medicines for free. Rajat Khanna, the owner of a local pharmacy store, has set up a stall of medicines on the NH-44. “All kind of general medicines are given to farmers in need. Doctors have also volunteered,” he said.The help also pours in from farmers on their way to the Delhi border. Farmers going to the Delhi border leave some food items at the langar stalls.
14-01-2021||Ambala||Ambala MP asks officers to be vigilant||Minister of State for Jal Shakti and Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria today asked district officials to be vigilant as Ambala shares borders with Punjab and it has witnessed the farmers’ protest.He added although the Centre was sensitive towards the well-being of farmers, officials need to stay vigilant to deal with evolving circumstances.He affirmed farmers were ‘annadatas’ and the backbone of Atmanirbhar Bharat and the government would ensure their concerns were addressed.Kataria was holding a meeting of District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee today to review the preparedness to administer Covid vaccine to 9,500 healthcare workers of Ambala district in phase-1. — TNS
14-01-2021||---||List pollution control steps in 20 days, stone crushers told||Yamunanagar, January 13The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has issued show-cause notices for prosecution and closure action to 188 stone-crushing units in Yamunanagar district.The owners of the stone crushers have been asked to submit details of air pollution control measures (APCMs) along with photographic proof within 20 days from the date of issuance of notices.The authorities of the regional office of HSPCB, Yamunanagar, started issuing notices on January 5 and this process of issuing notices continued for several days.Sources said that the authorities of HSPCB noticed that some of the stone-crushing units were being run in violation of norms of APCMs but they issued notice to all 188 stone crushers of the district.This action has created a panic-like situation among owners of stone crushers and an association of stone crushers termed it a step to harass this industry.“We have consent to operate. Before renewing (issuing) consent to operate, the authorities of the regional office of HSPCB, Yamunanagar, visit every crushing unit to check whether that unit has installed APCMs or not following the guidelines laid down in the notification issued on May 11, 2016,” said Rampal Kamboj, president of Ballewala-Doiwala Stone Crushers Association.He further said, “The present regional officer, Yamunanagar, issued renewed consent to operate to a number of stone crusher units in the past year. Why is he now issuing show-cause notices to create panic at a time when the Covid pandemic has almost ruined the stone crusher industry,” added Rampal Kamboj.He said that notices should have been issued only to those units which were violating the norms.According to the information available, as per the notification issued on May 11, 2016, there should be a cover shed at grinding and screening sites; a wind breaking wall of 50m length and 16 ft height; and construction and maintenance of metalled road for vehicular movement within the premises of the unit.Besides fulfilling several other conditions, tree plantation (two rows) along the periphery of the stone crusher is required to contain dust emission.However, Nirmal Kumar, Regional Officer of HSPCB, Yamunanagar, said that it was a routine process to issue show-cause notices to stop violation of norms of APCMs.“Our purpose is not to create any panic. The show-cause notices have been issued just to check the violation of APCMs in the crushing units. No action will be taken against the units that will be able to submit satisfactory replies along with photographic proof,” said Nirmal Kumar.
14-01-2021||---||Two deaths, 225 new cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, January 13The Covid tally in the state reached 2,65,616 on Wednesday with 225 fresh cases. Meanwhile, the death toll reached 2,966 with two more deaths.Gurugram reported a maximum of 51 cases followed by Faridabad (39), Karnal (17) and Panchkula and Kurukshetra (15 each). The two deaths were reported from Karnal and Yamunanagar.
14-01-2021||Palwal||Five kg of ganja seized from auto||The local police have recovered 5-kg ganja from an auto-rickshaw near Baghola village in the district. The driver of the vehicle in which it was found has however managed to flee the spot.  Revealing this, SP Deepak Gahlawat said today that the recovery was made from a stationary auto-rickshaw which was found parked near a petrol pump in Baghola village on Tuesday night. He said while a police team raided the spot on the basis of inputs and seized the narcotics worth Rs 50,000, the accused who had brought it fled the spot. He said a case under the NDPS Act had been registered and a hunt for the driver of the vehicle had been launched. — TNS
14-01-2021||Ambala||Ambala jail inmate kills self||An inmate at the Central Jail Ambala allegedly ended life by hanging himself in a bathroom of the jail on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Vijaypal (34) of Uttar Pradesh. He was serving life term in a murder case. As per the information, Vijaypal was found hanging around 5.30 am. A magisterial inquiry has been initiated. — TNS
14-01-2021||Ambala||Uncertainty over Cantt Board elections, term ends in Feb||The elections to the Cantonment Board are unlikely to be held anytime soon as the authorities have not issued any notification in this regard so far.The polls were due in February last year, but citing administrative reasons, the Ministry of Defence postponed it for six months. The extension came to an end on August 10, but the elections were again postponed for another six months. The second tenure of the board will expire this February, and as per the rules, it cannot be stretched further.Vice-president, Cantonment Board, Ajay Baweja said, “There is a palpable sense of uncertainty, but one thing is sure that the elections are set to be delayed. The tenure of the board members can be extended two times only, and it has already been done. There will be only a three-member board — Army Commander, Chief Executive Officer and one nominated member from the civilian side— till the elections are held.” — TNS
14-01-2021||Gurugram||1 held for giving SIM cards sans valid IDs||The CM flying squad nabbed a SIM dealer for issuing SIM cards of various telecom companies without taking valid IDs. An FIR has been registered. Some photos, copies of Aadhar Cards and SIMs have also been seized from the shop.The arrested accused is identified as Vijay Kumar Mondal of Supol in Bihar and presently living as a tenant in Kanhai village. He was operating his shop — Mithila Communication — at the Kanhai village market of Sector 44 here since last four years.CM flying squad DSP Inderjeet Yadav got information that the SIM shop owner was providing SIM cards of various telecom companies, including Airtel and Jio, without any valid IDs by charging extra money.A team led by Sub Inspector Sajjan Singh was formed, that conducted raids at the shop and nabbed the accused. — OC
14-01-2021||I reside at Krishna Nagar and cleanliness in Yamunanagar is still a challenge. The places which were clean during the lockdown are showing a different picture now. Heaps of garbage emit foul smell. People are in the habit of throwing garbage alongside the road even though the dustbins are there. The authorities concerned should take note of it and take action. —Abhinav Singh||Cleanliness still a challenge in Yamunanagar||Faulty signboard removed in KurukshetraOn January 1, my letter in What Our Readers Say column was published with the heading 'It's HUDA, HUDDA or HSVP?' Now as checked today, the HSVP authorities at Kurukshetra have removed the faulty signboard, which indeed is a great impact of the letter published in The Tribune. Now, I hope the HSVP authorities will put up a new signboard with correct spellings. —Rajiv Anand, KurukshetraNew Gurugram sectors to get canal water supplyIt is very pleasing to hear that Gurugram's new sectors (58 to 115) are likely to start getting canal water supply by this summer as 75 per cent of the work has already been completed and water will be distributed through pipelines. This is the basic need of those residents. —Subhash C Taneja, gurugramPenalise those who smoke While drivingSmoking while driving is a major problem in Haryana. It is very disappointing that the people of the state are being challaned for smoking while driving every day. Smoking is injurious to our health and affects our respiratory system. There is need for awareness. The police take tough action with those caught smoking while driving. —Prasna Batra, KurukshetraWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
14-01-2021||Karnal||Lohri celebrated  at Karnal school||Panipat DPS 9th in school rankingPanipat: Delhi Public School Panipat City has secured ninth rank in the nationwide ranking of 'Education World India School Rankings 2020-21'. A total of 2,000 schools were nominated in the competition, which were to be qualified for the award on the basis of 14 scales. DPS Panipat City achieved the ninth position in the category of co-ed day-cum-boarding school in the country. The parameters for the ranking were based on education, co-educational activities, sports activities, teacher welfare and development programmes and personal focus on all round development of students. Amit Rana, Pro Vice-Chairman, DPS Panipat City, said, "This is a proud moment for all of us. We will always strive to preserve and improve the environment in which we are providing our students an atmosphere where they absorb the value of perseverance and persistence by learning new things each day."Youth Day at markanda collegeKurukshetra: Markanda National College, Shahabad Markanda, celebrated 158th birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda as National Youth Day. The function was organised by the Swami Vivekananda Youth Club of the college in collaboration with Bharat Vikas Parishad, local chapter. Students were encouraged to participate in a speech competition organised on the occasion. The function was presided over by Principal Dr Ashok Kumar. North Haryana Bharat Vikas Parishad president Dr Paramjit Pahwa and Prof Amarnath Sharma were the chief guest and special guest, respectively. Dr Devraj Sharma, Nodal Officer of the Swami Vivekananda Youth Club, welcomed the dignitaries. Dr Ashok Kumar remembered Swami Vivekananda as the messenger of wisdom and highlighted the social, spiritual and patriotic works of the divine saint. The speech contest was won by Himmat Singh, followed by Rajpreet and Ankush, all students of the college. Dr Shalini Sharma, Dr Devraj Sharam and Dr Ajay Kumar Arora acted as the judges of the speech contest.Online programme at MDURohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) organised an online programme to commemorate Swami Vivekanand Jayanti and National Youth Day. MDU Vice-Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh in his address called upon the students to take inspiration from the teachings and philosophy of Swami Vivekanand. He paid rich tributes to the inspiring icon Swami Vivekananda. Pro Vice-Chancellor of Patanjali University Dr Mahavir Aggarwal threw light on the life of Swami Vivekananda, and his inspiring influence on youth across the world. An online declamation contest on "The importance of Swami Vivekananda's views in the life of youth" was organised to mark the occasion.Varsity bids farewell to Dy DirectorFaridabad: Officials of the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA here bid a farewell to Mohit Jain, Deputy Director, Local Audit Department, Haryana, on his transfer to Gurugram University, Gurugram. Jain had joined the university in May 2017 and rendered his services for over three years. He is replaced by Rajeev Sharma, who has been posted as Deputy Director (Audit) in the university. Earlier, Sharma was posted as Deputy Director, Municipal Corporation, Sonepat. On the occasion, Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar recalled the association of Jain with the university and appreciated the support provided by him during his tenure.
14-01-2021||Sameer Singh||At Tikri, facilities mapped out for protesting farmers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, January 13To facilitate agitating farmers navigate their way on the Delhi borders, the Punjab Club run by an NGO has created a map covering 20 km around the Tikri protest site.NRI cartographer pitches in Another map on Singhu protest site to be out soonThe map offers marked locations for facilities like medical assistance, hospitals, langar, police help, library, water tankers, portable toilets and washing machines at the protest site.To bring out the map, the club tied up with an NRI cartographer based in Germany, Tanuj Chawla, who agreed to work for free. Subheg Singh (23), one of the members of the club, said: “While we were busy supplying essential items to the protest sites on Delhi borders, we observed that farmers, especially the elderly, were having a hard time in finding locations. We then decided to have a map that could help protesters reach specific points.“The map will also come in handy if there’s a medical emergency. For instance, if somebody suffers cardiac arrest then the initial few minutes are crucial. If the location for first aid and immediate medical support at the protest site is known, it can prove to be a life-saver.”Several club members contributed to the project by sharing information among other technical details with the cartographer to ensure accuracy.
14-01-2021||---||Farmer unions burn copies of farm laws on Lohri||Sonepat/Bahadurgarh, January 13A day after the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three farm laws, farm leaders protesting at Singhu and Tikri borders marked Lohri today by burning copies of the laws and reaffirming their resolve to continue their protest until the laws were repealed.Protest calendarJan 20: Victory pledge on Guru Gobind Singh’s Parkash DiwasJan 23: Gherao of Raj Bhawans across the countryJan 26: Kisan tractor paradeOne lakh copies of the three laws were burnt at the Singhu border alone, said Paramjeet Singh of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha.The farm leaders said they burnt the copies of the laws as a mark of protest against the Centre’s adamant attitude and reiterated their decision to not appear before the four-member panel formed by the Supreme Court on Tuesday.Several bonfires were lined up at the Delhi-Haryana stretch, the nerve centre of the farmers’ agitation. The protesting farmers raised slogans, sang songs of resistance and hope as they burnt copies of the farm laws.Earlier today, leaders of farm unions decided to go ahead with their protest calendar and said they would gherao Raj Bhawans across the country on January 23 to demand the repeal of the laws. They said they would also mark “women farmers’ day” on January 18, take a pledge of victory on January 20 (Guru Gobind Singh’s Parkash Diwas) and hold kisan tractor parade on January 26.Meanwhile, leaders of 32 farm unions from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and other states gathered at Kisan Andolan office in Kundli near the Singhu border to burn copies of the laws.Many farmer leaders, including Gurnam Singh Charuni, also participated.“We have marked the Lohri festival by burning copies of the farm laws to mark our protest against the Centre. Earlier, we had celebrated Dasehra by burning effigies of the Prime Minister,” said Manjeet Singh Rai, a farm leader from Punjab.“We request the government to repeal the farm laws, so that we can return home soon,” he added.Balkar Singh, a farmer from Sangrur in Punjab, said the festival of Lohri was quite different this time. “It is for a big cause. The festival has become a mark of togetherness for farmers of a number of states.”Farmers at the Tikri dharna site near Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar district of Haryana reiterated their vow to “fight to the finish” on Lohri, which marks the harvesting of rabi crops.
