14-10-2020||  ||Cop injured as mob attacks police team in Haryana’s Ballabgarh; 15 booked||Faridabad, October 14The police have registered a case in connection with an attack on a team of cops by a mob in Adarsh Nagar area of Ballabgarh here on Tuesday night.No arrest has been made so far. According to the FIR, a group of 15 persons attacked the police vehicle in the Ashiana society of the city with bricks, stones and sticks after it had rounded up a couple of youths in connection with a quarrel between two groups over some issue that was reported by the local residents, around 10 pm.The police had received a call from a local about the quarrel. The police team was attacked when it had rounded up a couple of persons for interrogation and was taking them to the police station. Constable Suresh Kumar suffered injuries in the incident, a windshield of the police vehicle was also broken.The condition of the cop is stable. “As additional police force was rushed to the spot, the accused managed to flee,” said Mukesh Giri, SHO, Adarsh Nagar police station.He said an FIR under Sections 332, 353, 147, 149, 427 and 120- B of the IPC has been registered against 15 persons, of whom five have been identified with the help of locals. A hunt has been launched to nab the culprits, he added.
14-10-2020||---||Environment Ministry vigil against polluting activities in NCR, including Haryana||New Delhi, October 14Amid increasing air pollution in the Capital region the Centre on Wednesday escalated efforts for ensuring better air quality.As many as 50 teams of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) will be deployed to make extensive field visits from October 15 in Delhi and NCR towns – Noida, Ghaziabad and Meerut in Uttar Pradesh; Gurugram, Faridabad, Ballabgarh, Jhajjar, Panipat and Sonepat in Haryana and Bhiwadi, Alwar and Bharatpur in Rajasthan, according to an official statement.These teams will specifically focus on hotspot areas where the problem is aggravated.On spot reporting of major air polluting sources such as major construction activities without proper control measures, dumping of garbage and construction waste alongside the roads and on open plots, unpaved roads, open burning of garbage/industrial waste, etc. will be done using SAMEER App.Feedback on polluting activities will be shared with the agencies concerned through an automated system, for quick action. Details will also be shared with state governments. This will help in taking timely actions and monitoring at appropriate levels by the agencies concerned.A Central Control Room at the CPCB headquarters has been made functional for keeping track of pollution levels on hour to hour basis and overall coordination with state agencies. In addition, district wise nodal officers have been appointed for better management and coordination with teams.Air quality in winter season is a major environmental concern in Delhi and NCR region. Various efforts are being taken since past five years for air quality management in the region. Although gradual year on year improvement in air quality has been observed, a lot needs to be done, it said.
14-10-2020||New Delhi||Talks fail, farmers' representatives walk out of meeting with Agriculture Secretary||Farmers' organisations on Wednesday cried foul and walked out of a meeting held to discuss the contentious farm laws with Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal.Farmers' representatives Joginder Singh and Jagmohan Singh said that Union Ministers were holding meetings in Punjab and spreading "propaganda" even as the union leaders were called for a meeting with the Agriculture Secretary in New Delhi."At least Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar should have been present at the meeting," one of the leaders said.After a one-and-a-half-hour long meeting with Agarwal, the leader said: "They (union ministers) are doing propaganda in villages and here the minister was not even present.""We asked the secretary whether the government was really interested in resolving the issue before walking out," he said, asserting that the agitation against the three farm laws will continue.Meanwhile, government sources said that a second meeting was proposed in hope that common ground could be reached after the farmers' organisations rejected the first offer.Ahead of the scheduled meeting with Agriculture Ministry officials, representatives of farmers' organisations had said they wanted to meet the Prime Minister and the Agriculture Minister to put forth their views regarding the new laws. "We came for the meeting because we did not want to give the impression that farmers are not open to dialogue. But we also want to meet the Prime Minister and the Agriculture Minister," said farmers' representatives Dr Darshan Pal and Kulwant Singh Sandhu.BKU leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said the farmers' representatives will meet in Chandigarh on Thursday to discuss next course of action."He (Agriculture Secretary) kept saying he wants to act as a bridge and help etc. We asked why we were called when no minister is present to talk to us."On one side they called us here, and on the other side, union ministers are doing propaganda in Punjab. We told the Secretary Agriculture that this is not an agitation of Punjab alone. We are trying to hold a peaceful agitation while attempts are being made vitiate the atmosphere, " Rajewal said.Farmers also presented a memorandum of demands to the government.
14-10-2020||Amit Sharma||Alarm: Illegal arms finding way into Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13Illegal weapons are finding their way into the city, which is evident from the fact that 52 persons were arrested in the past two years and 46 country-made pistols six other weapons were seized.In 2018, 18 country-made pistols, one .32 bore revolver, one rifle, 124 live cartridges and an empty cartridge were recovered with the arrest of 22 persons.Similarly, last year, 28 country-made pistols, a US-made pistol, a single-barrelled gun, a double-barrelled breech-loading gun, a dunali and 109 live cartridges and 39 empty cartridges were recovered with the arrest of 32 persons.The recovery of weapons has also been made this year by the UT police, especially from members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, who were arrested following the incident of firing at a hotelier’s house in Sector 33 and at a liquor vend in Sector 9. The arrest of Bishnoi’s gang members had led to recovery of pistols and live cartridges.Several murder cases reported in the recent past have also seen the use of country-made weapons.On December 18 last year, two youths, Vineet Kumar and Ajay, alias Ajju, were shot dead at their rented accommodation in Sector 15. Country-made weapons were used to kill the students. The arrest of the murder accused had led to the recovery of country-made pistols.Similarly, a country-made pistol and a US-made pistol were used in the murder of Sonu Shah, who was gunned down by four assailants inside his office at Burail village, Sector 45, on September 28 last year. The assailants had pumped 10 bullets into Shah’s body.A county-made weapon was also used in the murder of Vishal Chhillar, a former student of DAV College, Sector 10, who was shot dead at a rented flat in Sector 49 on March 6, 2019.
14-10-2020||---||Lawrence Bishnoi: The making of a gangster||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13Once a student leader, Lawrence Bishnoi has emerged as one of the notorious gangsters in the region during the past decade.Facebook profilesBishnoi has several Facebook profiles where selfies taken in jail have been uploaded. Bishnoi’s interrogation in the Sonu Shah murder case revealed that he had a mobile phone in jail which he used to communicate with his gang members.Bishnoi, a former student of DAV College, Sector 10, entered student politics years ago. This marked the beginning of the formation of a gang that comprised sportspersons, wards of police personnel and local students. In no time, Bishnoi had built a huge network in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan.Bishnoi, a native of Abohar in Ferozepur district, is at present facing trials in cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion and robbery in several states, including Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The gangster and his aides have been keeping the UT police on their toes for the past few years. Bishnoi, who is now lodged at a jail in Rajasthan, had been operating his gang from within the jail.The UT police had recently brought Bishnoi on a production warrant for his alleged role in the murder of a man, Sonu Shah, at Burail. Bishnoi had confessed to hatching a murder conspiracy from the jail. Shah, a property dealer with a criminal past, was a rival of the Bishnoi gang. He was shot dead at his office in Burail, Sector 45, in broad daylight on September 28 last year.Earlier this year, shots were fired at a businessman’s house in Sector 33 and at a liquor store in Sector 9 at the behest of Bishnoi.
14-10-2020||Rohtak||Foreign language course at MDU||INTACH honours regional winnersAmbala: The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Haritage (INTACH) Ambala Chapter, under Convenor Colonel RD Singh had conducted a National Heritage Painting Competition in December last year. It had a record participation of 151 students from 22 schools. The theme of the competition was ‘Gandhi at 150’. There were over 12,000 entries from around the nation which were assessed at Delhi by an expert team from the INTACH, Delhi Head Office. Two children from Ambala — Meenal Jain, a Class VII student of Convent of Sacred Heart and Yash Patti, a Class VIII student of SD Vidya School — were declared regional winners, among the Top 105 students. Colonel RD Singh presented trophies and certificates to these children on Monday. Meenal Jain had also won the second prize in the online inter-school heritage quiz held by the Ambala Chapter.Event on nutrition managementHisar: Speaking at a function organised on the occasion of the Nutrition Management Farming Day by a nutrition company Cytozyme, USA, at village Dabra here on Tuesday, Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University Vice-Chancellor Samar Singh said the present era was very competitive and in such circumstances, it was important for farmers to adopt modern technologies to survive in the international market. The VC said ordinary farmers could not afford storage of grains and expensive technology and thus could store their goods by adopting latest techniques and by creating a producer group so that when the grains are at a good price in the market, they can sell them. Singh called upon the farmers to adopt agricultural diversification instead of traditional farming, in which the business of vegetables and horticulture as well as animal husbandry and dairy farming could be pursued. This will increase the farmers’ income and make them prosperous. He called upon the farmers to promote organic farming and asked them to minimise the use of chemical fertilisers. He also visited the fields where nutrition package had been adopted for paddy crop in Dabra village during this period.Faculty development programmeFaridabad: The Department of Civil Engineering of JC Bose University of Science and Technology here in collaboration with REC Ambedkar Nagar (UP) is organising TEQIP-III, a five-day faculty development programme, on “Safety engineering”. As many as 115 participants from various colleges across the country will participate in the programme. The programme was inaugurated by Registrar SK Garg. Congratulating the department for conducting the programme on safety engineering, which is an essential aspect nowadays, he said construction was an important sector where safety, health and environment were important for improving efficiency of workers and avoiding accidents. A little investment in safety equipment will prevent accidents or loss of human life, he added. Senior advisor at the Construction Industry Development Council (CIDC) here and senior auditor of safety health and environment BR Chauhan stressed the need of avoiding various health hazards due to electrical faults, welding faults, dust, garbage and construction equipment failure at sight. Regular safety checking of equipment and following of safety codes is necessary to avoid accidents. The safety team in the construction and industrial sector is essential for regular monitoring of safety guidelines. Safety Head in Ahluwalia Contracts (India) Ltd Amarjeet Singh Ahluwalia discussed safety initiatives in the construction sector.
14-10-2020||On Monday||No expiry date on sweets||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaFarmers should stop burning stubbleThough the Haryana Government has made stubble burning a penal offence, yet it has not served as a deterrence to farmers. This truth is corroborated by the fact that during the current paddy harvesting season, the leftover crops have been consigned to flames in various districts. The government will be seeking an undertaking in the form of a panchayat resolution to put a permanent ban on crop residue burning. The village panchayat bagging the first position to implement the ban will be honoured with a prize of Rs 10 lakh. The farming community should introspect and shun this health decaying practice.Baljeet S Deep, HisarTreetlights near school Non-functionalAll streetlights, including the single halogen light on the L-shaped intersection, on both B roads in front of the gate of Saint Soldier Divine Public School, Sector 16, Panchkula, are non-functional for the past six months or so, leading to darkness in the night. The said road is the main traffic-bearing road of this sector and site of many accidents. Despite numerous complaints to the UHBVNL, nothing has been done so far. The authorities should immediately take corrective action by replacing the fused tube lights/halogen bulb.Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaAllot filling stations to civic bodiesTaking a cue from the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation, Panchkula and other MCs too should venture into the lucrative petrol pump service in cities to augment their revenue and offer quality service to public. Public sector oil companies should give priority in allotment to the MCs.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
14-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||Haryana BPL flats unallotted since 2015||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, October 13Constructed at a cost of around Rs 25 crore under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission, 696 flats meant for BPL families at Sector 5 in Bahadurgarh town have been awaiting allotment since 2015.The HSVP had invited applications from eligible beneficiaries in 2015, but the process could not be completed.Meanwhile, as many as 2,500 doors, 1,100 windows and 400 iron railings have been stolen from the flats. The thefts came to light when HSVP officials inspected the flats recently. Sandeep Dahiya, HSVP Executive Engineer, said a team had been formed to finalise eligible candidates on the basis of parameters fixed for the allotment.“The flats have been lying unallotted for the past five years as the district administration is yet to send us the list of beneficiaries. Moreover, the private contractor who built the flats is responsible for their maintenance and security as the houses are yet to be handed over to the HSVP,” maintained Dahiya.He said a case had been lodged at the Sector 6 police station in Bahadurgarh for the thefts.Additional Deputy Commissioner Jag Niwas could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.2,500 doors stolen
14-10-2020||Parveen Arora||Karnal-Kaithal highway may miss March deadline||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 13Most of the major roads connecting the district headquarters to the rural areas as well as with other districts are either in pathetic condition or the work to widen them is running at a snail’s pace, hampering the smooth movement of vehicles.The incomplete work is likely to pose problems during foggy days as at several places the construction companies have dug the road and have not installed sign boards and reflecting tapes to avoid accidents.The widening work of the Karnal-Kaithal state highway-8 is likely to miss the March 2021 deadline as around 60 per cent work has been completed so far, sources said. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had laid the foundation stone of this 49-km stretch on February 28, 2019, and the work was started in March.A major stretch in Nissing is incomplete, causing inconvenience to the commuters as well as the nearby shopkeepers.“Stones are scattered everywhere on the road, posing threat to shopkeepers when any vehicle passes by,” said Naresh Kumar, a shopkeeper.The four-laning of the Karnal-Indri state highway project has missed the second deadline of March 31, 2020, and another deadline has been fixed as December 31. It seems the project is unlikely to meet this deadline as well as around 70 per cent work has been completed so far. The slow progress of work on the project of 19.5-km stretch, costing of Rs 86.43 crore, has made it accident-prone.The central verge is yet to be completed. The Chief Minister had laid the foundation stone of this project on July 21, 2017. The project was to be completed by December 2019, but the government had extended the deadline to March 31, 2020.“We have been facing a lot of problems due to slow pace of work. At night, the incomplete work on central verge poses accident threat to commuters,” said Nikhil Kumar, a resident of Indri.The Karnal-Jind National Highway-709A widening project was inaugurated a few days ago, but still the project has not been completed. Assandh Congress MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi had also raised questions on it. “The road has not been completed near Assandh, while drain works are lying pending at Jundla, Jalmana and near Assandh town, causing inconvenience to people, but it was inaugurated without completion,” said Assandh MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi.Widening work of around 23-km long project of Nilokheri-Nigdhu road is also running at a snail’s pace. The deadline of the project, costing around Rs 27 crore, has been fixed as March 31, 2021, but still around 60 per cent work has been completed, sources said.The completion work of the four-laning project of Karnal-Kunjpura road is hanging fire as the work on the bridge is yet to be started. Roads of various colonies in the Chief Minister constituency are in pathetic condition. The authorities claim the work will be completed before the deadline.Dalel Singh Dahiya, XEN, PWD, said the contractors had been directed to finish the work before the deadline.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said he had reviewed the progress of the projects and had fixed deadlines of November 2020 for the completion of the Karnal-Indri road, Karnal-Jind national highway and the Karnal-Kunjpura road.
14-10-2020||Karnal||OPD opens for recovered Covid patients||To tackle the short and long-term implications of Covid-19 in the patients who have recovered from the virus, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) has started a dedicated post-Covid OPD. Apart from clinical assessment of the recovered patients, doctors are checking the psychological intervention, which will help in tackling the residual impact of the infection, along with assessing the impact of mobility, exercise tolerance and muscle weakness. Besides, they are trying to address the post-traumatic stress disorder among those who have battled severe Covid-19. — TNS
14-10-2020||---||Casualties go past 1,600 mark in Haryana||Chandigarh, October 13With nine more deaths, Covid casualties in the state crossed the 1,600 mark on Tuesday. With 1,081 fresh cases, the tally reached 1,44,302.Three deaths were reported from Hisar, two from Gurugram and one each from Faridabad, Rewari, Sirsa and Fatehabad. Of the 1,601 fatalities, 1,414 had comorbidities.Among the 1,081 fresh cases, 250 were reported from Gurugram, 168 from Faridabad, 85 from Hisar and 72 from Rewari.
14-10-2020||---||17 juveniles flee from observation home, 3  held||Hisar, October 13 The police have arrested three of the 17 juvenile undertrials who escaped from the observation home in Hisar on Monday. The police spokesperson informed that the teams had been sent across the state in an attempt to track them.  Sources said the police had been conducting checks at the suspected hideouts. Most of the juvenile offenders belong to Rohtak and Jhajjar district as eight of them face murder, attempt to murder, dacoity and robbery charges.  Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Priyanka soni and the SP Balwan Singh Rana visited the observation home. The chairperson of the Haryana Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HCPCR), Jyoti Bainda, also visited the observation home.  The Deputy Commissioner said a three-member committee headed by Additional DC Aneesh Yadav had been constituted to probe into the escape by observation home inmates.  The sources said the police had been identifying the security lapses. A similar incident had occurred in June 2017 when six inmates fled in a similar fashion. However,, the authorities concerned  failed to take cognisance of the incident, which resulted in the occurrence of a similar incident on Monday.
14-10-2020||---||Social distancing norms violated at Haryana CM function||Chandigarh, October 13A day after Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar took a pledge to observe Covid-appropriate behaviour, social distancing norms were thrown to the winds during a function, in which he was invited as the chief guest, at the Haryana Assembly here on Tuesday.A ceremony to install the Bhagvad Gita and unveil a plaque of Lord Krishna and Arjun was organised at the gallery of the Assembly, where Khattar, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa, Cabinet Ministers, legislators and journalists were crowded in one room.Abhay Chautala, INLD Gen SecyWhy risk lives?After having recovered from Covid, the CM and the Speaker have developed antibodies. But why risk the lives of others? The last session was cut short, citing the Covid pandemic. Has the virus disappeared?Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary Abhay Chautala said, “After having recovered from Covid, the Chief Minister and the Speaker have developed antibodies. But why risk the lives of others? The last Assembly session was cut short, citing the Covid pandemic. Has the virus disappeared? Shouldn’t social distancing norms be adhered to?”Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal also hit out at the state government and raised the same point of cutting short the last session on the pretext of Covid.Meanwhile, at the function, the Chief Minister said Lord Krishna had delivered the celestial message of the Bhagvad Gita to Arjuna on the sacred land of Kurukshetra.To this, Bhukkal later said, “Ours is a secular country. The Assembly functions as per the Constitution. It would have been better if the Constitution had been installed. These days, constitutional values are being violated.”On Khattar launching the first edition of “Sadan Sandesh”, a monthly magazine of the Assembly, she said it shouldn’t be reduced to a mouthpiece of the RSS.
14-10-2020||Yamunanagar||154 bottles of liquor recovered from illegal vend||A team of the CM’s flying squad seized 154 bottles of country liquor and IMFL from an illegal liquor vend near Hathnikund barrage on the border with Uttar Pradesh on Monday. The team arrested two salesmen from the liquor vend. They were identified as Faili Ram of Una in HP and Sukhbir Singh of Rampur Kalan village in Saharanpur, UP. Pratap Nagar SHO Subhash Chandra said the accused were on Tuesday produced in a local court, which sent them to judicial custody. The team seized 119 bottles of IMFL and 35 bottles of country liquor. On the complaint of Sub-Inspector Dinesh Kumar of the CM’s flying squad, a case was registered against Faili Ram, Sukhbir Singh, Gurdeep Singh Narang of Paonta Sahib and Bhim Singh of Tajewala village in Yamunanagar. “They informed the Deputy Excise and Taxation Officer about the raid. When officer Rajiv Kumar Duggal asked them to produce licence for the vend, they failed to do so,” the SHO said .
14-10-2020||Sushil Manav||Probables: Sri Krishan Hooda’s kin for Cong, Yogeshwar for BJP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13Hectic lobbying is on for the Congress ticket even as a meeting convened by Vivek Bansal, AICC in charge for Haryana, to discuss the issue remained inconclusive.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and state BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar will meet national party president JP Nadda on Wednesday to finalise the candidate. Nominations for the Baroda bypoll can be filed till Friday.Several candidates, including Jitender Hooda alias “Jeeta”, son of late legislator Sri Krishan Hooda, his wife Gayatri Hooda, Pardeep Sangwan, son of late former BJP MP Krishan Singh Sangwan, Induraj Narwal, Kamla Bhawar and Col Rohit More are lobbying for the Congress ticket.Baroda is considered a stronghold of former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Sri Krishan Hooda, who won this seat in 2019, was an outsider as his village Khidwali falls under Hooda’s Garhi-Sampla-Kiloi Assembly segment.Sources said local party workers were in favour of a party leader from the constituency. With this in mind, Sri Krishan Hooda’s daughter-in-law Gayatri, whose parental village Bhaiswan falls in Baroda, has applied for the ticket.There were talks of BJP leader Kapoor Narwal joining the Congress in the presence of Hooda last week. Hooda had convened a press conference in Gohana for the occasion, but Narwal’s entry did not happen.Among those aspiring for the BJP ticket are Olympian Yogeshwar Dutt, who lost to Sri Krishan Hooda in 2019 by less than 5,000 votes, and JJP leaders Bhupinder Malik and KC Bagra.Dutt, who has the advantage of being an insider with his village Bhainswal falling in the segment, had been campaigning since the seat fell vacant in April.“We will apprise the national party president about the strengths and weaknesses of all aspirants and the party will come out with the candidate in a day or two,” said Dhankar.
14-10-2020||Nitish Sharma||Booked, farm leader sticks to his guns||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, October 13Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni has been booked for promoting enmity and intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace after giving a call to burn effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and local BJP leaders on Dasehra to protest recent farm laws.Complainant Sahil Guliani of Shahabad, a BJP supporter, said Charuni had hurt his sentiments by making an objectionable video about the PM. He claimed the video could promote enmity and cause damage to society.Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU ChiefCan’t silence meI have been told that FIRs have been registered in Shahabad and Karnal and more are likely to be registered soon. I will stick to the call that we have given and the government is free to register FIRs. It cannot suppress the voice of farmers by registering FIRs“I have been told that FIRs have been registered in Shahabad and Karnal and more are likely to be registered soon. I will stick to the call that we have given and the government is free to register FIRs. It cannot suppress the voice of farmers by registering FIRs,” Charuni said.“Even after the Pipli incident, FIRs were registered against farmers. We will protest against the farm laws. I advise the BJP to listen to the voice of people and withdraw the farm laws, failing which your entry to villages will be banned,” he stated.“The case has been registered under political pressure and on the directions of the state government. The person who has got the case registered is a close aide of former minister Krishan Bedi, who is political secretary to the Chief Minister,” said Rakesh Bains, BKU spokesman.Former Ladwa MLA Pawan Saini lodged a complaint in this connection at the Thanesar police station. “A case has been registered and the matter is being investigated,” said Shahabad SHO Devender Kumar.
14-10-2020||Yamunanagar||Farmers protest as 2 summoned||Farmers under the banner of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) staged a dharna at the Pratap Nagar police station in Yamunanagar on Tuesday after the police summoned two farmers for forwarding a message on WhatsApp groups.Gurdayal Singh of Chuharpur Kalan village and Shiv Kumar of Bakkarwala village were accused of forwarding the message that the BKU would show black flags to the tractor yatra of Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar in support of the three farm laws in Yamunanagar district on October 15.District BKU president Sanju Gundiana said the police called the two farmers to the police station and made them sign blank papers. He said the police kept their mobile phones. He said they lifted the dharna when the police returned the mobile phones.“The government and police are trying to pressurise farmers, but we will not bow. The BKU has decided to show black flags to the tractor yatra of the Education Minister in every village,” said Gundiana.Pratap Nagar SHO Subhash Chandra said they had called the farmers in connection with the WhatsApp message. “We checked their mobile phones. They gave us in writing that the message was sent by mistake,” he said. — TNS
14-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC pulls up HSSC, imposes Rs 50K costs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13The Punjab and Haryana High Court has imposed Rs 50,000 costs on the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) in view of its “pathetic attitude” in not filing a reply to contentions raised in a petition despite repeated adjournments. The case pertains to recruitment to 4,858 posts of clerk.Taking up the petition filed against Haryana and other respondents by Ramesh Kumar, Justice Raj Mohan Singh granted the liberty to the HSSC to recover the amount from the “erring” official after fixing responsibility. The amount was directed to be deposited in the Covid fund maintained by the PGIMER in Chandigarh.Justice Raj Mohan Singh, Punjab and Haryana High CourtATTITUDE PATHETICKeeping in view the pathetic attitude of the respondent-commission in not filing the reply despite repeated adjournments, I deem it appropriate to burden the respondent-commission with costs of Rs50,000.The petitioner was successful in the written examination and had appeared for scrutiny of documents. He had filed objections with regard to five questions. In the event of acceptance of his objections, the result might have changed as the deficiency was of two marks.Justice Raj Mohan Singh observed that notice of motion issued on September 14 was accepted by the state counsel in court on behalf of the respondents. The reply was to be filed by September 23, the next date of hearing, but the case was adjourned to September 25. On that date, the state counsel sought time. A lenient view was taken and the matter was adjourned to October 7.On that date, the state counsel sought a short adjournment to have further instructions. Adjourning the matter to October 12, the Bench made it clear that selection, if any, would be subject to the rights of the petitioner with regard to the post in question. Taking up the matter on that date, Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted that a reply had not been filed on behalf of the state.“The counsel for the petitioner submits that the result has already been declared on September 3 and the respondent-commission is in the process of issuing appointment letters to selected candidates. Keeping in view the pathetic attitude of the respondent-commission in not filing the reply despite repeated adjournments, I deem it appropriate to burden the respondent-commission with costs of Rs 50,000,” Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted.
14-10-2020||Panipat||Woman held ‘captive’ by husband rescued||A 33-year-old woman, who was tortured and held captive allegedly by her husband and other members of the family in a toilet of her house in the district’s Rishpur village, was rescued by the district women protection officer on Tuesday. On the officer’s complaint, the woman’s husband Naresh Kumar was booked under various Sections of the IPC. On Tuesday, women protection officer Rajni Gupta received a tip-off that a woman in Rishpur village was held captive by her husband in a toilet for several days. Sub-inspector Surender Dahiya, SHO, Sanoli police station, said the woman had been taken to the General Hospital for medical examination. —TNS
14-10-2020||Faridabad||3 more held for 22-yr-old’s murder||The police on Tuesday arrested three more accused in connection with the murder of a 22-year-old man, who succumbed to injuries after he was beaten up in the district on Thursday last week. The accused have been identified as Mukesh of the district’s Faridpur village, Manish, Ashok and Ashwini, all three from Kheri village. With their arrest, four accused have been arrested  so far. — TNS
14-10-2020||Gurugram||Accused nabbed 33 years after robbery in Punhana||A routine checking of the list of proclaimed offenders led to the arrest of three men, who are accused of robbing a businessman and murdering a man in Nuh’s Punhana village 33 years ago.The accused — identified as Yaseen (69), Manzoor Ahmad (68) and Babu (70) —were working in the fields at their villages in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahar district on Monday when a special team of the Nuh police landed at their doorstep.Handiwork of 25 gang membersThey have been brought here and taken on a two-day police remand.The police have said that on August 30, 1987, a gang of 25 robbers had barged into the house of Punhana financier Swami Ram. They held him and members of his family hostage and looted 1 kg gold and 150 kg silver jewellery, and Rs 1,000.On the way out, they had shot dead Ram’s neighbour, Jagdish Chandra, who had tried to raise the alarm.Villagers, who heard the gunshot, surrounded the house and caught three of the robbers, while others managed to escape in a tractor, the police have said.A case was registered under Sections 395 (punishment for dacoity), 396 (dacoity with murder) and 397 (robbery or dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the IPC and the Arms Act at the Punhana police station on August 30, 1987.The three nabbed accused were convicted for life term, while others were declared proclaimed offenders in January 1988. The convicts are serving a life term at Bhondsi jail in Gurugram, the police have said.During the investigation, the police found out that 10 robbers had died a natural death in the past few years, whereas three had bought land in their native villages and started farming.Vivek Chaudhary, DSP, Punhana, said: “The police were checking the list of proclaimed offenders when they stumbled upon a 33-year-old robbery and murder case. A special team led by Inspector Ajit Singh was formed to look into the matter. After seven months of investigation, the police found strong leads.”He further said, “The three accused arrested on Monday were not in contact for 10 years, living without the fear of law and thinking the case must have been closed. Their gang targeted businessmen and robbed them of cash and jewellery. They travelled by tractor to carry out robberies.”Rati Ram, the son of Chander who was 32 when he was shot dead, was 10 years old when he lost his father. — OC
14-10-2020||Our Correspondent---||Injured in road rage, man dies||Gurugram, October 13 A 50-year-old man, injured in a road rage two days ago, died on Monday night. An electrical engineer and a resident of Vasundhara, Ghaziabad, Netrapal Singh was seriously injured at the Kherki Daula toll after he had an argument with a two-wheeler rider who had hit his car. A murder case has been registered after a complaint was filed by Chetan Kumar, a resident of Panchvati colony. The body was today handed over to his family after post-mortem. Chetan said Netrapal was an electric engineer and was doing his own business in Delhi. On Sunday, he visited Gurugram along with Anjali and Alok, natives of UP, for some work. “When they reached near Kherki Daula toll plaza, a two-wheeler rider hit their car. When Netrapal came out of the car, he was thrashed and when Anjali and Alok came out for help, the two-wheeler rider called his 15 friends and all of them thrashed him with sticks. When Alok and Anjali raised the alarm, commuters gathered and the attackers managed to flee,” Chetan said. Netrapal was rushed to a private hospital in a critical condition from where he was referred to Fortis hospital where he succumbed to injuries on Monday late night. “We are investigating the case and are exploring the CCTV footage of nearby area to identify the accused. The accused will be arrested soon,” said Vishal Kumar, SHO of the Kherki Daula police station.
14-10-2020||Gurugram||2 of Sube Gujjar gang nabbed||The crime branch nabbed two more members of Sube Gujjar gang after a brief encounter. A country made pistol and a motorcycle has been recovered from their possession.  The accused  have been identified as Jaiveer and Ved Prakash, both of Bar Gurjar village, said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime. — OC
