15-04-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Wedlock in lockdown: Rohtak resident marries Mexican woman||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 15Love, they say, does not know any boundaries. Nor does it get bogged down by a global pandemic or lockdown! While even the district borders are sealed to check Covid pandemic, a young man of Rohtak has tied the nuptial knot with his Mexican beloved bang in the middle of the ongoing lockdown.Niranjan, a 22-year-old man of Rohtak, got married with Danna Zahory, a 21-year-old Mexican woman, on April 13.“We met through a language-learning App, through which I was learning Spanish and she was learning English. During the course, we were told to choose our learning partners and thus we got bracketed together. We began to like each other and decided to get married,” says Niranjan, who works as a waiter.Danna’s family visited India in 2017 and were impressed by the Indian culture and hospitality of Niranjan’s family. Hence, they got engaged.Danna’s family again came to Rohtak on February 11, 2020, to get the marriage solemnised. The lovebirds applied for court marriage, which was slated to take place on March 18.However, one of the witnesses failed to turn up on the appointed day and the marriage was postponed to March 23. However, in the meantime, lockdown was imposed, and the marriage had to be put on hold once again.The parents of the would-be groom and bride requested the district authorities, following which the marriage was finally solemnised on the evening of April 13.Niranjan’s father serves as a cook, while Danna’s father has an interior-design business in Mexico.“India is an amazing country. The people here have so much warmth. I love Niranjan for his cuteness and helpful nature,” says Danna.The newlyweds plan to get settled in Mexico after spending some time in India.
15-04-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram youth, Nuh driver kill themselves amid ongoing lockdown||Gurugram and Nuh districts both reported suicides ostensibly in connection with the ongoing nationwide lockdown on Tuesday, sources said.In Gurugram, an 18-year-old student of Class 10 jumped killed himself after his father forbade him from going out of the house to learn to drive, police sources said.Krishan Kant, who’s from Gurugram’s Garhi Harsaru, had turned 18 recently and wanted to learn to ride a two-wheeler, sources said. His father however told him he could not leave the house during the lockdown and that he should use the time to study instead.Enraged, he allegedly left the house while his parents were busy with a phone call and jumped in front of an oncoming goods train near Dhanwapur junction.“He was getting restless sitting at home and would look for excuses to step out. Today, he said that he wanted to learn driving bike as roads were empty but I snubbed him. I never imagined he would react this way,” his father said. The second incident was from Nuh, where a 40-year-old driver under home quarantine in Kirodi villahe in Tauru block hung himself after he was unable to get alcohol because of the lockdown.He was under home quarantine and away from his wife and children, villagers said, adding that he struggled to get essentials.His wife and children lived with his in-laws, the villagers said.The district health authority meanwhile claimed health teams who visited him regularly reported back saying he was doing fine.“He was an alcoholic. He was getting food and medicines on time. Our investigation suggests there could be domestic dispute that made his family leave him. We are investigating the death” said Nuh CMO Dr Virender Yadav said.The district health authorities said they had sent his body for testing and that they would hand over the body to his family only after they got the report.
15-04-2020||---||Amid Covid fear, firing over open defecation injures siblings in Ambala||Ambala, April 15Two siblings sustained serious injuries after their neighbours allegedly opened fire and attacked them with sharp-edged weapons, opposing open defecation and fearing the spread of deadly Covid-19, at Shahzadpur near Ambala on Wednesday.Kala, 35, and his younger brother Kamal, 18, were struggling for life at Chandigarh’s GMCH-32 after being referred there in a critical condition from the local hospital, their father Nikku Ram told The Tribune.He said the incident took place this morning when his grandson Matru, 5, went to defecate in vacant land outside their home.“Seeing my grandson defecating in the vacant plot, our neighbours Dilbagh Singh and his son Amarjit Singh started abusing us,” the aged daily-wager alleged.He added Dilbagh allegedly brought out his double-barrel gun while his son Amarjit brandished a sharp-edged weapon.“They again started abusing us and accused us of causing insanitation, leading to fear of Covid spread in the locality,” Ram recalled.According to him, Dilbagh allegedly pointed gun at his son Kala and fired at him with “an intent to kill him”, following which he suffered bullet injury on his face and fell unconscious.At the same time, Amarjit allegedly hit Kala’s younger brother Kamal with a sharp-edged weapon on his forehead, following which he also fell unconscious.While the alleged assailants fled the spot, the seriously injured siblings were rushed to local hospital, from where they were referred in critical condition to Chandigarh GMCH-32.Acting on the complaint of Ram, the local police have registered a case under Sections 323, 307, 506, 34 and 188 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against the father-son duo.While the police have not yet confirmed any arrest, it is learnt that both the accused had been taken into police custody.
15-04-2020||Facing a shortage of blood in Rohtak district in wake of the ongoing lockdown||Camps organised to meet blood shortage||“Six blood donation camps have been organised during the lockdown and we have been able to procure more than 450 units of blood,” says Manjul Paliwal, convener of the NGO Coordination Committee–Covid-19Prof Gajender Singh, who heads the Rohtak PGIMS blood bank, says the recent donation camps have helped in maintaining the stock of blood
15-04-2020||---||2 new Covid cases take tally to 188||Chandigarh, April 14With two fresh cases reported today, Haryana’s tally reached 188. In Faridabad, a 72-year-old woman tested positive. She is the mother of a youth hailing from Badkhal village who was found positive a couple of days ago.She got the infection from her son, who was under treatment at a hospital here. He had come in contact with a Tablighi Jamaat worker recently. This was the 14th positive case from Badkhal village, which had emerged as a hotspot in view of the large number of cases. With this, the total count in Faridabad reached 33.In Panipat, a 40-year-old man tested positive. The patient is a combine harvester driver. On April 9, he and four of his associates came to Bhadar village in Panipat district from Madhya Pradesh after harvesting the wheat crop there.Nuh leads among all districts with 45 cases, followed by Faridabad. Gurugram has 32 cases and Palwal 29. A total of 6,163 samples had been taken so far while the results of 1,388 were still awaited. A total of 41 patients had been discharged while three deaths had taken place.Meanwhile, Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala said production could be allowed in factories with 30% manpower. He said they could take care of about 3 lakh workers.He pointed out that a large amount of illegal countrymade liquor had been seized in the last few days. According to the police, 875 cases had been registered under Excise Act and 940 persons arrested.A total of 7,373 lockdown violations had been reported in the state with the registration of 2,876 FIRs and 4,073 arrests. A total of 8,642 vehicles were impounded and fine amounting to Rs 12.83 crore recovered under the Motor Vehicles Act.The Haryana Government today said more than 12.5 lakh persons had already downloaded the Aarogya Setu mobile app in the state. A door-to-door survey had been started to check the status of health in containment zones.Over 300 mobile health teams had already been formed to check health status regarding severe acute respiratory infection and influenza-like illness and OPDs started at community health centres and primary health centres.5 Rewari villages now containment zoneRewari: The health authorities have declared five villages as containment zone and six others as buffer zone after a 32-year-old man of adjoining Alwar’s Mehtawas village tested Covid positive. He is undergoing treatment in Alwar. The five villages under containment zone are Kund, Manethi, Dhani Gumina, Chitadungra and Bhalkhi ki Dhani, while Padla, Basdudha, Nandha, Bhalkhi, Majra and Pali villages are under buffer zone. tns
15-04-2020||
||HCMS body seeks double pay for docs||Rohtak, April 14 Welcoming the state government’s decision to double the remuneration of the Health Department workers who are taking care of Covid patients, the Haryana Civil Medical Services (HCMS) Association has demanded that the remuneration of all doctors serving in the state Health Department should also be doubled regardless of whether they’re tending to Covid patients or not. In a letter to the state Health Minister, the association has said the HCMS doctors across the state were involved in the management and control of Covid-19 pandemic either directly or indirectly. They were also equally exposed to the risk of contracting coronavirus. “Hence, all doctors should be paid double honorarium as announced by the Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar,” read the letter, which was written by the general secretary of the association. The Haryana Civil Medical Services Association has also demanded that in case any doctor serving at the state Health Department caught the infection, then the government should bear his or her medical expense. Besides this, the Civil Surgeon concerned should sanction the leave of the affected doctor.
15-04-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||1 lakh mid-day meal beneficiaries await ration||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 14The Ministry of Human Resource Development (HRD) had last month directed states and UTs to ensure the continued supply of mid-day meals to students during the lockdown, but the Haryana Education Department has not been able to reach out to all.Of the 14.34 lakh recipients in 14,384 primary and upper primary schools, 99,702 have not got dry ration and 2.64 lakh are yet to receive cooking cost. The Education Department was to provide dry ration to primary and upper primary students for March and April at their doorstep along with cooking cost.The Supreme Court had on March 18 took cognisance of closure of schools in most states and noted that students would be deprived of nutritious food made available to them as mid-day meal. With the HRD ministry stepping in, the state government decided to provide mid-day meal ration at doorstep of students and deposit cooking cost through RTGS or NEFT or cash.For the month of March, the Education Department issued orders on March 20 for providing 550 gm wheat, 450 gm rice along with cooking cost of Rs 44.80 to each primary student. For an upper primary student, 825 gm wheat, 675 gm rice and cooking cost of Rs 67.10 was fixed. The orders were to be complied with by March 30.For 21 working days of the month of April, the Education Department had issued orders on March 30 for disbursing 945 gm wheat, 1.155 kg rice and Rs 94.08 as cooking cost for each primary student. For an upper primary student, 1.418 kg wheat, 1.732 kg rice and Rs 140.91 as cooking cost was fixed. The ration and cooking cost were to be provided by April 7 to students.There are 14,384 primary and upper primary schools in the state with 14.34 lakh students. Till April 10, 99,702 students had not got dry ration. The bulk of left-out students are in Karnal (45,505), followed by Nuh (24,556), Fatehabad (8,519), Panchkula (7,410), Kaithal (4,825), Sonepat (4,616), Faridabad (3,445) and Palwal (800).In total, 2.64 lakh students didn’t receive cooking cost. In Gurugram, none of 90,166 students got cooking cost, while 64,768 in Fatehabad and 52,518 in Kurukshetra were yet to get the benefit. Other laggard districts included Nuh (40,942), Faridabad (8,334), Sonepat (5,913), Panchkula (1,549) Kaithal (521) and Karnal (319).Teachers have not been keen to go distributing food packets door-to-door in the Covid pandemic. A teacher in Yamunanagar was dismissed and another in Faridabad suspended for opposing orders to distribute ration. Kulbhushan Sharma of the School Adhyapak Sangh Haryana confirmed the teachers’ reluctance.In numbers
15-04-2020||---||Air Force uniform, logistic stamp recovered from drug smugglers||Kurukshetra, April 14The Kurukshetra police have recovered Air Force uniform, logo, nameplate, a stolen logistic stamp of Air Force, and other articles from Balbir Singh, who was held with huge quantity of narcotics in Kurukshetra on April 7.The stolen logistic stamp belongs to Air Force Station, Ambala.The Anti-Narcotic Cell of Kurukshetra police had arrested two men and recovered 248 kg chura post, 199 kg crushed khaskhas, and 1.5 kg opium from their possession, when they were smuggling the narcotics in a canter using fake Air Force Duty Pass. They were on their way from Rajasthan to Kurukshetra, after purchasing the narcotics from Jagdeep, a resident of Rajasthan.The suspects were identified as Balbir Singh, a resident of Kurukshetra, and Harjinder Singh, a resident of Uttar Pradesh.While Balbir was sent on a seven-day police remand, Harjinder was sent to District Jail, Kurukshetra.As per the information, during the remand, the police have also recovered T-shirt, lower, pistol-style lighter with cover, along with waybill, computer and printer, which were used to prepare fake documents, from his possession.In-charge, Anti-Narcotic Cell, Inspector Surender Kumar said, “Balbir used to transport Air Force goods. In year 2017, he had transported some goods belonging to Air Force Station, Ambala, to Awantipur in Jammu and Kashmir, and during that period he had stolen the logistic stamp. Balbir has been active in smuggling for the last three to four years and used to wear Air Force uniform while supplying the narcotics. He used to paste Air Force sticker on canter. However, when he was arrested in Kurukshetra, he was not wearing that uniform and the articles were recovered from his house. We are in touch with Air Force.”“The computer and printer were recovered from a shop in Ismailabad. He reached the shop attired in the uniform and told the owner that some goods needed to be transported and got the documents printed,” Inspector Surender Kumar added.
15-04-2020||Jhajjar||Soon, health checks to be held at Jhajjar-Delhi border||Leaving nothing to chance, health officials will conduct a medical check-up of Delhi and Central Government employees living in Jhajjar district and crossing the inter-state border to reach their workplace in the National Capital daily. The district police has already barred cross-border movement of employees without valid permission. The office of the Jhajjar Civil Surgeon has written to the Commissioner (Delhi Police), Delhi Jal Board, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, Delhi Transport Corporation and some other departments of the Delhi Government seeking a list of their employees living in Jhajjar district so that their health check-up could be done. The authorities have also urged the Delhi and Central Government to make stay arrangements for such employees at their workplace and not to allow them to commute inter-state to minimise the possibility of community transmission. Jhajjar is one of three districts of the state with no Covid case. “Delhi has several Covid cases, while Jhajjar has none. The fact cannot be denied that employees who commute are at risk of exposure to Covid infection, hence their health check-up is in the benefit of their families and society,” states the letter sent to the Delhi Government by Jhajjar Civil Surgeon RS Punia.   A considerable number of local residents employed with departments and private hospitals in Delhi were reported to be discharging duty in Covid hotspots in the National Capital. “Delhi is one of the high-risk Covid states, hence we cannot take a chance,” said Punia, adding that they had already identified several such employees residing in villages of the district and travelling to Delhi either daily or on alternate days.   He said one such employee of a Delhi hospital had been home quarantined in Jhajjar yesterday on getting information about him. — TNS
15-04-2020||Palwal||2 booked for rape bid||The police have booked two persons in connection with a gangrape attempt at a village in the district. The incident took place when the victim (27) was sitting under a tree in the fields to take a break from wheat harvesting around 1 pm on Sunday. Her husband had gone to fetch  drinking water when two youths who came on a motorcycle  approached her and attempted to assault her sexually. Her brother-in-law arrived on the spot and attempted to catch hold of one of them. The youths managed to flee from the spot. — TNS
15-04-2020||Kaithal||4 hurt in group clash over land in Kaithal||Four persons sustained serious injuries in a clash between two groups over a land dispute in Kurar village of Kaithal district on Tuesday.  According to information, two seriously injured persons, Sri Kant and Satish of the same group, have been referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, and their condition was stated to be critical.  As per villagers, a dispute over one-acre land took place between two groups in Kurar village some time back. The villagers heard some gunshots from near the sports stadium on Tuesday afternoon. They rushed to the spot and found four persons lying injured. They called the police and the injured were rushed to a Kaithal hospital. As the condition of the two was serious they were referred to the PGIMER after primary medical aid while two others, Bajinder and Parhlad, are under treatment at the Kaithal hospital. Kalayat police station SHO Vilasha Ram said as per preliminary investigation, it was found that the clash took place over a land dispute. He said the police had registered a case under Sections 148, 149, 323, 307 and 506 of the IPC and further investigation was going on. — OC
15-04-2020||Parveen Arora||All-hands-on-deck effort helps contain Covid in Karnal district||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 14Till April 3, everything was going well in Karnal. But then a 58-year-old farmer of Rasin village tested positive at PGI-Chandigarh and died on April 5. The biggest challenge for the district administration and health teams was to trace the source of the farmer’s infection — he did not have any travel history. In the next three days, four more tested Covid-positive, putting Karnal into the Orange Zone. It is now believed that the deceased passed on the virus to his son, a doctor and two staff nurses.The administration swung into action and took a slew of measures and ensured lockdown compliance with an iron hand. It minimised public contact by halting distribution of ration and cooked food by NGOs, stepped up vigil on inter-state and inter-district borders, provided home delivery for grocery and other essential items through mobile app ‘NeedsOnWheels’, issued limited-movement passes, fixed timing for medical stores, set up a live tracker for those in home quarantine among and other steps. Focus on containment zones comprising Rasin, Birchpur, Shekhpura Sohana and Ashoka Colony and also on buffer zones helped check spread of the virus. The district’s first Covid case also served as a wake-up call for the public, particularly in rural areas, who were not taking the lockdown seriously. They not only started observing restrictions imposed, but also set up ‘thikri nakas’ in villages and urban localities to stop entry of outsiders.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the administration shifted focus to the containment and buffer zones after the first case. “We scanned each and every person. As many as 999 micro-level management committees comprising an aanganwadi worker, ANM and BLO have visited 1.90 lakh households and scanned residents for the virus, besides gathering information on problems being faced by them,” he said.The Adopt-a-Family campaign, a unique scheme that won Central Government praise, did its bit by reaching out to the needy. “So far, we have received around Rs 80 lakh from people to ensure rations and other items for the needy,” the DC said.SP Surinder Singh Bhoria said strict lockdown compliance by his force also helped a lot in containing Covid. “We divided the district into six zones for effective supervision. As many as 32 patrolling parties are on their toes and 48 nakas have been set up to keep a vigil on violators. The police has registered 84 cases against the violators and arrested 120 persons. As many as 2,490 vehicles have been challaned, 856 impounded and a fine of Rs 1.7 crore collected,” he said.Only 2 active casesThe early recovery of three patients, who have since been discharged from the hospital, also boosted the morale of the Health Department and the district authorities. Now, the district has only two active positive cases. "The good news for us is that three patients have been sent home from hospital after their two consecutive reports returned negative. Now, we have two active patients," said Civil Surgeon Dr Ashwani Ahuja.KCGMC lab speeds up testingDC Nishant Kumar Yadav said starting of the Covid testing lab at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College in Karnal helped expedite results of suspect patients and aided better planning. “Earlier, we sent samples for testing to BPS Medical College in Khanpur (Sonepat) and the result was received in 25-30 hours. Now this time has come down to 8-10 hours,” he said. The lab is the state's third Covid-testing facility.
15-04-2020||---||Kurukshetra resident’s second sample -ve||Kurukshetra, April 14Though the second sample of Sector 7 resident has been tested negative, the restrictions in containment and buffer zones will remain imposed until the third sample of the patient is also tested negative.In the containment zone (Sector 7 and Ratgal village), the health department has screened over 9,800 people, and samples of 10 persons were taken after they showed flu-like symptoms. Now, the screening of the buffer zones (Sector 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, and adjoining societies) has been started and all residents will be screened even if the third sample is tested negative.Besides, the Kurukshetra resident, the second sample of Taraori girl, who is undergoing treatment at Adesh Medical College in Shahabad, was also tested negative.As per the information, the Taraori girl developed some health issues following which she visited a hospital in Kurukshetra on April 9. Earlier, she took medicine at a CHC in Taraori and at OPD in Kalpana Chawla Medical College, Karnal, on April 7 and April 8, respectively. In Karnal, the health department took 10 samples of her family members and they all have been tested negative.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said, “All restrictions in the containment zone and buffer zones will remain imposed until the samples are tested negative. We have also planned to screen the people residing in all 31 wards of Thanesar. It will help us in collecting a medical data of Thanesar residents.”Ensure specialists 24X7: DC to hospital
15-04-2020||
||2 Kurukshetra girls attack woman constable, held||Kurukshetra, April 14  A woman constable was attacked after she stopped a girl, who was riding a two-wheeler, in Kurukshetra on Monday evening.  The suspects were identified as Nisha and Puja.  In her complaint, the woman constable, Rajni,  said she was on duty at Jhansa check post and were inspecting vehicles last evening. Meanwhile, they signalled two girls, travelling on a two-wheeler, to stop but the girl who was riding the two-wheeler attempted to run over the police party. However, when the policemen attempted to nab the girl, she stopped her vehicle and started abusing them. She refused to show the documents and handover the key of the vehicle. The girl kicked Rajni and also tore her badge. Later, she also attempted to hit Rajni with a brick, however, she managed to save herself.  SHO, Thanesar City police station, Jaspal Singh said, “The two-wheeler was impounded and the girls were produced before a court which sent them to judicial custody. A case was registered under Sections 186, 188, 332, 353, 506 of IPC and 51 A of Disaster Management Act.”
15-04-2020||---||92 mobile medical teams  screen 10,000 in Ambala||Ambala, April 14After the discharge of two Covid-positive patients following their complete recovery, and another Covid-positive patient in advanced stage of recovery, the district health department has launched a massive campaign to screen and treat all residents in the district on their doorsteps.For this purpose, a total of 92 heath teams had been formed to hold medical check-up camps at each and every pocket of the district.Disclosing this today, Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said each 3-member team, comprising a doctor, dispenser, and a mobiliser, would examine each and every resident for Covid and other ailments before giving medicines to those suffering from routine ailments and referring the critically ill to hospitals, as per requirement.He said the slum areas, colonies, and villages would be covered in the first phase and every area visited once would be revisited within five to seven days to keep up the follow-up action.“The patients of hypertension, diabetes, and other such lifestyle ailments would be given medicines, as per their requirement, for 15 days and their condition would be monitored during each successive visit,” he revealed.On the first day, almost 10,000 residents were examined, of which around 20 were found to be suffering from Covid-like flu symptoms following which they were given medication and advised 14-day home quarantine.500 tested, 300 negativeSo far, almost 500 persons were tested for Covid and around 300 had been tested negative and 7 positive while the reports of remaining 193 were still awaited. Two positive patients had been discharged from hospitals after they recovered from the pandemic while another Covid-positive patient admitted to PGIMER, Chandigarh, was in the advanced stage of recovery and would be discharged shortly.OPD on wheels for Karnal Residents
15-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to toughen stance till April 20’||Keeping in mind the directions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday said the state would toughen its stance for a more effective lockdown.“For five days i.e. till April 20, we will be stricter and tougher. The Covid graph has stabilised but we have to bring a downward trend,” Khattar said in a televised address here on Tuesday, seeking public cooperation for greater discipline.Invoking the values of creating a social awakening of patience and determination as displayed by the architect of India’s Constitution BR Ambedkar in his lifetime, Khattar, on the former’s birth anniversary, said the public should follow in his footsteps to defeat the virus.“Societal awakening by maintaining distancing and patience that came from his belief in the teachings of Gautam Buddha during the lockdown will bear fruit. The PM has extended the lockdown till May 3, but areas where there are no cases will see some relaxation after April 20,” he added.“Like all great men, in the face of adversity, he always found a way. In today’s context, we are trying to find a way out of the Covid pandemic though it has hit the poor and daily earners the most,” the CM added. — TNS
15-04-2020||Palwal||Ration on doorstep in 51 Palwal villages||The Palwal district administration has started the home delivery of ration and other essential commodities in 51 villages, including the containment and buffer zones. DC Naresh Narwal said as the residents of these villages were not allowed to exit and had been confined to their homes due to Covid threat, the administration has set up a machinery to provide them ration, food items and medicines at their doorstep. “The ration items distributed include atta (flour), pulses and cooking oil, besides the supply of LPG cylinders by various agencies,” the DC added. While 15 villages with positive cases have been put in the containment zone so far, another 36 in the buffer zone.  Civil Surgeon Dr Brahmdeep Singh said door-to-door screening in all 282 villages had been started. He said 36 Imams of various mosques had also approached the administration for testing their samples. — TNS
15-04-2020||rnal||Van to sanitise police personnel at Karnal nakas||The Karnal police flagged off a sanitisation van today to protect personnel discharging their duties at various nakas from the Covid pandemic. The pressure fogging system fitted in the van can sanitise 12 persons at a time in just 3 to 5 seconds. It would cover the district to sanitise police personnel on duty at roads and in the police stations. For full-body sanitisation, police personnel will have to enter the van from the rear and wait for 3 to 5 seconds. “We took a prison van and refitted it for the purpose. It started operations today as we checked its capability. It can sanitise 12 persons at a time. We’ll use it for the public if they want to avail the facility,” said Bharti Arora, IG, Karnal range. She flagged off the van from the mini-secretariat. She and SP Surinder Singh Bhoria also got themselves sanitised. She said this van was the idea of her batchmate Vishwas Nangare Patil, working with Maharashtra Police. She said the driver would be in control of the system. “We are planning more such vans for Kaithal and Panipat so that police personnel on duty can be sanitised,” she added. Asked about the use of disinfectants for sanitisation, she said they used benzalkonium chloride along with aloevera and neem, which had no side effect on the skin. — TNS
15-04-2020||---||Fee order tweaked, private schools to charge monthly||Chandigarh, April 14The Education Department modified its earlier orders and allowed the private schools to charge fee monthly. However, they can’t charge it for a quarter at a time.The decision was taken after repeated complaints of private schools not providing the facility of online lectures to the students who haven’t paid the fee was received by the department. The instructions have been sent to all District Education Officers and District Elementary Education Officers.Earlier on March 27, instructions were passed asking private schools not to charge any fee till they are opened.The Education Department received complaints that private schools have taken fee for three months at a time in April. In the new instructions, issued on April 12, the private schools have been directed not to force students to deposit fee for a quarter at a time, instead ask them to pay it on a monthly basis.Meanwhile, cable operators have been asked to allow the transmission of four channels of Haryana Edusat for online tutorials for Classes of I to XII, which will benefit 52 lakh students.FRESH DIRECTIONS
15-04-2020||
||On-duty Ambala cops attacked||Ambala, April 14 A police party on Covid patrol duty was attackedby a group of youths in Ambala Cantonment on Tuesday. Sub-Inspector (SI) Jaswinder Singh, who was heading the police party, and Head Constables Rajbir and Irshad Ali ducked to escape the attack, but the assailants fled, the police said. The assailants, three in number, were equipped with sharp-edged weapons with which they attacked the cops in a narrow street where they had gone on patrolling duty to check the implementation of the lockdown and sensitise the residents to follow the prohibitory order issued to this effect. The police party head revealed that no sooner they entered the Deha Colony in Ambala Cantonment, a group of three youths, equipped with sharp-edged weapons, started abusing them and threatened them with dire consequences for entering their street. “As we approached further on foot and started making public announcement regarding the lockdown, the assailants attacked us with the intent to kill us,” recalled SI Jaswinder Singh. As the cops ducked the assault, and the residents came out of homes, the assailants fled the spot. “While running away, the assailants threatened us with dire consequences, saying today we had escaped their attack but if we came again to their area in future, they would kill us,” the attacked policeman said. One of the assailants has been identified as Akbar alias Anna of Deha Colony, while others were yet to be identified. A case under Sections 307, 506, 353, 332, 270, 188, 186, and 34 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, has been registered against the assailants and a manhunt has been launched to arrest them, the police added.
15-04-2020||Sushil Manav||School grounds now procurement centres in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 14Sports stadiums, playgrounds of government schools, bus stands and plots of panchayat land in villages have been converted into purchase centres for mustard procurement in Haryana. The step aims at avoiding overcrowding during the procurement that begins tomorrow.In all, 163 purchase centres have been set up across the state. Of these, 32 are in Bhiwani district (one of the largest producers of mustard), 23 in Sirsa, 17 in Hisar, 16 in Charkhi Dadri and 15 in Mahendragarh and Rewari each.Jhajjar district will have six purchase centres; Nuh and Rohtak four each; Gurugram, Narnaul, Panipat and Jind three each; Ambala, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Palwal, Sonepat, Yamunanagar, Faridabad and Fatehabad two each; and Panchkula one. The procurement is to be done by Hafed and the Haryana Warehousing Corporation.Only 100 farmers will be allowed to visit a particular grain market on any given day after the issuance of e-gate passes to them. Of them, only 50 will be allowed to enter a purchase centre between 8 am and 2 pm, while another 50 will be allowed between 2 pm and 6 pm on any given day.“The market committees will ensure that only those farmers entered the mandis who were registered on Meri Fasal Mera Byora portal and had obtained e-gate passes. Those who have not registered on the portal can do so till April 19. The produce of farmers from outside the state will not be purchased till further instructions,” said an officer.To minimise Covid risk, the market committees will follow proper sanitation protocol. Social distancing of at least 1 metre will have to be maintained during the process.Covid effect: Haryana prevents overcrowding
