15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Seven more COVID-19 deaths in Haryana, 678 fresh cases||Haryana on Wednesday reported seven more deaths due to COVID-19 and 678 fresh cases, taking the state’s infection tally to 23,306.According to the state Health Department’s daily bulletin, three deaths were reported from Faridabad while Bhiwani, Panipat, Nuh and Gurugram had one fatality each.Gurugram now has 110 fatalities while Faridabad has 104 COVID-19 deaths. Total novel coronavirus fatalities in the state rose to 319.Among the districts which reported fresh cases included Faridabad (216), Gurugram (82), Sonepat (66), Rohtak (36), Ambala (33), Palwal (26), Hisar (34), Fatehabad (31) and Panchkula (24).There are currently 5,320 active cases in the state while 17,667 have been discharged after recovery.The state’s recovery rate on Wednesday was 75.80 per cent while the infections are doubling every 21 days.Asked if stricter measures could be put in place to contain the spread of infections, especially in worst-hit districts Gurgaon and Faridabad, Chief Minister M L Khattar on Wednesday said “depending on the situation, different states have formed different strategies to contain the spread of infection, like some states have opted for lockdown of 2-3 days”.“In worst-hit districts like Gurgaon (Gurugram) and Faridabad, we had formed ‘aggressive containment zones’ ten days ago where cases were high so that the spread of infection could be prevented,” Khattar told reporters on the sidelines of an event in Panchkula.He said the state’s Crisis Coordination Committee is regularly holding meetings and if it is felt that stricter measures should be imposed, the government can contemplate such steps.Amid a surge in coronavirus cases, Haryana’s Home Minister Anil Vij had on Wednesday said the state government may impose a curfew or seal borders of its worst-hit four districts, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar falling in the National Capital Region. PTI
15-07-2020||---||7 elevated as permanent judges of Punjab and Haryana HC||Chandigarh, July 15The Supreme Court Collegium has approved the proposal for appointment of seven Additional Judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court as Permanent Judges.The judges are Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul, Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi, Justice Arun Monga, Justice Manoj Bajaj, Justice Lalit Batra, Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi and Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill.
15-07-2020||Ambala||Anti-terrorist front chief alleges death threat, case registered||The Haryana Police here has registered a case against an unknown person for issuing a death threat to Anti-Terrorist Front India president Viresh Shandilya.The FIR was registered on Tuesday on the complaint of Shandilya, who alleged that he received a death threat over the phone, police said.In his complaint, Shandilya said he had received a phone call on Sunday night with the caller threatened him for speaking against pro-Khalistan sympathisers.Shandilya alleged that the caller said he will be eliminated like former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh, who was assassinated way back in 1995.“I have been speaking against pro-Khalistani elements. I have been raising my voice against Gurpatwant Singh Pannun of the banned pro-Khalistan outfit Sikhs for Justice and the secessionist campaign he has started from the foreign soil,” he told reporters here.Police said a case has been registered under IPC Sections 504 and 506 (criminal intimidation) at the Ambala City police station.“Further investigation is on. We are trying to trace the call. Police patrolling has been increased outside his residence,” a police official told reporters here. PTI
15-07-2020||Rohtak||PGIMS re-opens OPDs amidst Covid threat; limits number of patients||The Rohtak PGIMS authorities have restarted the OPD services of the departments of Surgery, Orthopaedics, ENT and Ophthalmology, which had been stalled due to the Covid pandemic.Some doctors serving at the institute are still apprehensive of the community spread of Covid due to the crowding of corridors by patients and their attendants.“Suspected Covid patients and orthopaedic patients are being examined under the same roof at the new OPD block, which may lead to the spread of coronavirus. Congestion also prevails in the Ophthalmology OPD wing,” points out a PGIMS doctor.On the other hand, the authorities concerned maintain that the number of patients had been limited to 100 per day at Ophthalmology, Surgery and Orthopaedic OPDs and 200 per day at Medicine OPD in order to avoid rush of patients.OPDs of the super-specialties as well as Skin and Sports Injury departments will also attend 100 patients per day, while the ENT OPD has been clubbed with the Flu Clinic being run at the institute.“The decision to reopen the OPDs has been taken in the larger interest of the patients and all possible preventive measures are being taken in view of the prevalence of Covid,” asserts Dr HK Agarwal, the Registrar of University of Health Sciences, Rohtak.
15-07-2020||Kurukshetra||‘2 men throw co-villager into canal so that one can continue illicit ties with victim’s wife’||A 28-year-old man was thrown into a canal near here by two of his co-villagers so that one of them could continue his illicit relationship with the victim’s wife, police said on Wednesday.The duo has been arrested on their confession that they made the victim drink alcohol with them and threw him into the canal to kill him after he got drunk, said SHO Suraj Chawala of Kurukshetra’s Adrash police station.The two have presently been held on charges of attempt to murder as the victim’s body is yet to be traced, he said, adding once the body is found, the duo will be booked on murder charges.The incident took place on late Monday night when the two accused threw their co-villager into the Narwana branch of Bhakhra canal near here, he said.The police were informed about the incident by some people who saw three men going towards the canal on a bike but noticed only two of them returning minutes later.This aroused the people’s suspicion and they detained the duo, aged 30 and 20 respectively, and informed the police, which rushed to the spot and took them into their custody.On being quizzed about the missing third man, the two confessed to the police that they threw him into the canal after making him drunk, the SHO said, one of them also confessed to having an illicit relation with the victim’s wife.The woman is also being quizzed, the SHO said.The police on Tuesday produced the arrested duo before a court which has remanded them in police custody for further investigation into the case. PTI
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula reports 26 COVID-19 positive cases; district tally climbs to 181||Panchkula reports 26 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the district total to 181. This is the biggest single-day spike in the district. Out of the 26 cases, seven Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel tested positive for the deadly disease. Earlier, a 42-year-old woman from Sector 7 and a 55-year-old woman of Sector 26 had tested positive. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said both patients had been admitted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. She said the Health Department had deputed teams to collect samples of the patients’ family members and their contacts for testing.
15-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||Haryana govt approves tax exemption for commercial vehicles for June, July||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 15Commercial vehicles will get exemption in the motor vehicle tax for June and July as the state government has given nod to the proposal of the Transport Department for exemption in the tax from 25 per cent to 100 per cent in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.The move will benefit around 7 lakh commercial vehicles across the state. All vehicles were already given total exemption from the tax for March and April and the vehicle owners were eagerly waiting for the decision about tax exemption for June and July.As per the government approval, 100 per cent exemption in tax will be given to schools, stage carriage and contract carriage buses, 50 per cent exemption to auto, maxi cab and taxi and special purpose vehicles, while 25 per cent exemption to goods vehicles and private service vehicles for June.Similarly, for July, 100 per cent exemption in tax will be given for school buses, 75 per cent exemption for stage carriage buses and 25 per cent exemption for auto, maxi cab and taxi while no exemption will be given to goods vehicles, contract carriage buses, private service vehicles and special purpose vehicles for July.“The proposal was sent to the state government recently, as various associations of commercial vehicles were persistently raising the demand for tax exemption in the view of the pandemic,” sources said.Sunil Kumar, president, Haryana Cooperative Transport Society Welfare Association, said private buses remained off-road for the past four months, causing a huge loss to the owners. “Now, the state government has allowed the buses to ply as per the schedule with half seating capacity, but the number of passengers is negligible on the majority of routes. Hence, we were demanding a tax waiver,” he added.Ravinder Nandal, state president, Haryana Private School Sangh, said exemption in tax was the need of the hour. “The government must exempt the school buses from tax till the time the schools are not opened,” Nandal said.Confirming the government approval on tax exemption for commercial vehicles, Virender Singh Sehrawat, Additional Transport Commissioner, Haryana, said a notification in this respect would be issued soon.
15-07-2020||Ravi S Singh||Haryana CM sets out post-Covid measures||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 15Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar on Tuesday said measures taken by the state government has check-mated the COVID-19 pandemic and set out the contours of futures plan to revive the economy for faster and coordinated growth of the state.The improvement in Haryana’s sex ratio which reached to 930 (females):1000 (males) in 2019-20 from the dismal 851(females): 1000 (males) in 2014, was hailed by Khattar as a success of government-sustained efforts towards women empowerment.“The government sincerely implemented the “Beti Bachhao, Beti Padhao” drive, a call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Panipat in 2015,” Khattar said at a webinar on Tuesday evening.The webinar was on “How Haryana is fighting the COVID-19 crisis – The Way Forward”, organised by the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of South Asia.Khattar said the pandemic had thrown normal life out of kelter but the state government was able to curtail its spread except for in Faridabad, Gurgaon, Jhajjhar and Sonipat districts, which were affected by the overspread of the disease in nearby Delhi.These districts account for 80 per cent of the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state.He said the recovery rate of those afflicted in the state was over 75 per cent and the active cases as per the latest count were about 4,900.During the period of the lockdown, the government ramped up its health infrastructure, including facilities of 15,000 beds in isolation wards.Khattar said post-lockdown normalcy was returning at pace and as much as 50 per cent of trade and commerce had resumed operations. The power consumed in June was 80 per cent of the consumption level the same period last year, he added.The demand and consumption of goods and services had started picking up, Chief Minister ML Khattar said.He attributed this zoom to more liquidities in the rural market on account of direct transfer of cash to farmers’ account accruing from the government’s recent purchase of wheat and ‘sarson’.A total of about Rs 20,000 crore was deposited in the accounts of farmers, which boosted their purchasing power and the consequent rise in the demand for goods.Chief Minister ML Khattar said Haryana had tweaked its land and labour policies to promote ease of doing business and to make the state an attractive destination for investment.Land could now be acquired by prospective investors on a lease basis. New Industrial units would be exempted from the Factory Act and Industrial Dispute Act for a period of 1000 days, the CM added.The post-COVID plans include setting up of sector-wise industrial clusters in each of the 22 districts. The focus will be on agri-based processing units.Responding to a question, he said neither Haryana government had asked any Chinese firm to wind of their business nor there was any report of them planning to shift in the context of deteriorating relation between India and China.“But in the future, firms of other countries planning to invest in Haryana will be given preference,” Khattar said.With regard pollution caused by stubble burning, he said there was a plan to set up an ethanol plant in Panipat which would be used as its raw material. “Also, there is a plan to use stubble in the production of other things like energy. This will help eradicate the curse of stubble burning,” Chief Minister ML Khattar added.With regards to measures to keep the Yamuna waters clean, he hoped that the Centre and the Delhi government would take remedial measures. Also, the proposed three dams, including in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand would go a long way to keep the river clean, Chief Minister ML Khattar said.
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||No parole to Rampal for kin’s wedding||
15-07-2020||Ambala||Drug smuggler arrested||The police have arrested Manjit Singh of Mullana near here in a case of smuggling drugs and claim to have recovered 6-kg poppy husk from his possession, officials said here on Tuesday. The accused was intercepted at a checkpost on a tip-off and his search yielded the contraband. The accused was produced in a local court, which remanded him to a three-day police custody. TNSIllicit liquor recoveredThe police have arrested Sohan of Mullana near here in a case of liquor smuggling and claimed to have recovered 60 bottles from his possession, officials said here on Tuesday. According to the police, the accused was held on a tip-off and his search yielded the contraband. TNSOne held with illicit weaponThe police have arrested Sanjay, alias Mithhu of Ambala City, and claimed to have recovered an illegal weapon from his possession, the officials said here on Tuesday. As per the police, the accused was arrested at a check-post on a tip-off and his search yielded an illegal pistol. The accused was sent to a 14-day judicial remand by a local court, the police said. TNS
15-07-2020||Kurukshetra||Global conference on 5G network||Online coding course from July 29Kurukshetra: The Kurukshetra University's Centre for IT and Automation and Kodoshkant Rusa Project Society are organising a six-week online coding course from July 29. Students from colleges and universities, who have general knowledge of programming, can apply for 40 seats in data structure, 40 in web development course and 40 in cloud computing. In this course, only students who pass the entrance examination of Code Coherent can take admission. Students can register for the course on the KU website till July 23. The online test will be held on July 25 and the result will be out on July 27. The batch will be started from July 29. Students can get more information related to the course on www.kuk.ac.in.Panel discussion on mental healthHisar: The training and placement cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, has organised an online panel discussion on the topic “mental well-being in the age of Covid”. Around 70 students attended the programme directly and more than 800 viewers watched it on Facebook. Panelists discussed various issues such as the importance of mental health in the current scenario, common mental problems prevailing these days, importance and tips for a routine, yogic and breathing activities, diet instructions, dangers of over consumption of Covid news, essence of extending socialisation by various means and handling Covid patients in own family or in society at large.Associate prof pens book on lifeFatehabad: Sanjeev Trikha, associate professor of commerce, Manohar Memorial (PG) College, Fatehabad, has penned a book titled, “Pebbles”, which incorporates tiny experiences from the vast ocean called life. Seventyone chapters of the book spell out various lessons of life and are a source of motivation for its readers. The author derives pride in nurturing his literary instincts in fictional and non-fictional fields.The book is currently available on Amazon. The book is published by Earth Vision Publication, Gurugram, and is priced at Rs 200 for its paperback version.e-training on ‘Internet of things’Hisar: The department of electronics and communication engineering, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, started an online training on “Internet of things” on Tuesday. The training is being organised through TEQIP-III, under the scheme 'future skills' of the NPIU, MHRD. The motive is to train the students in future technologies to enhance their employability. The training for engineering students is planned during July-September 2020 through online mode. In all, 150 participants have been shortlisted for the 80-hour training, having theory and lab components in 50:50 proportion.After the training, a test will also be conducted by the SSC-Nasscom and certification will be done.
15-07-2020||The incessant rains have caused resulted in accumulation of water on roads||HSVP sector in POOR condition||Potable water crisisTHE residents of Friends Colony, Kaithal, are facing an acute shortage of potable water. The water sometimes gets mixed with sewers due to leaking of underground pipes. It emits foul smell. The water is unfit for washing utensils and clothes. It can affect the heath of residents and make them sick. The public health officials should look into the matter. –Kapil Sharma, KaithalRainwater  clogs Kurukshetra HUDA colony roadROADS in the urban areas are the first to be hit during the monsoon. The road in Sector 13, HUDA Colony, Kurukshetra, presents a similar picture, as it gets filled with drainage water, causing inconvenience to the residents. Recently, the condition of road got so worse that the residents could not come out of their homes. Silting, non-biodegradable waste and construction debris lead to stagnation of water, emitting unpleasant smell, making it a breeding ground for mosquitoes in the area. Before the onset of monsoon, it should be a standard practice of the municipal bodies to carry out desilting and cleaning of water drains along the roads. The municipality should take an action soon. –Anupama Saini, KurukshetraIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
15-07-2020||Hisar/Mahendragarh||Operations to control locust on in Bhiwani, Mahendragarh||Locust swarms are still active in some villages of the Bahal and Lolaru blocks in Bhiwani even as the local authorities have intensified their operations. The authorities divided the affected areas into four sectors to launch a nightlong operation.Meanwhile, a swarm made its way to a village along the Rajasthan border. This was fifth time that a swarm was spotted in the district.The swarms kept flying within a radius of 10 km throughout the day after moving away from Surehti Pilania on Tuesday morning. Locusts were spotted over Bhagdana, Jhuk, Malda, Pali, Jant, Dewas, Bhandor, Beri and nearby villages of the Mahendragarh block.Officials said they had spotted locust eggs. “It is easier to eliminate and control locusts during this stage,” said Pratap Singh, Deputy Director, Agriculture, Bhiwani.“A tractor-mounted spray and fire brigade were put to use to carry out the operation while fogging machines were pressed into service during the daytime. The leftover swarm has scattered. We have controlled between 55 per cent and 75 per cent of the swarms the previous night.”He said they had detected between 2 per cent and 5 per cent crop loss, but exact assessment would be made in the next few days. “The swarm in the Dadri region has moved towards Mahendragarh. The swarm in Chahar Kalan and Chahar Khurd villages in the Bahal area is still active in these villages,” he added.Mahendragarh officials stated that they had killed more than 75 per cent of the locusts. “Three swarms moved away by Monday afternoon. A swarm entered Surheti village from Rajasthan in the evening. A major part of the swarm settled in bordering villages of Rajasthan,” said an official.Farmers remained alert, kept banging utensils and made loud noise through tractor-fitted music systems to scare the locusts away. The swarm moved to Rajasthan later in the evening. Sources said more than 15 per cent damage to the bajra crop had been reported. The authorities denied any crop loss.
15-07-2020||Nitin Jain||Haryana Government buys over 5.4K tonne sunflower||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, July 14Hafed and Haryana Warehousing Corporation have purchased over 5,400 tonnes of sunflower at five procurement centres in the district.DC Ashok Kumar Sharma said the initiative had been taken to promote the less water consuming crop under the diversification scheme.While Hafed had been tasked with purchase at Ambala City, Shahzadpur and Barwala, Haryana Warehousing Corporation was procuring the crop in Ambala Cantonment and Mullana.As per the government order, the crop was purchased at the minimum support price of Rs 5,650 per quintal. “We’ve not used commission agents for the job,” said the DC.He said farmers registered on the “Meri Fasal, Mera Byora” portal were eligible for the direct sale of sunflower to government agencies. To avoid overcrowding, farmers were called in limited numbers and 40 quintals per farmer was purchased in a single day.
15-07-2020||Panipat||38-yr-old man shot dead in Gohana||A 38-year-old man was shot dead by six miscreants in Chopra Colony of Gohana on Monday. The miscreants managed to fled the spot on two motorcycles.  The deceased has been identified as Rakesh of Bohar village of Rohtak. He had been living in Chopra Colony in Gohana along with his family.  As per information, Rakesh was working outside his home, when six youths reached there and four of them fired at him and fled later. On hearing the sound of bullets, Rakesh’s father Nawab came out ofthe house. Rakesh was lying in a pool of blood and died on the spot, Nawab said. He accused a person named Palotra of Bohar village of murder. He said Palotra was in jail and his aides murdered his son on his directions.  ASP Udai Singh Meena said that prima facie, the cause of the murder seemed to be an old rivalry between two families of Bohar village. —TNS
15-07-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Health Department proposes weekend lockdown in Gurugram||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 14With Gurugram still struggling to break the Covid transmission chain, the Health Department has proposed weekend lockdown in the district. While CMO Virender Yadav was unavailable for a comment, a senior health official while speaking to The Tribune said a proposal in this regard had already been mooted before the Deputy Commissioner and the state health authorities. Wants 4 areas declared large outbreak regions “Many cities are switching back to lockdown for a few days, and we want the same for Gurugram. We want to intensify testing and isolate all patients and suspects while keeping the entire city under lockdown for a few days. However, this seems impossible, so we have sought that the city should be under lockdown at least on weekends. The unlock activities, including unrestricted movement, and a callous approach to the use of sanitisers and masks has defeated the intense testing and isolation strategy,” said the official.Amit Khatrai, DC, said they had chalked out multiple strategies to be adopted. The Health Department also highlighted the fear of infection surge from Faridabad and Delhi, which continue to be Covid hotspots. State Health Minister Anil Vij hinted that restrictions may be imposed in four districts bordering Delhi and the worst-affected areas. Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar account for around 70 per cent cases in the state. Out of around 22,000 cases registered in the state, these districts account for over 15,000 cases and nearly 75 per cent of the total fatalities. “We will do whatever it takes to curb the Covid menace in the state. The cases are rising, but we are medically prepared. It’s time to impose stricter curbs,” said Vij.
15-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||63% of deceased were more than 
55 years: Study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 14Haryana has witnessed 63 per cent Covid deaths in people above 55 years of age even when they have made up just 16 per cent of the total cases.On the other hand, 37 per cent deaths have taken place in people below 54 years of age despite them making up 84 per cent of the total cases.In an analysis of the Health Department of the Covid deaths up to July 12, when the casualty tally was 301, it has come out that vulnerability increases after 55 years of age.The mortality is highest in age group 85-94 where nine deaths have taken place out of 67 cases with a mortality rate of 13.4 per cent.Thirty-five persons died out of 341 cases in age group of 75-84 with a mortality rate of 10.3 per cent.However, the highest number of deaths has taken place in the age group of 65-74 where 78 died out of 970 cases with a mortality rate of eight per cent. In the age group of 55-64 years, 65 deaths took place out of 1,983 cases with a mortality rate of 3.3 per cent.“ACE receptors in the human body increase with age. Coronavirus sticks to ACE receptors in the lungs. So, more the ACE receptors, more is the vulnerability. Young children usually have very high immunity. Thymus gland is more developed in them which increases immunity against the virus,” said Dr VK Katyal, who is the nodal officer for Covid at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak.He added, “More deaths in senior citizens are also due to the fact that they have more health implications. About 70-80 per cent cases in the ICU of the PGIMS have diabetes.”
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 699 cases, steepest hike||With 699 fresh cases, the highest in a day so far, the Covid tally in the state jumped to 22,628 today. The previous mark of 691 cases was on July 8. With four deaths, the toll reached 312. The deaths were reported from Gurugram (2), Rewari and Palwal.Fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (160), Faridabad (115), Rewari (96), Sonepat (55), Ambala (46), Mahendragarh (43), Rohtak (40), Jhajjar (26), Palwal (23), Sirsa (19), Nuh (18), Karnal and Panipat (15 each), Bhiwani (12), Kaithal (9), Jind and Panchkula (3 each) and Yamunanagar (1).In Ambala district, 19 cases were reported from Ambala Cantonment, 14 from Chaurmastpur village and 13 from Ambala City. In Karnal, three cases were reported from Shiv Colony and two each from Mall Road and old grain market.Meanwhile, 453 patients were discharged, taking the tally of recovery cases to 17,090, with a recovery rate of 75.53 per cent. — TNS
15-07-2020||---||Faridabad court dismisses state’s petition on Tablighi Jamaatis||Chandigarh, July 14A sessions court in Faridabad has dismissed a revision petition of the Haryana Government against the discharge of 18 foreigners, who are Tablighi Jamaat workers, and said that their “mere presence” in the district does not tantamount to the violation of the Foreigners Act.Ten foreigners hail from Indonesia, while the rest are from the Philippines.On May 19, a lower court had ruled that there was no prima facie evidence against them for violating visa norms and so it didn’t frame charges under Section 14 (b) of the Foreigners Act. Subsequently, Haryana had filed a revision application before the sessions court.Additional District and Sessions Judge Rajesh Garg said that “respondents, who are foreigners and came to India as tourists, have every right to be treated as Indians and also have the right to live here as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution”.According to the state government, the 18 foreigners had attended the Markaz event at Nizamuddin in New Delhi in March and then came to Faridabad. As they did not intimate the authorities, they had violated Section 14(b) of the Foreigners Act, the prosecution submitted.It was also claimed that they had violated para 1.25 of the visa manual, which said that any type of visa holders couldn’t engage in Tablighi work unless specific permission was granted though they could visit religious places and attend religious discourses. However, preaching religious ideologies, making speeches at religious places, distributing audio or visual display/pamphlets pertaining to religious ideologies, spreading conversion was not allowed.After examining the record of the Nizamuddin Markaz, where the visitors’ details were mentioned, the court observed, “Even in that register, it is mentioned that respondents (foreign nationals) have visited, on different dates, and there is no reference that they had actually stayed or participated in any religious activities as defined in Section 14(b) of the Foreigners Act.”“Even if it is assumed that the respondents have stayed in the Nizamuddin Markaz and had participated in the religious activities, as defined in para 1.25 of the visa manual, the offence, if any, under the Foreigners Act is made out at Delhi and not at Faridabad,” the order dated July 13 stated.On May 19, the lower court had sentenced the 18 foreign nationals for the period they had already served in custody for violating IPC Section 188. They had pleaded guilty.
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||NCR may have stricter curbs||Minister for Health and Family Welfare Anil Vij on Tuesday indicated sterner curbs, particularly in the worst Covid-affected districts of the state, to contain the spread of Coronavirus. Out of nearly 22,000 cases of Covid in Haryana till today, over two-thirds come from the NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat. Speaking to mediapersons, Vij said the state’s recovery rate was more than 75 per cent. When asked if the state government could impose lockdown and other stricter measures in the worst-affected areas, Vij replied, “In Haryana’s interest, whatever is required to be done, I will do that.” — TNS
15-07-2020||---||Gadkari lays stone of 8 highways||Chandigarh, July 14Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari today inaugurated and laid the foundation stone for national highway projects worth Rs 20,027 crore in Haryana as part of the new economic corridor.In a web-based function, during which three projects were inaugurated and foundation stones laid for eight more, he said the new economic corridor would ensure smooth connectivity from Haryana to other states. The 35.45-km 4-lane Rohna-Jhajjar section of NH 334-B (Rs 1,183 crore), 70-km 4-lane Punjab-Haryana border to Jind section of NH 71 (Rs 857 crore) and 85.36-km 2-lane Jind-Karnal highway on NH 709 (Rs 200 crore) were inaugurated.Foundation stones were laid for eight projects worth over Rs 17,000 crore, including 227-km 6-lane access-controlled Greenfield Expressway from Ismailpur to Narnaul on NH 152D (Rs 8,650 crore), 46-km 4-lane Gurugram-Pataudi-Rewari section of NH 352W (Rs 1,524 crore) and 14.4-km 4-lane Rewari bypass (Rs 928 crore).Gadkari said the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra highway via Jind and Delhi-Mumbai highway would also be beneficial for Haryana. He said there was no dearth of funds with the Centre for development.Gadkari urged Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to make separate schemes for farm MSMEs. Suggesting Haryana to make ethanol from rice, which the Centre could purchase, Gadkari said a five lakh crore ethanol economy could be created in the coming years. Expressing gratitude to Gadkari, Khattar sought his intervention in resolving the Sutlej-Yamuna Link canal issue so that Haryana could get its legitimate share of river waters.Inaugurated sans completion: MLAKarnal: The Karnal-Jind NH 709-A widening project was inaugurated by Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday though it had not been completed. Construction of the road and drains was pending at various places. Assandh MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi said, “I have conveyed the issue to the Deputy Commissioner and demanded action against officials who have misguided the NHAI and Centre,” he said. DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said around 5 per cent work was pending and was going on at a good pace. He said it had been delayed due to encroachment near Jundla and Jalmana villages, which had been removed. TNS
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Bring in ordinance to reinstate 1,983 PTIs: Hooda to government||Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has demanded that the state government should use its legislative power to reinstate sacked 1,983 physical training instructors (PTIs).“If the BJP brings in an ordinance to reappoint the PTIs, the entire Opposition will support it. In case the government fails to do so, the Congress will reappoint PTIs when it comes to power,” he said on Tuesday.In April, the Supreme Court had upheld the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashing the appointment of 1,983 PTIs in schools of Haryana in 2010, and asked the state staff selection commission to conduct the recruitment process afresh.A delegation of the Samast Karamchari Sangharsh Coordination Committee, meanwhile, met the former Chief Minister at his Delhi residence to hand over a memorandum.Hooda assured the committee of backing them. “Of the dismissed PTIs, 38 have already passed away, 25 are widowed teachers, 34 are disabled, 49 are ex-servicemen, 68 are employees from other departments and 20 are retired teachers. About 80 per cent of them are above 45 years,” he said.“The Supreme Court said it was unfortunate that people had to lose their jobs after 10 years of service. But this has another aspect. The government can now advertise 1,983 more vacancies and recruit the sacked teachers. So far, the government has not done so,” he added. — TNS
15-07-2020||iwani||Man kills 2 of family before ending life||A retired BSF personnel hacked his wife and daughter-in-law to death before coming suicide by consuming poison in Paluwas village of the district on Tuesday. A family feud was said to be reason behind the murder. Ex-BSF personnel Sukhbir Singh’s wife Suman and daughter-in-law Sanju were in the kitchen when he attacked them with an axe. They died on the spot. Sukhbir then took poison. He was taken to hospital, where he died during treatment. The neighbours called the police after hearing screams from his house. Mahender Singh, one of the neighbours, said Sukhbir’s son was away, while his mother, who is hard of hearing, was in the verandah. — TNS
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Court restrains mining activity||Less than two months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court ordered demarcation of areas for mining in Panipat district along the Uttar Pradesh border, a Division Bench today restrained five contractors from carrying out mining in the land denoted in the demarcation report. The Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu directed the Panipat DC to ensure compliance. “The respondents are restrained from undertaking any mining activity in the land denoted in the demarcation report dated June 9 till further orders,” the Bench noted. The direction came after the Bench was told that private respondents were still continuing with illegal mining despite the demarcation report. The case has its genesis in another petition filed by Karambir Singh and other cultivators of land in Kundla village in Bapoli tehsil of Panipat district. — TNS
