15-09-2020||---||Three years after being discharged by court, Sonepat sisters’ case haunts Rohtak youth||Sunit DhawanTribune News ServiceAssan (Rohtak), September 15Three years after being discharged by court, the Sonepat sisters’ case still continues to haunt Kuldeep, one of the three youths of Assan village in Rohtak district named in the case.Earlier, Kuldeep aspired to join the Army, but his candidature was rejected due to the said case. He cleared the Group D Services exam and got a letter of appointment with Haryana Armed Police (HAP) at Madhuban, but his joining has been stalled, because of the case.“We don’t know when this case will get off our back. Our son has been proved innocent and discharged by two courts, still he is suffering because of the case which was proved false in police investigation,” says Kuldeep’s father Balbir, an ex-serviceman.Balbir and his wife Shakunatala have urged the state government and HAP authorities to sympathetically consider their son’s case.Kulvinder Singh, DIG, HAP, Madhuban, said he would look into the matter and get the facts examined.  On November 28, 2014, Pooja and her sister Aarti of Thana Khurd village in Sonepat district thrashed three youths of Assan village in Rohtak district on board a moving bus, accusing them of molestation.An FIR was registered and an SIT was constituted to probe the case which hogged the headlines for a long time. The police investigation found the allegations levelled by the sisters untrue.None of the 50-odd witnesses, including the girl who shot the video of the incident, supported the version of the sisters. Polygraph tests indicated that the sisters were concealing some information, while the accused boys had come out clean.“No case of moral turpitude is made out against Kuldeep and the other youths as they were discharged by the Court of Rohtak ACJM Harish Goyal during the framing of charges. The decision to discharge them was upheld by the Court of Additional Sessions Judge Jasbir Singh while hearing revision petition filed by the sisters,” maintains Kuldeep’s counsel Pradeep Malik.Noted writer and men’s rights activist Deepika Narayan Bhardwaj says it is unfortunate that the youth continues to suffer despite having proved innocent.“Till when will he be punished for a crime he didn’t do,” she asks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-years-after-being-discharged-by-court-sonepat-sisters-case-haunts-rohtak-youth-141592
15-09-2020||New Delhi||Govt approves crucial Palwal-Sonepat rail project, will decongest NCR network||The government on Tuesday approved the construction of crucial Haryana Orbital Rail Corridor Project from Palwal to Sonepat which will decongest the railway network in the National Capital Region and connect unserved areas of the state.The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) cleared the project to be completed at an estimated cost of Rs 5,617 crore and with a likely completion time of five years.This rail line will facilitate diversion of traffic not meant for Delhi, thus decongesting the NCR network and will also help in developing multimodal logistics hubs in Haryana, the statement said.The project runs via Sohna-Manesar-Kharkhauda and will have connectivity with all the existing railway routes originating from Delhi and passing through Haryana as well as with the Dedicated Freight Corridor network.This rail line will start from Palwal and end at the existing Harsana Kalan station (On the Delhi-Ambala section).This will also give connectivity en route to existing Patli Station (On Delhi-Rewari line), Sultanpur station (On Garhi Harsaru-Farukhnagar Line) and Asaudha Station (On Delhi Rohtak Line).It will be implemented by the Haryana Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (HRIDC), a Joint Venture of the Ministry of Railways and the government of Haryana.The project will have joint participation of the Railways, the Haryana government and private stakeholders.Once completed, the project will benefit Palwal, Nuh, Gurugram, Jhajjar and Sonepat districts of Haryana.It will provide high-speed seamless connectivity of this region to the dedicated freight corridor network resulting in reduction of cost and time of transportation for EXIM traffic from NCR to the ports of India, making exports of goods more competitive, the statement said.“This efficient transport corridor along with other initiatives will provide enabling infrastructure to attract multinational industries to set up manufacturing units to fulfil the ‘Make in India’ mission,” the statement said.The project will connect unserved areas of Haryana, thereby boosting economic and social activities in the state.This multipurpose transport project will also facilitate affordable and faster commuter travel, long distance travel in different directions from Gurugram and the industrial regions of Manesar, Sohna, Farukhnagar, Kharkhauda and Sonepat.“Approximately 20,000 passengers each day will be travelling through this line and 50 Million Tonnes goods traffic would also be carried out every year,” the statement said.The alignment of this project is adjacent to the western peripheral (Kundli-Manesar-Palwal) Expressway and has been under consideration for some time. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-approves-crucial-palwal-sonepat-rail-project-will-decongest-ncr-network-141584
15-09-2020||Panipat||6 drown in Yamuna in Haryana's Panipat; 3 bodies fished out||Six people including two girls and a woman drowned in Yamuna River near Jalmana village of Bapoli block of Panipat district on Tuesday morning.The dead bodies of three people have been fished out from the Yamuna river. Three among the six are the members of a family while two were close relatives of the family.Sushil of Jalmana village along with his wife Sonia (32); 12-year-old son Sagar; 10-year-old daughter Payal; two close relatives Badal (15) of Chandoli village and Saurabh (16) of Karhans village and 19-year-old girl Sarita, daughter of a neighbour Shyam Singh, went for a bath in the Yamuna at Jalmalna ghat near Jalmana village of Panipat on Tuesday morning.Sushil stood on the bank of the Yamuna while Sonia, Sagar, Payal, Badal, Saurabh and Sarita entered the water. They were bathing in the water when three of them went to a deep end and started drowning. To save them, three others also went into deep water and drowned.As Sushil saw them drowning, he started crying for help. Meanwhile, some villagers who were on the other side of Yamuna heard his voice and jumped into the river to save them but till they reached there all were drowned. Besides, scores of villagers gathered there. They informed the administration about the incident.Naib Tehsildar Naresh Kaushal; Pradeep Kumar, DSP Samalkha and Shree Bhagwan, SHO Bapoli along with teams reached spot and began a search for the people drowned.The divers fished out the dead bodies of three persons including Sarita, Sonia and Badal after three hours. Besides, the teams of divers are searching for the other three drowned people- Sagar, Payal and Saurabh.Naib Tehsildar Naresh Kaushal said that the family members along with their relatives entered into the Yamuna to take a bath and they drowned. Three dead bodies have been fished out while efforts are being made to search other three persons, the Naib Tehsildar asserted.The police have sent the three bodies to the mortuary at the General Hospital for the post-mortem examination, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-drown-in-yamuna-in-haryanas-panipat-3-bodies-fished-out-141554
15-09-2020||---||Rohtak ZP chief, members protest as officers ‘fail to act’||Rohtak, September 14Rohtak Zila Parishad (ZP) members, led by ZP chairman Satish Bhalauth, began an indefinite dharna at the parishad office here today to register their protest against the “highhandedness” of government officers.“We have been writing to the officials concerned about various issues of public interest, but to no avail. I, along with 10 ZP members, had submitted a memorandum enlisting certain pertinent issues to the district authorities. But no action has been taken so far. So, we were left with no option but to launch a protest,” Bhalauth said.Bhalauth, who owes allegiance to the ruling BJP, had staged a dharna at his native village recently to draw attention of the authorities concerned to the inordinate delay in the construction of a stretch of Rohtak-Sonepat road passing through Bhalauth village in Rohtak district.The issues mentioned in the memorandum include perennial waterlogging in agricultural fields during monsoon, pasting of lists of doctors’ phone numbers and medicines available at PHCs, CHCs and veterinary hospitals, pasting of fee details and list of students admitted under Rule 134-A at schools, recovery of the due charges from operators for mobile towers installed in villages and details of actions taken for the prevention and control of Covid-19 in the district.“We are constantly ignored and kept in the dark. The officials concerned neither take concrete action despite our requests and reminders, nor bother to furnish the information sought by us. If the people’s representatives are treated in such a manner, the plight of the common people can be well understood,” Bhalauth said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-zp-chief-members-protest-as-officers-fail-to-act-141342
15-09-2020||---||Haryana government orders special girdawari||Hisar, September 14The state government on Monday acceded to the demand of the protesting farmers for special girdawari (survey) to assess the crop loss.However, the farmers continued with the dharna as they are still not satisfied with the special girdawari order to asses only the crop loss due to floods/standing water and heavy rain. They said even whitefly and other diseases had caused massive damage to the kharif crops across the state hence, special girdawari should be ordered to asses this loss too.Farmers’ leader Kurdaram Nambardar said a delegation met Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni, who informed them about the special girdawari order. “However, we were told that another order for special girdawari to assess the crop loss due to whitefly and other diseases will also follow. Thus, we have decided to continue the dharna until the survey to assess the comprehensive loss to the kharif crops is issued,” he added.Earlier, farmers of nearly 20 villages organised a mahapanchayat in Balsamand village, demanding special girdawari of the damaged cotton and moong crops in the region. As many as 2,000 farmers sought a written assurance from the DC and threatened to intensify their stir from Tuesday, if the authorities continued to ignore their demands.Upset over a report showing only 10 per cent crop loss due to whitefly in 20 villages, farmers demanded an apology from the official concerned.Meanwhile, DC Priyanka Soni said the government had decided to carry out the special girdawari of the crop loss. A nambardar and farmers would accompany the survey team in their fields, the DC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-orders-special-girdawari-141343
15-09-2020||---||Bhupinder Hooda  seeks relief  for cotton  growers||Chandigarh, September 14Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has demanded special ‘girdawari’ to provide immediate relief to cotton growers who have suffered severe crop damage due to whitefly, wilting and green leaf hopper epidemic.He claimed that the government had turned a blind eye to the plight of farmers and had provided no compensation to farmers who suffered widespread damage due to a spate of setbacks.Hooda said farmers were forced to agitate for compensation for poor crop of cotton, moong, guar and millet. “In the Balsamand area of Hisar, farmers held a public meeting to wake the government up from deep slumber, but the government did not provide any relief,” he said.Supporting their demands, Hooda stated that farmers needed urgent and immediate help and the government should take immediate cognisance of the demands of farmers and declare compensation at the earliest.He demanded that the government should compensate cotton farmers for at least Rs 30,000 per acre by making special ‘girdawari’ or surveys without any further delay.“Last year, the rabi crop were hit in many districts of the state due to untimely hailstorm and farmers had not received compensation yet. The fate of farmers who suffered losses due to waterlogging was the same as they continued to wait for help,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhupinder-hooda-seeks-relief-for-cotton-growers-141344
15-09-2020||---||65 ‘ineligible’ extension lecturers dismissed in Haryana||Rohtak, September 14The Department of Higher Education has terminated the services of more than 65 “ineligible” extension lecturers working at government colleges across the state for the past several years.‘Action reeks of bias’The state government should allow extension lecturers to work till the regular faculty is appointed. Several ineligible guest lecturers are working in government colleges, but action has been taken against extension lecturers only. Why so? — Ishwar Singh, chief extension lecturers welfare associationThey have been dismissed in compliance with a new policy, which was framed on March 4. It re-defined the requirement of workforce on the basis of workload. The policy could not come into force then because of the Covid-induced lockdown. The order to dismiss extension lecturers were issued on Friday last week.As per the order, the sacked lecturers did not meet the UGC and state government norms nor had they cleared the National Eligibility Test (NET). They did not fulfil another criterion of holding a PhD degree. They were drawing a monthly salary of Rs 35,400.Sources say there are more than 250 “ineligible” extension lecturers in the state. Others would be dismissed in the coming days, they say.Extension lecturers were hired to share the workload following the non-availability of NET-qualified lecturers and PhD degree holders.A sacked extension lecturer said, “As per a High Court order, ineligible extension lecturers cannot be dismissed without the appointment of regular lecturers. The decision is unjustified. The reliving orders must be withdrawn otherwise more than 250 lecturers to make ends meet.”Asha Malik, principal of Government College in Meham, said five “ineligible” extension lecturers had been relieved from her college following the instructions of the Director General (Higher Education).Besides, six extension lecturers of Government College, Rewari, and three of Government College, Bawal, were relieved on Saturday.Raising objection, Extension Lecturers Welfare Association president said, “The state government should allow extension lecturers to work till the regular faculty is appointed. Several ‘ineligible’ guest lecturers are working in government colleges, but action has been taken against extension lecturers only. Why so?”Ajit Balaji Joshi, Director General (Higher Education), simply said the ineligible extension lecturers had been relieved in view of the new policy and the High Court order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/65-ineligible-extension-lecturers-dismissed-in-haryana-141345
15-09-2020||Panipat||Man found dead at railway station in Madlauda||A 45-year-old man was found dead at a railway station in Madlauda on Monday. The deceased has been identified as Surender of Maldlauda.The station master and a staff member saw a body on a bench and informed the General Railway Police (GRP). An employee at the railway station identified the deceased and informed his family.The deceased’s brother, Rajender, in his statement to the police, said Surender left home on Sunday night with two to three men and did not return. “On Monday morning, I received the information that my brother was found dead at the Madlauda railway station,” he said. A sniffer dog led the police to a weapon reportedly used in the murder. A case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-found-dead-at-railway-station-in-madlauda-141346
15-09-2020||---||Pollution board seals Sahara Mall in Gurugram||Gurugram, September 14  Taking a stern stance over the alleged consistent violation of sewage treatment and discharge bylaws, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has sealed the Sahara Mall in Gurugram. According to the HSPCB, the mall was served the first show-cause notice regarding the violations in 2018 and was fined Rs 2.5 lakh. However, even after almost two years, the mall authorities have failed to rectify the operations and have been polluting environment by toxic sewage discharge. Now, the mall authorities will not only be fined again, but they will be paying the environmental damage compensation and a case is also being filed against them.  “We will not spare any polluters. The mall authorities have been ignoring our notices, warnings and have led to massive groundwater pollution. In addition to our stipulated punishments, we will be moving the court. The mall is sealed for now,” said Kuldeep Singh, HSPCB officer, Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pollution-board-seals-sahara-mall-in-gurugram-141347
15-09-2020||Kurukshetra||Labourer dies at Thanesar grain market||A 42-year-old migrant labourer sleeping in the open at the Thanesar grain market was crushed to death on the wee hours of Monday. The deceased has been identified as Shambhu Shah of Bihar. As per information, Shambhu had been working as a labourer at the Thanesar grain market for the last seven years. He was sleeping on a cot in front of shop number 135. Around 5 am, he was found dead. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/labourer-dies-at-thanesar-grain-market-141348
15-09-2020||---||Excise teams to verify liquor stock||Ambala, September 14The teams of the Excise Department will inspect three distilleries in Haryana and a bottling plant in Punjab in connection with the huge stock (nearly 1,300 boxes) of IMFL brands recovered from Mandour village in Ambala on Friday night and Saturday.Can’t share infoWe have received some leads and we are working on it but information can’t be shared at this stage as it may hamper the investigation. We have activated our network in Gujarat. Rajesh Kalia, SPA total of 142 boxes of McDowell’s No 1. “for sale in Haryana” and 148 boxes of Royal Challenge “for sale in Haryana”, while 293 boxes of Imperial Blue “for sale in Chandigarh” and 719 boxes of Old Monk Rum “for sale in Haryana (CSD)” were recovered.An official of the Excise Department said the teams would be visiting the distilleries in Karnal (for McDowell No.1), Sonepat (for Old Monk Rum), Samalkha (for Royal Challenge) and a bottling plant in Dera Bassi (for Imperial Blue), whose names have been found on the labels of the bottles for verification of stocks recovered. The teams would submit their report before Ambala City SDM Sachin Gupta, who is the chairman of the SIT constituted in this matter.The suspects used to smuggle the liquor in the boxes of aloe vera juice to Gujarat and Rajasthan. As per the rent agreements, the godowns were given to one Nikhil Patel, a resident of Gujarat.On Friday night, the lid was blown off the scam after a transporter, who was approached to ferry liquor boxes in a canter to Gujarat, got suspicious and informed the police.SP Rajesh Kalia said: “We have received some leads and we are working on it but information can’t be shared at this stage as it may hamper the investigation. We have activated our network in Gujarat to check if any such person is there but prima facie the Gujarat person seems to be just a face and not an original person. Usually, people involved in such activities use fake names and don’t use original details to avoid getting caught. The Excise Department has been asked to submit a report regarding the liquor if it was genuine or not, and also about the labels and distilleries.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/excise-teams-to-verify-liquor-stock-141349
15-09-2020||---||Farm ordinances: BKU delegation to meet Union Agriculture Minister today||Kurukshetra/Rohtak,September 14A delegation of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) will meet Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday to discuss the three contentious farm ordinances introduced by the Centre even though it clarified that there was no change in its plan to go a dharna across the state on Tuesday.Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU (Charuni) chief, said: “We have received an invitation for talks from MP Dharambir Singh. Having said that, I want to clarify that there is no change in our agitation plan. Farm activists will go on a dharna at district headquarters across the state on Tuesday. We will continue to protest till our demand is not met.”The MP said, “All farmers’ unions have been invited for a discussion with the Union Minister.”In Rohtak, commission agents and representatives of the Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha and the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ambawata) decided to launch an agitation from Tuesday. They will stage a dharna outside the Mini-secretariat till Sunday.The decision was taken at a meeting held at the grain market on Monday. Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha vice-president Inderjit Singh said, “Why is the BJP shying away from a public debate? Mandis were set up during the Green Revolution to allow farmers through sell their produce at the MSP and via the PDS.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-ordinances-bku-delegation-to-meet-union-agriculture-minister-today-141350
15-09-2020||Karnal||Haryana Rice millers up in arms against new CMR policy||Unhappy with the new Custom Milled Rice (CMR) policy 2020-21, state’s rice millers are not showing interest in getting themselves registered for paddy procurement.They claimed that the new policy was not miller-friendly. They said the government had raised the FD guarantee to Rs 50 lakh for the first tonne of paddy from Rs 10 lakh earlier and Rs 10 lakh per tonne further from Rs 5 lakh. The millers demanded the government to go with the CMR policy applicable 2 years ago.PK Das, Additional Chief Secretary, said around 200 rice millers got themselves registered for the CMR policy and were hopeful that around 500 more would get themselves registered. He said they were looking into the demands of the rice millers and some relaxation could be given in the policy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-rice-millers-up-in-arms-against-new-cmr-policy-141351
15-09-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Sonepat village school reopens after 165 days||Tribune News ServicePanipat, September 14As many as 40 students of Class X of Government High School at Bazidpur Saboli village of Sonepat district today attended classes after 165 days amid Covid pandemic.The District Education Department reopened the school on a trial basis for two days with standard operating procedures. The classes have been organised in the verandah of the school by maintaining proper social distancing.Following normsThe name slips of students have been pasted on every bench as per the seating plan and they’ve been given masks… Their shoes are sanitised at the entry gate and a teacher has been appointed to check their temperature. — Chand Kishor, school headmaster“The students have been divided into two balloons. Green and blue colours have been invited to attend the school today with their parents’ consent,” said school headmaster Chand Kishor.The name slips of students have been pasted on every bench as per the scheduled sitting plan and they have been provided with masks according to their colours. “They have also been asked to bring their own food and water bottles as no sharing is allowed,” he said.He said the students did not even need to interact with each other and teachers would go to their seats to check their copies.“The timing for girls and boys has been scheduled in the gap of 15 minutes so that social distancing can be maintained properly at the entry gate,” he said.The shoes of the students were sanitised at the entry gate and a teacher had been appointed to check their temperature with thermal scanner before they entered the school in the morning. To begin with, classes for four subjects — maths, science, English and Hindi — have been started.“We have also maintained an isolation room in the school so that if any student feels any problem, he/she can be isolated. Besides, an automatic sanitiser machine has been kept so that students can sanitise their hands without touching anything,” Kishor added.Anshu, a Class 10 student, thanked the government for opening the school. “We have been facing a lot of problems in online classes but now we can directly attend the classes,” she said.Saboli sarpanch Satpal Singh said it was a matter of honour for the village as the state government chose the school in their village. “We along with the school staff have managed all the facilities in the school as per the Covid protocol,” he said.District Education Officer Jogender Singh also visited the school to take note of the situation. “The school has been opened for two days on a trial basis. All norms have been followed,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-village-school-reopens-after-165-days-141352
15-09-2020||---||Diabetes top underlying condition as Covid fatalities reach 1000 mark in Haryana||Chandigarh, September 14As fatalities due to Covid reach the 1,000 mark in Haryana today, it has been found that nearly 72 per cent of those who succumbed to the virus had one or the other underlying conditions.According to official figures of the Health Department, diabetes had emerged as an underlying medical condition and the single largest reason for fatalities in Covid patients as the disease had claimed 12 per cent of the total lives lost due to the virus.Five per cent of those who lost the battle to Covid suffered from hypertension while heart disease and respiratory diseases had a share of 4 per cent each in the total deaths.Kidney disease was responsible for 3 per cent of deaths, cancer for 2 per cent and anaemia, liver disease and neurological disorders were recorded as underlying medical conditions in case of 1 per cent of the victims.While 4 per cent had underlying medical conditions other than those mentioned above, in 3 per cent of the cases, the issue was still under investigation.The Health Department’s weekly report on Covid said 32 per cent of those who succumbed to Covid had multiple comorbidities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/diabetes-top-underlying-condition-as-covid-fatalities-reach-1000-mark-in-haryana-141353
15-09-2020||---||Post recovery, CM Khattar back in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 14Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar returned to Chandigarh today after recovery from Covid. He urged people to follow Covid guidelines like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing to stay safe.Asserting that people need not fear the virus, he said they had to remain vigilant so that they did not get infected. Khattar tested positive for Covid on August 24, two days before the start of the monsoon session of the Assembly. He was taken to a Gurugram hospital for treatment.This amavasya, ban on religious gatheringsTo prevent the Covid spread, the Kurukshetra administration has imposed a ban on the gathering of devotees at both the pilgrimage sites on amavasya.Devotees have been urged to take care of their own and other people’s health and refrain from gathering at Kurukshetra and Pehowa. TNSA multi-disciplinary team of doctors from AIIMS in New Delhi and the PGIMS in Rohtak, besides Dr Virender Yadav, Gurugram Civil Surgeon, and Medanta’s Dr Sushila Kataria, had reviewed his condition, line of treatment and progress, a state government statement had said earlier.Interacting with mediapersons in Gurugram today before leaving for Chandigarh, Khattar said he had recovered fully though doctors had advised monitoring of his health for the next 10 days.“I want to thank all those who wished and prayed for my speedy recovery as well as the doctors who were involved in my treatment,” he said.Khattar urged people to follow all guidelines issued by the government and other authorities in the wake of the pandemic.He advised people, especially those at high risk, to avoid going out. Answering a question, he said he had kept himself busy in official work while recovering from the virus.Asked about the source of his infection, Khattar said he could not say for sure from where he had contracted the infection. He said just before catching the virus, he had been attending many official meetings in Delhi.One such meeting Khattar had attended days before he tested positive was with Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who tested positive for Covid after the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/post-recovery-cm-khattar-back-in-chandigarh-141354
15-09-2020||---||Government to set up three critical care centres in Haryana||Chandigarh, September 14Home and Health Minister Anil Vij said three exclusive critical Covid care centres would be set up in the state to provide adequate treatment to patients testing positive.He said these centres would be set up at the PGIMS, Rohtak, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Karnal, and Maharaja Agrasen Medical College, Agroha. He said the arrangement of 100 beds would be made in these Covid care centres, where patients will be taken care of.Vij said only those patients suffering from Covid would be treated at these centers where adequate arrangement of medicines, medical equipment, doctors and other necessary facilities would be made available.The Health Minister said the Nodal Officer of the State for Covid, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary, would monitor these centres and also provide feedback and other related information to the government. He said, “We should not be relaxed until the medicine for the treatment of Covid is available. Everyone should follow the instructions issued by the government to prevent the spread of infection.”Vij said the precaution was necessary to prevent the spread of the virus. Using face masks, maintaining cleanliness and social distance would help in preventing its spread, he further added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/government-to-set-up-three-critical-care-centres-in-haryana-141355
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Toll reaches 1K mark in Haryana||With 2,488 fresh cases, the state’s Covid tally reached 96,129 today. With 25 deaths, the total deaths in the state touched the 1,000 mark today, with 839 having comorbidities.The maximum deaths were reported from Panchkula (6), followed by four each in Kaithal and Karnal. Two deaths each were reported from Faridabad, Gurugram, Nuh and Sirsa and one each from Kurukshetra, Hisar and Sonepat.Among fresh cases, the highest number of cases were reported from Gurugram (336), followed by Faridabad (279), Sonepat (205), Ambala (185), Karnal (179), Kurukshetra (164), Hisar (139), Rohtak (133) and Panipat (129). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/toll-reaches-1k-mark-in-haryana-141356
15-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Gurugram Judge’s explanation to be placed before HC Judge||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 14More than a month after an explanation was called from an Additional District and Sessions Judge in Gurugram in an anticipatory bail matter, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the issue was required to be dealt with on the administrative side.Anticipatory bail matterAn accused filed an anticipatory bail plea in a case of attempt to murder, assault and criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging his duty registered at Sohna police station in Gurugram on May 23His counsel contended that another accused, charged with same offences, was granted the benefit of interim protection by the Additional Sessions Judge on June 26Justice HS Madaan observed that the explanation received in response to the direction dated August 10 was required to be dealt with on the administrative side. Justice Madaan noted that as such, the order dated August 10, the petition’s copy and the explanation be placed before the Administrative Judge of Gurugram Sessions Division, Justice Rajiv Sharma, for “perusal and appropriate action which is found proper in the matter”.The order indicated that the matter was far from over even after the furnishing of the explanation. The Judge had granted anticipatory bail to a co-accused even after being told about his alleged doubtful antecedents. The Judge was also asked to explain the reasons for declining pre-arrest bail to another accused on a subsequent occasion.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after Shehjad filed a petition for anticipatory bail in a case of attempt to murder, assault and criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty and other offences registered at the Sohna police station in Gurugram on May 23. His counsel had contended that similarly situated accused Sahun was granted the benefit of interim protection by the Additional Sessions Judge on June 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-judges-explanation-to-be-placed-before-hc-judge-141357
15-09-2020||Faridabad||45% decline in deaths in Faridabad since June||There has been a 45 per cent decline in deaths due to Covid in Faridabad district in the past two months. Experts attribute this improvement to higher testing and contact tracing.“Though Faridabad continues to have the maximum cumulative positive cases and deaths so far in the state, the situation has turned better due to the decline in the fatality rate,” claims a senior official of the Health Department.Against 71 deaths in June, the fatalities decreased to 58 in July and further down to 39 in August, showing a decline of 18.30 per cent between June and July. The improvement in August was 32.75 per cent compared to July and 45.07 per cent compared to June.A marked difference has also been recorded in the number of samples collected for testing between June and August. While 11,098 samples were collected in June, the number rose to 51,639 in July, about 4.5 times higher. Similarly, as many as 61,125 samples were collected in August, 18 per cent higher than July, say officials.“We are relieved as a decline in deaths is a positive development,” says Civil Surgeon Dr Randeep Singh, who described improvement due to higher testing and contact tracing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/45-decline-in-deaths-in-faridabad-since-june-141359
15-09-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad stadium renovation set to miss deadline||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, September 14The renovation work of Nahar Singh International Cricket Stadium is taking place at a snail’s pace as less than 45 per cent work has been completed so far and the deadline of the Rs 115-crore project will end this month. It is the only international cricket stadium in the state.What’s newFormer senior cricket coach Rajkumar said the project aimed at not only increasing the seats for spectators from 25,000 to 40,000, but also providing a new lease of life through state-of-art infrastructureIt will have new pitches, fresh grass-laden ground, digital scoreboard, parking and world-class facilities for spectators and players“The pitch and the ground will have water-soaking capacity to avoid disturbance during rain,” he said“Started in January last year, the work was supposed to be completed within 20 months. But given the pace of the work, it is not likely to be over even in the next one year,” claims a source in the sports department here.“The work completed so far mainly includes the civil construction, while majority part of the project is connected with the facilities that are expected to take ample time,” says an official on the condition of anonymity.Claiming that the work was severely hit by the pandemic and the lockdown, he said only 18-20 per cent of the labourers had returned to work so far. Admitting slow pace of the work, Rajesh Kumar, a worker at site, said shortage of labour and equipment had affected the work.Rajkumar, former senior cricket coach, said the project aimed at not only increasing the seats for spectators from 25,000 to 40,000, but also providing a new lease of life through state-of-art infrastructure, including new pitches, fresh grass-laden ground, digital scoreboard, parking and world-class facilities for spectators and players. “The pitch and the ground will have water-soaking ability to avoid disturbance during rain,” he said.Built in 1981, it holds the credit for hosting eight ODIs and more than 50 matches of Ranji and Deodhar trophies. While the first ODI was played on January 19, 1988, the last one was held on March 31, 2006.With a cricket nursery operational here, the maintenance of the stadium is with the sports department. DC Yashpal Yadav said efforts were on to ensure completion of the project within the minimum possible time frame.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-stadium-renovation-set-to-miss-deadline-141372
15-09-2020||---||AAP won’t contest Baroda bypoll||New Delhi, September 14The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will not contest the upcoming byelection in Baroda. The decision follows a recent meeting of national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and other party leaders.The reason to drop the idea of contesting the bypoll was part of the strategy of not risking prestige of the party just for one constituency. The party, a fledgling outfit, was focusing on expanding its base.“Contesting one Assembly seat at the present juncture will not serve the larger goal. The election will not be contested on principles and ideologies,” said a senior party leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-wont-contest-baroda-bypoll-141373
15-09-2020||Parveen Arora||Amid rush, 3 KCGMC depts to function from Karnal Civil Hospital||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 14To free 150 bedsThe shifting of three departments will free up around 150 beds at the KCGMCWith this, 400 oxygen-equipped beds will be dedicated for Covid patients in the KCGMCBesides, the KCGMC has also around 75 operational ventilatorsWith the increasing Covid patients and the conversion of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) into a dedicated Covid hospital for Karnal, Kurukshetra and Panipat, the district authorities have decided to shift three major departments of the KCGMC — gynaecology, orthopaedics and surgery — to the Civil Hospital.These departments will be run under the supervision of HoDs of the respective departments of the KCGMC.“The patient load is increasing at the KCGMC, so we need more beds. We have decided that the patients from gynaecology, orthopaedic and surgery departments will be shifted to the Civil Hospital. Six specialists of gynaecology, eight of ortho and nine from the surgery department will be shifted along with their respective paramedical staff,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC.The respective medical and paramedical personnel of the Civil Hospital will work under the supervision of respective departments of the KCGMC. Covid patients belonging to these three departments would continue to be treated at the KCGMC, he added.Apart from assigning the duties to IMA doctors of calling 10-15 home-isolated Covid patients daily, the IAS and HCS officers have also been assigned the task of calling 10 patients per day. “All the IAS and HCS officers in the district, including me, will call 10 home-isolated patients per day to inquire about their well-being. The Civil Surgeon has also been asked to ensure two physical visits of health personnel for 10 days to the residence of home-isolated patients,” the DC said.He said the home-isolated patients would be given oximeters and thermometers. These will be taken back once their home-isolation period is over. “We have ordered 2,000 pulse oximeters for this purpose. Of those, 1,000 have been purchased,” he said.The district authorities have also kept a target to increase the sampling to 1,500 daily from around 1,000 at present being collected by the Health Department at KCGMC, Polyclinic, through mobile vans and at various CHCs and PHCs. “Now, we have decided to increase the sampling to 1,500 per day for which major private hospitals and clinics have been allowed to collect samples,” the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-rush-3-kcgmc-depts-to-function-from-karnal-civil-hospital-141374
15-09-2020||Ambala||One held in assault case||2 nabbed for negligenceThe police have arrested contractors Vishal and Vikas for causing injuries to a local resident. Ishwar Chand of Ambala Sadar had sustained injuries after an electricity pole fell on him. The police registered a case and released the accused on bail. TNSBiker killed in accidentOne person has been killed when a car hit his motorcycle near the Kakkar Majra T-point in Shahzadpur. The deceased was identified as Anshuman of Shahzadpur. The police registered a case.TNSOne arrested for rapeA woman has been raped and assaulted in Barara, near here. Acting on her complaint, the police booked and arrested Raj Kumar alias Raja. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-held-in-assault-case-141375
15-09-2020||Kurukshetra||Need to reduce scarcity of teachers||Workshop on researchKurukshetra: Prof Karamjeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor of Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab Open University, Patiala, said the research being done in the universities should solve the problems. Every research has two aspects — one the creative or the imaginative part which operates into the human mind. He said while chairing the fourth session of the workshop series on 'Research with R'. He further said it was the skill of the researcher that helped in problem identification, development of research objectives and hypothesis. Research methodology entails a scientific approach to meeting the research objectives. The second part of research is the use of computerised software for developing the big picture through the data collected by a researcher, he said.Inter-disciplinary webinarYamunanagar: Department of history, Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, organised one-day national inter-disciplinary webinar on “Revisiting Swami Vivekanand and his times: Significance in present scenario”. Principal of the College Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang welcomed the speakers and other participants. The keynote speaker of the webinar Prof (Dr) Kuldeep Chand Agnihotri, Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Himachal Pradesh, in his address elaborated the contribution of Swami Vivekanand, especially in the context of Indian Culture. Dr Rishi Goyal, Director, SCERT, Gurugram and Dr Anurag, convener of the webinar, spoke on this occasion.Faculty development programmeFaridabad: A week-long online faculty development programme on ‘Green technologies and environmental sustainability’ (GTES-2020) organised at JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, concluded. The programme was sponsored by TEQIP-III and attended by more than 200 participants from 18 States across the country. Dean of the Centre for Environment Science and Technology from Central University of Punjab, Bhatinda, Dr Vinod Kumar Garg, was the chief guest in the valedictory function which was presided over by Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/need-to-reduce-scarcity-of-teachers-141376
15-09-2020||The main dividing road between Sector 7 and 8 in Panchkula (near the entry gate number 5 of Sector 8) speaks volumes about the shoddy working of the city's electricity department. There are two tilted electricity poles||Tilted high-risk electricity poles in Panchkula||Broken manholes pose danger in NarwanaMost manholes in residential or business area will have their cover missing. In the Birbal Nagar locality of Narwana, the situation is so frightening that a tractor-trolley ran into a deep ditch while negotiating a broken manhole. Sewage water which emits foul smell keeps flowing out from such manholes. The officials concerned say they have ordered for the covers, but they are not sure when they will receive the supplies. Will the authorities wake up and take action? Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaKumar Gupt, PanchkulaCurb road mishaps on Indian roadsA news item says Covid may have saved 20,000 lives on Indian roads during the lockdown. Our country has the dubious distinction of having the world's highest number of road accidents resulting in large fatalities. But lane driving, as prevalent in most countries of the world, has never been the priority of the departments concerned. Why?Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tilted-high-risk-electricity-poles-in-panchkula-141377
15-09-2020||---||Faridabad to get 89 Sanskriti Schools||Faridabad, September 14As many as 89 more government schools in the district are to be developed as Model Sanskriti Schools.These include five schools of senior secondary and 84 schools of primary level. The district already has 10 government schools, including three senior secondary schools, which have been functioning as model schools.An official claimed that in the list of 112 new Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary Schools and 981 new Model Sanskriti Primary Schools released by state government, Faridabad has got a quota of five schools at the senior secondary level and 84 schools at the primary level.The Senior Secondary Schools here which are to be upgraded as Model Sanskriti Schools include Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Nangla; GSSS Prithla; GSSS Tigaon; GSSS Badkhal; and GSSS NIT.The GSS schools which are already functioning as model schools in the district are located at Sarai, Ballabgarh and Sector 55 here.The department has also released the list of 84 government primary schools in the district which are to be upgraded as Model Sanskriti Primary Schools. The total number of such schools will go up to 94 with 10 schools designated as model schools.Claiming that the move comes in the wake of the announcement by the Chief Minister, an official said the new schools would feature better infrastructure including well-trained staff, digital learning, Wi-Fi, e-library, biometric attendance, solar energy powered rooms, attendance and stress on learning through English medium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-to-get-89-sanskriti-schools-141378
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana gears up to fill top 2 posts in bureaucracy||With the appointment of Principal Secretary to the CM, Rajesh Khullar, as Executive Director of the World Bank and the superannuation of Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora on September 30, Haryana is gearing up to fill the top two posts in the state bureaucracy.Khullar was PSCM for nearly five years, having joined in November 2015. Arora had a tenure of one year and three months. He took over as Chief Secretary on July 1, 2019. Both posts will be filled from within the state administration, necessitating a major shakeup in the bureaucracy.Meanwhile, CM Manohar Lal Khattar, after recovering from Covid-19 in Gurugram, returned to Chandigarh after three weeks today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-gears-up-to-fill-top-2-posts-in-bureaucracy-141315
15-09-2020||Faridabad||1,200 illegal structures razed in Aravalli belt||The local Municipal Corporation today carried out a major demolition drive razing around 1,200 residential structures of an illegal colony that had come up on the civic body’s land in Lakkadpur Khori village of the Aravalli forest region here.Major eviction drive5,000 people were residing in the illegal colony1,500 police personnel were deployed for security85 were arrested in a pre-drive swoop on Sunday night30 acres of MC land was under illegal occupationThe eight-hour drive resulted in freeing about 30 acres that had been under illegal occupation for over 20 years.Prashant Atkan, Joint Commissioner of the MC’s NIT zone, said notices had been issued to the encroachers, but they failed to vacate the land. Atkan claimed the land belonged to the corporation and constructions weren’t allowed in the region as it was covered under the PLPA (Forest) Act, 1900.The action came in response to a Supreme Court judgment that allowed the MC to clear its land of encroachments, he said. The drive that began around 6 am led to panic among the 5,000-odd residents of the locality. The authorities had detained 85 persons in a pre-drive swoop last night to evade any trouble or protest. Around 1,500 police personnel were deployed even as more than a dozen JCB machines brought down the structures.Working People Charter, an NGO associated with human rights, meanwhile, has condemned the drive. “It’s unfortunate that the administration has rendered over 5,000 poor people homeless amid Covid. Over 150 protesters, including women, have been rounded up. The state government has breached its own policy of rehabilitation…. Most of the houses had water and power connections,” NGO member Nirmal Gorana said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-200-illegal-structures-razed-in-aravalli-belt-141318
