15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Ind, JJP legislators in touch with Congress, claims Selja||With farmers’ protests picking up steam by the day, politics is beginning to heat up in the state. State Congress chief Kumari Selja today claimed several Independent MLAs supporting the state government and those of the JJP, BJP’s alliance partner, were in touch with the party.Party to gherao Raj Bhawan today“Farmers of this agricultural state are protesting on the Delhi borders for the repeal of the three new farm laws. Several MLAs are keeping tabs on the situation and are in talks with us. Many Independent MLAs supporting the government and those of the BJP’s alliance partner are in touch with us,” Selja told The Tribune.When asked whether or not the Congress was making efforts to topple the state government, Selja said: “Whenever a situation demands, a vacuum is always filled by some political party.”Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, however, rubbished Selja’s claims and said everyone knew who was in touch with whom.“There is no threat to my government. Those who claim otherwise, better keep a watch on their own MLAs,” Khattar said today.The BJP has 40 MLAs in the 90-member Assembly, while its alliance partner JJP has 10 legislators. The Congress’s strength in the House is 31. The House has seven Independents.Of the 10 JJP legislators, eight had attended a meeting called by Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala hours before his meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday.At least three JJP MLAs and two Independents — Somvir Sangwan from Charkhi Dadri and Balraj Kundu from Meham — have come out in support of farmers. Of the other five Independents, four had a meeting with Khattar earlier this week. The fifth MLA, Nayan Pal Rawat, could not make it because he was out of the city.
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Congress march to Haryana Raj Bhawan in support of farmers stopped in Chandigarh; Selja, Hooda taken into custody||Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja, Leader of Opposition BS Hooda and other party leaders were taken into preventive custody by Chandigarh Police after they tried to march towards the Haryana Raj Bhawan here in protest against the new farm laws on Friday. Chandigarh Police stopped Congress protestors just outside their office in Sector 9.The police took Congress leaders, including Hooda and Selja, under preventive detention. They were first taken to the Sector 3 police station.From there, the Congress leaders tried to move towards Haryana Raj Bhawan. They were again taken in preventive custody and moved to sector 17 police station.The congress had organised the ‘Kisan Adhikar Diwas’, in support of the farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws, in Chandigarh's Sector-9 on Friday.
15-01-2021||---||Lawyer's wife 'shot dead' in broad daylight in Haryana’s Tohana||Hisar, January 15A woman was allegedly shot dead at her house in Tohana town of Fatehabad district on Friday.Kusum, wife of lawyer Chaman Lal, was shot at her house on Railway Road. She was doing daily chores when a youth entered the house and allegedly shot her in the head.Rajo Devi, the domestic help, who was present in the house, said she spotted a youth enter the house who opened fire at the woman before fleeing.Police have rushed to the spot and started investigation.
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold conditions persist in Punjab, Haryana||There was no let-up in cold weather conditions in Punjab and Haryana on Friday with Bathinda being the coldest place at 3.8 degrees Celsius, an official of the Meteorological Department here said.A thick blanket of fog enveloped several places in the two states in the morning, reducing visibility and causing inconvenience to commuters.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a low of 4.8 degrees Celsius, Ludhiana 6.8 degrees Celsius and Patiala 6.4 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperatures in Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara and Gurdaspur were 7.8 degrees Celsius, 6.2 degrees Celsius, 5.7 degrees Celsius and 11.8 degrees Celsius respectively.In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced cold weather conditions at 4.8 degrees Celsius, 5.5 degrees Celsius and 6.4 degrees Celsius respectively.The mercury settled at 6.3 degrees Celsius, 7.8 degrees Celsius, 7.6 degrees Celsius and 6.7 degrees Celsius in Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa respectively.Chandigarh, the joint capital of the two states, recorded a low of 7.2 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal. —PTI
15-01-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Women help desks at Gurugram police stations||Gurugram, January 14Aiming to deal with the reluctance of women complainants in approaching male cops, the Ministry of Home Affairs has ordered setting up of 200 women help desks in state police stations under the Nirbhaya project. In Gurugram, such desks have been set up in 24 police stations in the first phase and these will be made functional tomorrow.The police commissioners of Faridabad and Panchkula have been asked to follow suit and Rs 2 crore has been allotted for the project.Commissioner of Police (CP) KK Rao said Gurugram police stations already had women help desks comprising a woman cop at a separate table each, but now a dedicated team with a separate room was being deployed.Astha Modi, DCP, Headquarters, said the move would make police stations more women-friendly. It would increase the confidence of women visiting police stations, she added.
15-01-2021||Sonepat||Haryanvi ‘ragnis’ keep farmers’ morale high at Singhu||With no end to the deadlock between the Centre and farmer unions in sight, emotions are running high among the protesters camping at the Delhi borders in the bone-chilling cold. In this trying time, a makeshift performance pavilion has come up in a small space at the Singhu border where a group of Haryanvi artistes can be seen singing ‘ragnis’ (folk songs) to keep the spirit of protesters high.A seven-km stretch on the highway has become a “bhaichara” spot for thousands of protesters from Punjab and Haryana. Sitting around bonfire, they can be seen discussing the future course of action. Although the number of farmers from Punjab is high at Singhu, their Haryanvi counterparts are also coming forward to extend support.Ballads of protestThe sound of ‘gharcha’, a musical instrument made by adding rubber cover on the pitcher, and harmonium, can be heard in tractors and trolleys. A corner of the protest site reverberates every day with ‘ragnis’, which tell the tales of resistance.The sound of ‘gharcha’, a musical instrument made by adding rubber cover on the pitcher, and harmonium, can be heard in tractors and trolleys. A corner of the protest site reverberates every day with ‘ragnis’, which tell the tales of resistance. Some elderly could be seen enjoying the Haryanvi traditional music and ‘ragnis’ with hooka puffs.Jagjeet Singh of Patiala said, “We are thankful to our brethren from Haryana who have extended support to us. We will not go back home till the repeal of the farm laws.”
15-01-2021||Rohtak||Hooda: Haryana govt looking for troubleshooter||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today stated that the BJP-JJP government in the state had lost people’s trust and was looking for a troubleshooter.“The goings-on in the BJP-JJP alliance indicate that the regime has lost people’s trust and is looking for a troubleshooter to save the coalition government,” Hooda told mediapersons.He was replying to a query on the recent meetings of the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister with the Prime Minister and Union Home Minister.He stated that the Haryana Government had been taking decisions against aspirations of the people, due to which various sections of society were protesting.“The BJP-JJP leadership is concerned only about saving the coalition government, but regimes that go against people’s sentiments fall by themselves,” he remarked.
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Will submit resignation on January 27: Abhay Chautala||Senior INLD leader and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Chautala on Thursday reiterated his offer to resign from the state Assembly on January 27 to express solidarity with the protesting farmers at the Delhi border. Chautala told the media that he would again send his resignation to Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta tomorrow asserting that his resignation should be accepted if the farm laws were not repealed by January 26.“I will personally hand over the resignation letter to the Speaker on January 27,” he added.Abhay dared former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and other Congress MLAs to follow suit and offer “conditional” resignation.On the Speaker’s statement that he could not accept “conditional” resignation, he said such resignations had been accepted in the past too. “My grandfather Devi Lal along with BJP leader Mangal Sein had resigned in a similar manner in the wake of the Rajiv-Longowal Accord,” he claimed. — TNS
15-01-2021||Hisar||Startup launches UT-Hisar air taxi||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today inaugurated an air taxi service between Chandigarh and Hisar from the Chandigarh International Airport under the Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik (UDAN) scheme of the Centre.Khattar handed over the boarding pass to the first passenger to board the flight, launched by the startup Air Taxi. He also visited the airstrip, where he was apprised of the aircraft.The flight took off at 2.20 pm and reached here 45 minutes later. The aircraft has four seats, including that of the pilot.Varun Suhag, founder director of the startup, said: “The fare is economical. It costs Rs 1,755 for the one-way journey. The tickets can be booked at www.flyairtaxi.in. There will be a daily flight between Hisar and Chandigarh at its scheduled time even if there is one passenger.”The company has also provided the facility of private booking, which means that anyone wanting to book the flight other than the scheduled time can. For that, the ticket will be costly.Suhag, a native of Bisan village in Jhajjar district, was a co-pilot in the erstwhile Air Deccan and Kingfisher airlines from 2007 to 2010. He quit the cockpit to pursue a career in the aviation business. He is a nephew of former Army Chief General Dalbir Singh Suhag.On the company’s future plans, he said: “Air Taxi will start the Hisar-Dehradun flight on January 18 and the Hisar-Dharamsala service on January 23.”On September 3, 2019, the CM had inaugurated the shuttle air service from Chandigarh to Hisar. The flight had to be suspended within a month because it was financially unviable.
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Imposed Rs 300 crore penalty for polluting Yamuna: Haryana to NGT||Haryana has claimed before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that it has been imposing environmental compensation (EC) on all violating units for polluting the Yamuna and penalty of Rs 300 crore has been imposed till November last, though only Rs 4.67 crore has been collected.In its reply dated January 6 on findings of the Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC), the state submitted that the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) “is in the process of imposing environmental compensation for untreated effluents in drains and sewage treatment plants (STPs) and the Chief Secretary has taken up the matter with individual administrative secretaries for taking action against erring officers”.The YMC had, in its fifth report last month, pointed out that Haryana did not comply with directions of the NGT dated September 11, 2019, regarding compensation for not being able to fix deficiencies in STPs, delay in construction of new STPs and not starting work with regard to sewerage and its connectivity. “It will be open to Haryana to recover the said amount from erring officers and contractors,” the NGT had said.The YMC had, in its report, indicated that 16 of the 24 STPs inspected in the Yamuna catchment towns were found to be having operational deficiencies and were not complying with standards. It was concluded that the status given by line departments were incorrect and officers of the HSPCB had not performed their duties. Haryana had now told the NGT that 10 STPs had improved position and six were still not complying.Regarding the observation that none of four common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) and three STPs in Sonepat, it admitted that the trunk sewer line had settled down, due to which the entire sewage was not reaching the two STPs and thus, were not functional to capacity. It was stated that work of replacement of trunk sewer line would be completed by June 30 and the HSIIDC is in the process of upgrading the four CETPs.On discharge at Sonepat, which was affecting the drinking water treatment plant at Wazirpur in Delhi due to higher higher BOD and ammonical nitrogen concentration, Haryana pointed to floating tenders for conduit to carry effluents separately. On the non-functional STP in Faridabad, it submitted that it was under construction.The YMC had pointed out that construction of seven new CETPs had not started in Faridabad, Gurugram and Yamunanagar, which would discharge 131.25 MLD of industrial effluents in the Yamuna. Haryana replied that three CETPs in Faridabad would be constructed by 2023 and two CETPs were being commissioned in Gurugram. Regarding industrial effluents from Yamunanagar and Jagadhri, Haryana said it was considering shifting industrial units.
15-01-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram gets 1st batch of Covaxin||Pataudi SDM Pradeep Kumar and Dr Virender Yadav, Civil Surgeon, Gurugram, received the vaccine. Dr Yadav said the district had received 85,400 vials for the five districts. — OC
15-01-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||3 luxury car thieves held in Gurugram||The Gurugram police have busted a hi-tech gang of luxury car thieves and nabbed three of its members.Two of them have stolen over a 100 cars in the past two years and sold them in the grey market in Nagaland. The receiver of stolen cars and the mastermind behind the gang has been caught from Nagaland.An unlock device tab, two fake number plates, three sockets, one plate instrument and one master key has been seized from them. The police said that the unlock device tab, which was used to unlock cars, is priced at Rs 2 lakh in the market. Two Fortuners were also recovered from Nagaland by the police.The accused confessed about recent nine cases and revealed they used to steal Innova and Fortuner cars from Delhi-NCR on demand. They sold these high-end cars for Rs 5 lakh to the Nagaland accused. In the past two years, they have stolen and sold over 100 cars.The accused have been identified as Ankit, a resident of Pyau Majra village in Hisar district; Jalal,a native of Ghaziabad in UP; and the receiver in Nagaland has been identified as Kikheto of Dimapur in Nagaland. The trio was produced in a city court and the police have takentwo on eight-day police remand. The accused from Nagaland has been sent to judicial custody.“After unlocking any luxury car with the help of device tab, they stole the car and hid it for a few days. In Nagaland, Kikheto used to prepare fake papers and number plates for the stolen car and send those to them. After that, they used to drive the car to Nagaland by road. Kikheto used to give them Rs 5 lakh for a car and then sold it for Rs 10-20 lakh,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP Crime.Kikheto revealed during interrogation that he had sold over 50 cars in Gurugram and nearby areas which were stolen from Gurugram, Delhi, Faridabad, Rajasthan and Haryana.
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Rights panel takes note of nose pin removal before recruitment exam||The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) has taken suo motu notice of an incident at an examination centre in Rohtak, where a woman was forced to remove her nose pin during an entrance examination on January 9 for recruiting panchayat secretaries.“Taking out the nose pin from the nose, which is an ornament and customary right of an Indian woman, is a violation of the human right of a woman,” the HHRC observed. The woman had broken down after the incident and her photograph had appeared in a vernacular daily.“It is clear that the staff at the examination centre had conducted an act which hurt the woman ,” said the HHRC in its order. The HHRC directed the Secretary, HSSC, to file an explanation report within six weeks. The next hearing would be on April 26. — TNS
15-01-2021||Hisar||Hisar girl abducted, sexually assaulted in autorickshaw||A college-going girl was abducted and sexually assaulted by two youths in a running autorickshaw on the Delhi bypass in Hisar town on Wednesday. The police arrested the two accused and produced them in court which sent them to judicial custody.A police official informed that two policemen became suspicious when they spotted the autorickshaw yesterday afternoon. They approached the autorickshaw and found a woman and two youths. One of them was driving the auto. They called the DSP and caught hold of the two youths.During initial interrogation, the police came to know that the youths had abducted the girl and one of them was trying to sexually assault her.She complained to the police that they had threatened to kill her after abducting her from near the college.The police spokesperson said that the two youths identified as Vinod, a resident of Shiv Nagar located at Mill Gate in Hisar, and his cousin Naveen, a resident of Bhani Amirpur village in Hisar, were booked under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354(a)(1) (physical contact), 367 (abducting in order to subject person to grievous hurt, slavery etc.), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.
15-01-2021||Rohtak||Fund crunch, lack of sub-panels hit MC work||Most development works supposed to be carried out by the municipal corporation (MC) have failed to take off two years after the present regime took charge.It was initially stated that the MC would come in action mode after the election of Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor. However, no noticeable progress was seen.Sources maintained that a financial crunch was the primary reason for non-execution of development works even as in-house sub-committees were yet to be constituted.“A meeting of the House will be convened soon to constitute the sub-committees. The main reason behind non-execution of works is paucity of funds,” said Mayor Manmohan Goyal, conceding that hundreds of proposals had not been executed. — TNS
15-01-2021||Yamunanagar||Illegal structures demolished in Yamunanagar||A demolition drive was carried out by a District Town Planner (DTP) team in an unauthorised colony in Mandebar village in Yamunanagar district on Wednesday.The team demolished six damp proof courses and two shops in the colony, spread over about two acres. Notice boards had been put up in all unauthorised colonies for the public, said DTP Amit Madholia.“We request the public not to invest in such unauthorised colonies and to contact the office of DTP for enquiry before buying land,” he said.
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Governor to unfurl Tricolour in Panchkula||Haryana Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya will unfurl the national flag on Republic Day (January 26), in Panchkula. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will unfurl the national flag at Panipat.The Deputy Chief Minister, Dushyant Chautala, will unfurl the national flag on the Republic Day Function at Ambala. The “At Home” will be organised at the Haryana Raj Bhawan, Chandigarh, the same evening.The Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker, Gian Chand Gupta, will unfurl the national flag on Republic Day at Kurukshetra and the Deputy Speaker, Ranbir Gangwa, will unfurl the national flag at Mahendragarh (Narnaul), the Education Minister, Kanwar Pal, will unfurl the national flag at Gurugram, the Transport Minister, Mool Chand Sharma, will unfurl the national flag at Rewari, the Power Minister, Ranjit Singh, will unfurl the national flag at Yamunanagar, the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister, JP Dalal will unfurl the national flag at Rohtak, the Cooperation Minister, Banwari Lal, will unfurl the national flag at Karnal.Similarly, the Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment, Om Prakash Yadav, will unfurl the national flag at Jhajjar, the Minister of State for Woman & Child Development, Kamlesh Dhanda, will unfurl the national flag at Fatehabad, the Minister of State for Archaeology & Museums, Anoop Dhanak, will unfurl the national flag at Palwal and the Minister of State for Sports & Youth Affairs, Sandeep Singh, will unfurl the national flag at Faridabad.
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||6 die of Covid, 187 new cases in Haryana||As many as 187 fresh cases of Covid were reported on Thursday, taking the tally of the infected persons to 2,65,803.The death toll reached 2,972 with six more fatalities. Gurugram and Faridabad reported a maximum of 34 cases each, followed by Karnal (19) and Panchkula (17).Faridabad, Karnal, Panipat, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Jhajjar reported one death each.
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||DCs can correct title deed errors in ‘lal dora’||With disputes hampering the government’s Swamitva scheme to provide ownership rights to villagers of their property situated in lal dora (inhabited area) of villages, powers have been given to Deputy Commissioners (DCs) to correct errors in title certificates wherever needed.Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management, said during a meeting to review the progress of the scheme, it was noticed that in title certificates issued by panchayats in favour of occupants, some major errors and discrepancies were being pointed out by rival parties.“We have decided that the work on issuing title certificates should not be stopped. If there is some error and needs correction, the same can be done by registering a tatima (supplementary title certificate) at a later stage as provided in para 159 of the Haryana Registration Manual,” he said.He said it was clearly provided in the proforma of the title certificate that all disputes and differences arising out of any way touching or concerning the deed would be referred to the DC.
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||CBI court summons 2 witnesses in cash-at-judge’s-door case||Special CBI Judge Sushil Kumar Garg has issued notice to all accused in the cash-for-judge scam case. Hearing could not be held for approximately a year due to the lockdown.The court, while referring to the order of the District and Sessions Judge dated January 11 for starting physical hearing fixed the next hearing for March 4 and 5.The court ordered that prosecution witnesses SC Dandriyal and Vipin Kumar be summoned. The court ordered that notice be issued to all accused except Justice Nirmal Yadav for the next hearing.
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Enrolment in polytechnics  increases||Sustained efforts of the government to boost technical education in the state have yielded results.Unlike past years, an increase of 16 per cent in enrolment at government polytechnics has been recorded during this session.An official spokesperson said government technical institutions in the state, including 37 government polytechnics and 4 government-aided polytechnics, had managed around 90 per cent admissions for the 2020-21 session.In order to encourage these efforts and maintain this tempo, the department had decided to reward 17 principals of government technical institutes and 14 officials of the Haryana State Technical Education Society with letters of appreciation. There was 16 per cent increase in enrolment in government polytechnics and 8 per cent increase in government-aided polytechnics for the current session compared to last year.
15-01-2021||The condition of roads in Sector 4||Rohtak roads in poor condition||Jind’s main road in bad shapeFor more than 25 years, the main road from Congress Bhawan to Arjun Stadium in Gandhi Nagar, the posh residential locality of Jind, has never been in good condition. Despite politicians experimenting on these roads by carpeting it or using interlocking tiles, the poor quality material used has left the road potholed and in poor condition. A permanent solution needs to be found rather than a temporary one. — Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaThis deadlock will not endThe three Judges Bench headed by the CJI of the apex court stayed the implementation of the three controversial farm laws against which farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders since November 2020. Though in its 11-page order, the judges expressed that the order of stay would be perceived as an achievement of the purpose of such protest and the farmers would go back home to protect their own lives and health as well as protect the lives and properties of others. However, the farmer leaders clearly refused to appear before the committee and again reiterated that they would not go back home till the three farm laws were repealed. Thus, I do not think that the deadlock will end as apprehended by the apex court. — Gopal Mittal, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
15-01-2021||Kurukshetra||Plantation campaign launched||Workshop concludesRohtak: Vice-Chancellor of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) Prof Rajbir Singh said socially relevant research was the need of the hour. Researchers, especially doing research in social sciences, must work towards solving socio- economic problems of their region and nation. He was speaking as the chief guest in the valedictory session in the workshop on “scientific research and authentic implications in social sciences”. He said research scholars must conduct ‘action- research’ with inter-disciplinary approach. He said that university administration was working towards developing excellent research eco- system in the university.National Youth Day celebratedYamunanagar: The National Youth Day was celebrated by the NCC and the National Service Scheme (NSS) of Guru Nanak Khalsa College here on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda. On this occasion the principal of the college, Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang, said even today Swami Vivekananda's ideas inspired all, especially the youth.
15-01-2021||Gurugram||Remand of cop extended||Inspector Vishal Kumar has been sent to three-day further remand. He is being investigated for his involvement in a bribery case involving Rs 5 lakh.Kumar was allegedly not cooperating in investigation and the Vigilance Bureau was unable to get much information from him. — OC
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Retired Chief Secy rehired||The government has appointed former Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora as chairperson of the Haryana Water Resources (Conservation, Regulation and Management) Authority.The service tenure will be for three years or till attaining the age of 65 years, whichever is earlier, from the date she joins her new assignment. — TNS
15-01-2021||Gurugram||2 Faridabad doctors caught giving bribe||The Vigilance Bureau today nabbed two Faridabad doctors on the charge of trying to bribe a complainant to hush up his mother’s death due to negligence.According to Naveen, his mother had fallen ill a few months ago and was admitted to Prachi Hospital. She died during treatment and he approached the Civil Surgeon, alleging negligence on the part of Dr Suresh. An enquiry was marked to Dr Navdeep.“They started pressurising me to accept money and take back the complaint. I decided to move Vigilance,” said Naveen. They called him to BK Civil Hospital and when they were handing over the cash, they were caught by Vigilance officials and booked. — OC
