15-05-2020||Karnal||COVID-19 lockdown forces postponing of over 500 wedding ceremonies in Karnal||Banquets, marriage palaces are in crisis as the lockdown owing to COVID-19 pandemic has hit the industry hard and forced people to postpone their weeding celebrations.As per information, more than 500 marriages have been postponed by people in the district.The owners of these establishments fear that the industry may take a year in its revival as people will hesitate to hold mass gathering in marriages in coming months also.However, they have hopes from November and December months, which have high number of dates for marriages.“March, April and May months had high bookings for marriages at almost all the banquet halls, lawns, and hotels as there is no date for marriages till November, but the lockdown has forced people to postpone their functions,” said Sahil Sukhija, vice president Lawn and Banquet Association, Karnal.He said he had bookings of 23 marriages from March 24 to May end, but these have been cancelled.An owner of another banquet hall said they have fixed expenditures like electricity charges, security cost, staff salary, property management.“Other industries have started functioning, but our industry will take time to be back on track,” he added.Caterer Sahil Jasuja said the entire supply chain has been impacted due to lockdown. People will not organise mass gathering to maintain social distancing.“If the situation gets normal in couple of months, the people will avoid mass gathering functions for a long time,” he added.Sunil Bindal, who runs a banquet hall in the city, too had to cancel 15 bookings of marriages.He said it was a very tough time for the industry. “We have some hopes from November and December as these months have high number of dates for marriages,” he added.Nikhil Kumar, 27, a resident of Indri, had made all arrangements for his weeding on April 13. Cards were also printed and some were distributed to friends, sweets were also made and a grand celebration was planned, but due to nationwide lockdown, he has postponed his marriage.“Amid this lockdown, wedding was not possible for me without my near and dear ones, so my family has decided to postpone the marriage till the end of this year,” he added.A 30-year-old local resident said that they had no option but to postpone the wedding, scheduled on April 10, due to lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-lockdown-forces-postponing-of-over-500-wedding-ceremonies-in-karnal-85255
15-05-2020||New Delhi||NHRC notice to Haryana govt, police over reports of a Manipuri being ‘racially abused, beaten up’||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has sent notices to the Haryana government and the Gurugram Police Commissioner over reports that a young Manipuri woman was allegedly racially abused and beaten up by some locals in the city.She was first abused by an elderly woman in a racial tone and as the altercation started, she was branded “corona” by the crowd, the rights panel said quoting reports.“The National Human Rights Commission has taken suo-motu cognisance of media reports that a 20-year-old girl hailing from Manipur was subjected to racial discrimination and brutally attacked by some locals from Faizapur, Gurugram (Haryana), just for passing through the locality on Sunday afternoon,” the NHRC said in a statement.The Commission further observed that it is “disgusting” that a woman from the north-eastern part of her own country has been subjected to “racial discrimination and physical assault by a local family in the NCR,” it said.Accordingly, a notice has been issued to the Chief Secretary, Government of Haryana, and the Commissioner of Police, Gurugram, seeking a detailed report, within four weeks along with the status of the investigation being conducted by the police after registration of an FIR and relief or counselling provided by the authorities to the victim, the statement said.The Commission would also like to know about the present health condition of the victim and the status of the medical treatment being provided to her by the district authorities, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nhrc-notice-to-haryana-govt-police-over-reports-of-a-manipuri-being-racially-abused-beaten-up-85249
15-05-2020||New Delhi||Increasing e-Nam footprint: With 38 new ‘mandis’ on board, Centre achieves target of 1,000 on online trading portal||With 38 additional ‘mandis’ integrated with the e-NAM platform, the Centre on Friday achieved the milestone of integrating 1,000 ‘mandis’ across 18 states and three union territories on the online trading portal, it said.The 38 new mandis include Madhya Pradesh (19), Telangana (10), Maharashtra (4) and one each in Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab, Kerala and Jammu and Kashmir. With these the total number of ‘mandis’ on the online portal, enabling farmers to sell without visiting regulated ‘mandis’, across the country is now 1,000.With today’s addition, 37 ‘mandis’ in Punjab and 81 in Haryana are with e-NAM, a single window service for all APMC related information and services, including commodity arrivals, quality and prices, provision to respond to trade offers and electronic payment settlement directly into farmers’ accounts.However, the reach so far has been limited to mostly non-perishable produce. Interstate transactions also remain an issue.  Sandip Das from ICRI (Indian Council for Research in International Economic Relations) says when interstate trade is facilitated across all ‘mandis’ through e-NAM platform, farmers will get benefit of the price discovery mechanism.“Traders and buyers would have to be provided with single license to conduct trade across ‘mandis’ in a state. With so many ‘mandis’ coming on board, the government should ensure seamless trading of agricultural commodities across states,” he adds.Aiming to create a unified national market for agricultural commodities to promote uniformity in marketing by streamlining procedures, removing information asymmetry between buyers and sellers and promoting real time price discovery based on actual demand and supply, e-NAM remains the key focus of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to strengthen the sector amid the COVID-19 crisis, say officials.Launched on April 14, 2016, in the COVID-19 scenario the platform is being used to transform trading of all farm-related commodities, including seeds, fertilisers and agro-chemical plant protection inputs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/increasing-e-nam-footprint-with-38-new-mandis-on-board-centre-achieves-target-of-1-000-on-online-trading-portal-85240
15-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Ayush doctors may look after Covid patients with mild or no symptoms||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 15Ayush doctors serving at the state health facilities may be deployed to look after the asymptomatic Covid patients or those having mild symptoms and admitted to the PGIMS here.The State Institute of Mental Health (SIMH) located on the PGIMS premises may also be earmarked for the Covid cases, Dr Dhruva Chaudhry, Nodal Officer for Covid-19 in Haryana, has suggested to the authorities of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak.In a communique addressed to the Vice-Chancellor, University of Health Sciences, Dr Chaudhry said it was the time to recalibrate organisational structure and management strategies in view of the recent guidelines from the Central and state governments.“Asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic patients can be looked after by the nursing staff with active support of Ayush doctors or resident doctors from other departments under the guidance of the Department of Medicine,” the letter states, adding that the patients having moderate illness and requiring closer observation, monitoring or oxygen therapy should be managed at the Trauma Centre.The nodal officer has also suggested that the Trauma Centre, which had been turned into a Covid hospital, should have provisions for radiological services, dialysis, ICU and other ancillary support services with adequate provision of oxygen supply.“In case need arises for more beds, then we have to seriously consider SIMH for the same instead of the Trauma Centre,” mentioned Dr Chaudhary.  Meanwhile, Dr Varun Arora, in charge of the Covid Control Room at the PGIMS, said 39 of the 125 Covid-positive cases had been discharged after treatment, while 82 were currently under treatment, one person had been transferred and two had died of the virus.“Apart from these, 179 suspected Covid patients are also admitted at the institute,” Dr Arora informed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ayush-doctors-may-look-after-covid-patients-with-mild-or-no-symptoms-85238
15-05-2020||Sanjay Yadav||NGT stays construction of CISF camp at Mandawar village||Gurugram, May 15In what comes as a relief for environmentalists, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has restrained the construction of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) camp at Mandawar village, near Sohna, till further orders.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests of Haryana to submit a compliance report in the matter before September 25.The plea was filed by Manesar resident Ram Avatar Yadav who alleged that non-forest activities were being carried out by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on 260 acres of forest land comprising Aravali plantation and uncultivable land in Mandawar village, in Gurugram, without any forest clearance.“The area is a wildlife corridor and felling of trees is illegal and adversely impact the air quality. We are already under the threat from land mafia now and if national agencies, too, start doing this, the forest will die. This cannot happen.” said Yadav.The restrain comes in wake of a report of Haryana Principal Chief Conservator of Forests submitted a report claiming the CISF started site clearance and pruning of trees in October 2019 without taking prior permission from the Divisional Forest Officer.As per the report under the Aravalli Project plantation area, no proposal under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, has been submitted by the CISF.“The area purchased by the CISF in the revenue estate of Mandawar village, Gurugram, is 260.74 acres, of which 136.65 acres of area is under the Aravalli Project Plantation, which is a forest area as per the order of the Supreme Court and the Forest (Conservation) Act 1980 would apply for its use for non-forestry purposes. Another 30.35 acres of land is in the ‘Gair Mumkin (uncultivable) Pahar’ category, which is covered under the Aravalli notification dated May 7, 1992, for which permission from the competent authority is required for its use for construction activities,” the report said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ngt-stays-construction-of-cisf-camp-at-mandawar-village-85231
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Gurugram Police offer cake to five visually impaired kids; watch heartwarming video||In a heart-warming video, Gurugram Police on Friday offered a cake to five visually impaired children of migrant labourers at the Gurugram railway station.They organised a cake-cutting ceremony on the platform."What a heart-touching moment," Superintendent of Police (Security and Cyber Crime) Pankaj Nain informed in a tweet.Tagging a video of the ceremony, he wrote: "These are five specially abled kids. When noticed that they are boarding Shramik special train to Darbhanga Inspector Manoj of Gurugram Police immediately organised cake cutting to celebrate their home going."What a heart touching moment !! These are 5 specially abled kids ( blind) . When noticed that they are boarding Shramik special train to Darbhanga - #InspManoj of @gurgaonpolice immediately organised cake cutting to celebrate their home going .They were overwhelmed@mlkhattar pic.twitter.com/YHidCYISzT  "They were overwhelmed. And Darbhanga train left in a jubilant mood," he added. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-police-offer-cake-to-five-visually-impaired-kids-watch-heartwarming-video-85205
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Buses start plying on select routes in Haryana||Haryana Roadways on Friday resumed bus services on select routes within the state, the first time since the lockdown was announced in March.The buses, which are not allowed to carry more than 30 passengers to maintain social distancing, are plying since morning on select routes, officials said.Initially, the buses will ply on 29 routes from 10 depots of Ambala, Bhiwani, Hisar, Kaithal, Karnal, Narnaul, Panchkula, Rewari, Rohtak and Sirsa and run on select point-to-point routes.There are 23 depots of the Roadways, which has a fleet of over 4,000 buses.Online booking and wearing masks have been made a must for passengers boarding the Haryana Roadways buses.Before the nationwide lockdown on March 24 midnight, the Haryana government had put the entire state in lockdown on March 23.From the Panchkula depot, the first bus left for Sirsa in the morning.A youth, who was travelling to Sirsa, said, “Resumption of bus service is a good step taken by the government.”    “It is also a good thing that buses have not been allowed to run at full capacity and social distancing has been ensured,” said the passenger.Thermal screening of passengers was done at bus terminals, their hands sanitised and it was ensured by the officials of the Haryana Roadways that passengers were wearing masks before boarding buses.Bus terminals have been sanitised and only regular, non-air-conditioned buses were plying.To ensure that social distancing norms are strictly followed, only 30 passengers will be allowed to board the 52-seater buses.However, on the first day of resumption of services only 12-15 passengers were seen in some buses, officials said.A government spokesman had said on Thursday that the buses would not operate in areas severely affected by COVID-19.“The buses will ply from the Haryana State Transport bus stands to the scheduled bus stands. No passenger will be allowed to board or disembark the bus on the way,” he had said.Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar had announced on Wednesday that public transport would resume operation in the state on an "experimental basis" from Friday, with a limited number of buses plying on select routes. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/buses-start-plying-on-select-routes-in-haryana-85185
15-05-2020||Faridabad||Coronavirus: Haryana reports two deaths, 25 new cases; state toll rises to 13||Haryana on Friday reported two coronavirus deaths, and 25 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the state’s death toll to 13 and case tally to 843.Some 453 people have been cured and discharged from hospitals across the state so far. Haryana has conducted 70,759 COVID tests, of which 65,201 people tested negative, 841, including 14 Italian nationals, tested positive, while 4,717 results are awaited.Haryana has a COVID positive rate of 1.27 per cent, while the recovery rate is 53.86 per cent.The fatality rate in the state is 1.43 per cent, 2,791 tests have been conducted per million and the doubling rate of COVID cases in Haryana as of Friday is 12 days.Out of the total, Panchkula reported two more cases of the contagion, taking the total in the district to 25. A 63-year-old woman from sector 10 and a 56-year-old man from Sector 21 in Panchkula tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday.Also read: 63-year-old woman from Panchkula's Sector 10 is district’s 24th coronavirus positive caseSonepat reported the first coronavirus death in the district, after a woman from Thuru village, who had tested positive for the contagion on Thursday, passed away on Friday. Faridabad reported the death of a 17-year-old girl, taking the district’s death toll to five. The girl, a resident of Shiv Sharda colony suffered from cancer and had tested positive for the contagion two days ago. Admitted to the hospital on Wednesday, her condition turned critical on Thursday. This is the second COVID-19 death in the district in the past four days. Faridabad has reported a total of 137 cases so far.The fourth casualty in the district was a 65-year-old man, hailing from sector 18 in Faridabad, who died in a private hospital on Monday. He had been admitted to a private hospital in Sector 16 recently after complaining of dysentery and pneumonia. The man had tested positive on May 8 and had a history of heart ailments as he had undergone stent implantation thrice.The third death in the district had occurred on May 9 when a 72-year-old woman hailing from sector 28 died in ESI hospital here. She had tested positive on May 6 and was shifted to a COVID hospital, where she was under treatment for disorders like urinary tract infection, diabetes and a heart ailment. Two patients who died earlier in the past two weeks include a 55-year-old security guard from Old Faridabad (May 4) and a 68-year-old man hailing from sector 88 here who died on April 29. Meanwhile, according to health officials, the number of patients discharged after recovery has also risen to 69. Report for another 630 samples is awaited.Rohtak reported two more cases---a 58-year-old woman from Meham and a 28-year-old migrant labourer who works at Rohtak’s old vegetable market tested positive, taking the districts COVID-19 tally to seven.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-haryana-reports-two-deaths-25-new-cases-state-toll-rises-to-13-85181
15-05-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||1.76 lakh migrants register to return to Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 15Haryana is now bracing up for the return of migrant workers from their native states as massive testing has to be carried out and returnees would be put in quarantine. Till May 14, as many as 1.76 lakh have got registered for return to the state, with 71.2 per cent from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh (UP) alone.Out of the 1.76 lakh people registered for return, 73,666 (41.7 per cent) are coming from Bihar, 52,121 (29.5 per cent) from UP, 9,505 (5.4 per cent) from West Bengal, 5,343 (3 per cent) from Delhi and 5,261 (3 per cent) from Rajasthan.People have even registered from Andaman and Nicobar Islands (31), Ladakh (12), Daman and Diu (6), Lakshadweep (5) and the northeastern states to return to the state.While 1.09 lakh (61.9 per cent) have selected for special trains to come back, 41,218 (23.3 per cent) have chosen buses, 21,863 (12.4 per cent) have opted for private vehicles and 4,185 (2.4 per cent) have picked rented vehicles as options.They are largely coming to join industrial cities. There will 60,219 (34.1 per cent) going to Gurugram, while 23,783 (13.5 per cent) have chosen Faridabad and 13,939 (7.9 per cent) have chosen Panipat. There will be 11,018 (6.2 per cent) going to Jhajjar, 10,358 (5.9 per cent) to Yamunanagar and 10,241 (5.8 per cent) to Sonepat.“All the returning migrants will be screened and then they will be tested. They will be put in quarantine. We are fully prepared for it,” said Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij.Outward movementFor moving out of Haryana, 10.93 lakh have got registered till May 14, including 80.4 per cent for Bihar and UP alone.There are 4.62 lakh people (42.3 per cent) who are going to Bihar, 4.16 lakh (38.1 per cent) to UP, 70,548 (6.5 per cent) to Rajasthan and 57,537 (5.3 per cent) to West Bengal.The maximum number wants to go out from Gurugam — 3.32 lakh (30.4 per cent). From Faridabad, 1.30 lakh (12 per cent) have registered, 1.10 lakh (10.1 per cent) from Panipat, 78,245 (7.2 per cent) from Jhajjar and 75,912 (6.9 per cent) from Sonepat.For moving out of the state, 7.40 lakh (67.7 per cent) have opted for special trains, 3.03 lakh (27.8 per cent) have chosen buses, 34,123 (3.1 per cent) have selected private vehicles and 14,890 (1.4 per cent) have informed that they would rent vehicles.“The outward movement of migrants depends on the receiving states. We need NOCs from the receiving states as they have to put migrants in quarantine. The Indian Railways will make trains available only after issuance of NOCs,” said Vij.   He added, “But a number of people wouldn’t go now as industrial activity has started.”Till May 13, 87,072 peaople, including migrant workers, students, teachers and other persons, have been sent to their home districts by special Shramik trains, buses and other vehicles, according to a government statement.“As lakhs of workers are leaving the state, it has severely impacted the industry. However, they are adamant to go back so they should be allowed. In the next three to four months, the demand would pick up and then we need these people again,” said Vishnu Goyal, president of Haryana Chamber of Commerce and Industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-76-lakh-migrants-register-to-return-to-haryana-85170
15-05-2020||Amit Bathla||Sector-10 woman, Sector-21 man take Panchkula's coronavirus positive tally to 25||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 15Two more people have tested positive for Covid in Panchkula district.The first case is that of a 63-year-old woman from Sector 10. She was undergoing treatment for cancer at a private hospital.The patient has been shifted to an isolation ward in the Sector 6 Civil Hospital.Five members of her family are also being taken to the Civil Hospital for Covid testing.The second case is that of a 56-year-old man from Sector 21, who also tested positive for Covid-19, taking the district tally to 25 and the number of active cases to seven.Eighteen people have been cured.The containment process of both the residential areas is under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sector-10-woman-sector-21-man-take-panchkulas-coronavirus-positive-tally-to-25-85165
15-05-2020||Rohtak||Infant fed COVID-positive mother’s pumped breast milk in Rohtak||A newborn, whose mother tested positive for COVID-19 before her delivery at Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here on Wednesday, has been feeding on her mother’s breast milk.Health workers at the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) of the PGIMS are using expressed breast milk of the mother to feed the newborn baby girl since the woman is still admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of the COVID ward at the institute.“There is no proof of COVID infection through breast milk in the infant hence her mother has been asked to express breast milk daily. The newborn will be given expressed breast milk seven to eight times in a day to keep her healthy,” Dr Jagdeep Dalal, head, department of neonatology at the PGIMS, told The Tribune.He maintained that the infant’s mother initially expressed concern on being asked to express breast milk for her daughter, but she agreed after they convinced her that it would not infect the newborn. Breast milk is the first natural food for infants that helps protect them against infections, he added.Dr Dalal said they would also ensure the newborn was breastfed as soon as her mother came out of the ICU. As per WHO guidelines, a COVID positive woman can breastfeed by ensuring hygiene during the feeding like wearing a mask, washing hands before and after touching the baby etc. The mother and baby can stay in the same room while maintaining proper distance and protection, he said.“The infant has tested negative for coronavirus and her second test will be done after five days. Similarly, her mother’s test will be repeated on Sunday. She will be shifted to an isolated room if she tests negative so that both can stay together,” he said.The woman saw her daughter for the first time through a mobile video call and interacted with doctors about her health. Notably, she belongs to Bahadurgarh town (Jhajjar) and was admitted to the PGIMS on being found COVID positive on May 11. She had developed labour pain in the wee hours on Wednesday and delivered through a caesarean section.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/infant-fed-covid-positive-mothers-pumped-breast-milk-in-rohtak-85163
15-05-2020||Chandigarh||Confirm e-booking to enter bus stand||Only passengers with confirmed booking will be allowed to enter bus stands for travel to be started on select bus routes starting on May 15.Booking for these buses can be done only via the portal http://hartrans.gov.in. Details of routes and information related to fares have been made available on the website.Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma said the government had decided to start buses on select routes on May 15 with necessary precautionary measures.He said buses would initially ply from 10 districts — Ambala, Bhiwani, Hisar, Kaithal, Karnal, Narnaul, Panchkula, Rewari, Rohtak, and Sirsa.Sharma said necessary directions were given to all depot managers and it would be their responsibility to ensure compliance. He said special care would be taken to ensure social distancing and a maximum of 30 passengers would be accommodated in each bus. Thermal screening will be done before entering the designated bus stand and every passenger would be required to wear a mask.He said buses would not ply outside the state and in areas badly hit by Covid. Buses will only be operated to the designated bus stands. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/confirm-e-booking-to-enter-bus-stand-85068
15-05-2020||---||Former MLA held in liquor theft case||Panipat, May 14Satvinder Singh Rana, a former MLA from Rajaund constituency in Kaithal district, was arrested on Wednesday night in Chandigarh for his alleged involvement in liquor theft from a sealed godown in Samalkha.Rana, who unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Assembly elections from Kalayat in Kaithal district on a Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) ticket, is considered close to Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala. He was arrested from near the MLA Hostel in Sector 3 of Chandigarh, Panipat SP Manisha Chaudhary said. The team had informed the Sector 3 police in Chandigarh about their raid.A crime team of the Panipat Police, under the supervision of DSP (Crime) Rajesh Phogat, nabbed the ex-MLA following the disclosures of Ishwar Singh of Shamri village of Sonepat. He was arrested with five others for allegedly stealing liquor from a sealed godown in Samalkha and a case was registered against them on May 10, the SP said. The case was registered on the complaint of Rajesh Rohilla, AETO of the Excise Department, on April 28.Ishwar’s interrogation during police remand revealed they stole 4,500 cases of liquor from the godown.“It was revealed during investigation that the owners of the godown stole the liquor cases along with their co-accused. Constable Ajmer, one of the accused who was arrested earlier, has been dismissed by the Jhajjar Police after his arrest,” the SP said.She said she had been directed to verify the connection of those arrested in the Samalkha case with Bhupender Singh of Sisana, who was arrested by the Sonepat Police in connection with liquor theft from a sealed godown in Kharkhoda of Sonepat.DSP Headquarter Satish Vats said the CIA-2 team produced Rana in court on Thursday and sought three days police remand for further probe. The court allowed two days police custody.Partner spills the beans||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-mla-held-in-liquor-theft-case-85069
15-05-2020||Sushil Manav||Cashless healthcare scheme in the offing||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14Haryana is all set to launch a scheme for comprehensive cashless healthcare facilities to 2.5 lakh employees and 2.15 lakh pensioners with their dependants in public and empanelled private hospitals.The government released draft operational guidelines of the “Haryana Employees Cashless Health Scheme” on Tuesday and sought objections and suggestions from employees and pensioners within 15 days on www.ayushmanbharatharyana.in so as to finalise the scheme.It will be implemented by the Ayushman Bharat — Haryana Health Protection Authority (AB-HHPA) with the help of an implementing support unit (ISU).The AB-HHPA is already providing cashless medical healthcare facility to over 22 lakh beneficiaries registered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme in Haryana.The state has been providing healthcare facilities to regular employees and pensioners along with their dependants at public and empanelled private hospitals on reimbursement model.In 2017, the state government introduced a limited cashless scheme, under which only six life-threatening emergencies — cardiac emergencies, brain haemorrhage, coma, electric shock, third and fourth stage of cancer and accidents — were covered.“The scheme will be comprehensive, covering not only the six life-threatening emergencies, but all approved packages of treatment as well. It will be applicable to all indoor treatment, daycare procedures and diagnostics taken as indoor patients at all government medical colleges, government-aided medical colleges, district hospitals, health institutions and private empanelled hospitals,” said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health.He said there would be no ceiling for cashless treatment at empanelled hospitals. The scheme would be implemented in a phased manner.In the first phase, only six groups of life-threatening emergencies would be covered. In the second phase, all diseases would be covered for all regular employees and their dependants. In the third phase, all diseases would be covered for all pensioners and their dependants.Arora said OPD services, chronic illness and emergency treatment in non-empanelled hospitals would remain excluded from the purview of the scheme. The scheme provides for processing of claims of empanelled hospitals by a team of qualified claim-processing doctors in the ISU.The scheme also provides for a grievance redressal mechanism, whereby the state grievances redressal committee headed by the CEO of Ayushman Bharat will take up all grievances in its meetings to be held every 30 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cashless-healthcare-scheme-in-the-offing-85070
15-05-2020||Parveen Arora||Yamuna water no damper  to labourers heading home||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 14Migrants continue their journey on foot or on cycles to reach their hometowns.Some of them are risking their lives by crossing the Yamuna on the Haryana-UP border with the help of tyre tubes or boat. “People are crossing the Yamuna by boat or tyre-tube near Khurgan village in UP and Bhushera in Haryana. The locals are charging Rs40-100 per person,” said Furquen of Kairana in UP.A group of migrant labourers from Chandigarh was waiting for their turn on the bank of the Yamuna to cross it with the help of tyre-tubes.“When we tried to cross the border, the police used force to send us back. So we had no option but to risk our lives by crossing the river with the help of tyre-tubes,” said Dayanand, a labourer who wants to go to Bihar.Apart from them, there are several migrants who are walking towards the UP border. They are desperate to go to their home even though they were stopped by the police on border and sent back.Carrying bags in hands or on shoulders, Tofik, Sarwan and Angad, in their 20s, are walking slowly to Lucknow, approximately 680 km from here.DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said they were trying that no migrants — even from other states — should walk on roads to go to their native places. “We are sending them to shelter homes and providing foods and other basic needs. The government is providing them train facility to send them to their hometowns.”Train takes 1,440 migrants to BiharPanipat/Sonepat: As many as 1,440 industrial workers, hailing from 13 districts of Bihar, were on Thursday sent to their native places in a train from the Panipat railway station. The labourers were working at the HSIIDC complex at Bari near Gannaur in Sonepat district. Earlier, they were brought to Panipat in 40 Haryana Roadways buses. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamuna-water-no-damper-to-labourers-heading-home-85071
15-05-2020||Hisar||Hisar varsity exams from July 1||Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST), Hisar, has re-scheduled its examinations, which will start from July 1.  The university has constituted two separate panels headed by Prof Sandeep Rana, dean of colleges and Prof UshaArora, dean, academic affairs, for redrafting the academic calendar for colleges and university teaching departments in view of the Covid.  A  spokesperson said as per the UGC norms, the panels suggested that the exams could be held from July 1. The practical and theory exams can start from July 13 for final-year, so that social distancing can be ensured. They said the mode of exams would be the same with a change in the pattern of question papers keeping in view the hardships faced by some students in completing the syllabi online.   The exams for the ongoing classes can be held in August. M Tech students will be able to start their project work in the labs from June 15. The remedial classes/practicals can be held from June 15 to June 30. The re-appear exams for final year will be held in July. These suggestions are approved by the VC, subject to time-to-time directions from the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-varsity-exams-from-july-1-85072
15-05-2020||Kaithal||Memo pasted on tehsildar’s seat||Anganwadi and midday meal workers protested in support of their demands here today on a call given by CITU. The protesters sought   increase in salary and allowances, Rs50 lakh  cover   for  life  risk, payment of arrears, regular testing and safety kits. The workers   went to the DC  camp office to submit a memorandum, but were directed to go to the City Magistrate, who was not available in the office.even the SDM was not there. The workers then went to the tehsildar’s office, but the official wasn’t available too, following which they pasted the memorandum on the teshsildar’s vacant seat. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/memo-pasted-on-tehsildars-seat-85073
15-05-2020||---||25 more test +ve, tally reaches 818||Chandigarh, May 14With 25 fresh cases, the state’s tally touched 818 today. The fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (12), Gurugram (4), Jhajjar (3), Jind (2), Karnal (2), Mahendragarh (1) and Rewari (1).Also, 21 patients got discharged today. As many as 10 were from Sonepat, four each from Faridabad and Yamunanagar, two from Panipat and one from Palwal. That took the number of recovered patients to 439 in the state. The recovery rate touched 53.66 per cent. There are only 368 active cases now while 11 persons have died.The 12 fresh cases in Faridabad included a policeman posted at Sector-17 police station here and a one-year-old child from Adarsh Nagar of Ballabgarh. Besides these, three members of a family of Sector-62 and three persons from SGM Nagar who attended a Jamaat event at Sangli of Maharashtra recently came out positive for Covid.Also, a 50-year-old man who is into vegetable trade in NIT Area tested positive. The district’s tally reached 131 today.Among the three cases in Jhajjar, two are women. All the three cases are from Bahadurgarh. The district’s tally reached 87 today.The two cases in Jind included a vegetable vendor of Narwala and a resident of Rasidan village who returned from Mumbai. The number of cases in the district reached 20.In Karnal, a 13-year-old teenager of Pakhana village and 33-year-old man from Ram Nagar, driver of the bus which came from Hazur Sahib, Nanded, tested positive. The teenager also came from Nanded.A ward boy at the Civil Hospital in Mahendragarh city tested positive, taking the count in the district to six. He is the prime contact of a Covid patient. In Rewari, a resident of Ratanthal village, who has a travel history of Delhi, tested positive.The tests per million in the state touched 2,729 today. As many as 69,191 tests have been conducted so far with 63,791 turning negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/25-more-test-ve-tally-reaches-818-85074
15-05-2020||---||Haryana to write to ICMR for action against private lab||Chandigarh, May 14The Haryana Government will ask the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to initiate action against Gurugram-based SRL Diagnostics after its Health Department inquiry found that some of its reports relating to the testing of Covid-19 patients showed certain discrepancies.Health Minister Anil Vij said here today that the Health Department’s inquiry report showed that the private lab’s Covid-19 tests conducted on certain patients showed ‘wrong results’ for which requisite action would be initiated against the private lab.“The memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the Haryana Government and the SRL Diagnostics is being studied for initiating action as per rules,” Vij asserted.Since the lab is approved by the ICMR, the Haryana Government will write to the top body to take action against the lab, the minister added.Last month, 11 Covid-19 tests, seven in Gurugram and four in Ambala, were disputed between the Health Department and the private lab.After varying results, the Haryana Government had gone to AIIMS-Delhi to conduct retests.However, the SRL Diagnostics had stood by its test results claiming that the ICMR-approved protocols were followed while undertaking samples.Earlier, Health Minister Anil Vij had asked the Chief Medical Officers of Ambala and Gurugram to submit their findings to a six-member committee formed to look into the functioning of all private labs testing Covid samples.11 cases disputedLast month, 11 Covid tests, seven in Gurugram and four in Ambala, were disputed between the Health Department and the private lab. After varying results, the Haryana Government had gone to AIIMS-Delhi to conduct retests..||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-write-to-icmr-for-action-against-private-lab-85075
15-05-2020||---||Removed in ‘fake’ report row, official reinstated||Hisar, May 14After a fake Covid positive report of a political person snowballed into a controversy, the Health Department today restored the Covid-related duty to biologist Dr Ramesh Punia, who is also the district malaria officer in the civil hospital.The Health Department has also lodged a complaint with the police to probe the tampering with of the Covid report.Dr Punia was divested of the Covid-related duty on May 11 after a controversy over the issue of sampling and home-quarantine of an influential worker of a political party.A Covid team had reached the worker after a report mentioning him as positive for Covid went viral on social media.Though the worker showed his original report which showed him negative for Covid, the team headed by Dr Punia wanted the person to be re-tested for Covid and home-quarantined him because he had come to Hisar from Gurugram which is a red zone.Dr Punia said that the political worker initially refused to cooperate with them and later accompanied the team to the hospital after police intervention.“But he was discharged from the hospital soon after a special test. I was threatened over the phone by the father of the worker,” Punia alleged, adding that he had decided to put the ‘home-quarantine’ poster outside the house of the political worker. Subsequent to his act, Punia was divested of Covid duty.However, he was again assigned Covid-related duty today by an order of the Civil Surgeon today. Health Minister Anil Vij intervened in the matter and called up the Civil Surgeon to restore the Covid charge to Dr Punia. In a Facebook post, Dr Punia thanked the CM and Health Minister for reposing faith in him.The police have also started investigation into the complaint of the Health Department about the tampering with of the Covid report which was negative for Covid but went viral on social media as positive.Medical report ‘tampered with’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/removed-in-fake-report-row-official-reinstated-85076
15-05-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana to High Court: Essential service providers to get e-passes in 30 minutes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14After a commitment by Haryana that it will provide e-passes within 30 minutes to essential service providers, a division Bench of the Delhi High Court has disposed of a petition challenging restrictions on the Haryana-Delhi border.The civil writ petition pointed out that Haryana was restricting the movement of people involved in essential services like doctors, nurses, paramedics, sanitation workers and staff of Delhi Police, Delhi Transport Corporation, Delhi Jal Board and municipal corporations.During resumed hearing today, the state government told the court that movement of people manning essential services would be allowed between Delhi and Haryana on production of e-passes and they would not be quarantined unless they tested positive for Covid or were found in contact with a Covid patient.Haryana submitted that the border with Delhi was open and roads near the border had not been dug up. “The said border will be kept open and manned by security personnel,” it added.According to Additional Advocate General Anil Grover, “The e-passes will be issued to all the aforesaid individuals within 30 minutes of receipt of applications.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-high-court-essential-service-providers-to-get-e-passes-in-30-minutes-85077
15-05-2020||Gurugram||3 shooters nabbed for murder of  gym owner||The Gurugram police on Thursday nabbed three shooters of Rathi gang involved in the killing of gym owner Manjeet Yadav at the Naurangpur mini-stadium. The trio was nabbed in the wee hours on Thursday.  A Maruti Brezza car and a country made pistol have been recovered by the police. The main accused who planned the gym owner’s murder was nabbed by the police.  The main accused identified as Dheeraj, alias Dhiru of Nakhrola village, reportedly confessed to have got Yadav killed owing to professional rivalry over the distribution of newspapers in Vatika City and hired contract killers of Rathi gang to get the 36-year-old eliminated. Today, the police nabbed three shooters identified as Deepak, alias Naveen, a  resident of Bawani Khera, Bhiwani, Manish, a resident of Acchej village, Jhajjar and Somveer, alias Dinesh, a resident of Jamavedi village in Hisar district. “Main accused Dheeraj said he wanted to replace Yadav in the newspaper distribution business in Vatika City. They had a long-standing tiff over the same and he had even made threatening calls to Yadav. We have taken all of them on police remand and are probing the case” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan,  ACP,  Crime.  —  OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-shooters-nabbed-for-murder-of-gym-owner-85078
15-05-2020||Our Correspondent
||Sonepat youth murdered||Sonepat, May 14  Rahul (22) of Sonepat’s Khanpur Khurd village died after he was allegedly attacked by another village youth, Anil, on Wednesday morning over some old enmity.  Police Investigating Officer Samunder Singh said a case of murder had been registered against Anil on the complaint of Rahul’s father Devi Singh. He alleged that Rahul had gone for a morning walk when he was attacked by Anil with a sharp-edged weapon in the presence of Sunil and Mukesh, also of the same village.. Later, he succumbed to his injuries at the PGIMS-Rohtak, during treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-youth-murdered-85079
15-05-2020||Karnal||Three of family killed in mishap||Man dies as car falls into canalKarnal: A man (60) was killed while his son was rescued as their car fell into the augmentation canal near Karnal’s Staundi village on Thursday. Rampal of Jundla and his son Vikram, who works with the Haryana Police, were returning home from Rasin village when their car fell into the canal. Rampal’s body and the car were later fished out, SHO Baljeet Singh said. Tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-of-family-killed-in-mishap-85107
15-05-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Migrants pool life savings, pay Rs 2 lakh per truck for ride home||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, May 14Unable to get a boarding call despite having registered for the ‘Shramik’ train, over 4,000 migrant workers across the city, especially in the industrial belt of Manesar, are willing to pool between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 2 lakh for a truck ride back home.Labourers shell out Rs 5,000 for bus seatMandi: Failing to get help from the state or the Centre, stranded labourers in Mandi, most of them from UP, on Thursday hired two buses for their journey back home. Vikas Kumar and Shyam Singh, both from Gorakhpur, said each person had paid Rs5,000 per seat to the transporter. “We were counting on the government for travel arrangements and expenses. Sadly, that did not happen. Our pockets are now empty.” tnsThe Gurugram police have been intercepting such trucks almost daily, stopping migrants from crossing the border through the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway.Also read: 14 migrants killed in 2 road mishaps, 60 hurtOne such truck intercepted last night carried 60 migrants, including women and children, from Bass village. They had paid the trucker Rs 1.5 lakh for a ride to Bihar.The group claimed they had spent their life savings for the journey. The police turned them away, promising to take up the issue with the authorities.“I only had a pair of anklets from wedding. I worked as a maid but have had no work for two months. My daughter is not well. I tried going back by train, but they told me it’s for farmers only,” said Reshma Devi.“We had registered for the train but didn’t get a boarding call. I just have Rs 100 for food. The lockdown is set to continue and we just want to return home,” said Nagesh, a migrant from MP.On an average, two trucks were being intercepted on the expressway every day, said DCP Deepak Saharan.Employed in the industrial sector or service industry, these migrants apparently don’t qualify for travel in ‘Shramik’ trains and are forced to make desperate efforts to reach home.DC Amit Khatri said: “Labourers are being sent out as per protocol, which primarily allows farm labour. The administration is available 24x7 for those in distress. Industrial and commercial establishments have started operations. I urge people not to indulge in illegal exodus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/migrants-pool-life-savings-pay-rs-2-lakh-per-truck-for-ride-home-84989
15-05-2020||Vijay C Roy||Ambala scientific cluster in dire straits due to lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14Industry’s DemandsArun P Bansal (55) has been engaged in manufacturing scientific instruments since 1996. But, he has never faced such a grim situation. With many orders and cheques issued to him having already cancelled, he is busy calling his customers for receivables these days.“March to May is the peak season for us as educational institutions place orders with us during this period. However, due to the lockdown many have cancelled their orders citing lack of funds. Some of our customers have given instructions to banks for stop payment of cheques already issued to us,” said Bansal, proprietor, Kshitij Innovations. He employs 15 people in his unit which falls under micro category.“When I approached one of the institutions, the officer concerned said due to the lockdown, we are yet to receive fee from students and hence not in a position to buy laboratory apparatus at the moment,” said a manufacturer on the condition of anonymity.Almost all units are passing through the same crisis. Ambala has over 5,000 micro, small and medium units which are engaged in manufacturing scientific instruments. The size of the industry is around Rs 1,800 crore. Out of this, the exports are to the tune of Rs 800 crore. The cluster exports instruments to the Gulf nations, European countries, Bangladesh, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.The sector directly employs around 50,000 people and it is believed to be the largest in the country for manufacturing scientific instruments and laboratory apparatus. The products manufactured here are used in engineering industry and educational institutions.The industry apprehends that many units may close down in the absence of orders and working capital.“We don’t have deep pockets and ours is a cottage industry. We are running short of capital. My export order worth $50,000 has been cancelled. We don’t know what future holds for us,” said Cone International partner Satish Kumar Saini.Since the industry recently shunned the century-old conventional production methods to adopt automation to remain relevant in the international market and thwart the Chinese threat, they are feeling more heat as they have taken loans for that.According to the manufacturers, with many of the units witnessing cancellation of orders, they were unable to repay outstanding loans.Besides other steps, the industry wants the government should ensure that their dues are paid timely by government and private institutions so that they can repay their debt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-scientific-cluster-in-dire-straits-due-to-lockdown-84992
