15-10-2020||Chandigarh||BJP names Yogeshwar Dutt as party candidate for Baroda bypoll in Haryana||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party on Thursday evening named wrestler-turned-politician Yogeshwar Dutt as a party nominee for the bypoll to Baroda assembly constituency.According to a party statement, Dutt will fight the November 3 bypoll from Baroda seat in Sonipat.The bypoll was necessitated due to the demise of Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda in April. The last date to file a nomination for the bypoll is Friday.  Dutt had unsuccessfully contested from the seat in October 2019 assembly polls. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-names-yogeshwar-dutt-as-party-candidate-for-baroda-bypoll-in-haryana-156268
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Government appoints new chairpersons to 14 boards, corporations||The Haryana Government on Thursday appointed new chairpersons to 14 boards and corporations in the state with immediate effect.Three of the appointees are MLAs of the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), the coalition partner of the BJP in the state.Former Haryana BJP president Subhash Barala has been appointed as the chairman of the Haryana Bureau of Public Enterprises, read an official statement.Among the new appointees is wrestler-turned-politician Babita Phogat. She has been appointed as the chairperson of the Haryana Women Development Corporation. BJP's Hodal MLA Jagdish Nayar has been appointed as the chairman of the Haryana Land Reclamation and Development Corporation. JJP's Barwala legislator Jogi Ram Sihag has been made the chief of the Haryana Housing Board while another party MLA from Shahbad, Ram Karan Kala, has been appointed as the Sugarfed chairman.Sihag and Kala had on September 20 participated in farmers' protests against the Centre's farm laws, going against their party stand on the issue.According to the statement, Narwana JJP MLA Ram Niwas has been made the chairman of the Haryana Khadi and Village Industries Board.An Independent MLA has also been adjusted in the new appointments. Badshahpur MLA Rakesh Daulatabad has been appointed as the chairman of the Haryana Agro Industries Corporation Limited.The new appointments have been made days before the Baroda by-polls on November 3.The BJP-JJP combine is looking to win the seat, which was held by Congress' Shri Krishan Hooda till his death in April.Among other appointed chairpersons are Kailash Bhagat (HAFED), Nirmal Bairagi (Haryana Backward Classes Welfare Corporation), Ram Niwas Garg (Haryana Vyapari Kalyan Board) and Arvind Yadav (Harco Bank).Dhuman Singh Kiramach has been appointed as the vice-chairman of Saraswati Heritage Board. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-appoints-new-chairpersons-to-14-boards-corporations-156248
15-10-2020||New Delhi||Khattar announces names of Kalpana Chawala Haryana Solar Awards||Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar on Thursday has announced the names of Dr Bhim Singh from India and Dr Aaesha Alnuaimi from the United Arab Emirates, as awardees of the prestigious Kalpana Chawla Haryana Solar Awards.They will be awarded an amount of Rs 24.40 lakh each.Khattar revealed the names at the 3rd Conference of International Solar Alliance, which he addressed via video-conferencing from Haryana Bhawan, here.He praised the awardees for their contribution in the field of solar energy would always remain a source of inspiration for the scientists.The Kalpana Chawala Haryana Solar award has been instituted by Haryana Government in the memory of Astronaut Kalpana Chawla.Presently, Dr Singh is working as a Professor at the Department of Electrical Engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, and Dr Alnuaimi as Director, Solar Innovation Centre at Dubai Electricity, and Water Authority in the UAE."It will encourage the scientists all over the globe to work in the field of solar energy, and strengthen the movement of Government’s ambitious programme 'Beti Bachao Beti Padhao' which aims at saving the girl child and empowering them with education," said Khattar.Kalpana Chawla was born and brought in Karnal.She did her B.tech in Aeronautical Engineering from Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh, in 1982.In the same year, she moved to the United States, and obtained an M.S. degree in Aerospace Engineering in 1984. Thereafter, she obtained her second M.S. degree in 1985, and a PhD in Aerospace Engineering in 1988, the Chief Minister added.The astronaut joined NASA Astronaut Corps in 1995, and was selected for her first flight in 1996.She was the first Indian-American astronaut, and the first Indian woman in space.Khattar added that it was a matter of pride, that the headquarters of International Solar Alliance was situated in Gurugram.The Haryana Government had signed an MoU with the International Solar Alliance for the establishment of Kalpana Chawla Haryana Solar Awards.An overall corpus fund of Rs 10 crore had been earmarked for these awards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-announces-names-of-kalpana-chawala-haryana-solar-awards-156156
15-10-2020||Parveen Arora||Week after opening, Karnal paddy centre shut||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 14Over a week after its opening, the paddy purchase centre at Mohidinpur village on the Haryana-UP border that was meant to facilitate farmers of the neighbouring state, has been shut.The Karnal administration had drawn flak for banning the entry of UP farmers, a practice contrary to the Centre’s ‘one nation, one market’ policy. A mere 4,800 MT of paddy was procured at the centre, which is 1 per cent of the 5 lakh MT that UP farmers sold in Karnal, Gharaunda, Kunjpura, Taraori and Indri grain markets last year.MSP fraud by traders?Arhtiyas claimed the centre had to be closed as they were unable to carry out procurement simultaneously at their own grain market and the Mohidinpur centre. They also blamed paucity of space to unload paddy as well as poor infrastructure.Sources, however, said some traders were buying cheap paddy in UP and getting it procured at higher MSP at the centre, showing fake Aadhaar and other documents.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the centre, which was opened on October 5, was closed as UP farmers had been allowed to sell their produce in any grain market of the district. “So, there is no need to continue this centre,” he said, denying claims of any wrong practice by any trader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/week-after-opening-karnal-paddy-centre-shut-155909
15-10-2020||Rohtak||Illegal structures razed||A team of District Town Planner (DTP) carried out a demolition drive at an illegal colony spread over 10 acres of land on the Kaccha Sunaria road here on Tuesday. This was the fourth such colony where illegal structures had been razed during the past month. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-structures-razed-155926
15-10-2020||---||No mask, 66 persons booked in Rohtak||Rohtak, October 14In all 66 persons, including husband of ex-Big Boss contestant and Haryanvi artiste Sapna Choudhary’s husband Veer Sahu, have been booked for violating the Disaster Management Act by not wearing mask and defying social distancing norms on Monday.The police said Sahu had been booked under Sections 34 and 188 of the IPC and Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.The case was registered at the Meham Police station on the complaint of a security agent — Satpal — posted at the police station. The complainant said Sahu was on his way with a cavalcade of over 15 vehicles. None of them was wearing a mask. Sahu violated the Covid guidelines while staying there without any permission,” he said.Notably, Sahu had come to Meham on being challenged by a youth on Facebook.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-mask-66-persons-booked-in-rohtak-155927
15-10-2020||---||Smog grips Gurugram, doctors issue alert||Gurugram, October 14With smog gripping the city and air quality being ‘unhealthy’ for the third consecutive day, Gurugram health authorities and doctors have raised an alert, asking residents to stay indoors.With an evident increase in the number of patients suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma landing at hospitals amidst the Covid pressure, doctors have rung the alarm bell.“The current weather situation can aggravate problems for those with breathing difficulties. They need to be cautious. We have already said this in regard to Covid and we are reiterating that with the current smoggy weather, we want all to abstain from any unnecessary outdoor activity,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav.The authorities have asked senior citizens and children to stay indoors. Many societies have barred walks and even playing by children.The average AQI of Gurugram stood at 218 today which comes under the “poor” category. While the AQI was 259 on Monday, it stood at 288 on Tuesday.The district authorities, following a directive from EPCA, will implement Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) from tomorrow which will ban the use of diesel gensets, throwing life out of gear for many industries and over 70 residential societies.The MCG has mandated use of anti-smog guns at construction sites identified as key hotspots. If the situation continues to worsen, construction activities will be banned.“We have worked out all modalities to implement GRAP. From barring gensets to sprinkling water, we are taking all necessary steps. There will be no tolerance to garbage burning. The environmental wing of the corporation will keep a tab on air quality and take steps accordingly,” said MCG Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh.Action plan to come into force from todayThe district authorities, following a directive from EPCA, will implement GRAP from Thursday which will ban the use of diesel gensets, throwing life out of gear for many industries and over 70 residential societies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/smog-grips-gurugram-doctors-issue-alert-155928
15-10-2020||Panipat||Women panel chief meets woman held captive in toilet by husband||Haryana State Commission for Women (HSCW) chairperson Preeti Bhardwaj today visited Panipat to enquire about a woman held captive in toilet in Rishpur village of the district. She interacted with the victim who was living at Kiwana village in Samalkha with her relatives. Besides, the police today took the woman to the general hospital again for treatment. The police have nabbed the woman’s husband Naresh Kumar and produced him in the court today and the court has released him on bail. Bhardwaj along with Child Welfare Committee (CWC) chairperson Padma Rani, district Women Protection Officer Rajni Gupta visited Kiwana village and interacted with the woman, identified as Ramrati, who was rescued by the protection officer on Tuesday after a tip-off. The woman was held captive in the toilet by her husband for the past three years. Bhardwaj said it was an unfortunate incident. “I also met her three children and tried to counsel them but they didn’t even take care of their mother,” Gupta said, adding: “She couldn’t even walk properly as she had been held captive in a small toilet for a long time. She seems to be mentally unstable due to the torture she suffered.” She said she had asked the CWC chairperson to counsel her three children. “I have also directed authorities concerned to provide medical assistance to the victim,” she added. Sanoli SHO Surender Dahiya said the accused was arrested late on Tuesday night and produced in a court, which released him on bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/women-panel-chief-meets-woman-held-captive-in-toilet-by-husband-155929
15-10-2020||
||Attack on police team, cop injured||Faridabad, October 14 The police have registered a case in connection with an attack on a police team by a mob in Adarsh Nagar area of Ballabgarh here on Tuesday night. No arrest has been made so far.  According to the FIR, a group of 15 persons attacked the police vehicle in Ashiana society of the city with bricks, stones and sticks. The police had rounded up a couple of youths in connection with a quarrel between two groups over some issue that was reported by local residents around 10 pm.  The windshield of the police vehicle was broken. A constable identified as Suresh Kumar suffered injuries. The condition of the constable is stable.  “When additional police force was rushed to the spot, the miscreants managed to flee,” said Mukesh Giri, SHO, Adarsh Nagar police station. He said an FIR under Section 332, 353, 147, 149, 427 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered against 15 persons of whom five have been identified with the help of local residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/attack-on-police-team-cop-injured-155930
15-10-2020||---||Farmers block BJP’s rally in Ambala, show black flags||Ambala, October 14A tractor rally by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini and Ambala BJP chief Rajesh Batoura, faced a massive protest from farmers in Naraingarh against the three controversial farm laws.The BJP commenced the rally with 150 tractors from Saini Dharmashala in Naraingarh. A few kms down the road, farmers led by BKU (Charuni) district chief Malkeet Singh blocked the way near Milan Palace.After brief parleys with BJP leaders, farmers cleared the way an hour later but on one condition: black flags should be fixed on tractors.However, after traversing a km, the rally was stopped again near Sain Majra village. Only Saini’s tractor and some senior leaders were allowed to move ahead. After a gap of 15 minutes, the road was cleared for other tractors, but only one by one.Of the 150 tractors, only 70 reached the concluding point of old bus stand in Shahzadpur.During the rally, the farmers raised slogans against the BJP and burnt its flag. They also showed black flags to BJP leaders. BKU leader Malkeet Singh said, “The farmers will continue to protest till the three farm laws are not repealed.”Farmers’ leaders claimed that people, who made up the numbers at the rally, and the tractors were hired. “A man admitted that a BJP leader had offered him money to bring his tractor to the rally. He did not disclose the sum offered to him,” one of the leaders said.A heavy police force was deployed during the rally to avoid any untoward incident. Ambala SP Rajesh Kalia was present as well.Kataria, who is also the Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti, said: “The Congress is trying to save its sinking ship by politicising the matter. Farmers are with the BJP. Those showing black flags have been hired by the Congress.”What transpired||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-block-bjps-rally-in-ambala-show-black-flags-155931
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||1,205 new Covid cases, 13 deaths||With 1,205 Covid cases reported on Wednesday, the statewide tally reached 1.45 lakh. Besides, 13 persons succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 1,614. Hisar reported four deaths. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-205-new-covid-cases-13-deaths-155932
15-10-2020||---||Received extortion calls from gangster, claims Karnal trader||Yamunanagar, October 14A Karnal-based businessman, Manoj Wadhwa, has alleged that he received threat calls from gangster Kala Rana for extortion.On the complaint of Wadhwa, a case was registered against Kala Rana under Section 387 (extortion) of the IPC on Monday.The complainant said their firm M/S Roots Journy owned mining quarries in Beed Tapu and Mandauli Gaghad villages of Yamunanagar district. He said he and his uncle Virbhan Wadhwa used to look after the business.“Kala Rana made several calls on my mobile number on October 7. He threatened to kill me and my family if I did not give him a share from my income from the mining business,” he said in his complaint.The complainant also demanded police protection for himself and his uncle.According to information, Kala Rana is wanted in several cases, including extortion.Jagadhri SHO Suresh Kumar said a case had been registered against the accused. “The complainant received WhatsApp call from a number starting with country code 35. The caller told his name as Kala Rana. We are investigating the matter,” said the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/received-extortion-calls-from-gangster-claims-karnal-trader-155933
15-10-2020||---||BJP leaders told  to promote farm laws||Rohtak, October 14Twenty-seven BJP leaders have been tasked to spread awareness among residents of 54 villages in Baroda assembly segment about the advantages of three new farm legislations being criticised by farmers and leaders of all Opposition parties.Every leader would cover two villages to propagate the policies of the state government among villagers.The duty was assigned by BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankar at the party workers’ meet held in Circuit house here on Wednesday.He said the Opposition parties had been spreading misinformation about the three laws with an intention to gain political mileage in the Baroda bypolls hence it was the responsibility of every BJP worker to expose their “lies” by making people aware of the benefits of the new laws.“The BJP will win the Baroda bypoll as people know that only the Khattar government can ensure overall development of the constituency. Moreover, the Opposition leaders have also been exposed among the masses,” Dhankar said.Sources said Agriculture Minister JP Dalal had been assigned Kehailpa and Kathura villages. Kamlesh Dhandha would work in Chhichhadana and Mirjapur Kheri, Rajya Sabha MP Ram Chander Jangra in Sikanderpur Majra and Bali, Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma in Madina and Thaska villages.Names of 4 probables given to NaddaChandigarh: OP Dhankar, state president of the BJP, who along with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar met the party’s national president JP Nadda on Wednesday evening, said the state unit has handed over a panel of four names to the central leadership. “The party will announce the candidate by tomorrow,” said Dhankar. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-leaders-told-to-promote-farm-laws-155934
15-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Government has failed on all fronts, says Om Prakash Chautala||The November 3 Baroda byelection would decide the fate of the BJP-JJP government in Haryana, INLD supremo and former Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala said here today.Addressing a press conference, Chautala said the all-round failure of the alliance government coupled with the three farm Acts would have major impact on the bypoll result.The possibility of mid-term elections cannot be ruled out in the face of the “imminent” defeat of the BJP-JJP candidate, said the veteran leader exuding confidence of an INLD win in Baroda.Chautala announced that the INLD would announce its candidate on October 15.Charging the Khattar government with failure on all fronts, Chautala alleged the state’s debt had crossed Rs 2 lakh crore and the state government was facing difficulties in even paying salaries to state government employees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-has-failed-on-all-fronts-says-om-prakash-chautala-155935
15-10-2020||---||Farmer dies at rally, BKU leaders booked||Ambala, October 14Seven farmers, including BKU district chief Malkeet Singh, were booked in connection with the death of a farmer during the BJP’s tractor rally here on Wednesday.The deceased was identified as Bharat Singh (75) from the district’s Baragarh village.A case was registered under Sections 148, 149, 302, 341, and 120-B of the IPC.Bharat Singh’s son Bhupinder Singh, in his police complaint, alleged Congress and BKU (Charuni) activists had blocked the road, created ruckus and attacked farmers, who supported the BJP.“On the provocation of Malkeet Singh, Fakir Chand, Amarjeet, Jai Singh, Sukhwinder Singh and Jaswinder Singh, farmers attacked my tractor. My father, who was riding the tractor, fell unconscious. It took half an hour to reach hospital, which was just five minutes from the spot. Doctors declared him brought dead.”Naraingarh police station SHO Gurmail Singh said, “The cause of death will be ascertained in the postmortem report.”Meanwhile, BKU’s Malkeet Singh said, “The case has been registered on the directions of Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini. Bharat Singh’s condition deteriorated when he was riding a tractor. No one attacked him.”It Took 30 minutes to reach hospital"On the provocation of BKU leaders, farmers attacked my tractor. My father, who was riding the tractor, fell unconscious. It took half an hour to reach hospital, which was just five minutes from the spot. Doctors declared him brought dead."— Bhupinder Singh, deceased’s son||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-dies-at-rally-bku-leaders-booked-155936
15-10-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Baroda  bypoll: Prestige issue for Congress, challenge for allies BJP, JJP||Tribune News ServicePanipat, October 14The Baroda bypoll is a litmus test for the BJP-JJP coalition as well as for the Congress. Baroda is a rural constituency considered the bastion of former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. The BJP has never won the segment.The seat fell vacant in April after the death of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda, who represented the constituency four times starting in 2005.It will be the challenge for the BJP-JJP coalition to register a win, while it will be a prestige issue for the Congress, especially for the former CM to maintain his stronghold.“This time, it will be tough for Hooda to prove himself,” a political analyst said.Baroda was a stronghold of the INLD from 1977 to 2005. In the 2005 Assembly elections, Sri Krishan Hooda had offered his seat (Garhi Sampla-Kiloi) to Bhupinder Singh Hooda. To return the favour, the Congress fielded Sri Krishan Hooda from Baroda. He bucked the “outsider” tag and won the seat four times on the trot.This time, analysts say, a lot is banking on the selection of the candidate. “The Congress had fielded parachute candidate Sri Krishan Hooda in 2005. That move paid off and he won from Baroda four times. The situation is different this time. Electors want a local candidate, who can represent their aspirations in the Assembly,” a political analyst said.In all, 29 leaders have applied for the Congress ticket and 25 for the BJP’s.The saffron party has launched a campaign under the leadership of former state president Subhash Barala.Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, who is managing the BJP-JJP’s campaign, claimed the coalition would create history by winning Baroda.Senior BJP leaders, including state party chief Om Prakash Dhankar, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Agriculture Minister JP Dalal, have visited the segment.Meanwhile, Congress leader Hooda has claimed that the party would win the bypoll on the basis of development works carried out during his regime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/baroda-bypoll-prestige-issue-for-congress-challenge-for-allies-bjp-jjp-155937
15-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||Winter delight: Over 1 lakh migratory birds arrive||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 14With the onset of winter, migratory birds from various countries have started flocking to shallow water bodies in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Rewari and nearby areas.As per bird watchers, around 100 species of the birds have already arrived here, while some like Crake, Dunlin, Jack Snipe and Whimbrel Terek Sandpiper have been spotted here after several years.However, the bird watchers in less number are reaching here from other states this time due to the Covid pandemic but their number is likely to rise in days to come.“Baland, Aasan, Masudpur, Karontha, Polangi, Bhaloth in Rohtak, Chhudani, Mandhothi, Dhaud, Dighal, Dubaldhan and Bhindawas bird sanctuary in Jhajjar and Masani village in Rewari are the villages where migratory birds from Siberia, Russia, Magnolia, Alaska and other parts of America can be seen chirping and swimming,” said Rakesh Ahlawat, a bird watcher from Dighal village.Ahlawat claimed Crake, Dunlin, Jack Snipe, Whimbrel and Terek Sandpiper had been seen after several years in Mandhothi and Dubaldhan villages this month. Winged guests in large numbers had also made their habitats at Sultanpur bird sanctuary in Gurugram and its surrounding areas.Bird watchers across the nation used to come to this region every season to spot migratory birds but the Covid effect has reduced their number this time, he added.“Over one lakh migratory birds have so far arrived at various places in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Rewari and Gurugram districts. The main attraction of this season so far is the presence of Pacific golden plover, which migrates from Alaska and other parts of America. It has, for the first time, been spotted in Masani village,” said Sunder Sambharya, District Forest Officer, Rewari.Sambharya said the species of birds arrived so far were Godwit, four species each of Sandpiper and plover, 15 species of raptors, wagtails and pipits, seven species of ducks, avocet, cracks, locally migrated cormorants, darters, flamingo etc. Many more species from overseas were likely to arrive here at the end of October, he added.Officialspeak“The main attraction of this season so far is the presence of Pacific golden plover, which migrates from Alaska and other parts of America. It has been spotted for the first time,” said Sunder Sambharya, DFO, Rewari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/winter-delight-over-1-lakh-migratory-birds-arrive-155938
15-10-2020||
||Complete school works, officials told||Chandigarh, October 14 Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has directed officers to repair boundary walls, approach roads, playgrounds and the morning prayer meeting area as per requirement of government schools in their respective districts under MNREGA. The Deputy Chief Minister, who also holds the portfolio of rural development, said the state government had tried to employ as many persons as possible under MNREGA during the Covid pandemic. Elaborating on it further, he said it was for the first time that under MNREGA, the water bodies of the villages were being cleaned and sheds for animals of poor people and bio-gas plants were being set up. Chautala informed that about  six lakh MNREGA job cards had been made in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/complete-school-works-officials-told-155939
15-10-2020||Nitish Sharma||Bad roads an ordeal for Kurukshetra residents, tourists||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, October 14The state government has been claiming to promote Kurukshetra as a major tourist destination on the world map, but has failed to provide good roads to residents, commuters and tourists.Several important and link roads of the city are in deplorable condition and the situation has become an ordeal for all.The six-laning work on the Pipli-Kurukshetra University stretch, known as the lifeline of the city, started in 2018 and is still on. It is likely to take another at least 8-9 months for the project to be completed. It was scheduled to be completed in December 2019, but the tender was terminated and the work resumed in April this year with a new contractor and is scheduled to be completed within 15 months. Similarly, the Pehowa road, Umri road, Sector 30 road, link roads of several sectors, and even the roads leading towards the VIP areas where the incumbent and former MPs have their residences, are in bad shape.Sukbhir Singh, an auto driver, said, “A majority of passengers on the Pipli-university road used to be students of the university and tourists, but due to the Covid pandemic there are no students and a very few tourists. We hardly get any passengers and due to the poor condition of roads the maintenance cost of my auto has increased.”Rishabh Gulati, a furniture showroom owner, said, “The festival season is here and the entire road in front of shops has been dug to lay the gas pipeline. The pandemic has already caused damage to the business and now, how will the customers come to buy if the shops and showrooms are not approachable. The administration should instruct the contractor and expedite the work.”Another shopkeeper said the roads were dotted with potholes and several people had suffered injuries in accidents.Amit Manuja, XEN, PWD (B&R), said, “Due to Covid, the construction work has got affected. The Pipli-Kurukshetra University project has gathered pace and the work is likely to be completed in the stipulated time frame. A file has been moved for the construction of a 5-km long stretch on Pehowa road and it will cost around Rs 3.5 crore.”MLA Thanesar Subhash Sudha said “Work on the Pipli road is being carried out at a cost of over Rs 57 crore, and the estimate for the Umri road has also been prepared. Efforts are being made to improve the condition of all roads.”Pandemic has affected work"Due to the Covid pandemic, the construction work has got affected. The Pipli-Kurukshetra University project has gathered pace and the work is likely to be completed in the stipulated time frame."—  Amit Manuja, XEN, PWD (B&R)Iincrease in maintenance cost"A majority of passengers on the Pipli-KU road are students of the university and tourists. Due to the poor condition of roads, the maintenance cost of my auto has increased."—Sukbhir Singh, an auto driver||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bad-roads-an-ordeal-for-kurukshetra-residents-tourists-155940
15-10-2020||
||Training programme for HCS officers  starts||Chandigarh, October 14 Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan exhorted administrative officers to convert the challenges arising out of the global Covid pandemic into opportunities and become compassionate while formulating welfare policies for the state and the country. He said this while addressing the first session of the training programme on “Management Development Programme on Global Issues” organised by the Haryana Institute of Public Administration (HIPA) through video-conferencing here on Wednesday. More than Haryana Civil Service (HCS) 40 officers participated in the inaugural session, which will continue till October 20. The Chief Secretary said, “The Covid pandemic has hit the global economy as well as the lives of people. The training programme is a unique initiative of the HIPA, which will provide an apt platform to hold discussions on global issues and think of new ideas for the post-Covid situation.” Earlier, Surina Rajan, Director General, HIPA, said: “The Covid pandemic has prompted countries to become self-reliant. India, too, needs to become self-sufficient so that its economy bounces back.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/training-programme-for-hcs-officers-starts-155941
15-10-2020||---||Bartan Bank to discourage disposables||Karnal, October 14The Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) has initiated a unique step of lending utensils for small parties or religious programmes to discourage use of disposables, especially plastic.A “Bartan Bank” has been established on the KMC premises. The bank has steel utensils, including plates, glasses and spoons, that the residents can borrow free-of-charge after depositing a security amount of Rs 2,000 per programme of 500 persons. For availing the facility, the person has to apply at the KMC office. The security amount will be refunded after the person returns the utensils, said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-Commissioner KMC.The city was declared polythene and plastic-free after a survey on October 2, 2019. To comply with the tag of free from single-use plastic, we have started the initiative, said the Commissioner.Polythene and disposables are not good for the environment, so the residents should cooperate with the administration, he said, adding that the use of single-use plastic was banned and the violation of it may invite a fine of Rs 500 to 25,000. He said they had also established Cloth Bag Banks, from where people could buy a carry bag of cloth for Rs 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bartan-bank-to-discourage-disposables-155942
15-10-2020||Ambala||Woman held for cheating||The district police have arrested another woman in a case of cheating, the officials said here on Wednesday. The police said the Reader to local JMIC had reported that the accused had presented fake documents before a local court to furnish bail bonds. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-held-for-cheating-155944
15-10-2020||---||1 arrested with stolen bee boxes||AMBALA, october 14The district police have arrested Megh Nath of Solan in Himachal Pradesh in a case of theft and claimed to have recovered 65 boxes of stolen honeybee boxes from his possession, the officials said here on Wednesday.The arrested accused was sent to one-day police remand by a local court, the officials added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-arrested-with-stolen-bee-boxes-155947
15-10-2020||Ambala||2 die in Ambala road accident||Two persons died and four were injured when the SUV in which they were travelling turned turtle after hitting a road divider in Haryana’s Ambala district ‘on Wednesday, police said.The vehicle was on the way to Kurukshetra when the accident happened on the Ambala-Delhi National highway. The SUV was crossing near the Ambala flyover when it hit the divider and overturned, police said.The injured were admitted to a hospital in Ambala Cantonment. The bodies of the deceased were handed over to their relatives after post-mortem, police said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-die-in-ambala-road-accident-155948
15-10-2020||Rewari||IGU signs MoU with Ayush varsity||KU Dean of Colleges takes chargeKurukshetra: Kurukshetra University Vice-Chancellor Dr Nita Khanna has appointed Dr Anil Vohra, professor, department of electronic sciences as the dean of colleges. Dr Vohra took over the charge on Wednesday. He is the senior most professor of the university and has served two terms as the dean academic affairs of KU and at present working as the dean research and development in the second term. Prof Vohra has long teaching experience of 30 years and a rich administrative experience.Webinar on Covid’s impact on economyYamunanagar: The postgraduate department of commerce of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, organised a national-level webinar on the theme, “impact of Covid-19 on Indian economy”. Principal of the college, Dr Harinder Singh Kang welcomed speaker Dr Ravi Singla of University School of Applied Management, Punjabi University, Patiala. Dr Singla discussed various aspects of Covid and their impact on the global economy in general and the Indian economy in particular.Nursing students clear testRohtak: As many as 35 students of 2015 batch of BSc (nursing) course at the College of Nursing at Rohtak, PGIMS, have cleared the nursing officer recruitment common eligibility test (NORCET)-2020 conducted for employment as nursing officers at the AIIMS. The nursing college principal, Santosh Hooda, said more than 80,000 candidates had appeared for the eligibility test held on September 8, 2020 and it was a proud moment for the college as 35 of its students had cleared the test. Three students of BTech printing technology 2020 batch passout were placed in a Noida-based company.Off-campus placementHisar: Three students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology have been selected in the off-campus placement drive of Noida-based Creative Offset Printers Pvt Ltd organised by the training and placement cell of the university. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, and Dr Avnesh Verma, registrar of the university, congratulated the selected students. The director (placement), Pratap Singh, said the off-campus placement drive was conducted on the premises of the company in Noida. Total 21 students of BTech printing technology participated in the off-campus drive out in which three final year students got selected. Assistant director Aditya Vir Singh said that selected students were Ajay, Abhishek and Om Prakash from B.Tech printing technology 2020 batch passout.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/igu-signs-mou-with-ayush-varsity-155951
15-10-2020||---||Additional charge for IPS officer||Chandigarh, October 14The Haryana Government has issued transfer and posting orders of one IPS officer.KK Sindhu, Chairman, Haryana Police Housing Corporation, has been given the additional charge of Commandant General, Home Guards and Director Civil Defence, in addition to his present duties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/additional-charge-for-ips-officer-155953
15-10-2020||Perpetual increase of vehicles has led to a perennial problem of parking in the city. The authorities seem to be helpless and have left the general public to fend for themselves||Parking blues due to excessive vehicles||Ramit Bagga,PanchkulaKeep festivals low keyEven as fresh cases of Covid have dropped, the cold weather ahead is expected to cause a big surge. The next three months are extremely crucial. We must know that seasonal virus become more active during this time. It makes sense to have low key, smaller festivals this year. Let us follow all safety measures. The authorities should ensure that all safety guidelines are followed and people cooperate.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaIgnoring advisory on CovidPeople were seen without masks at the vegetable market at Manav Chowk, Ambala City, on Monday. This may prove fatal and dangerous as the weather is changing. The advisory from various sources of the media and SOPs are being ignored. A section of the society, mainly vegetable sellers, is seen not wearing their masks. The administration must have a plan to check the spread of Covid. They must challan those not wearing masks and following SOPs. We hope administration will take cognisance of issue and set the things right.Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityFarmers continue to burn stubbleDespite strict instructions from the government not to burn stubble on farms, farmers continue to do so as if they have no fear of law. The fact is that the farmers know well that they constitute a solid vote bank and no political party can afford to annoy them. So, over the years, the farmers have become stubborn and thus no compensation, no fine can persuade them from not doing so.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parking-blues-due-to-excessive-vehicles-155954
15-10-2020||Ambala||2 held for smuggling liquor||The district police have arrested two persons in separate cases of liquor smuggling and claimed to have recovered 21 bottles of illicit liquor from their possession, the officials said here on Wednesday. According to the police, Raju of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh was held with 12 bottles of illicit liquor while Narinder of Ambala Sadar was caught with 9 bottles of booze. The police have registered separate cases. TNS26 gamblers arrestedCracking the whip against gamblers, the district police have arrested 26 persons found gambling at separate places in the district and claimed to have recovered 47 bottles of liquor, 67 mobile phones and Rs 36,519 cash from their possession, the officials said here on Wednesday. The police have registered separate cases. TNSProclaimed offender heldThe district police have arrested proclaimed offender Ram Singh who was wanted in a criminal case registered against him at Naraingarh police station, the officials said here on Wednesday. The arrested fugitive was remanded in 14-day judicial custody. TNSOne held with drugsThe district police have arrested Ajay Kumar of Ambala Cantonment in a case of smuggling drugs and claimed to have recovered 360 capsules of spasmo proxyvon from his possession, the officials said here on Wednesday. The arrested accused will be produced before a local court tomorrow, the officials added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-held-for-smuggling-liquor-155956
