15-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||Justice Muralidhar elevated as chief justice of Orissa HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15Transferred at “midnight” to the Punjab and Haryana High Court in February from the Delhi High Court in midst of the Delhi violence case hearing, Justice S Muralidhar was on Tuesday elevated as the Chief Justice of the Orissa High Court.The senior-most Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Rajesh Bindal, was also transferred to the country’s oldest High Court, the Calcutta High Court. Currently, the Acting Chief Justice of the Jammu & Kashmir High Court, Justice Bindal joins there as the first pusine Judge or the senior-most Judge after the Chief Justice. The transfers are yet to be notified.Available information suggests Justice Bindal may eventually take over as the Chief Justice there. His name was considered as a viable option as Justice Bindal is senior to another Judge in the Calcutta High Court elevated way back in June 2006. The convention makes it clear that a Judge being transferred to another High Court has to be senior to the ones there.Known for his proficiency in bringing justice closer to people through computerisation, Justice Bindal only about a week back was instrumental in launching of a unique project, in which the post offices in Jammu and Kashmir help in delivering justice. The project uses the pre-existent postal system in 11 districts to allow citizens to register their disputes through the local post offices as well as common service centres.As chairman of a committee constituted by National Legal Services Authority (NALSA), Justice Bindal has already submitted a report on optimal use of technology, including use of Artificial Intelligence.  Justice Bindal was elevated as a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on March 22, 2006, and remained chairman of a committee for framing draft rules for electronic evidence. The report was submitted to the Supreme Court in November 2018.  As chairman of a multi-member committee constituted by the Union Ministry of Women and Child Development to study civil aspects of International Child Abduction Bill-2016,  Justice Bindal submitted report accompanied by the recommendations and draft of the Protection of Children (Inter-Country Removal and Retention) Bill-2018 to the Ministry in April 2018.Before his transfer to High Court of Jammu and Kashmir in November 2018, he disposed of around 80,000 cases.
15-12-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur ||Of 77 water bodies in Faridabad, only 25 can be restored: NGT told||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 15 Once there used to be 77 water bodies in Faridabad district of Haryana, but many of them vanished over the years.Some of them were acquired by the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (earlier known as HUDA) for floating sectors, a few have been converted into burial grounds, at one place there is a public road now, while there are schools, parks, temples, a cowshed and water pumping stations at other sites. This information has been submitted by the Haryana Government to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in a case for restoration of all Faridabad water bodies. The district falls in the dark zone.The government through Haryana Pond and Waste Water Management Authority (HPWWMA) told the NGT that only 25 water bodies could be revived while the remaining 52 have already been encroached upon, including 13 which are under litigation and matters are pending in courts. The NGT was told that at 11 pond sites, the HSVP has either planned or developed Sectors - 58, 59, 61 and 62. There are houses and plots at the sites. The then Chief Minister Bhajan Lal had allotted three sites to Muslim community for burial in 1995 and it was also ordered that the revenue record of the stated land be executed in favour of ‘Ahle-Islam’. At another site, owned by Public Works Department, Bridges and Roads, there is a public road, while 5.31 acre land with water body was allotted to Aggarwal Pracharini Sabha in 1991 and Aggarwal College is running from there for the last 20 years. An ITI college has been running for the last 10 years on a water body site of 5.87 acre.The NGT Bench headed by Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel had on March 5 sought an action taken report in the matter.The HPWWMA, set up in 2018 for revival of water bodies across the state, told the NGT that 25 water bodies could be restored by December 31, 2021 after receipt of administrative approvals and funds.
15-12-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Three students killed in Gurugram road accident||Gurugram, December 15Three students, including a brother-sister duo, were killed while the driver and three others were critically injured when the van they were traveling in was hit by a bus in the Farukhnagar area on Tuesday morning.Some passengers of the bus were also injured in the incident.An FIR has been registered at the Farukhnagar police station and police have impounded the bus but driver managed to flee the spot.According to police, the incident happened around 8:00 am near Kaliyawas Chowk on Gurugram-Farukhnagar road.Six students, in a Maruti Eco Sport, were on their way to college when the van was hit by a speeding Haryana Roadways bus coming from the Gurugram side.Varsha (20) and her brother Akshay (21) died on the spot while Prashant (20) succumbed to his injuries at Medanta hospital a few hours later.The injured have been identified as Vinayak, Muskan, Anju and driver Rajesh Rathi.While Vinayak, Varsha, Akshay and Prashant belong to Lukshar village, Muskan is a resident of Bahadurgarh. Anju belongs to Gajni village in Jhajjar and van driver Rajesh Rathi hails from Majri village.Based on the complaint of van driver, an FIR has been registered against unidentified bus driver under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 304A (causing death by negligence) of IPC at Farrukhnagar police station.The investigating officer said that all the students were studying in SGT University, Chandu Budhera, in nursing and pharmacy streams, except Varsha, who was pursuing physiotherapy.“All the three victims belong to one family of Lukshar village,” said investigating officer sub inspector Joginder Singh.“We handed over the bodies to the kin after the postmortem. We have taken the bus into custody and are searching for the driver,” the officer added.
15-12-2020||---||COVID-19 positive Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij shifted to Gurugram hospital||Covid-positive Anil Vij shifted to Medanta from Rohtak PGIMSRavinder SainiTribune News ServiceRohtak, December 15Health Minister Anil Vij was shifted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram from the PGIMS here on Tuesday evening after no improvement in his health was recorded here.Vij is Covid positive and was admitted to the PGIMS on Sunday night following a lung infection. Initially, he underwent treatment at Civil Hospital in Ambala Cantt.Vij was given plasma therapy yesterday and his vital parameters were told as normal in the health bulletin issued by the PGIMS authorities late on Monday evening. A team of the PGIMS, including doctor, nurse and other officials, has also left for Gurugram with the minister. “Anil is not well hence he has been shifted to Medanta. No improvement in his condition has been witnessed despite the best treatment and facilities extended by the PGIMS doctors to him. The decision to take him to Medanta has been taken by the family members. However, he is responding well,” said Rajendra Vij, brother of Anil Vij.The health minister tested Covid positive days after getting a shot of Covid vaccine.
15-12-2020||Sonepat||Won’t back down, will send our written response to Centre tomorrow, say farmers’ unions||Farmers’ unions have said they would send their written response to the central government’s latest proposal on Monday---a development that comes days after the fifth round of talks between the central government and the protesters remained inconclusive.Farmers unions addressed the press after a massive day-long hunger strike they undertook as part of the protest against three controversial laws that farmers have been protesting since September.“Our Monday demonstration in 350 districts across country was successful. 150 toll plazas were also made 'free' by farmers,” Union leaders who addressed the press at Singhu Border. The main sticking point for the two parties is the central government’s refusal to repeal the three laws. Farmers say they will not climb down from that demand.   “Government is saying they won't repeal these laws, we are saying we will make you do it,” a union leader Jagjeet Dallewal said. “We are not running away from negotiation, but government has to pay heed to our demands and come forward with concrete proposals,” another union leader said.They are determined to go on until their demands are met, the leaders said.“The fight has reached a stage where we are determined to win it no matter what,” they said.The unions have also decided to hold ‘shradhanjali’ (dedication) to the 20 protesters who have died since their protests began. This shrandhanjali will be given in every village across the country on December 20, some leaders said.“Around 20 farmers become 'shaheed' during protest so far. On an average, one farmer has died every day since protest started,” leaders said.“People across villages and blocks to pay tribute on December 20 to farmers who lost their lives during agitation,” a leader, Inderjeet, told the press. --- With PTI
15-12-2020||---||Cold wave conditions likely over Punjab and Haryana in next 4 days||New Delhi, December 15Cold wave conditions are very likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during next four days, the IMD has said on Tuesday.The weather office said severe cold wave conditions were also likely in isolated pockets of the region on December 18 and 19.Dense fog in isolated pockets is also very likely over Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, North Rajasthan, Bihar and Haryana during night/morning on Wednesday.Besides, under the influence of an easterly wave, scattered to fairly widespread rain or thundershowers are very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry & Karaikal, Kerala & Mahe and Lakshadweep area during December 16 and 19, the IMD has said.Some parts may also witness heavy falls on December 17 and 18, the IMD added.
15-12-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram hospitals told to reserve 35% ICU beds for Covid patients||In view of the surge in Covid cases in the district, the Gurugram administration on Tuesday asked all private and public hospitals to reserve 35 per cent of their total bed capacity in ICU/ventilator for corona patients.The data of the available beds will have to be uploaded on the platform 'onemapggm.gmda.gov.in' of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) by the hospitals.The order was issued under the Epidemic Diseases Act,1897 and sub-section-2 of the Disaster Management Act-2005."We have asked all the hospitals to provide services including human resources and logistics, i.e., doctors, paramedical staff, medicine, ICU, ambulance, etc. Apart from this information about the number of patients and available beds, etc., will be updated on a daily basis on the GMDA platform," said Amit Khatri, District Magistrate Gurugram.The district on Monday recorded 197 fresh coronavirus cases. One death was also reported from the city, taking the district's COVID-19 toll to 332, officials said. The health department also said out of 332 deaths, 259 died due to comorbidities.The Covid-19 tally in Gurugram has now risen to 54,802, according to the official daily health bulletin, including 2,156 active cases. IANS
15-12-2020||Karnal/Chandigarh||4 farmers returning from protest sites near Delhi killed in two separate accidents||Four Punjab farmers returning from protest sites near Delhi borders were killed in two separate road accidents on Tuesday.In the first incident, two farmers were killed and four others were injured after a truck hit their tractor-trolley near Taraori flyover in Karnal in the wee hours of Tuesday.The farmers were returning to Patiala in Punjab from Singhu border after participating in the protest against the contentious farm laws.The deceased have been identified as Gurpreet Singh (24) and Labh Singh (65), from Safera village in Patiala district. As per the farmers, Gurpreet died on the spot, while Labh Singh died in Patiala.Taraori police station’s SHO Inspector Sachin said one of the farmers travelling in the tractor trolley told police that the truck driver appeared to have fallen asleep behind the wheels which led to the accident.The truck driver managed to flee from the spot, he said, adding a case under relevant provisions of law has been registered in connection with the incident.“The farmers were returning from Delhi. They belonged to Saphera under Sadar police station in Patiala,” he said.In another road mishap, two more Punjab farmers died while seven others injured when their vehicle collided with a truck near Bhagomajra in Mohali on Tuesday, officials said.Deceased Deep Singh was a resident of Mohali district while Sukhdev Singh Dadiana was a native of Fatehgarh Sahib district.Out of the injured farmers, four, who were wounded seriously, have been referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and a government hospital in Chandigarh, said officials.Three others were admitted to a hospital in Mohali, they said.Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu met the injured farmers.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere have been protesting at various border points of Delhi including Singhu and Tikri for over a fortnight demanding the repeal of three new farm laws of the Centre. — With PTI
15-12-2020||There is no end to the plight of residents of Shahabad. The GT Road overpass has created many problems for the people. The underpass of Ladwa Road under the GT Road is very difficult to pass. It is full of potholes and water accumulates as soon as it rains. Last night||No end to residents’ plight in Shahabad||Dr Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaRegular hearings must begin gradually in lower courtsThe Covid epidemic has forced courts to adopt technology on a large scale. The lower courts of the country are also adopting this tradition of the Supreme Court, which started virtual hearing. There are 3,288 court complexes across the country, out of which the government now has released funds to build "video-conferencing cabins" in 2,506 court complexes and 1,500 additional video-conferencing licenses of High Court and district courts. But the government should also consider that cases pending in lower courts across the country cannot be dealt with online hearings only by creating "video-conferencing cabins". To provide quick and accessible justice to the needy, regular hearings should be started gradually in the lower courts, following Covid rules, otherwise the cases will be pending in the courts.Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaGarbage being dumped in Shastri NagarLong ago, this used to be a pond around which Shastri Nagar locality existed. But having no garbage dumping site available in Narwana, the people and staff of Municipal Committee started dumping entire garbage here. Gradually, the entire site has turned into a heap of garbage. The pond has just vanished and the pungent stink from the garbage emanates throughout the day. In fact, the MC is finding itself helpless, as there is no alternative dumping site available at the moment. In the public interest, some solution should be found out soon.Ramesh Gupta, narwana
15-12-2020||Karnal||Induction,orientation programme||Retd dons’ body convenes meetYamunanagar: Dr Balbir Singh, general secretary of the Retired College Principals and Teachers Federation (RCPTF), convened the first meeting of the newly elected governing body through video-conferencing at Yamunanagar. The new office-bearers include Prof RP Sahni, vice president, and secretaries Dr Ishar Singh and Dr RL Saini. Three committees -- advisory committee, constitution amendment committee and discipline committee -- were formed and Dr SB Dixit, Dr DP Asija and Dr Yog Raj Bhatia were made their conveners. The meeting was attended by Dr Mehtab Singh, Dr RK Gaur, Dr Anirudh Bharti, Dr KV Sharma and Dr RP Singh. It was presided over by Dr AS Malhotra, president of the federation.Post-Covid job scenario discussedYamunanagar: DAV College for Girls, Yamunanagar, conducted an online programme on “Post Covid Job Opportunities and Corporate Expectations”, under the supervision of Principal Dr Abha Khetarpal and Dr Rachna Soni, head of Department of Computer Science and Applications. The resourceperson of the programme was Vaibhav Mehnidratta, who discussed the current scenario of employment in the country after the pandemic. He suggested several activities through which students could increase their knowledge regarding new business and technology trends. Later, he took queries from students. About 200 students joined the session.
15-12-2020||
||200 farmers donate blood at Singhu||Sonepat, December 14 A total of 200 farmers protesting against the three farm laws donated blood here on Monday. The blood donation camp was organised by the United Sikhs India, a social organisation. Pritam Singh, a member of the organisation, said they had been holding a medical camp at the Singhu border since November 28 and providing medicines to farmers. He said around 200 units of blood had been collected till 1 pm. Kamaljeet of Moga, a blood donor, said he and other farmers of his village had reached the Singhu border on November 28. Varyam Singh of Ludhiana said it was a matter of pride to be a part of the fight for rights and blood donation was the need of the hour. Another social organisation, the Medical Service Centre, had been holding a medical camp here for the past 12 days. Dr Anshuman Mitra, a member of the organisation, said they had been providing medical support to between 200 and 300 farmers every day. A group from Batta village in Patiala district, led by Ranjeet Singh and Jaspreet Singh, brought items of daily use like toothpaste, toothbrushes, soaps, paper soap, washing powder and biscuits for the protesting farmers.
15-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Protesters grow vegetables on Tikri highway||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 14Protesting farmers from Punjab have started growing vegetables such as coriander, spinach, raddish and cauliflower on the divider of the Rohtak-Delhi highway in Bahadurgarh, sending out a message to the Centre that they are in for a long haul.They have been camping in the open along the 10-km stretch starting from the Jakhoda bypass in Bahadurgarh to the Tikri border for the past 18 days.Termendra Sandhu of Sangrur district said, “We were facing shortage of coriander. As the soil on the divider is fertile, we informed our friends in the village to bring vegetable seeds.”He further said the Modi government was testing farmers’ patience by not accepting their demand for rolling back farm laws. “By growing vegetables, we want to give a message to the Centre that we are not returning anytime sooner. No doubt, people of Haryana have been generous and providing us with vegetables and other food items. But growing vegetable is a form of protest as well.”Karamjit Singh, another farmer, said they did not damage any plant already grown on the divider. “We tied the already grown plants and made space to sow seeds. It’s our kitchen garden. We irrigate it daily and protect it from stray animals. The vegetables will be ready to consume within 20 to 25 days,” he added.Taranjeet Singh, another farmer, said: “We are food producers. The Centre should not make a mistake by underestimating us. More vegetables will be grown on the divider.”
15-12-2020||---||Leaders hold day-long fast at borders||Sonepat/Jhajjar, December 14Day 18 of the farmers’ protest saw leaders of 32 organisations sitting on a fast at the Singhu border (NH-44) against the Centre’s new farm laws.Harender Singh Lakhowal, state convener, BKU (Lakhowal), said farmers’ single-point demand was the revocation of the “black laws”. “We will not bow down till our demand is met.”Leaders who sat on fast included Gurnam Singh Charuni, Harinder Singh Lakhowal, Surjeet Singh Phool, Jangveer Singh, Harmeet Singh Kadian, Ruldu Singh, Bhaog Singh and Manjeet Singh Rai.At the Tikri border, meanwhile, 18 farmers — 12 from Punjab and six from Haryana — observed a fast on the call given by the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha.“One representative from each of the 18 organisations took part in the hunger strike to show that all organisations are united. A message has been sent out to the Centre that its desperate attempts to cause a rift among us are not going to succeed,” said Inderjit Singh, vice-president, All India Kisan Sabha.Farmers and representatives of the Gulia khap protested at the Mini-secretariat in Jhajjar. The district administration had placed barricades to prevent the protesters from entering the premises, but they breached the barricades and entered the building.Later, they submitted a memorandum, addressed to the President, to the district administration, demanding cancellation of the three farm laws.Karnal: On the call of given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, scores of farmers staged dharna outside the Mini-Secretariat in Karnal and Kaithal districts. Several political, social and employees’ associations extended support to farmers.Farmers appealed to other sections of society to support their movement for a complete rollback of the laws. They accused the Centre of dilly-dallying on their demand.Sewa Singh Arya, national vice-president, Bharatiya Kisan Union, said: “All farmers are united. The Centre should revoke the ‘black’ laws for the larger interest of the farmers.”Ajay Rana, district president, BKU (Charuni), said the Centre was not taking their demand seriously and forcing them to continue protest at the Delhi borders. “The government should take the laws back,” he added. A heavy posse of police was deployed to maintain law and order.Rohtak: Representatives of several organisations under the aegis of the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha staged dharna outside the DC’s residence here on Monday.Congress MLA from Rohtak Bharat Bhushan Batra and former Meham MLA Anand Singh Dangi also joined the dharna and expressed their solidarity with the protesting farmers.
15-12-2020||Hisar||Probe begins in Sirsa gangrape-murder case||The Sirsa police have started investigation in an alleged case of gangrape and murder of a minor girl in a village by two youths. The police said they were investigating the case on the basis of the complaint filed by the family of the victim. According to information, the girl was alone at the house when two persons — one of them identified as the brother-in-law of the girl’s fiancé and his friend — reportedly raped the girl and then hanged her from the ceiling fan in the room and fled. The girl’s brother spotted the body hanging from the fan when he returned home. — TNS
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Now, no action on anonymous complaints||The Haryana Government has decided not to take any action on anonymous and pseudonymous complaints against government officials. An order issued by the Chief Secretary said a large number of anonymous/pseudonymous complaints were submitted to the government, often to blackmail and intimidate the honest officials. The public servants, who receive such complaints, usually order an inquiry into these, the order said. Such complaints were engineered when a government servant’s promotion was due, so as to delay the promotion, thus demoralising honest government servants. These complaints should be ignored. Besides, complaints containing vague allegations should be filed without verification of the identity of the complainant, the order added. — TNS
15-12-2020||Our Correspondent 
||Pataudi cloth trader robbed of ~2 lakh, employee shot at||Gurugram, December 14 A businessman was allegedly robbed of Rs 2 lakh in Pataudi by two motorcycle-borne assailants armed with a pistol. The accused also shot at one of his employees, Mohit, in the leg after he tried to stop them from escaping with the money.  An FIR has been registered at the Pataudi police station. The incident was caught on the CCTV camera and the police is examining the footage to identify the robbers.  Businessman Ramesh Kumar Goyal, a resident of Pataudi, owns a cloth shop in Pataudi. He told the police in his complaint that it was on Sunday around 7.20 pm after shutting his shop he put a bag containing Rs 2 lakh on his scooter. When he was returning, two unidentified armed men snatched his bag and fled. “Two of my employees, Kundan and Mohit, who were present at the spot, caught one of the accused, but the other accused took out his pistol and shot Mohit in the leg and fled with the money,” Goyal told the police. Mohit was rushed to a government hospital in Pataudi where he is under treatment. “We have formed a special team and the CCTV footage is being scanned. A further probe is on and we hope that the accused will be nabbed soon. A case under the IPC has been registered against the two unidentified men at the Pataudi police station,” said Veer Singh, ACP, Pataudi.
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Special publicity cell chief sacked||The state on Monday removed Rocky Mittal, alias Jai Bhagwan, from the post of chairman of the special publicity cell. Dheera Khandelwal, Additional Chief Secretary, Information, Public Relations and Languages, passed the order. He was sacked earlier as well, but returned after five months. — TNS
15-12-2020||Sanjay Yadav 
||Accused’s phones active near college, court told||Gurugram, December 14 Supporting the allegations that Nikita’s murder was a pre-planned crime, the mobile phones of the accused were active near the victim’s college and home four days prior to the incident. Presented as witness in the case being heard in the fast-track court, Airtel nodal officer Surender Singh said onday of the murder, the mobile phones of the key accused — Tausif and his friend — were active near Aggarwal College, Ballabhgarh.  He clarified that while it was easy to identify the area with the mobile tower but not the exact location. The mobile records presented by the SIT highlighted that Tausif’s mobile phone was active on October, 18, 22, 24, 26. Nikita’s counsel Aidal Singh said this proved, he was doing recee.  Meanwhile Krishan Kant, principal of Aggarwal College, clerk Pradeep Kumar and photographer Shyam Singh testified Tausif’s presence at the crime scene that day.  Accused Tausif’s lawyer moved the High Court, alleging communal bias in investigation. Defense lawyer Anees Khan said Tausif and his associates were being tortured in the jail in the name of security. He alleged that the authorities were violating human rights in the case. The hearing on the application is on Tuesday.
15-12-2020||Saurabh Malik
||Book cops not securing CCTV footage in crime cases, rules HC||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 14 In a significant judgment liable to change the way criminal cases are investigated, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that CCTV footage, whenever available, is required to be obtained during probe. The HC also made it clear that FIR for knowingly disobeying the direction of law was required to be registered under Section 166A of the IPC against the defaulting investigating officer in case of omission. Directions were issued in the matter to the Haryana DGP. He was asked to issue appropriate instructions to Commissioners and Superintendents of Police to exercise effective supervision in this regard on officials posted in their districts. Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi stated that it was required to be ensured that CCTV footage was obtained from the source, along with requisite certificate under Section 65B of the Evidence Act, in accordance with the law in every case wherever it was claimed to be available. The directions by Justice Tyagi came during the hearing of a regular bail plea filed by Rahul through counsel Aditya Sanghi in a case where a person sustained grievous injury with a sharp-edged weapon. Justice Tyagi observed that the investigating officer did not obtain CCTV footage of the occurrence captured on a camera installed in the vicinity, along with requisite certificate under Section 65-B of the Evidence Act. Justice Tyagi noted that although departmental action had been initiated against the investigating officer, the same in one or more such cases was not a remedy for the damage to the cause of justice. “Steps are required to be taken to ensure that such lapses do not occur again and again,” Justice Tyagi pointed out. Making clear the Bench’s intent to monitor the compliance of directions, Justice Tyagi directed the forwarding of the order to the DGP. “Compliance report be sent to this court along with a copy of the instructions so issued within a month from receiving the order’s copy,” he concluded.
15-12-2020||Chandigarh||Govt software for ads, payment to media houses out||The state launched enterprise resources planning (ERP) software on Monday for efficiency in releasing government advertisements and payment to media houses. CM Manohar Lal Khattar said after the launch of the software, release orders and payment of advertisement bills would be done through the online mode within 30 days of the submission of bills. This system would be made operational from Tuesday. Interacting virtually with representatives of various media houses, Khattar requested them to send the list of pending bills to the department by March 31.  With the launch of this software, any government department or organisation will be able to make online request for advertisements to the Information, Public Relations and Languages Department.  As per requests received, a media plan will be generated online. The approval of a media plan for print media and generation of a release order will be done as per the online workflow. This software had been developed in house with the help of the NIC. — TNS
15-12-2020||
||MC poll: INLD opts out, it’s BJP-JJP vs Congress||Chandigarh/rohtak, Dec 14 With the INLD opting out of the December 27 municipal poll, including election to the municipal corporations of Panchkula, Ambala and Sonepat, the stage is set for a direct fight between the BJP-JJP and the Congress. In fact, they will be face to face in the electoral battle in less than two months after the November 3 Baroda bypoll, in which the ruling alliance had to bite the dust. Meanwhile, INLD leader and lone MLA Abhay Chautala on Monday announced that the party would boycott the MC poll in solidarity with the farmers’ stir against three laws. With the anti BJP-JJP sentiments ruling the roost in the wake of the farmers’ stir, the Congress will endeavour to maintain its winning streak of the Baroda bypoll. However, for the ruling alliance, which is banking on development, it would be an opportunity to avenge its Baroda defeat. While the BJP is an old warhouse in the civic body election, having a sizeable vote bank in urban areas, the JJP is contesting the poll for the first time in the state. The JJP, formed nearly two years ago after a split in the INLD, emerged as the kingmaker in the 2019 Vidhan Sabha poll, winning 10 seats relegating its parent party to just one seat. The JJP, which is considered to be a party having major presence in rural areas only, is looking to expand its influence to urban areas now. While the Mayoral posts in Panchkula, Ambala and Sonepat have been allocated to the BJP candidates, the JJP has been given about 25 per cent share in all civic bodies. Meanwhile, Balraj Kundu, Independent MLA from Meham, on Monday announced to form Jan Sevak Manch to raise the voice of farmers, labourers, employees, traders and jobless youth of the state.  Interacting with the media in Rohtak, Kundu said: “It will be a platform where people of every section will be able to express their views fearlessly.” He also announced to field Sandeep Rana as the Manch nominee for the post of Mayor in the Sonepat MC poll.
15-12-2020||---||Gita mahotsav from Dec 17||
15-12-2020||  ||BJP MPs, MLAs call on Tomar, raise SYL||BOX--- The issue  The demand for the SYL has been reinvigorated by the legislators of the ruling party in Haryana at a time when the farmers of Punjab are in the vanguard of the agitation against the farm laws. The SYL has traditionally hyphenated Haryana and Punjab in a dispute. The issue has been dominating political discourse and agriculture dialectics in both the states, especially during elections.    Ravi S Singh Tribune News Service New Delhi, December 14 In the midst of the farmers' agitation against the three farm laws, BJP MPs and MLAs from Haryana on Monday submitted a memorandum to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. They also sought the Centre's intervention for early completion of the stalled Sutlej-Yamuna-Link (SYL) canal project and urged the ministers to expedite construction work for the three dams -- Renuka, Lakhawar and Kisau -- on upper reaches of the Yamuna river, which aim to provide water to six states, including Haryana. The demand for the SYL has been reinvigorated by the legislators of the ruling party in Haryana at a time when the farmers of Punjab are in the vanguard of the agitation against the farm laws. The SYL has traditionally hyphenated Haryana and Punjab in a dispute. The issue has been dominating political discourse and agriculture dialectics in both the states, especially during elections. While the delegation met Tomar and submitted the memorandum, they submitted a copy of it to Shekhawat vide Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti, Rattan Lal Kataria. Giving details of their meeting with Tomar, MP Dharambir Singh said they told the minister that Haryana must get its share of 19 lakh acre feet from the Ravi to Beas. The state has not been getting water for the past 45 years. "The importance of the river water meant for irrigation is no less than that of MSP," the leaders said in the memorandum. "Hence, the share of Haryana farmers’ water from Punjab must be provided to them so that fields of the state remain verdant green," the memorandum added. Dharambir said a delegation of the legislators would meet Shekhawat tomorrow, as he was out of town today. BJP MPs Nayab Singh Saini, Sunita Duggal, Arvind Sharma and General (retd) DP Vats, among others, were present when Dharambir briefed reporters about their meeting with Tomar. He said with regard to the farm laws, the delegation of BJP leaders thanked the Centre for acceding to the suggestions of "progressive" farmers. They urged him to allocate more Central funds and assistance to Haryana to help set up cold storages and cold chains to encourage horticulture and crop diversification. The legislators said they were in favour of continuance of the present MSP and mandi system. "We thank the Union government for giving written assurance in the matter," they told Tomar during the meeting. Rattan Lal Kataria, who represents the Ambala Lok Sabha seat, backed the legislators’ demand on SYL. He said the Narendra Modi government was sincere in its efforts to improve the farmers’ position and double their income. "The farm laws are with good intention, but Congress and political adversaries have ‘high-jacked’ the agitation and are ‘misleading’ the farmers. The government has tried to provide an alternative to farmers to sell their produce, while keeping the old MSP and the mandi system intact. The farmers have their concerns but issues can be resolved through dialogue," Kataria said, and expressed resentment at ‘some’ elements raising slogans of Khalistan in the name of farmers’ agitation. "It seems some forces in the country and abroad are working to defame the Narendra Modi government, but they will not be allowed to succeed," he maintained. Taking a jibe at the Punjab Assembly negating the farm laws, Kataria said: "It was because the MSP relates to only rice and wheat in Punjab, of which 80 per cent is provided by the Centre."
15-12-2020||Sushil Manav||7-wk low, 8,496 cases in 7 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 14Fresh Covid cases being reported in Haryana have been witnessing a continuous decline for the past three weeks and the numbers reported last week are at a seven-week low. The state reported 8,496 cases from December 7 to 13 compared to 11,374 cases from November 30 to December 6.The new cases recorded last week were almost equal to weekly cases witnessed in October, when 8,277 cases were reported from October 5 to 11, 7,878 cases from October 12 to 18 and 8,271 cases from October 19 to 25.There was a surge in new infections after October 25 as 10,576 cases were reported from October 26 to November 1, 13,924 cases from November 2 to 8, 17,070 cases from November 9 to 15, 17,426 cases from November 16 to 22 and 15,222 cases from November 23 to 29.“A third wave was witnessed in the state in October-end and November, when the number of fresh cases rose sharply in some districts, particularly Gurugram and Faridabad. We were able to bring down infections by increasing testing and isolating the infected. We are now testing 30,000 persons daily, on an average,” said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare.He clarified that the decrease in numbers did not mean that the infection had been controlled and warned that the number of cases might rise anytime if people failed to take precautions. The first wave was witnessed in May-end and June and the second wave in September.
15-12-2020||---||16 succumb to virus; 993 fresh cases||Chandigarh, December 14With 993 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the states reached 2,53,385 on Monday. The death toll went up to 2,733 with 16 more deaths.Gurugram reported a maximum of 197 cases, followed by Faridabad (175), Rohtak (99) and Rewari (62).A maximum of four deaths were reported from Hisar, followed by Panipat (3), Sonepat, Fatehabad and Rohtak (2 each) and Gurugram, Ambala and Jhajjar (1 each).----------------------------------------------------------------Covid-19 cases: district wise-countDistrict. Cases DeathsGurugram. 54816 332Faridabad. 44086 385Sonepat 14077 73Jhajjar. 5550 72Nuh. 163 30Panipat. 10087 137Ambala. 11065 137Palwal. 4249 23Panchkula. 9496. 135Karnal. 10331 142Jind. 4447 86Mahendragarh. 6475 17Rohtak. 11738 143Kurukshetra. 8244 117Rewari. 11074 65Hisar. 16554 298Sirsa. 7743 111Yamunanagar. 6023 123Bhiwani. 6074 130Fatehabad. 4549 109Kaithal. 3655 48Charkhi Dadri. 1422 20Italians. 14Foreign returnees. . 21Total. 253385 2733
15-12-2020||---||Manesar land scam: HC stays orders summoning Arora||Chandigarh, December 14In a major reprieve for Haryana Additional Chief Secretary (Home-cum-Health) Rajeev Arora, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed the summoning order issued by the Panchkula CBI Special Court against him in the alleged Manesar land scam. Taking up the matter, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan also fixed April 30 as the next date of hearing in the matter. The order was not yet available. The special court had summoned Arora to face trial and appear on December 17. Arora, through senior advocates Sidharth Luthra, Vinod Ghai and counsel Viraj Gandhi, contended that the petitioner was serving as an IAS officer and posted as the Additional Chief Secretary since 2017.It was contended that the trial court order was completely without jurisdiction and ex-facie illegal. The trial court completely erred in resorting to the provisions of Section 193 of the CrPC, which was no longer available, since the matter was listed for the consideration/arguments of charge. The provision deals cognisance of offences, by the Courts of Session. It was added that the trial court also exceeded its jurisdiction by directing the CBI to place the alleged incriminating material before the sanctioning authority and obtain sanction under Section 19 of the PC Act, against the petitioner, which was contrary to the law laid down by the apex court in case of Mansukhlal Vithaldas Chauhan vs State of Gujrat, read the petition.
