16-04-2020||Nitin Jain||Covid-19: Haryana doctors refuse double salary, seek safety gear||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, April 16Haryana Civil Medical Services (HCMS) Association on Thursday announced not to take double basic salary offered by the state government.“As per the email received from the state headquarters, the benefit of double basic salary will be applicable to the doctors working at isolation wards, ICUs, and sampling for Covid. Giving benefit to few doctors will demoralise the entire HCMS cadre. In view of this, HCMS Association has decided not to take the double basic salary on this pattern,” association general secretary Dr Rajesh Sheokand said in a letter addressed to the Health Minister Anil Vij.Releasing the copy of the letter, here today, the association senior vice-president Dr Sheel Kant Pajni, who is posted Ambala Cantonment Civil Hospital SMO, said the Health Minister has been apprised that all the HCMS doctors posted in civil hospitals, civil surgeon offices, SDHs, PHCs, UHCs, UPHCs, poly clinics and all other dispensaries of State Health Department were doing their duties and involved directly or indirectly in various activities to control Covid pandemic.“The doctors were involved in duties like screening, treatment, sampling, testing, active field surveillance, treatment at quarantine centres, treatment of migrant labour, IPD (isolation wards), OPDs, emergency services, and mobile teams. The doctors posted at isolation wards, ICUs and sampling section were using PPE kits but the other doctors on duty were dealing with the patients without having N95 masks and PPE kits and hence, they were on higher risk because they don’t know which patient was Covid positive or not,” the HCMS Association further wrote.The HCMS doctors further stated that the double basic salary was the offer made the Chief Minister and they had never demanded it. “It is our moral duty to save the lives of ailing humanity. We are ready to work even without double salary, but with proper safety gears like N95 masks and PPE kits to protect all the doctors out on duty,” they submitted.The Association demanded that the state government should provide the HCMS doctors sufficient medicines, ventilators and safety gears in place of double salary.
16-04-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||COVID-19: Faridabad police using drones to curtail lockdown violations||Out to curtail rampant lockdown violations in small pockets of Faridabad, the police have deployed hi-tech drones to patrol vulnerable areas and help identify the lockdown violators.The cameras with night vision facility will not only allow police to increase response time in case of any disturbance in lockdown but recording facility will be an aid in identifying and penalising violators and also provide necessary evidence as and when required.  One of the Covid hotspots, Faridabad has so far reported 33 positive cases. While 11 have been discharged after treatment, over 1200 are still on surveillance. Faridabad police commissioner IG KK Rao told The Tribune that these drones are capable of recording movements in public areas stretching to many kilometres.“We are also making announcement through the drones today evening that no one will step out of homes without a valid reason. By these drones we are able to cover more area in a short time. Drones also have police siren which will be deterrent and reminder the police is watching,” said CP Rao.Rao added that special attention is being paid to containment zones. FIR will be registered against the violators and action will be taken as per the law.“Through these drones we can not only do a surveillance of the area but also capture miscreants involved in illegal activity like liquor smuggling, betting and others criminal activities,” added KK Rao.
16-04-2020||Hisar||Jind cop assaults wife with pestle at Hisar residential area, kills her||A police constable assaulted his wife with a pestle leading to her death in Hisar on Thursday.The constable was posted as a gunman with the Jind DSP.The accused has been identified as Vikram. He hails from Dewas village in Bhiwani district and was residing in a rented accommodation in the Housing Board locality on the Sirsa road in Hisar.The cop returned home in a drunk condition, which reportedly led to an agrument between the couple on Wednesday night.Police said that the couple again engaged in scuffle on Thursday morning after which Vikram attacked his wife with pestle meant for grinding 'chutni'. She suffered severe injuries which led to her death on the spot. The couple got married five years ago and have a three-and-a-half-year-old son.The police spokesperson said that the accused informed his in-laws about the incident and later called the local police.The police rushed to the spot and arrested the cop who was present in the house.
16-04-2020||The police have booked two girls for allegedly violating home-quarantine order in Dhand village of Kaithal district. A police spokesperson said the girls came to Kurukshetra from Dehradun (Uttarakhand)||KAITHAL 2 girls violate quarantine order||Faridabad 31 held for lockdown violationThe Faridabad police have arrested 31 persons for violating the lockdown orders in the past 24 hours. A spokesperson of the Police Department said the violations had been detected during the checking at the barricades set up at various points in the city and district. He said all those booked were found roaming without purpose or involved in activities banned during the lockdown. Total 19 cases have been registered under various sections of the IPC. TNSSONEPAT Mobile hospital on 10 minibusesThe district health authorities have converted 10 minibuses of the Sonepat Roadways Depot into mobile hospitals to treat people in their localities. As per Dr BK Rajora, Civil Surgeon, seven mobile health teams will treat patients in villages and 3 in urban localities of the town. He said every mobile hospital would have a 7-member team of medical staff and treatment would continue for 10 days initially. Anyone found suspected for Covid will be sent to the Civil Hospital, he said. OCJhajjar Cops honoured with surahiResidents of Chhawani colony on Wednesday honoured cops by presenting them surahi (earthenware water pitcher) for discharging their duty during the lockdown in an efficient manner. They also garlanded them as a gesture of respect. “Like doctors and other supportive staff, the cops are also the true Covid warriors as they are not only helping the medical staff to bring the patients to the hospital but also working round-the-clock to ensure the success of lockdown. So, we have honoured them,” said Krishna Devi, a local. TNSChD Teachers to download ‘Aarogya Setu’The School Education Department has directed teachers of private and government schools in the state to download the ‘Aarogya Setu’ app. A spokesman said DEOs and DEEOs had been directed to ask heads of all government and private schools of the state to download the app in their mobile phones and ensure teachers working under them do the same. He said information in the app would go a long in preventing infection among the teaching community. TNSSonepat Women prisoners make 2K masksOn the initiative of Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Tayyab Hussain, women prisoners at the district jail made 2,000 face masks from cloth donated by him. Hussain gave 200 masks to prisoners and jail staff and distributed 1,800 among 200-odd labourers and their family members staying near the district court areas. Additional District and Session Judge, Panipat, Nishant Sharma also donated cloth for preparing of 2,000 face masks. TNS
16-04-2020||Jhajjar||Jhajjar vendors get passes for home delivery||The district administration has classified grocery and vegetable vendors into 306 groups and collective passes have been issued to them to streamline delivery of groceries, vegetables and fruits on the doorstep of residents. The move aims at preventing overcrowding at grocery and vegetable shops in the district which has no Covid case so far despite its proximity to Delhi and Gurugram, considered as sensitive zones. Mobile phone numbers of these registered grocery and vegetable vendors have also been released for the residents’ benefit. “All efforts have been made since the beginning of the outbreak to keep Jhajjar safe from Covid. A survey of about 75,000 labourers and 6,500 brick-kiln workers was conducted across the district, which helped the administration keep a tab on them. As many as 1,200 migrant workers, including children and women, are staying in 24 shelter homes in Jhajjar, Beri, Bahadurgarh and Badli in the district since the lockdown began,” said a spokesman of the administration. — TNS
16-04-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram residents falling prey to imposters selling liquor online||Gurugram, April 15While crime may be at an all-time low due to the ongoing lockdown, but many people in Gurugram are still being duped on the pretext of home delivery of liquor.Various liquor vend owners have taken to social media, alerting people that a group of fraudsters are duping people by impersonating as vend employees. ARRESTS & RECOVERIES MADE TILL APRIL 12“We have got many complaints that some people are identifying themselves as the employees of Discovery Vines and getting money transferred online and promising home delivery of liquor. We are not operational as of now and want to caution you against frauds,” Discovery Wines issued a warning online.The fraudsters active on the social media upload their rate list of various brands and assure delivery within six hours.“I had ordered a carton for Rs15,000 on Facebook and the person asked me to Paytm him the amount. I did transfer the amount but soon the number was switched off. I could not even go to the police as I was myself involved in smuggling,” said a Sector 56 resident.Police spokesperson Subhash Bokan said during the lockdown, 20 cases under the Excise Act were registered.Notably, liquor smuggling has spiked in Gurugram post the closure of wine shops. The liquor is being sold thrice the price and according to sources, people with lockdown exemption for essential services are delivering the same. Special WatsApp groups have been created, where people are posting their requirements and liquor is being delivered on doorstep.
16-04-2020||Nitish Sharma||In Kurukshetra, app to cater to essential needs of locals||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, April 15The National Informatics Centre (NIC), Kurukshetra, has developed a mobile app ‘eMarket Kurukshetra’ to ensure residents get groceries, medicines, vegetables and dairy products on the doorstep. Soon, they’ll also be able to order books through it.Only essential service providers who have agreed to home delivery will be found on the app. Thanesar has been divided into nine sectors, while the remaining areas including Ladwa, Pehowa, Shahabad and Ismailabad have been identified as one zone each.How it works Technical director-cum-DIO, Kurukshetra, Vinod Singla said, “The app has been developed on the DC’s directions, in which four options of goods is provided. These are medical, grocery, fruit, vegetable and bakery, dairy. The option to order books for students is also being included.”He said the app was available on Google Play Store and a team had been appointed to identify more essential service providers. A feedback feature allows users to share their experience and the service provider will be removed if found unsatisfactory.“The app is being shared with locals and shopkeepers are also being motivated to promote it as it will continue even after the lockdown.”
16-04-2020||Rewari||‘Neglected’, dental surgeons seek double pay||Dental surgeons engaged in the fight against Covid  are allegedly feeling neglected, claiming that they were not being considered for the double pay announced by the state for doctors and nurses serving the Covid patients. The Haryana Civil Dental Surgeon Association has written to Health Minister Anil Vij and demanded double salary, stating that they too were performing their duties as frontline warriors across the state. “We are not only discharging the duty of screening, sample collection of Covid suspected , positive patients and nodal officers, but also working in isolation wards, quarantine centres, mobile health and helpline teams. Even, several senior dental surgeons are now Nodal Officers at dedicated hospitals for Covid, hence they too are exposed to Covid-positive patients like other doctors and supportive staff,” Inderjit Yadav, association chief, told The Tribune. When contacted, Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General (Health Services), said the state would decide who would get the incentive of double salary. — TNS
16-04-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Strict lockdown contains spread in Panipat||Tribune News ServicePanipat, April 15Covid had made its foray into Panipat with a 21-year-old youth of Model Town testing positive on March 18 and three others too testing positive within a week in the district. However, the district administration’s swift and strict action has resulted in averting the Covid spread.Deputy Commissioner Hema Sharma said Panipat was a sensitive district because it was an industrial town and a business city with a large number of migrant labourers working in textile industries. Hence, the officers were directed for the strict enforcement of lockdown rules in the district, which played a vital role to stop Covid spread, the DC added.ONLY 1 ACTIVE COVID CASE IN DISTRICT AS OF NOWFour patients had earlier tested positive for Covid in Panipat district. They have been treated successfully and discharged from the hospital. There was no positive case in the district for the past 19 days but on Tuesday, one more person, who returned from Madhya Pradesh, tested positive for CovidWe have deputed duty magistrates, sector incharges and incident commanders and other officers to deal with all types of situations, fixed timing for medical stores and grocery shops, issued limited movement passes and adopted all essential measures to minimise the movement of public on roads, the DC claimed.Villagers have laid nakas at the entry and exit roads and also started ‘thikri pehra’ (night watch) in their areas to stop the spread of virus, she added.Door-to-door health survey, mobile vehicles launchedMeanwhile, Civil Surgeon Dr SL Verma said we had formed 10 special mobile health teams to check people at all 10 nakas laid by the police and in shelter homes, where migrant labourers were staying. Besides, nine more mobile teams have been formed on the minibuses provided by the Haryana Roadways, which have been visited the PHCs and CHCs areas to check people.We have also launched door-to-door survey to trace, track and treat any resident suffering from Covid-like symptoms. Our Asha workers have visited almost 46,555 houses in two days — on Tuesday and Wednesday — and scruitnised around 2,32,502 persons in the district, he claimed. As many as 1,557 persons were found having influenza-type symptoms, he added.Our health teams have also conducted door-to-door survey in Model Town area of the city, Naultha village, Sanoli Khurd, Vrinda Garden of Sector 13/17, Nawada-Aar and Nawada-Par villages and screened all residents there, Dr Verma added.Also, 2,438 persons had returned from abroad in the district, of which 2,089 have been identified, 242 returned to abroad but 107 were yet to be identified so far, the Civil Surgeon said.We have also sent the samples of 302 suspects, of which four were positive, 283 tested negative and the reports of 15 are awaited, he added.Borders sealed, drones used in sensitive areasSP Manisha Chaudhary said we had sealed three inter-district and an inter-state border and laid 31 nakas in the district to control the situation during the lockdown. We have been keeping eyes on the situation in the district, especially in the sensitive areas with drone cameras also, she added.As many as 186 persons have been arrested allegedly for violating the lockdown orders in 114 registered cases. Besides, 5,882 vehicles have been challaned while 662 have been impounded and imposed a fine of over Rs20 lakh during the first phase of lockdown period from March 23 to April 14, the SP added.I have directed all officials to deal strictly with the lockdown violators, she added.
16-04-2020||---||Food, yoga for stranded labourers||Ambala, April 15Food, medication, recreation and counselling for all in neat and clean environs with special arrangements for women and children are what hundreds of migrants are getting at shelter homes in Ambala district.The focus is also on proper sanitisation and maintaining social distancing.As many as 3,589 migrants from different states, majority from Uttar Pradesh, had been halted in Ambala. They were put up at 21 shelter homes specially set up for them in different parts of the district. The break-upThey had been on the move on foot or by other transportation means after the announcement of national lockdown on March 25 to go back to their homes from their respective work places.A visit to some of the shelter homes in Ambala City and Cantt, where the maximum 2,596 halted migrants had been staying for the past over three weeks, revealed that they were getting three meals a day, proper medication to the needy, psychological counselling by experts and recreational facilities via TV sets enabled with cable network.Special arrangements were made for women and children. The centres were sanitised and were being cleaned regularly while ensuring that the inmates were following proper social distancing to avoid Covid spread.“I had been staying here since March 25 and had been getting all I need. The only thing that I am missing is my family which lives in UP,” said inmate Razak Ali.Another inmate Sadhu Lal, who was heading to Bihar from Ludhiana, said he has to go back to take care of his pregnant wife, but he hasn’t been able to move ahead of Ambala since March 26.“We had been moving back home from Lalru to our native place in Jharkhand on our bike, but it broke down in Ambala on March 22. Since then, we have been putting up here,” shared Nawal Kishore.A woman inmate, Reeta, from MP had taken a lift in a truck from Chandigarh but was asked to leave by the driver in Ambala on March 25. “I’ve been facing no problem here except missing my husband who is at home,” she said.DC Ashok Kumar Sharma, who had been personally reviewing the arrangements while visiting the shelter homes daily, said the migrants, mostly labourers, who were heading home after the countrywide lockdown, had been put up at shelter homes in the district.
16-04-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||In 10 days, sampling rate triples||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 15The sampling rate for Covid has more than tripled in the past 10 days in Haryana.The test positivity rate — which is the proportion of positive cases among all tests — has come down in this period.On April 6, the sampling rate was 75.5 per million population. It jumped to 254.1 per million population by April 15. The test positivity rate came down from 4.4 per cent to 2.6 per cent in the past 10 days.Test positivity rateApril 12 4.7 %April 13 4.1 %April 14 3.1 %April 15 2.6 %The sampling rate is calculated as the number of tests per million population. The projected population of Haryana as on March 1 is 29,077,000, as per the Registrar General of India.One of the major jumps in sampling tests in Haryana came on April 6 when the cumulative number of tests jumped from 1,536 to 2,194 — with 658 in just 24 hours — taking the sampling rate to 75.5 tests per million population.Another jump came on April 14 when the cumulative number of tests reached from 4,489 to 6,163 — with 1,674 in a day — taking the sampling rate to 212 tests per million population. On April 15, the cumulative tests crossed 7,388 which took the sampling rate to 254.1 per million population.The cumulative number of sampling tests in Punjab reached 5,193 today which amounts to 162.3 tests per million population. So, Haryana is 1.6 times ahead of Punjab in sampling rate.The test positivity rate in Haryana was 4.4 per cent on April 6 when there were 96 positive cases and cumulative tests had reached 2,194. It jumped to 6.1 per cent on April 7 when positive cases reached 142 and cumulative tests had reached 2,318. It dipped to 4.8 per cent on April 11 and since then, it has been on the slide. On April 15, with 193 positive cases and 7,388 tests, the test positivity rate is lowest in 10 days at 2.6 per cent.Had it been rising, it would have been worrisome and had it been the same, it meant that infection was where it was, say experts.At the national level, it was 4.5 per cent on April 14.Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, nodal officer for Covid, said, “We have increased the testing capacity so we are able to test more. We have been able to trace contacts of positive cases. With rapid testing kits, we will soon start random sampling.” Besides two government labs, six private labs were added recently.”On test positivity rate, health economist, Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Prof Aswini Nanda, said, “If test positivity rate has come down, it shows infection is not spreading. It shows the impact of the lockdown in Haryana.”Dr Digamber Behera, senior professor of pulmonary medicine at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, said, “It is good that testing facilities and number of tests have increased.”The state has also ordered 1.2 lakh kits for rapid testing for Covid.
16-04-2020||Ambala||Siblings hurt in firing over open defecation||Two siblings sustained serious injuries after their neighbours allegedly opened fire and attacked them with a sharp-edged weapon.The neighbours were opposing open defecation, fearing Covid spread, in Shahzadpur, close to Ambala, today.Both Kala (35) and Kamal (18) are struggling for life at Chandigarh’s GMCH-32, their father Nikku Ram said.Acting on the complaint of Ram, the local police have registered a case under Sections 323, 307, 506, 34 and 188 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against the father-son duo. While the police have not yet confirmed any arrest, it is learnt that both the accused had been taken into custody. —TNS
16-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Lockdown effect: 2 end life||Gurugram, April 15Two persons committed suicide due to the ongoing lockdown in Gurugram and Nuh districts on Wednesday.In first incident, Krishan Kant of Garhi Harsaru, a Class X student, had just turned 18 and wanted to learn bike during the lockdown. His father Rishikant forbade him from doing so, owing to the lockdown and told him to study at home. Enraged, Krishan left home on Wednesday morning and after a while the family got a call that he had jumped in front of a goods train near the Dhanwapur junction. CASES & CAUSES A labourer under home quarantine in Tauru village hung himself after allegedly being unable to procure liquor“He was getting restless sitting at home for the past 15 days and would look for excuses to step out. I used to stop him. But today, he said he wanted to learn riding a bike as roads were empty but I snubbed him. I never thought he would react this way,” the father of the deceased said.In the second case, Kirodi (40) of Jaurasi village under Tauru block had been home-quarantined and his wife and children were stuck at his in-laws’ place. Villagers claimed that he was alone and was facing issues in arranging food and essentials as he could not step out and there was nobody to take care of his needs.The health authorities, however, claimed that the health teams regularly visited him and he seemed perfectly fine.“He was an alcoholic and craved for liquor. He was getting food and medicines on time and our investigation hints at domestic trouble that made the family leave him all alone. We are investigating the death,” said CMO, Nuh, Dr Virender Yadav.
16-04-2020||---||69 blocks of 20 dists in red zone||Chandigarh, April 15Haryana has placed 69 blocks in 20 districts of the state under the red zone because of the high number of Covid positive cases found there.As per the data published by the state government today, 66 blocks are in the green zone while 50 blocks are in the orange zone.Blocks in red zoneAs many as four blocks in Ambala district are in the red zone, two from Bhiwani, one from Charkhi Dadri, four from Faridabad, one from Fatehabad, seven from Gurugram district, one from Hisar, five from Jind district, one from Kaithal, five from Karnal district, seven from Kurukshetra, seven from Nuh, nine from Palwal, two from Panchkula, three from Panipat, one from Rewari, two from Rohtak, two from Sirsa, three from Sonepat and two blocks from Yamunanagar district.As per the Centre’s guidelines, states across the country are being divided into red, orange and green zones based on high, limited or no cases of Covid so as to allow limited services to function in the safe zones.As per the government data, over 5,996 people are kept under surveillance while 181 persons are infected with Covid in the districts under the red zone in Haryana.Nuh, Palwal, Faridabad and Gurugram are the worst-affected districts in Haryana where almost two-thirds of total Covid cases of the state have come to the fore.In Nuh, 48 people have tested positive so far, 29 in Palwal, 33 in Faridabad and 32 in Gurugram, according to the data.In Jind block, 607 people have been kept under surveillance — the maximum among all the districts. Panipat, Panchkula, Karnal and Bhiwani area also followed Jind’s lead, though marginally.Besides this, 49 blocks and towns in 17 districts in the state have been kept under the orange zone.Meanwhile, 66 blocks in 17 districts have been marked under the green zone with no positive cases and considerably less people under surveillance.Among these districts, Karnal’s Assandh block and Municipal Corporation has 12 cases, which is the highest in the green-zone region.Meanwhile, as per the new guidelines issued by the Centre, industrial units in rural areas would be allowed to function from April 20 provided they follow social distancing norms.Haryana is likely to benefit from these relaxations as many districts of the state have agriculture-based rural economy.The activities permitted from April 20 are aimed at ensuring that agricultural and related activities remain fully functional, rural economy functions with maximum efficiency, employment opportunities are created for daily wage earners and other members of the labour force, select industrial activities are allowed to resume their operations, with safeguards and mandatory standard operating protocols and digital economy, states the document.If any new area is included in the category of a containment zone, the activities allowed in that area till the time of its categorisation as a containment zone will be suspended except those specifically permitted under the Health Ministry’s guidelines.Services provided by self-employed electricians, IT repair personnel, plumbers, motor mechanics and carpenters will be allowed from April 20. Activities permitted from April 20 include those related to agricultural and horticultural sectors, farmers and farm workers in the field as well as procurement of agri products. These are set to ease farming activities in the state.Highway ‘dhabas’ (eateries), truck repair shops, call centres for government activities will remain open from April 20 facilitating truckers who have been maintaining the supply chain of essential items, said the guidelines.Relaxations after April 20
16-04-2020||---||Five more test positive, 193 active cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, April 15Covid cases in the state rose to 193 on Wednesday, with five more persons testing positive for infection. Three of the fresh cases were reported from Nuh and one each from Panchkula and Palwal.Two of the three persons who tested positive in Nuh were primary contacts of Covid patients, while the third is connected to the Tablighi Jamaat. With these three cases, Nuh now has a total of 48 case, of which 39 were linked to Tablighi Jamaat followers.In Palwal, a 44-year-old man of Hathin subdivision tested positive. The subdivision has the highest number of positive cases in the district. He was traced by a team of health officials. With this case, the tally in Palwal reached 30 today. Faridabad with 33 cases and Gurugram with 32 Covid patients are ahead of Palwal.A total of 7,388 samples have been taken so far with 5,581 testing negative and results of 1,617 awaited. There is a jump of 1,225 tests in the last 24 hours. So far, 43 patients have been discharged and three died.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the lockdown had cost the state dear, with revenue loss for the current month pegged at a whopping Rs 4, 600 crore. Addressing residents through live telecast from here, he said the state’s monthly total collections were pegged at Rs 6,200 crore — excise (Rs 1,000 crore), GST (Rs 2,500 crore), stamp duty (Rs 600 crore) and VAT (Rs 800 crore). The state would be able to mop up revenue of only Rs 1,600 crore in the current month, leaving a revenue loss of nearly Rs 4,600 crore, he said.Hinting at certain harsh economic steps in the near future, Khattar said that monthly liability of the state government was also estimated at Rs 6,200 crore, which included salaries (Rs 1,850 crore), pensions (Rs 750 crore), social security pensions (Rs 650 crore) and power subsidy (Rs 575 crore). Besides, the state government has extended benefits amounting to nearly Rs 2,225 crore.Appealing to residents to contribute to the Haryana Corona Relief Fund, Khattar said so far over Rs 52 crore had been collected in it. Besides, government staff had contributed over Rs 72 crore.He accorded approval for filling 32 posts of different categories on contractual basis in 21 district hospitals of the state for smooth functioning of ventilators and crowd control. It would put a burden of Rs 44.60 crore on exchequer.
16-04-2020||Yamunanagar||19 stolen mobikes recovered, 2 held||The police have arrested two persons and recovered 19 stolen motorcycles from their possession. Rakesh Matoria, incharge, CIA-I said he got information that Rajat Kumar and Amit Kumar of Shankhera village in the district had been stealing motorcycles. A team comprising Manoj Kumar, Roshan Lal, Gurmej Singh, Jasbir Singh, Surinder Kumar, Vipin Kumar, and Ankush arrested the accused from Ambala on April 10. “During three-day police remand, they admitted that they had stolen 19 motorcycles from Yamunanagar district. These motorcycles were recovered,” said Matoria. The accused were today produced in a Jagadhri court, which sent them to 14-day judicial custody. — TNS
16-04-2020||---||10,000 MT of mustard procured on Day one||Chandigarh, April 15Haryana procured 10,000 metric tons (MT) of mustard on the first day of procurement of rabi crop on Wednesday.Haryana Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department, Sanjeev Kaushal, said that about 10,000 metric tons of mustard were procured from about 4,500 farmers on the first day today by calling 25 farmers each in the morning and afternoon at all centres. In view of this, the state government has decided that from today, 50 farmers at a time will be called at all centres in the morning and afternoon.Kaushal also reassured the farmers that they would not face any difficulty in the mandis and each and every grain of their produce would be procured. He said that all the farmers were aware that the Haryana Government had started mustard procurement in 163 procurement centres from Wednesday. To facilitate farmers, arthiyas and labourers, the state government had increased the number of mandis and had made arrangements for masks, and sanitisers to keep them safe during the sale of their produce.He said on the first day, 25 farmers in the morning and 25 in the evening were called to the mustard procurement centres.Dhankar checks arrangements
16-04-2020||---||Leopard attacks Yamunanagar labourer||Yamunanagar, April 15A leopard attacked a labourer working in the fields and injured him near Pratap Nagar town of Yamunanagar district on Wednesday.It is learnt that Jai Kumar of Kutipur village was working in the fields of a farmer of Pratap Nagar town on Wednesday when the big cat hiding in the wheat field pounced on him. He shouted for help and picked up a stick to scare the leopard. Hearing his cries, workers from adjoining fields rushed to his aid and tried to drive the animal away, but it hid itself in standing wheat crop in nearby. Jai Kumar was rushed to a hospital for treatmentat Pratap Nagar.The incident created fear among farmers and workers as they are busy harvesting wheat these days. “The local administration should keep a vigil so that wild animals such as leopard don’t enter the fields and human habitations in the area,” said Rajeev Walia, former sarpanchof Pratap Nagar.
16-04-2020||---||Kids to get books on doorstep||Karnal, April 15To tackle the problems of students, who do not have books and stationery items, and are doing study from home through apps like WhatsApp, YouTube and others, the district administration has chalked out a plan by roping in private schools. The schools plan to send their staff in buses to ensure the availability of books for students on their doorsteps. Besides, the teachers of government schools will send books to students through Haryana roadways buses.A team has been constituted which is being led by ADC Anish Kumar Yadav, who has contacted the school principals for this purpose.“We came to know that in absence of books, students are facing several challenges. Without proper study material, they are not able to understand several concepts, so we have decided to start this step with the help of schools,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.The DC maintained that they are also identifying some stationery shops. “I have assigned the duty to ADC, who is coordinating with the schools. Prices of the books are being decided by the schools and no one will charge extra,” he added.The private schools also appreciated the step of the administration and offered help including buses and staff for this purpose.“Since the lockdown was enforced before the start of new academic session, the schools have started online classes through apps, but now students are complaining about non-availability of books. The administration has chalked out a good plan for it. We will extend all kind of support to the administration. We are assigning duties to our staff members also,” said Dr Rajan Lamba, president, CBSE Sahodya Schools Complex, Karnal.Parents have also welcomed the step. “My daughter is studying in Class VI, but she does not have books. The teachers are giving classes online, but to understand some concepts she requires books. It is a good step by the administration,” said Naresh Garg, a parent.MDU trains country’s dons in e-learning
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Hooda raises plight of ration card holders||Former Chief Minister and leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday raised the plight of yellow and pink ration card holders.He said the government had promised to give yellow and pink ration card holders double ration through depot holders, in view of the lockdown.“This was a good decision taken by the government but the reality is different. Depot holders are getting less ration than what they were getting earlier. Thousands of poor families along with depot holders are demanding that the government should make adequate arrangements for ration at the earliest possible,” Hooda said. — TNS
16-04-2020||Parveen Arora||Karnal doctors: Will serve without double salary||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 15Leading by example, doctors at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) here have refused to take double the salary announced by the Haryana Government last week for the health staff at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 pandemic.As many as 29 doctors, including KCGMC Director Dr Jagdish Dureja, have written to CM Manohar Lal Khattar, urging him to utilise the fund in equipping the health infrastructure. Dr Dureja wrote: “We acknowledge the gratitude of the state government in doubling the basic salary of doctors. It is a war-like situation and 29 doctors have given their consent not to accept the double pay. We request the CM to utilise this fund for fighting Covid.”The doctors have offered to devote extra time without seeking financial benefits. “At a time when the country is in distress, it is our duty to contribute to the best of our ability. We have decided not to take the pay raise,” said Dr Gunjan Chaudhary. Dr Abhinav Dagar, nodal officer for Covid at KCGMC, said they were not working for monetary benefits.Dr Amandeep Singh, rapid response team for Covid, said they wanted the health sector to be strengthened. “The government should purchase ventilators with the money,” he suggested.
