16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt to launch job portal to help state’s youth seek employment opportunities: Deputy CM||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, on Saturday, said the state government would soon be launching a job portal to facilitate employment opportunities for the youth.He said MNCs and other companies would get benefits through the portal as they would be able to recruit the qualified and trained workforce for their industries.Chautala, who held a meeting with officials of various departments, including the Labour and Employment, Industry and Commerce, Skill Development and Industrial Training here, said the agenda of the meet was to increase job opportunities in Haryana given the present situation.He stated that the government is considering allowing the industry operations on vacant land of around 500 acres in villages so that more employment opportunities could be offered to the youth.The Deputy CM said around 30 lakh people were set to join back for work in the industries in the state as the units had gradually restarted their operations barring those in the containment zones.To facilitate the local youth with available vacancies, the government would start the job portal for which the employment department is working on this, he said, according to a statement.Chautala added that the government would provide the details of labour and job applicants to the companies through the portal and the companies too can put up their needs for a particular kind of workforce on this portal so that the youth could apply for these jobs.As a huge number of labourers have moved to their states due to COVID-19 pandemic, there would be ample job opportunities in the private sector including security guard industry, he said.Chautala said a large number of youth apply for recruitment in the Army and police in the state and till the time they get these jobs they could work in the private sector too. PTI
16-05-2020||Vibha Sharma||Experts in Punjab, Haryana sceptical over FM’s agri-reforms||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, May 16Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman yesterday announced an elaborate Covid stimulus for farmers and the agriculture sector, including a NABARD-anchored fund to set up modern cold chains and storage centres and measures to usher in barrier-free agricultural trade in the country.However, while some hailed them as “pro-farmer”, the measures failed to cut ice with many agriculture experts from the two major food-grain producing states — Punjab and Haryana.The “futuristic” measures had nothing for the distressed sector and farmers and labourers dependent on it as of now, they said. Besides, they also expressed apprehension, viewing them as an indication of the apprehended possibility by wheat and rice farmers in the states, minimising procurement under the MSP. “What we saw yesterday were just credit facilities. I don’t think the net effect of the announcements is going to be very positive for Punjab and Haryana. Infrastructure is good for the economy but today it is the matter of life and livelihood for crores of small farmers and labourers, dependant on the sector. While I need medicine today you are telling me that you will make a cold storage, keep my medicine and give it to me later,” said Lakhwinder Singh, Director of the Centre of Development Economics and Innovation Studies, Punjabi University.Agricultural policy expert Devinder Sharma believes the reforms government is suggesting are essentially aimed to ‘dilute/dismantle’ existing system of APMC, MSP regimes.While finer details are not available, Sharma gives the example of Bihar which revoked the APMC Act in 2006 to encourage private investment in agri-markets and find a better price discovery for farmers. “Fourteen years later, traders are bringing wheat/paddy to be sold in Haryana/Punjab ‘mandis’ where they at least get MSP,” he says.“The marketing system and infrastructure are both well established in Punjab and Haryana. It is here that the FM’s announcements will have impact. Already Punjab has amended the marketing act to allow for setting up private mandis and also allow entry of private players in the existing mandis. These developments appear to be hinting towards limiting procurement and doing away with the responsibility of MSP,” he adds.Notably, a recent recommendation by the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Price (CACP) to the Centre generated widespread debate regarding review of the open-ended procurement policy. The CACP in its Price Policy for Rabi crops, the marketing season 2020-21, said: “The open-ended procurement policy for rice and wheat has led to mounting food stocks and adversely affected crop diversification. These excess stocks create storage problems and also high storage and financing costs leading to high food subsidy burden. The Commission recommends that open-ended procurement policy should be reviewed.”Meanwhile, appreciating the FM’s efforts CACP chairman Ashok Gulati said farmers and consumers, including in Punjab and Haryana, will gain from them. The FM has given the farmers a choice. It is a step in the right direction. It will help build more quality infrastructure and help farmers to be forward looking,” he said.
16-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||Schools buses being used to ferry migrant labourers in Mahendragarh; school owners fume||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, May 16The district authorities have been using the buses of private schools to ferry migrant labourers, which have left the school owners fumed. The school owners have raised questions on why their resources were being utilised by the authorities when Haryana Roadways buses were available.“Private schools are being pressurised by officials in the Education Department for providing buses for the purpose of transporting migrant labourers. These buses are either parked in the premises of the Narnaul Municipal Council or the Narnaul sports stadium. The bus drivers, too, are made to stay there even at night, but no penny is paid to paid to them. The schools are also bearing the fuel expenses,” said a school owner on anonymity.He maintained that private schools were already reeling under the economy crisis due to COVID-19 as parents were not depositing their wards’ fee whereas the schools were persistently holding online classes to teach the students.The authorities further added to their woes by forcing them to provide buses for transportation of labourers, he added.Another school owner said acute resentment prevailed among all school owners in the district, but no one was daring to resist the authorities openly.“If we do not comply by the authorities, they will start harassing the schools on various pretexts. Hence, all are providing their buses,” he added.Sunil Dutt, District Education Officer (DEO), admitted that buses of private schools were being used to ferry migrant labourers.“Haryana Roadways buses are plying to transport the labourers to other districts while services of private school buses are being taken to ferry them within the district due to shortage of roadways buses. No pressure is maintained on the school owners. They are coming forward on their own for the sake of helping the district administration in this noble cause,” said Dutt.Abhay Singh, Executive Officer, Narnaul Municipal Council, admitted that buses of private schools were parked in the council premises.“These buses are used in taking migrant labourers to shelter houses on being found walking on the roads,” he added.
16-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Waterlogged land of farmers to be used for fish-farming||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 16Here is some good news for farmers whose agricultural land had been waterlogged, and hence, lying unused for years. Now, the state government will get the waterlogged fields converted into ponds which can be used for fish-farming.This was stated by Rohtak Deputy Commissioner-cum-Special Secretary (Fisheries) RS Verma while addressing a meeting of the sarpanches of the district, here, on Saturday.“As per a survey conducted by the district administration, nearly 2,500 acres of agricultural land of the district’s farmers has been lying unused for years due to waterlogging, which was a national loss. Waterlogged fields will now be converted into ponds and used for fish-farming,” Verma said.The Deputy Commissioner asked the sarpanches to get resolutions to this effect passed so that the Department of Fisheries could begin the process of making ponds. He clarified that the expenditure on the conversion of waterlogged fields into ponds would be borne by the state government.“The ponds will then be handed over to the village panchayat, which will auction it for fish-farming. The panchayats adopting the scheme will be given a special grant,” said Verma.He pointed out that the owners of the waterlogged land could give their land on lease to the state government for fish-farming.Rohtak has a good potential for fish-farming and it can be a good source of income owing to its proximity with the national capital.Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner said nearly 33,000 industrial workers had returned to work at around 1,200 industrial units in the district, while nearly 10,000 migrants had been sent to their native places in different states.
16-05-2020||---||5 more test coronavirus positive in Haryana’s Faridabad||Faridabad, May 16Four more Covid positive cases have been reported in Faridabad.With this the total number of positive cases in the district moves to 144.The new cases include two women, of which one is a 35-year-old pregnant woman. The other is a 45-year-old housewife from Old Faridabad.Two others are vegetable workers, aged 26 and 29.2 sons of Covid positive cop also test positive; Jhajjar toll is 90Jhajjar: Two sons of a Covid positive Delhi cop have tested positive, taking Jhajjar district's total count to 90.The cop's family resides in Bahadurgarh town.2 youths test positive in Rewari villageRewari: Two youths of Mamaria Ahir village here were found Covid positive. The total count of the district has reached eight.
16-05-2020||Kurukshetra||BKU won’t comply with govt directive on growing paddy||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) has opposed the state government’s decision to restrict paddy cultivation to half in 19 blocks and has refused to comply with the directive. The decision was taken at a kisan panchayat in Shahabad on Friday.  As part of the state’s ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ scheme, the government wants to first diversify around 1 lakh hectare area, currently under paddy, to other crops such as maize and pulses. Farmers who cultivate alternative crops on less than 50 per cent of their area in the target blocks will not be eligible for incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre. Their paddy will also not be procured by state government agencies.BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh said the farmers had decided not to accept the new orders. “We will continue to cultivate paddy and we will also bring our produce in the market. If the produce is not procured, there will be an agitation and we will also block roads. Farmers are ready for any struggle,” he said. Farmers from Yamunanagar, Ambala, and Kurukshetra were present in the meeting. JJP Shahabad MLA Ramkaran Kala reached the kisan panchayat and said he had spoken to Dy CM Dushyant Chautala. “The Deputy CM said farmers can grow whatever crop they want. There are areas where only paddy can be cultivated ,” he said. — TNS
16-05-2020||Ravinder Saini
||MLA’s visit to isolation ward raises eyebrows||Tribune News Service Rewari, May 15 Eyebrows are being raised over the visit by Chiranjeev Rao, Congress MLA from Rewari, to an isolation ward at the civil hospital here today. Rao donned personal protective equipment (PPE) and received feedback from persons under quarantine about facilities. He interacted with doctors on duty and asked them to redress grievances of occupants. “I went to the hospital after getting information through social media that persons in quarantine were not being taken care of properly. Close and primary contacts of a Covid patient from Khatawali village have been kept in the isolation ward,” he said. Dr Vijay Prakash, nodal officer for Covid, said none except doctors, nurses and other support staff was allowed inside. He pointed out that the staff used PPE while discharging their duty. “I was not in the hospital when Rao paid a visit,” he stated. Dr Sarvjit Thapar, Medical Superintendent, refused to comment on the issue.
16-05-2020||
||TB patients to be screened for Covid in Karnal, Ambala||Karnal/Ambala, May 15 Considering tuberculosis (TB) patients among high risk category for Covid, the Health Department will screen all the TB patients in Karnal and Ambala from next week. The department has chalked a plan in this regard and TB patients would be screened at block level. Karnal Civil Surgeon Dr Ashwani Ahuja said TB patients were among the high risk category, so the department had decided to screen them. “We will send mobile screening teams at block level to screen the TB patients,” he said adding that the patients would be informed in advance telephonically to visit their block-level Community Health Centre (CHC) or any other place. So far, they have collected 3,356 samples, of them 3,263 have been reported negative, 76 reports were pending. One person had died due to Covid in the district, while five have been cured and discharged from hospital.  All the tuberculosis (TB) patients will be tested for Covid and slum dwellers will be medically screened to check the further spread of Covid in Ambala. Disclosing this, here on Friday, Ambala Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said 92 active TB patients were identified in the district during the past one month and all of them will be tested for Covid. “This is being done as a preventive measure as some of the Covid patients were found to be suffering from TB in the recent past,” he said. Besides, mobile teams have started screening all those living in the slum areas across the district. “We will examine each and every slum dweller and those found symptomatic will be tested for Covid,” revealed Dr Singh. Under a massive campaign to screen, test, trace and treat all residents in the district at their doorsteps, the district health department had already examined over 4.6 lakh residents.
16-05-2020||---||Two more deaths, 36 test positive in Haryana||Chandigarh, May 15A 75-year-old woman and a teenager died due to Covid, while 36 fresh cases were reported in the state on Friday. The number of deaths in the state reached 13 with a fatality rate of 1.52 per cent, while the state’s Covid tally touched 854.The deaths were reported from Faridabad and Sonepat, while 12 fresh cases were reported from Sonepat, nine each from Faridabad and Gurugram, two each from Kaithal and Panchkula and one each from Nuh and Rohtak.Sonepat reported its first Covid death, a 75-year-old woman of Tharu village. Her relatives took her to the General Hospital on Wednesday where doctors declared her brought dead. They told doctors she had been complaining of breathlessness before she died and her sample was sent for testing. Her report came positive on Thursday evening.Sonepat’s Covid tally now stands at 132. Those who tested positive include a 67-year-old man of Khanna Colony, whose wife is already Covid-positive; a-34-year-old person of Rishi Colony; a 38-year-old man of Jainpur village who is a driver in Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi; a 36-year-old employee of a private hospital; a 34-year-old man of Mimarpur working as an accountant with a fruit vendor in Sonepat fruit mandi; three persons in Kot Mohalla, including a 40-year-old working in the vegetable mandi and a 32-year-old resident of Kailash Colony working in Delhi’s Keshavpuram Mandi. A 40-year-old Mayur Vihar resident working in Delhi’s Jaipur Golden Hospital also tested positive.In Faridabad, a 17-year-old girl died on Friday, taking the number of Covid fatalities in the district to five. A resident of Shiv Sharda Colony, she tested positive two days ago and was admitted to the ESI Hospital on Wednesday night. She was suffering from cancer and her condition turned critical on Thursday. Nine more cases were reported, taking the district’s tally to 140.Nine people tested positive in Gurugram of which six were from Rajiv Nagar area. They are all contacts of a Covid-positive patient. The district’s tally has reached 179.Kaithal’s two cases included a 30-year-old man and his two-year-old daughter of Dhand area. Both have been sent to Adesh Medical College in Shahbad.In Panchkula, a 63-year-old woman of Sector 10 undergoing treatment for cancer and a 56-year-old man from Sector 21 tested positive. A 58-year-old woman of Meham area in Rohtak also tested positive, taking the number of patients in the district to eight.Meanwhile, 25 persons were cured in the last 24 hours, taking the number of discharged cases to 464 and the recovery rate to 54.33 per cent.
16-05-2020||Ambala||Lone bus leaves with 4 passengers||After remaining shut for two months, bus service resumed today. On the first day of service resumption, a lone bus left for Panchkula. Four buses — two each to Karnal and Kaithal — could not ply in the absence of passengers. The bus to Panchkula left with only four passengers. While six tickets were booked online, only four passengers arrived. One of the passengers, Pawan, said he was going to his place of work in Panchkula. He said earlier, he used to travel by motorcycle. Another passenger said the timings for return service should be extended from 3 pm to at least 6 pm as offices closed at 5 pm. The travellers also demanded buses to other stations and service resumption from Ambala City. While no ticket was booked for Karnal, only one ticket was booked for Kaithal. 2 board bus in Karnal Karnal: A bus left for Ambala at 8:30 am, but only two passengers booked their tickets online. Ajay Garg, GM, said prior to travel, passengers had to go through thermal scanning at the bus stand. — TNS
16-05-2020||New Delhi||NHRC issues notice to state for ‘racial abuse, assault’||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has sent notices to the Haryana Government and the Gurugram Police Commissioner over reports that a young Manipuri girl was allegedly racially abused and beaten up by some locals in the city.She was first abused by an elderly woman in a racial tone and as the altercation started, she was branded “corona” by the crowd, the rights panel said quoting reports. “The National Human Rights Commission has taken suo motu cognisance of media reports that a 20-year-old girl hailing from Manipur was subjected to racial discrimination and brutally attacked by some locals from Faizapur, Gurugram, in Haryana just for passing through the locality on Sunday afternoon,” the NHRC said in a statement.The commission further observed that it is “disgusting” that a girl from the northeastern part of her own country has been subjected to “racial discrimination and physical assault by a local family in the NCR,” it said.Accordingly, a notice has been issued to the Haryana Chief Secretary and the Commissioner of Police, Gurgaon, seeking a detailed report within four weeks along with status of the investigation being conducted by the police after registration of the FIR and relief or counselling provided by the authorities to the victim, the statement said. — PTI
16-05-2020||---||340 outsourced tourism workers lose employment||Chandigarh, May 15The lockdown due to Covid has not only started affecting jobs in the public sector, but also in public sector undertakings (PSUs) owned by the government in the state as the Haryana Tourism Corporation has shown the door to nearly 340 workers.The Haryana Tourism Corporation Limited runs tourist complexes, motels and restaurants across the state. “You are well aware that in view of Covid, the hotel industry is facing a lot of problems. There are some (tourist) complexes where the workers are being paid without any work. The sanctions (for appointment of workers) granted earlier stand cancelled except where doctors and paramedical staff have occupied the rooms or the tourist complexes are being used as quarantine centres,” said a communication sent on behalf of the Managing Director of the Haryana Tourism Development Corporation to all tourist complexes across the state.Yudhvir Singh Khatri, secretary of the Haryana Tourism Karamchari Sangh, alleged that 84 workers appointed under the state government’s outsourcing policy are to lose their jobs in Panchkula, seven in Ambala, 14 in Yamunanagar, eight will have to go in Kaithal, two in Fatehabad, eight in Bhiwani, seven in Rewari, 12 in Gurugram, 10 in Jhajjar and 35 workers in Rohtak.Similarly, three workers in Sonepat, five in Panipat, 10 in Palwal, 82 in Faridabad, four in Jind, five in Sirsa, six in Hisar and 38 workers in Karnal have been shown the door, he said.Condemning the action, the sangh has termed it as “unjustified” and also threatened to launch an agitation if the order is not withdrawn.“This shows the double standards of the state government. On the one hand, it is issuing advisory to the industrialists not to sack employees while on the other hand, outsourced employees working in government sector are being shown the door,” alleged Suresh Nohra, chairman of the sangh.He said that the state executive would meet in Jind on May 18 to decide their future course of action on this issue.Vikas Yadav, Managing Director of the Haryana Tourism Development Corporation, however, denied that workers were being shown the door and maintained that only those who were more than the requirement were being removed.He said that tourist complexes at Ambala, Panchkula, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Dharuhera, Rewari, Gurugram and Faridabad have been occupied by doctors and paramedics. “The workers are not being permanently removed. We will call them if we have some bookings in the future,” Yadav added.
16-05-2020||
||On wait list, candidates to join govt service, finally||Chandigarh, May 15 Decks have been cleared for the absorption of hundreds of Group D waitlisted candidates into the government service. The state government has called a meeting of the nodal officers of at least 15 departments on May 18 with vacancy position which has arisen due to non-joining, resignation and un-willingness of the selected candidates to join the government service. Sources said the nodal officers had been asked to bring category-wise updated data of such vacant posts for allocation of waiting lists to various departments. The mega recruitment drive to recruit 18,216 Group D candidates was advertised in 2018 by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission and the results were announced ahead of last year’s parliamentary and Assembly elections. As many as 1,840 candidates were kept in the waiting list. At least 3,820 candidates had failed to join the service on account of a variety of reasons, including their selection in other services and failure to get choice stations. The state government had later resorted to a rationalisation exercise which involved among other things giving choice stations to the selected candidates.
16-05-2020||---||Yamunanagar woman blackmailed, raped||Yamunanagar, May 15A woman was allegedly raped by a man of her village several times in Yamunanagar district. As the accused had obscene photos and a video of the victim, he was able to blackmail and rape her for several months.The accused also allegedly forced the victim to give sedative pills to the members of her family so that they go into deep sleep in the night before the rape. On the complaint of the victim, a case was registered against Munish (main accused) and several other persons who allegedly helped him in committing the crime at Pratap Nagar police station on May 13.She alleged that the accused continued to blackmail and rape her by forcing her to administer sedative pills to family members every time.
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Deepender accuses govt of slow wheat procurement||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda today accused the state government of slow procurement of wheat and farmers being denied payments. He also described setting up of the special enquiry team (SET) to probe liquor smuggling an eyewash.Hooda said the government had promised to pay all farmers in three days but the process had not been completed even after three weeks. He alleged that the government had made the payment process so complicated that both farmers and agents were at a loss.“The government has so far paid only about Rs 1,500 crore out of Rs 12,500 crore due to wheat farmers and Rs 11,000 crore is at present outstanding. About 65-lakh metric tonne of wheat has been procured in Haryana so far, while the estimated arrival is close to 120-lakh metric tonne. Therefore, the government should buy every grain as promised by the government and pay the farmer on time,” he said.He said the lakhs of metric tonne of wheat had been exposed to unseasonal rain in the markets as the government had been able to lift only about 40-lakh metric tonne of the 65-lakh metric tonne.On the government’s ban on paddy sowing in several blocks, he said it was not the time to experiment. — TNS
16-05-2020||Hisar||5 phones seized from Hisar jail||The police have recovered five mobile phones from the Central Jail number one in Hisar during a raid on Thursday. The police registered two cases today and recovered the mobile phones from the undertrails, some of them facing murder charges and started investigation. The jail officials found four mobile phones, a charger, ear lead and a data cable hidden in the cell. The jail officials said they were scanning through the WhatsApp details and the call details of these mobile phones. One more mobile phone was recovered from another jail inmate. — TNS
16-05-2020||Our Correspondent||NGT stays CISF camp construction in Gurugram||Gurugram, May 15The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has restrained the construction of a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) camp in Mandawar village near Sohna in Gurugram district till further orders.A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests to submit a compliance report before September 25.
16-05-2020||---||Rana innocent until proven guilty: Dy CM||Chandigarh, May 15Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala today said a person should be considered innocent till proven guilty. He was replying to a question during a press conference on the involvement of his party member Satvinder Singh Rana in the Samalkha liquor smuggling case.“Rana’s godown in Samalkha was sealed in 2016. A theft was committed in March and he got an FIR registered. During investigation, Ishwar was arrested. Rana’s name cropped up thereafter. He has been arrested for questioning,” Dushyant said.He pointed out that there were similar cases regarding three godowns in Fatehabad and one in Jhajjar. “The SET will look into all these cases. We will wait for its report,” he said.“Had I been giving Rana shelter, he would not have been arrested. He is not named in the FIR. His remand has been secured,” he said.
16-05-2020||---||Two IAS officers promoted||
16-05-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Excise Dept sealed Samalkha godown in 2016, gave keys||Tribune News ServicePanipat, May 15The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the alleged theft of seized liquor from a sealed Samalkha godown on Friday collected the bank account and company records from the Chandigarh office of arrested ex-MLA Satvinder Singh Rana.A major negligence also came to the fore in the case — there was no security guard at the godown sealed by the Excise and Taxation Department in 2016. In fact, the department handed over the keys of the godown to the owners after sealing it and they were its caretakers.Inspector Deepak Kumar, Incharge CIA-2, said the department did not ask for police security after sealing the godown. “Notices to the officers of the Excise and Taxation Department (previous and present) would be served asking them to join the investigation to check that if there is any involvement of officers in the theft,” he said.The department had sealed the godown L1-AB in Samalkha after it detected irregularities and fined co-owners Ishwar of Shamri village and Rana Rs 2.22 crore. They had appealed to the department to reduce the penalty amount, but it rejected the case following which they approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The court also rejected their appeal.A CIA-2 team produced Ishwar Singh of Shamri village in the court on Friday and he was sent to one-day police custody. There were 5,500 boxes of liquor in the godown when it was sealed and the accused had stolen around 4,650 of them.
16-05-2020||---||‘Distress coupons’ for those with no ration cards in Haryana||Chandigarh: To provide free foodgrain for two months, Haryana will issue ‘distress coupons’ to 9.23 lakh persons (3.73 lakh family units), including migrants. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had on Thursday announced 5 kg grain and 1 kg pulses per month to each migrant worker, even those without a ration card.PK Das, Additional Chief Secretary, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumers Affairs, said: “These coupons will serve as ration cards. The coupon holder can walk into any ration depot in the vicinity and collect grain for the family.” Asked how the government would ascertain the quantity of ration needed by a depot holder, the officer said the mapping of beneficiaries had already been done for the purpose. “Wheat is already available with the depot holders while pulses are on way,” he said, adding that the biometric system to collect ration had been done away with in view of the pandemic.Despite the Centre promising free ration, hundreds of homebound migrants could be seen walking on National Highway-44, which passes through the state, on Friday. Dinesh Kumar, a resident of Sultanpur in UP, waiting with his family outside the Panipat bus stand, said: “The ration will not reach the needy like us. It will be siphoned by middlemen.” Dharmendra, headed for Damoh in MP with a group of 14, said the government help had come too late. “We have lost faith in the government.” Ram Deen, on his way to Azamgarh from Amritsar, said: “Dying on the road or in our hometowns is better than dying of hunger here.”
