16-07-2020||New Delhi||CBI raids 19 premises of Faridabad-based real estate firm SRS Group in bank fraud case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday said it has registered a case and carried out searches at 19 premises of Faridabad-based real estate firm SRS Group, its directors in a case of Rs 135 crore alleged bank fraud.Officials in the CBI said, in the FIR the agency has named “SRS Group of Companies, Faridabad (M/s SRS Real Infrastructure Ltd. and M/s SRS Real Estate Ltd.) and their directors Anil Jindal, Rajesh Singla,. Nanak Chand Tayal, Bishan Bansal, Vinod Jindal and Jitender Kumar”.“It was alleged that the said borrower group of companies had availed term loans from Canara Bank. It was further alleged that the borrower defrauded the bank and diverted the funds by not routing the proceeds of sale/booking of the flats through accounts maintained with the bank,” the officials said.The searches were conducted at the premises of the company and its directors in Delhi, Faridabad and Bengaluru, they said, adding that which led to recovery of “incriminating documents and material”, as further investigation in the case continued.
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana government steps up efforts to control locust swarms||In view of the warning regarding potential intense attacks in several districts after July 22, the Haryana government has stepped up efforts to control locust swarms which cause crop damage, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture Department, Sanjeev Kaushal said here on Thursday.He said that among other measures, arrangements were being made to stock additional quantities of pesticide.Agriculture Minister J P Dalal directed to set up a task force in each district to monitor all the arrangements during the attack.Dalal gave these directions here during a review meeting with the officials regarding preparations made to deal with the locust attack.He said that the locust swarms should be constantly monitored and asked the officers of the Administration and Agriculture department to stay alert.Kaushal said that locust swarms in the region had become resistant to some commonly used pesticide and to prevent homogeneity in use of pesticides during repeated spraying, arrangements are being made to stock 20,000 litres of lambda cyhalothrin in addition to existing stocks of pesticide.Kaushal said that three drones were being purchased for aerial spray of pesticide. As many as 66 fire brigade vehicles were available, as well as 3,540 tractor-mounted spray pumps.The state government would also acquire fogging machines being bought by the Centre from the United Kingdom for use on trees, he said.Locust Warning Organisation has warned of more high-intensity attacks in districts Nuh, Rewari, Mahendragarh, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri after July 22, after large-scale locust breeding was observed in Jhunjhunu district of Rajasthan, he said.“These attacks are likely to be far more severe than the ones that have already occurred over 13,038 acres in Jhajjar, Charkhi Dadri, Palwal, Sirsa, Nuh, Rewari, Bhiwani and Narnaul districts between June 26 and July 16,” said Kaushal.Notably, the locusts entered Sirsa, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Nuh and Mahendragarh districts on Saturday, with some settling in the fields during the night before moving away from Haryana.Kaushal said that the preparatory measures put in place by the officials of the department had prevented significant losses in most districts during these attacks.Farmers in Jhajjar, Palwal and Nuh districts did not report any losses due to damage to crops by locust swarms. While farmers in most districts suffered losses to the tune of five to ten per cent, quick action by officials of the department ensured that those in the worst-hit districts of Rewari and Sirsa did not suffer losses of more than 30 per cent, he said.Kaushal assured that the department was closely monitoring the situation and urged farmers in the affected districts to stay alert and inform the officials if they found locusts anywhere.Three weeks ago, a huge swarm of locusts had reached Rewari from neighbouring Rajasthan. While a part of the swarm settled overnight in the district, the remaining headed towards Gurgaon the next morning and eventually moved towards Uttar Pradesh.Notably, Haryana had issued a high alert over a month ago after locust swarms attacked crops in Rajasthan and a few other states, but the insects had moved away from the state.Locusts, popularly known as “tiddi dal”, are short-horned grasshoppers with highly migratory habits and voracious feeding behaviour.This insect can eat more than its body weight. A one square kilometre of locust swarm containing around 40 million locusts can eat as much food in a day as 35,000 people. PTI
16-07-2020||New Delhi||Northern Railway completes electrification work on 130 km line in Punjab, Haryana||The Northern Railway has completed the electrification work of 130 km section in Punjab and Haryana which will ensure that no more diesel locomotives are used in the stretch, officials said on Thursday.The electrified lines include 62 km-long Dhuri (Punjab)-Jakhal (Haryana) line and the 68 km Dhuri-Lehra Mohabbat single line in Ambala Division, a statement from the Northern Railways said.A speed trial for up to 120 kmph was also done in these sections.The Dhuri-Jakhal section in the significant Ludhiana-Dhuri-Jakhal line is a railway line connecting Ludhiana in Punjab and Jakhal in Haryana. The Dhuri-Lehra Mohabbat section falls in the Rajpura-Bathinda line and will be significant as it will improve mobility."While we have electrified major routes on northern railways, there are patches where our trains get delayed because the electric locomotive has to be changed to diesel on them. With the electrification of these sections, it will be a seamless travel, there will be no delays and above all, it will save energy. This is a significant move of the railways towards 100 per cent electrification," an official said.Intensive inspections of the sections were carried out by Chief Commissioner of Railway Safety Shailesh Kumar Pathak.Pathak conducted detailed safety inspections of Dhuri-Jakhal and Dhuri-Lehra Mohabbat sections using motor trolley. Later, current collection tests and speed trials by electric locomotive were also done. The speed trial between Jakhal-Dhuri and Lehra Mohabbat-Dhuri sections with up to 120 km per hour was recorded successfully, the statement said.The tests were done using Oliver-G technology which is a type of 'over-head line' inspection with video recording and GPS marking system for current collection. It is a highly reliable technology for ensuring spark-free current collection.Several other structures like ROBs, RUBs, level crossings and FOBs on the line were also checked during the inspection. The CCRS also inspected the railway stations and their amenities located on the sections.Rajiv Chaudhry, General Manager Northern and North Central Railways, said the CCRS expressed satisfaction over the electrification work done and has accorded approval for the use of the sections by Railways. The railway lines have been put to use and Northern Railway has started train operations on them.As of now, more than 40,000 Route km (RKM) has been electrified, which is 63 per cent of broad gauge routes.During 2014-2020, 18,605 km has been electrified and the Railways has set a target of achieving electrification on 7,000 RKM in 2020-21.All routes on BG network are planned to be electrified by December 2023. Amid the coronavirus pandemic in which all passenger services remained suspended, the Railways commissioned 365 km route for electrification. PTI
16-07-2020||---||Karnal reports 12 fresh COVID-19 cases; tally 580||Chandigarh, July 16Karnal reported 12 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the tally in the district to 580.The persons tested positive include five from Hansi Road — a 23-year-old man, 15-year-old boy, 65-year-old man and 18-year-old man.Four cases have been reported from LIC Colony — 48-year-old man, 22-year-old man, 56-year-old man a 26-year-old man.A 26-year-old from Shastri Nagar, two 50-year-old men from Gur Mandi, and a 13-year-old girl from Mall Road have tested positive.
16-07-2020||Sanjay Yadav||200 shops sealed in Gurugram; shopkeepers up in arms||Gurugram, July 16High drama prevailed at Sadar Bazar, Gurugram, on Thursday as the Municipal Corporation went on to seal around 200 shops for encroachments.The shopkeepers, who had arrived to open shops in the morning, were in for a shock when they found their shops had been sealed and an MCG notice was pasted on the shutters. The notice held shops guilty of nurturing temporary encroachments and not getting rid of them despite repeated warnings and public announcements.Refuting the allegations and refusing to pay fine, the shopkeepers staged a protest and demanded MLA Sudhir Singla to step in and intervene.“These shopkeepers have a host of squatters and ‘rehriwalas’ in front of their shops on a rental basis. This has made Sadar Bazar non-commutable and congested. In case of an emergency, fire brigade or an ambulance cannot get tough. In the current COVID-19 times, this has thrown social-distancing at a toss and has converted the market into an infection hotbed. We had been issuing warnings since a week and the videography was done to identify the accused,” said Joint Commissioner Gaurav Antil, who spearheaded the move.The shopkeepers, however, alleged that the drive was meant to extort money. They alleged that they had got a call at night by some people saying they had video shot encroachments in front of their shops and were seeking money to delete those videos.“They have hired bouncers who make fake videos and seek money. We will not accept this and pay any fine. We are already undergoing an economic crisis and such an act to mint money by the MCG is unacceptable. We have approached the MLA to intervene,” said an office-bearer of the market association.The MCG has reduced the fine rate from Rs 3,000 to Rs 2,000 owing to the economic slump but has refused to de-seal the shops.“Encroachment is an illegal and punishable offence. This law is not new and well-known to all, so there is no justification. Encroachment has emerged as the biggest civic issue in the city that triggers other problems as well. We, at MCG, have a zero-tolerance to the same. All allegations towards us are baseless. We have been making public announcements warning of sealing but they are not ready to listen. This problem will be dealt as per the law,” said MCG Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh.A protest was on throwing social distancing to toss till filing of the report.
16-07-2020||---||Kidnapped 8-month-old boy rescued by Ambala police, 2 arrested||Ambala, July 15The Ambala police rescued an eight-month-old boy after a couple had allegedly kidnapped him from his house in the wee hours of today with the motive of selling him.The suspects, Pavita Devi and Dinesh Kumar, were arrested from the Ambala Cantonment railway station while they were trying to flee.In her complaint to the police, Vandana, who belongs to Bihar and is currently living in New Vivek Vihar in Ambala City, alleged that around 3:30 am, she found that her son Krishna was missing. They then started looking for him, but to no avail. The woman then raised a suspicion on Pavita Devi and her husband Dinesh, who also hail from Bihar.A case was registered under Section 365 of the IPC at the Ambala City police station.SHO Ambala City Ram Kumar said, “The couple has been arrested and the boy has been handed over to the family.The matter is being further investigated by the CIA-2 unit.”CIA-2 in-charge Sandeep said, “The suspects will be produced before a court tomorrow. They were also carrying their two minor children with them when they were arrested.”
16-07-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula gets Rozgar Bhawan||He was speaking at the inauguration of Rozgar Bhawan, constructed at a cost of Rs9.5 crore, in Panchkula on World Youth Skills Day.
16-07-2020||Ambala||Snatching accused held||The police have arrested Rahul, alias Saunta, of Ambala for snatching and recovered snatched cash and documents. He was produced in a local court, which remanded him to a 14-day judicial custody. TNSOne caught with weaponThe police have arrested Kewal Singh of Ambala and recovered an illegal .315-bore pistol from his possession on Wednesday. He was sent to a one-day police remand by a local court. TNSOne arrested for assaultThe police have arrested Pintu of Mahesh Nagar, near here, in a case of assault. Rajat had accused him of assaulting and threatening him with 15 to 20 accomplices on June 15. Pintu was later released on bail. TNSHisarElderly man shot deadAn 80-year-old man was shot dead by two assailants in Bhiwani’s Badesra village on Wednesday. Sube Singh was sitting outside his house when the car-borne youths opened fire. Police sources said the incident seem to be the outcome of political rivalry at the village level. TNS
16-07-2020||The Ambala administration has fulfilled the long-pending demand for sterilising stray dogs. But this raises the question||Dog sterilisation not enough||Commission agents a harried lotIT’S been more than three months since the wheat procurement in Narwana came to an end, but government agencies have yet to release the payment of commission agents. Arhtiyas have approached the agencies several times, but to no avail.So, they have no option, but to go on an indefinite strike. There’s a strong resentment among them. The government should be considerate towards their problem. –Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaCBDT should be laudedTHE Central Board of Direct Taxation (CBDT) should be lauded for allowing the verification of income tax return verification (ITR-V) forms pending for the assessment years 2015-16 to 2019-20. The verification process must be completed by September 30. Its decision will greatly benefit income tax payers. –Shakti Singh, KarnalCheck black marketing of Covid drugIT’S a matter of grave concern that Covid drugs such as Remdesivir is being sold at ten times the price on the black market in NCR areas. A vial of Remdesivir costs Rs 5,400 in Gurugram, but is being sold for Rs 30,000 in Delhi and NCR districts. The local drug department must nab back marketers. –Subhash C Taneja, GurugramAddress of Panchkula SBI branch IncorrectThe SBI website mentions the wrong address of its branch in Sector 20, Panchkula. The PIN Code and name of the district is wrong. The PIN code is menioned as 134112 and the district Ambala. In fact, the correct PIN code is 134117 and the district is Panchkula. I apprised the customer care, contact centre, nodal office and public grievances portal and even posted it on Twitter, but the SBI authorities seem no bothered. The address has not being corrected. –Ram Lal Goyal, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
16-07-2020||Rohtak||MDU issues admission notification||Seminar on economy revivalYamunanagar: “The recession in the global economy is a reality to be accepted which require understanding and adopting needonomics,” said ex-Vice Chancellor MM Goel, a needonomist professor retired from Kurukshetra University. He was delivering the keynote address at the international webinar on ‘Needonomics for the revival of global economy’ organised by Gurjar Kanya Gurukul Mahavidyala at Devdhar village of Yamunanagar. He said the global economy could be made consumer-friendly by adopting NAW (Need, Affordability and Worth) approach of the international marketing of goods and services. Eminent speaker from Afganistan Bahram Ramesh gave feedback.Webinar on researchers’ fundingHisar: The Directorate of Research, Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University, organised an international webinar on “International funding for young researchers-an opportunity”. More than 150 scientists and students participated in the webinar from across the country. Chief orator SK Sehrawat, research director, stressed that sources were drying up and we need to explore the international funding. International scientist Rajesh Jalota, senior environment officer, Department of Environment and Science based at Queensland, Australia, highlighted the various problems being faced by the researchers in the current scenario of climate change and other factors. He presented a lot of funding opportunities offered by various agencies from Australia, Europe and the US, etc.Fee relaxation to GJUST studentsHisar: The Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST), Hisar, has decided to allow the promoted students to pay the semester fee in two instalments to avoid financial hardships amid Covid. In the first instalment, the students will pay continuation fee plus 50 per cent tuition fee and 50 per cent total examination fee and the annual charges of Rs 350. Development fund and other charges will not be charged in the first instalment. The University has waived the Internet fee amounting to Rs.200 for this year. This may reduce the first instalment to less than the 50 per cent of the semester fee. Further, there is also an option on the portal for those students, who want to pay full fee of the semester in single instalment. The schedule for payment of semester fee is up to August 7 without late fee instead of July 15 and with late fee of Rs 10 per day up to August 31.
16-07-2020||Hisar||Two found dead in Sirsa village||
16-07-2020||Rewari||Woman murdered, hubby surrenders||
16-07-2020||Yamunanagar||Traders told to pay pending 20-year rent||Reeling under financial crunch, Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, has served notice on 112 shopkeepers of Meerabai Market in Yamunanagar for not depositing rent for 20 years. As per the MC, rent of shops and 12 per cent annual interest amounting to Rs 1.9 crore are pending towards these shopkeepers. Besides, these shopkeepers will have to pay GST. Shopkeepers demanded 50 per cent relaxation on interest on the rent amount. — TNS
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||1K play schools to come up||In keeping with the Budget announcement, the state government is all set to open 1,000 playway schools. The decision was taken at a meeting presided over by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar while reviewing the functioning of pre-schools here on Wednesday. Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar was also present in the meeting. The CM directed officers to upgrade anganwadi centres, at present functioning on the premises of primary schools, into smart learning playways. “The curriculum of playway schools should be designed in the form of animation and audio-visuals,” he said. — TNS
16-07-2020||Yamunanagar||Man arrested  for murdering Yamunanagar woman||The police claimed to have solved a murder case and an attempt-to-murder case with the arrest of two persons. Saroj Bala (55), who worked at the canteen of the Northern Railways carriage and wagon workshop here, was found murdered at her quarter in Railway Colony on June 23. On the complaint of her niece Richa Devi, a case was registered. “The special detective unit of the police has arrested Mukesh Kumar of Railway Colony in connection with the woman’s murder. The accused was out on bail in another murder case,” said Kamaldeep Goyal, Superintendent of Police (SP). The accused disclosed that he knew that Saroj Bala lived alone and he entered her house with the motive to rob her, he said. In the attempt-to-murder case, a man from Uttar Pradesh was arrested. On June 26, the accused, identified as Dharmendra Kumar, had allegedly attacked Nisha Rani, the wife of a businessman, at her house in Jagadhri. She sustained severe injuries in the attack. “The accused told the police he entered the house with a motive to loot,” the SP said. Dharmendra was sent to a two-day police remand. —TNS
16-07-2020||Rohtak||Nod to 2-month tax waiver for commercial vehicles in Haryana||Commercial vehicles will get exemption in the motor vehicle tax for June and July as the state government has given nod to the proposal of the Transport Department for exemption in the tax from 25 per cent to 100 per cent in view of the Covid pandemic.The move will benefit around 7 lakh commercial vehicles across the state. All vehicles were already given total exemption from the tax for March and April, and the vehicle owners were eagerly waiting for the decision about tax exemption for June and July.As per the government approval, 100 per cent exemption in tax will be given to school, stage carriage and contract carriage buses, 50 per cent exemption to auto, maxi cab and taxi and special purpose vehicles, while 25 per cent exemption to goods vehicles and private service vehicles for June.Similarly, for July, 100 per cent exemption in tax will be given for school buses, 75 per cent exemption for stage carriage buses and 25 per cent exemption for auto, maxi cab and taxi, while no exemption will be given to goods vehicles, contract carriage buses, private service vehicles and special purpose vehicles for July.“The proposal was sent to the state government recently, as various associations of commercial vehicles were persistently raising the demand for tax exemption in the view of the pandemic,” sources said.Sunil Kumar, president, Haryana Cooperative Transport Society Welfare Association, said private buses remained off-road for the past four months, causing a huge loss to the owners. “Now, the state government has allowed the buses to ply as per the schedule with half seating capacity, but the number of passengers are negligible on majority of routes. Hence, we were demanding tax waiver,” he said.Ravinder Nandal, state president, Haryana Private School Sangh, said exemption in tax was the need of the hour. “The government must exempt the school buses from tax till the time the schools are not opened,” Nandal said.Confirming the government approval on thetax exemption for commercial vehicles, Virender Singh Sehrawat, Additional Transport Commissioner, Haryana, said a notification in this respect would be issued soon.
16-07-2020||---||Hard work pays off for Mahendragarh electrician’s son||Mahendragarh, July 15Joginder Sharma, son of an electrician, has brought laurels to his village Kojinda by obtaining 96.6 per cent marks in Class X, the result of which were declared by the CBSE on Wednesday.A student of Eureka Public School in Narnaul, Joginder says he worked hard for the exam and used to pedal 3 km to school every day. He wants to opt for the non-medical stream to fulfil his dream of becoming a civil engineer. Selja questions formula for state board resultAvinash of Narnaul, son of a railway gangman, made his parents proud by getting 95.6 per cent marks. He said he wants to join defence services and serve the nation.Faridabad: Three Faridabad students have scored 99.4 per cent marks in Class X and more than 1,000 have got over 90 per cent.Jasraj Singh of Modern Delhi Public School, Prinkle Dhingra of Delhi Public School and Lavanya Jain of Ryan International School have scored 99.4 per cent marks. At least 48 pupils of these schools have obtained above 95 per cent marks.Yamunanagar: Arushi of Spring Field Public School has got 98.4 per cent in Class X board examination. Aryan Singh of Swami Vivekanand Public School scored 98.2 per cent, while Bhavya of Spring Field Public School got 98 per cent. At Gurjar Kanya Vidya Mandir, Devdhar, Nishtha and Anasuya scored 97.2 per cent.National Public School students Khushi and Harsimran Kaur scored 95.4 per cent, Tamanpreet Singh 94.2 per cent, Vashu Singhal 93.8 per cent, Muskan 93.2 per cent, Sneha 93 per cent, Lavishu 92.2 per cent, Mehak 92 per cent, Ayush 91.4 per cent, Anubhav Gaba 91 per cent, Vartika 90.4 per cent, Vanshika 90.2 per cent and Vinit Sharma 90 per cent.Karnal: Meera Arora of ST Convent School has obtained 98.8 per cent marks in the board exams. “I want to become an IAS officer. I credit my success to parents and teachers. I followed a strict schedule to achieve my goal,” she said.Sneha of ST Convent School, Nandita Mittal of Pratap Public School and Dhruv Goel of Dyal Singh Public School have scored 98.6 per cent marks. Manvi of Dyal Singh main branch has obtained 98.4 per cent.Panipat: Mahika Jain of The Millennium School has got 99.6 per cent in the exam, while Akriti Arora and Komal of Maharaja Aggarsen Public School in Samalkha obtained 99.4 per cent.Zoya Zafar of St Mary’s Convent Senior Secondary School, Nitisha of MASD Public School and Rimi Gupta of DAV Public School have got 99 per cent marks.
16-07-2020||---||Till June, 11.5 tonnes of drugs seized||Chandigarh, July 15In line with the government’s commitment to make Haryana a drug-free state, the police have intensified heat on peddlers that resulted in the seizure of a whopping 11.5 tonnes of narcotics during the first half of 2020.This year till June, the police have filed a total of 1,343 cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, in which 1,821 persons were arrested on the charges of peddling and possession of drugs. Sirsa district leads in number of FIRs Disclosing this here on Wednesday, Director General of Police (DGP), Haryana, Manoj Yadava said as many as 11,568.68 kg of illegal drugs were confiscated between January and June this year. In a bid to prevent drug trafficking, the police under the guidance of Home Minister Anil Vij has taken a series of steps that include increased inter-state cooperation for the exchange of information about the drug mafia.“We have adopted a multi-pronged strategy in fighting with the drug menace as a result of which our field units, including the Special Task Force, have dismantled the potential supply of almost all types of narcotics in the state, the DGP added.”Giving details of the seizure, the DGP said poppy husk was on the top on the list of recoveries with 8,043.2 kg followed by 3,150.09-kg ganja and 243.43 kg opium. The police have also seized 102.94-kg charas/sulpha, 2.56-kg smack and 25.56 kg of heroin from the possession of the arrested accused. In addition, over 10.40 lakh tablets, capsules, injections and syrups falling underthe category of prohibited drugs were also recovered during this period.The DGP said illegal drugs had no place in our society and we would continue to speed up our operations against traffickers and drug cartel to save the people, especially the youth, from this menace. We were also preventing drug abuse through awareness and education, he added.
16-07-2020||Mukesh Tandon---||48 illegal bleaching units sealed in Panipat, again||Tribune News Service Panipat, July 15 The inspection by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has brought out that owners of 48 of the 127 illegal bleaching units inspected in the past 25 days broke the seals and resumed operations. Some of these units were sealed twice or thrice but the owners resumed operations, sources in the HSPCB said. These 48 units have been resealed. The perusal of the record of the bleaching units brought to light that the names of owners of the 48 units did not match with the ones recorded at the time of the last inspection, the sources say. Moreover, 17 new illegal bleaching units were found operational.  Last month, The Tribune had published a news report about illegal bleaching units in the district. Taking note of the news report, a member secretary of the HSPCB sought a report from the district authorities. Subsequently, DC Dharmender Singh constituted a committee of four departments — the HSPCB, Revenue, UHBVN and District Town Planner — to initiate action against illegal units. Shailender Arora, regional officer, HSPCB, said: “Notices have been served on the owners of 17 units that came up recently. Electricity to another 17 units has been cut. Prosecution process against owners of 48 units, which have been resealed, has begun.”
16-07-2020||Sushil Manav||Locusts breeding in Rajasthan, Haryana braces for more attacks||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 15Haryana is bracing for more locust attacks and that too of much higher intensity than the ones witnessed so far as Jhunjhunu district of Rajasthan that shares the boundary with five districts of the state has become a major centre for the insects due to heavy breeding.The Locust Warning Organisation of the Centre has warned Haryana that more attacks of much higher intensity could be witnessed in districts of the state close to Jhunjhunu in the coming days.As if this was not enough, the locust swarms active in the region have become resistant to the commonly used insecticide, Chlorpyriphos, making the task of officials tougher.Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, said the intensity of the locust swarms which attacked fields in various districts of the state was merely 16 per cent of what the future attacks could be.“We have been informed that breeding of locusts on a large scale has been witnessed in Jhunjhunu district. Hence, attacks by swarms much bigger than the ones witnessed in the past couple of days could be witnessed in the coming days, particularly after July 22,” said Kaushal.Locusts have attacked agricultural fields in Nuh, Mahendragarh, Rewari, Bhiwani, Dadri and Sirsa during the past some days leading to widespread damage to crops.Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal had announced the government has already ordered a special girdawari to assess the loss.With breeding reported in Jhunjhunu, five districts of Haryana — Nuh, Rewari, Mahendragarh, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri — run the risk of fresh attacks due to their geographical location.As per experts, the lifecycle of the desert locust consists of three stages — the egg, the nymph known as a hopper and the winged adult.Eggs hatch in about two weeks while hoppers develop over a period of about 30-40 days and adults mature in about three weeks.Assuring that his department is prepared well for the eventuality, Kaushal said that Haryana is going to purchase three drones for aerial spray of insecticide.He said that the state would also acquire fogging machines being bought by the Centre from the UK for use on high ranges like trees.Confirming that the locusts had become resistant to Chlorpyriphos due to mutation, Kaushal said the department has decided to use Lamda, a stronger pesticide in the future.“We have constituted teams comprising 10 to 15 officials in each of the five high-risk districts and we are preparing well for the future attacks,” said Kaushal adding that the Centre has appreciated Haryana’s efforts in managing the locusts so far.About-turnMahendragarh: A swarm of locust entered the district from Rajasthan on Wednesday morning but it returned after flying over some villages. Farmers of Rasulpur, Nawata Ki Dhani and Balaha Khurd villages spotted locusts and informed the Agriculture Department. Farmers gathered in fields with utensils to scare the insects away but the swarm returned to Rajasthan with the direction of the wind. Jaswinder Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), said “Our teams were ready to tackle the swarm but it returned after some time.” TNSBhiwani successHisar: A four-day operation to control locust ended on Wednesday morning with the district authorities claiming that the affected villages of Bhiwani and Dadri districts were free from locusts. Agriculture officials issued an advisory to farmers to destroy the eggs of locust. TNS
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||7 die of Covid, 678 new cases in Haryana||The total number of Covid cases in Haryana reached 23,306 today with 678 fresh cases. With seven more deaths, the toll reached 319. The tally of recovered patients rose to 4,723 with 70 more patients discharged in the past 24 hours. Faridabad reported a maximum of 216 cases, followed by Gurugram (82), Sonepat (66) and Rohtak (36). Faridabad also led in the number of deaths with three, while Gurugram, Bhiwani, Panipat and Nuh reported one death each. A total of 90 persons tested positive in Rewari district on Wednesday, with 45 cases surfacing in Rewari, 26 in Dhaaurhera, 17 in Bawal and one each in Pali and Kakodia villages. In Jhajjar district,  17 cases were reported — 11 from Bahadurgarh and one each from Jhajjar, Jahajgarh, Kot, Jhangirpur, Wazirpur and Badsha. — TNS
16-07-2020||Sumedha Sharma---||Gurugram battles plasma shortage||Tribune News Service Gurugram, July 15 The district lacks a mechanism to arrange plasma for Covid patients. With recovered patients unwilling to donate plasma, a majority of the patients try to arrange it through social media or agents. To add to their problems, hospitals which have the plasma demand a donor in return. With demand outstripping the supply, plasma is being sold at a whopping rate. In the National Capital Region (NCR), the rate of one unit of plasma for a patient with A-negative blood group is Rs 60,000. Rakshita Banerjee, daughter of a critical Covid patient under treatment at a private hospital here, said: “The hospital asked me to find plasma for my father’s treatment. I managed to find one in a Delhi hospital, but it asked for a plasma donor. I contacted an agent, who took Rs 20,000 to arrange a donor.”  According to doctors, the reluctance of recovered Covid patients to donate plasma has led to the crisis.  As per a government estimate, not even two per cent of recovered patients in the city have donated plasma despite being urged to do so.  Recovered patients say they are scared of re-contracting the virus. A group of families of Covid patients has written to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, requesting him make to make it mandatory for recovered patients to donate plasma.
16-07-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Discom losses due to different accounting procedures: Probe||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 15A four-member committee constituted by the Haryana Government to look into the unusually large losses incurred by the two power distribution companies nearly a decade ago has found out that nothing was amiss and the accounting was done in keeping with the present policy.The committee was tasked to look into the increase in losses from Rs 6,505 crore in 2010-11 to Rs 19,708 crore in 2011-12 in the Uttar Haryana Bilji Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) and the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN). The Congress government headed by Bhupinder Singh Hooda was in power then.According to the committee’s report, the financial statements for 2011-12 were prepared by showing regulatory assets, Fuel Surcharge Adjustment (FSA) and subsidy as income even though the discoms did not receive any cash.Panel set up by governmentA committee formed by the state government was tasked to look into the increase in losses from Rs6,505 crore in 2010-11 to Rs19,708 crore in 2011-12 in the Uttar Haryana Bilji Vitran Nigam and the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam. The Congress government headed by Bhupinder Singh Hooda was in power then.Though nothing was amiss as per the existing accounting practice, it did lead to decrease in losses reported, while borrowings met the cash deficit. This led to increased liabilities for power purchase. Though this practice of showing the regulatory assets, FSA and subsidy had invited certain observations from the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India, these were not revised in the past.The report explains that when the Centre had offered the Financial Restructuring Plan (FRP) of discoms in October 2012, the losses did not match the borrowings. In fact, the losses were way less than the borrowings.To enable the discoms to avail themselves of the benefit of the scheme and ensure their viability, a second audit was carried out to clean up the books after following the prescribed procedure, the report is learnt to have mentioned. This led to increased losses. The accounting policies followed in the second audit continue to be followed even today.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced constitution of a committee in the Vidhan Sabha during the Budget session after the Opposition had raised questions about the growing debt burden.The treasury benches had countered the argument by saying that the losses dated back to the time when the Congress was in power. During trading of charges, Khattar had announced an inquiry.The committee, comprising the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) (Power), ACS (Finance), or his representative, CMD, UHBVN, and a charted accountant, was constituted in May this year and the report was expected by July-end. Sources say the report was submitted earlier this month.Sources say since the Hooda government was in power when the losses saw a sudden jump, the inquiry was essentially a political move aimed at hitting back at him since he had been raising the matter of increasing debt burden.
16-07-2020||Ravi S Singh||Haryana CM lists out post-Covid steps||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 15Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday said measures taken by the government had checked Corona and set out contours of future plans to revive the economy and faster and coordinated growth of the state.The progressive improvement in Haryana’s sex ratio, which reached 930 females per 1,000 males in 2019-20 from a dismal 851 females per 1,000 males in 2014 was hailed by Khattar. He attributed it to sincere implementation of the ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ drive.Taking part in a webinar on ‘How Haryana is fighting the Covid-19 crisis, and the way forward’, organised by the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of South Asia, Khattar said the pandemic had thrown normal life out of gear, but the government was able to curtail its spread except in Faridabad, Gurugram, Jhajjar and Sonepat, which were affected by the spread in Delhi.He said during the lockdown, the government had ramped up its health infrastructure, including 15,000 beds in isolation wards fitted with oxygen and ventilators.Khattar said the worst appeared to be behind them and normalcy was returning. He said 50 per cent of trade and business activity had resumed. He said power consumed in June was 80 per cent cent of consumption level in the same period last year. He said there was a rise in the overall demand and consumption of goods and services. He said the sale of two-wheelers and tractors had been more.He attributed the zoom in liquidity in the rural market on account of direct transfer of cash into farmers’ accounts. He said about Rs 20,000 crore was deposited in the accounts of farmers.He said Haryana had tweaked its land and labour policies to make the state an attractive destination for investment. He said post-Covid plans included sector-wise industrial clusters in all districts, with focus on farm-based processing units.Not giving sample for test? Will get bookedAmbala: In a first, Ambala SDM Gauri Midha has ordered initiation of criminal proceedings against persons not giving samples for Covid test, using centralised air-conditioners (ACs) and ignoring guidelines for the use of split and window ACs. “Sometimes people hesitate, refuse or avoid giving sample for Covid test. By doing so, they are endangering their lives and risking those around them. Such an act is liable to be punished,” read the order. TNS
16-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Can’t remove MC chief by no-trust motion, says HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 15The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that even a municipal committee president elected prior to September 4, 2019, cannot be removed through a no-confidence motion. Such a procedure stood expressly deleted by way of an amendment with effect from September 4, 2019, a Division Bench asserted.The ruling is significant as the Haryana Municipal (Second Amendment) Act, 2019, amending the Haryana Municipal Act, was notified on September 4, 2019. A significant change brought about by the amendment was that a no-confidence motion could not be resorted to for a president’s removal.This was consistent with another significant change, whereby the president was to be elected directly and not indirectly from among elected members of a municipal committee, the Bench of Justice S Muralidhar and Justice Avneesh Jhingan asserted.The Bench quashed an order dated June 18 passed by the Fatehabad Deputy Commissioner and subsequent notice dated June 25 issued by the Tohana SDO (Civil) for consideration of a no-confidence motion for removal of petitioner Seema Rani as municipal committee president. The Bench made it clear that the impugned order and notice stood quashed with regard to the president alone and not vice-president.Rani had moved the High Court. The Bench was told that the petitioner was elected Jakhal Mandi municipal committee president at a meeting of elected members on February 2, 2019. Nearly seven months after the notification was issued, the amendment was notified.The Bench asserted that it was not possible to interpret the amendment in the manner suggested by the respondents to say the president of a municipal committee elected prior to September 4, 2019, would continue to be governed by unamended provision and could be removed through a no-confidence motion.
16-07-2020||---||5 HCS officers shifted||Chandigarh, July 15The state government has issued transfer and posting orders of five HCS officers with immediate effect.Yogesh Kumar, Additional Excise and Taxation Commissioner, has been posted as Secretary, Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board.Samwartak Singh, Additional Director, State Transport, Haryana, has been posted as Additional Transport Commissioner, Haryana.Meenaxee Raj, Joint Transport Commissioner, has been posted as Joint Director, State Transport.Ashutosh Rajan, General Manager, Haryana Tourism, has been posted as Joint Excise and Taxation Commissioner.Vijay Singh, Secretary, Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board, has been posted as SDM, Sonepat.
16-07-2020||Medical aid||Medical aid, advice on your doorstep in Ambala||Nitin Jain Tribune News Service Ambala, July 15 Medical aid and counselling facilities are being provided to Ambala residents, especially those at high Covid risk, on their doorstep. A dedicated 24x7 helpline 1950 had been launched to contact, trace, counsel and treat vulnerable people. Callers can access credible information on Covid and avail medical assistance for vulnerable patients suffering from tuberculosis, cancer, diabetes, hypertension and liver and kidney ailments. The helpline has a provision of telephonic psychological counselling. A group of MBBS doctors, Ayush specialists, psychologists and counsellors have been put on duty to interact with, advise and answer callers. Since the launch of the helpline on June 26, over 1,000 persons have been called up, with almost 750 having answered the calls.
