16-09-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  ||Haryana Covid tally breaches 1 lakh-mark||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, September 16  The Covid-19 case load in Haryana crossed the one lakh-mark on Wednesday, with 25,000 cases reported in the last 10 days alone.  It took about four months to report the first 25,000 cases in the state but in the last two months three-times more cases (75,000) have been added to the state tally.  With 87,184 cumulative cases in Punjab and 10,513 in Himachal Pradesh (HP), the total cases in the region touched close to 2 lakh on Wednesday.The first case in Haryana was reported on March 17, when a 29-year-old Gurugram woman tested positive. She had travelled from abroad soon after that the lockdown was imposed.From June 1, the Unlock phase started and Haryana crossed 25,000 cases on July 18.  The rate of growth in cases has been on rise since then as the government announced more relaxations following Centre’s directions almost in toto.The 50,000 mark was breached on August 20 in the next 33 days, implying 769.1 cases per day.  The next 17 days saw the growth rate doubling to 1,507.2 cases per day as 75,000 mark was crossed on September 6.  However, the last 10 days witnessed the rate climbing to 2,476.7 cases per day as the state’s Covid tally clocked 1.01 lakh on Wednesday.   It is 3,996.3 cases per million population (taking the population of the state as reported in 2011 Census).  The maximum cases in the state have been registered from Faridabad (16,701), followed by Gurugram (16,344), Sonipat (6,447), Ambala (6,390) and Panipat (6,124).  Even Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and some of his Cabinet colleagues had tested positive. Though they have recovered now.  So far, 78,937 people have recovered with a recovery rate of 77.91 per cent and 21,334 are active ones.  Over the time, the testing was ramped up and reached 15.65 lakh tests on Wednesday which also included rapid antigen tests.      The fatality rate in the state is 1.03 per cent with 1,045 deaths, while the neighbouring Punjab has much higher death rate of 3 per cent with 2,592 deaths.  Among the casualties, Haryana witnessed 884 co-morbid cases while 161 didn’t have any co-morbidity. There are 731 men and 314 women among the deceased.  At present, there are 363 cases which are under critical care with 300 on oxygen support and 63 on ventilators.  Haryana has 46, 133 bedded quarantine facilities in dedicated Covid Care Centers and 12,263 beds are available in dedicated Covid hospitals and Covid Health Centers.
16-09-2020||New Delhi||Farmers from Punjab, Haryana stage protest in Delhi over agricultural bills; detained||Farmers from Punjab and Haryana staged a protest at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi against bills on food and agriculture reform on Wednesday.Police detained the farmers while they were protesting. The Centre introduced the Bills on food and agriculture reform in the Lok Sabha on Monday. The proposed legislations seek to provide barrier-free trade for farmers’ produce outside notified farm mandis, and empower farmers to enter into farming agreements with private players before production for sale of agri-produce.The Farmers’ Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill were introduced in parliament on Monday.Farmers from Punjab and Haryana staged a protest at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi.Tribune photo: Manas Ranjan Bhui Farmers have maintained that they are being forced to take to streets because of the apathetic attitude of the central government over their demand for the withdrawal of the Bills.Farmers have expressed apprehension that these would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system and they would be at the “mercy” of big corporates.
16-09-2020||Vijay C Roy||Northern states laggard in startup rankings||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15The northern region has to work hard to attract startups as no state from the region has been ranked as top performer in the second edition of Ranking of States on Support to Startup Ecosystems released by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) recently.Senior govt official‘Need to build robust ecosystem’The need of the hour is to build a robust ecosystem and closely monitor futuristic measures to spur the growth of startupsPunjab and Haryana were placed under the Aspiring Leaders’ category along with Jharkhand, Telangana and Uttarakhand. They are a notch above Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, which were ranked at the bottom in Emerging Startup Ecosystems as per the States Startup Ranking Report 2019.Gujarat topped the list as the best performer. The ‘top performers’ include Karnataka and Kerala while Bihar, Maharashtra, Odisha and Rajasthan were put in the ‘Leaders’ category.As many as 22 states and three Union Territories participated in the ranking. For the purpose of ranking, the states were classified into five categories: Best Performers, Top Performers, Leaders, Aspiring Leaders and Emerging Startup Ecosystems.The startup ecosystem in the country is replete with growth stories due to the role of stakeholders but it is mainly due to lack of ecosystem the northern states seems to be laggard.“In the northern region, access to seed capital and venture funding support is difficult as compared to top-performing states. This is the main reason behind lower rankings,” said a senior government official.Besides, there is a need for robust policy framework and complete transparency in the policy implementation. “The need of the hour is to build a robust ecosystem and closely monitor futuristic measures to spur the growth of the startups,” said another official.
16-09-2020||Dharamsala||5 held for taxi driver’s murder from Panipat||The police have arrested five persons from Panipat who were accused of killing a taxi driver from Himachal yesterday.Bilaspur SP Divakar Sharma said yesterday five persons hired a taxi from Shimla to Hamirpur. When the taxi reached Bilaspur, the occupants attacked the driver with sharp-edged weapons. The driver, Harish Kumar, a resident of Kandaghat, was injured badly in the attack. He, however, mustered courage and ran on road and clung to a truck passing by. The truck driver informed the police who took him to hospital.In his statement to the police before dying, Harish said five persons who had hired his taxi attacked him with sharp-edged weapons and fled with his taxi. — TNS
16-09-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Encroachment on pedestrian site in Ambala City||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comEncroachment on pedestrian site in Ambala CityThe pedestrian site near the grain market in Ambala City is the busiest as the road leads to three big sectors. besides, thare are more than 200 commercial establishments in the grain and fodder market. There are traffic jams and the main sufferers are pedestrians. The passage has been encroached upon by vegetable hawkers, pan masala sellers, flowers makers and juice and fruit establishments. There is hardly any place left for the pedestrians to move. The situation at Manav Chowk gets aggravated because customers park their vehicles in a haphazard manner making movement of heavy vehicles difficult. The administration should take note and clear and regulate traffic in these areas. Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityUnderground power cables should be usedIf we have underground water/piped natural gas (PNG) pipelines and optical fibre cables (OFC), then why not underground electricity cables? It will help reduces outages due to high-velocity winds or falling trees and it looks better aesthetically and reduces downtime for businesses. The Electricity Department must take immediate action either on their own or under the PPP initiative. Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaStray cattle menace continues in NarwanaNearly at all main crossings in Narwana one can see countless cows and bulls, comfortably sitting or roaming under lights, blocking roads from all sides. The traffic starts moving at a snail's pace whenever they are found sitting on the roads. The administration must solve this problem at the earliest. Ramesh Gupta, Narwana
16-09-2020||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra University's Professor Dr SS Rahal to present paper in Greece'||Youth Motivation Day at varsityFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, will observe September 17 as Youth Motivation Day to mark the 70th birth anniversary of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with a 'pledge' to work for Aatmanirbhar Bharat. Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar said Aatmanirbhar Bharat was the vision of Prime Minister Modi of making India a self-reliant and self-sufficient nation. He is an inspiration for the youth. To support his vision and mission to strengthen the country's economy, the university has taken the initiative to celebrate this day as Youth Motivation Day.Faculty development programmeFaridabad: The department of electrical engineering of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, will conduct a faculty development programme on "digital circuit implementation using Zynq FPGA IC" from September 16 to 20. The programme is being supported by the AICTE Training and Learning (ATAL) Academy. The chairperson of the department of electrical engineering, Dr Poonam Singhal, said during the programme, training on Xilinx Vivado software and hardware would be provided. The FDP will be a combination of presentation, demonstration and hands-on sessions using a virtual platform. Participants from different corners of India and abroad will get the opportunity to interact with experts from the industry and will be able to enhance their knowledge and skills in the respective areas.Alumni-student interactionFaridabad: The dean student welfare office of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, organised the "Alumni student interaction programme" to mark the foundation day celebrations. As many as 200 participants attended the programme, which was addressed by 15 eminent alumni. The alumni of the university Rumneek Bawa, drector and president (Business Development) DSC Limited, Delhi, Raj Bhatia, chairman and managing director, Bony Polymers Pvt. Ltd., Faridabad, and Naresh Kumar were invited guests in this interactive session, which was presided over by Prof Dinesh Kumar. An interaction was held on the topics of trends and advancements in automotive and manufacturing industries, emerging trends in air conditioning and refrigeration industry to name a few.
16-09-2020||Ambala||Four held in assault cases in Ambala||The police have arrested four persons in two cases of assault and criminal intimidation. Manoj Kumar and Amit Kumar of Ambala were held on the complaint of Surinder. Sidharth of Pajokhra and Suraj of Ambala were arrested on the complaint of Palvir Singh. The accused were later released on bail. TNS1 nabbed in dowry caseThe police have arrested Vikas of Ambala in a case of dowry harassment. The victim had reported that the accused and other members of his family had been harassing her since marriage in 2018. The police registered a case. The accused was later released on bail. TNSBiker killed in accidentOne person was killed when a car hit his motorcycle on an overbridge near Shastri Colony in Ambala. The deceased was identified as Randhir Singh (45) of Ambala. The police registered a case. TNSTwo POs in police netThe police have arrested proclaimed offenders (POs) Sukhdev Singh alias Sukha of Kurukshetra and Subhash Chand of Mahesh Nagar, near here. They were evading arrest since they were booked. TNS
16-09-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Despite acquittal, sisters’ case haunts Rohtak youth||Tribune News ServiceAssan (Rohtak), September 15Three years after being discharged by the court, the Sonepat sisters’ case still continues to haunt Kuldeep, one of the three youths of Assan village in Rohtak district named in the case.Earlier, Kuldeep aspired to join the Army, but his candidature was rejected due to the said case. Then, he cleared the Group D Services exam and got a letter of appointment with the Haryana Armed Police (HAP) at Madhuban, but his joining has been stalled because of the case.The case that cast shadow on his careerOn November 28, 2014, Pooja and her sister Aarti of Thana Khurd village in Sonepat district thrashed three youths of Assan village in Rohtak district on board a moving bus, accusing them of having molested themAn FIR was registered and a special investigating team was constituted to probe the case. The police investigation found the allegations levelled by the sisters untrue“We don’t know when this case will get off our back. Our son has been proved innocent and discharged by two courts, still he is suffering because of the case which was proved false in police investigation,” says Kuldeep’s father Balbir, an ex-serviceman.Balbir and his wife Shakuntala have urged the state government and HAP authorities to sympathetically consider their son’s case.Kulvinder Singh, DIG, HAP, Madhuban, said he would look into the matter and get the facts examined.On November 28, 2014, Pooja and her sister Aarti of Thana Khurd village in Sonepat district thrashed three youths of Assan village in Rohtak district on board a moving bus, accusing them of having molested them.An FIR was registered and a special investigating team was constituted to probe the case which hogged the headlines for a long time. The police investigation found the allegations levelled by the sisters untrue.None of the 50-odd witnesses, including the girl who shot the video of the incident, supported the version of the sisters. Polygraph tests indicated that the sisters were concealing some information, while the accused boys had come out clean.“No case of moral turpitude is made out against Kuldeep and the other youths as they were discharged by the court of Rohtak ACJM Harish Goyal during the framing of charges. The decision to discharge them was upheld by the court of Additional Sessions Judge Jasbir Singh while hearing revision petition filed by the sisters,” maintains Kuldeep’s counsel Pradeep Malik.Noted writer and men’s rights activist Deepika Narayan Bhardwaj says it is unfortunate that the youth continues to suffer despite having proved his innocence.
16-09-2020||---||AIIMS project may be shifted from Manethi||Rewari, September 15The ambitious AIIMS project may be shifted to Majra village following non-availability of adequate consolidated land in Manethi village. Residents of Manethi have given their consent for 175 acres, but the land is scattered. A total of 200 acres of consolidated land is required for the project.Residents of Majra village have offered to make 315 acres available for the project. The district administration has shifted its focus to Majra, hoping to get adequate consolidated land. Majra and Manethi are adjoining villages.“A total of 200 acres of land is required for the hospital, its offices, research wings and residences of staff. Manethi village is unable to fulfil this condition and we are exploring the possibility of executing the project in Majra village,” said an officer on the condition of anonymity.Sheotaz Singh, Manethi sarpanch and AIIMS Sangharsh Samiti chief, said they were trying to persuade villagers whose land was at the proposed site, but they hadnot offered land for the project yet.Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh said the AIIMS Sangharsh Samiti had been asked to provide consolidated land for the project. “There are some chunks whose owners have not offered their land yet while these patches are essential,” he said.Ved Prakash Vidrohi, Congress spokesman, accused the government of fooling villagers. “The government should acquire land instead of urging farmers to offer land if it really wants to establish AIIMS,” he said.
16-09-2020||---||Amid Covid, Haryana govt bats for e-office||Chandigarh, September 15The Covid scare has come as a blessing in disguise for the Haryana Government as far as its flagship paperless office project, aimed at complete electronic movement of files, is concerned.“The movement of physical files between departments should be avoided as far as possible. Cases should be sent through e-office for all departments,” read an order of Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora today.Launched by the government in July, the e-office project was at an advanced stage of implementation in Haryana, with key departments, including Chief Minister’s Office, Chief Secretary’s Office and Finance Department, already switching over to e-office.Meanwhile, the government asked departments to avoid large meetings and use video-conferencing to hold departmental and inter-departmental meetings.Besides, temporary passes to the Secretariat for the general public had been suspended and departments asked to encourage the use of e-sachivalya for facilitating video meetings with senior governmentfunctionaries. The government decided that if any employee contracted Covid, the quarantine period prescribed by the competent medical authority would be treated as duty period for all intents and purposes.
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||‘Stay Home OPD’ launched in Haryana||Health Minister Anil Vij has said that an online health facility “Stay Home OPD” has been started in the state to ensure uninterrupted services during the Covid pandemic.The free-of-cost facility has been started under the name of “e-Sanjeevani OPD”. With this, people suffering from health ailments can get themselves registered on the “e-Sanjeevani” app to get free online medical consultation, Vij said. “Due to difficult circumstances arising of the pandemic, people suffering from aliments other than Covid are facing problems in getting treatment. Hence, the ‘e-Sanjeevani OPD’ has been has launched. So far, more than 1,000 patients have benefited from it,” the Health Minister said. On the online platform, a patient can upload his reports and get information about the disease and the required line of treatment from the doctor. Later, the doctor will give an online prescription to the patient. “Stay Home OPD” is available from 10 am to 1 pm and from 3 pm to 5 pm from Monday to Saturday. — TNS
16-09-2020||Deepender Deswal||Haryana Medical body flays suspension of 3 doctors for ‘wrong’ opinion||Tribune News ServiceHisar, September 15The suspension of three doctors of the civil hospital in Hisar has evoked strong reaction from the medical fraternity. Calling the suspension unjustified, the Haryana Civil Medical Services (HCMS) Association demanded immediate revocation of the orders.The health department has suspended three doctors — Dr Rajiv Dabla, Dr Poonam Dahiya and Dr Neeraj Khatak — on the charges of giving wrong medical opinion in the medical examination of another doctor of the civil hospital, Dr Prem Kumar, on the orders of the sessions court, Hisar, on January 4. Dr Kumar died in July.HCMS Association district president Dr Kamid Monga said suspension order of the three doctors was baseless and was issued without following due procedure. “We urge the government to revoke the orders as such action will adversely affect the morale of doctors who are leading the fight against Covid,” he said.The suspension came after district and session judge Arun Kumar Singhal ordered medical examination of Dr Kumar who was produced in the court during a hearing of a case. The judge said the gait of the witness (Dr Prem Kumar) was such that he was not in a position to stand properly in the court. “He appears to be in inebriated condition so the chief medical officer is directed to get him medically examined and to report regarding the consumption of liquor if any,” he had ruled.A medical board of three doctors was constituted which submitted a report the same day (January 4), saying Dr Kumar had refused to give samples for test and though he appeared conscious and cooperative, the possibility of any substance consumption could not be ruled out.The judge mentioned in the order that the aforesaid opinion given by the board of doctors seemed to have been given to protect the fellow colleague. The court further said it appeared that Dr Prem Kumar had failed to appear in the court despite bailable warrants and his presence was secured through non-bailable warrant. He further directed the health department director to look into the matter and take appropriate action. What had happened
16-09-2020||Yamunanagar||Woman raped over job promise in Yamunanagar||A 21-year-old woman was allegedly raped on the pretext of providing her with a job, the police have said. She alleged she was kept hostage in a room for 15 days and raped by other men as well.On the victim’s complaint, a case was registered against the accused, identified as Abhinandan, alias Lucky, under Sections 328, 376 and 506 of the IPC at woman’s police station on Monday. “About a month ago, Abhinandan called me up and assured me of providing me with the job,” the complainant said. She said she had gone to Abhinandan’s room . “He offered me a glass of cold drink. On drinking that, I fell unconscious and he raped me and filmed the incident. — TNS
16-09-2020||Sushil Manav||New Congress in charge to address factionalism in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15Vivek Bansal, newly appointed in charge of the state Congress, considers factionalism as a major challenge and exposing failures of the BJP-JJP government as the top priority for him.Bansal will visit Chandigarh for the first time on Thursday for interaction with state Congress leaders and sharing his priorities with them.Vivek Bansal, State Congress in chargeEvery voice will be heard: bansalFactionalism cannot be allowed to come in the way of interests of the organisation. When infighting starts hampering the organisation, steps have to be taken to address it. I will ensure that the voice of every worker is heard.Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, state Congress president Kumari Selja and other senior leaders are expected to attend the meeting.In a telephonic interview with The Tribune today, Bansal said there was factionalism in every organisation and the state Congress was no exception.“Factionalism cannot be allowed to come in the way of interests of the organisation. When infighting starts hampering the organisation, steps have to be taken to address it. I will ensure that the voice of every worker is heard,” Bansal said.Bansal said he would interact with senior leaders of the Congress on Thursday and discuss with them how the party performed its primary duty of exposing the government in Haryana by leaving aside minor differences.Lashing out at the state government, Bansal said all sections of society were fed up with the governments in the state and at the Centre.“The farming community is upset over the three agricultural ordinances because the government wants to wash its hands off the responsibility of providing MSP for crops. The ordinances are aimed at benefiting corporates and finishing small farmers,” he alleged.Bansal said strengthening the organisational set-up across the state would be another priority. Answering a question on the upcoming Baroda byelection, he said the seat had been with the Congress for long and the party would contest the bypoll to win.
16-09-2020||---||Out to take bath, six drown in Panipat||Panipat, September 15Six persons, including two girls and a woman, drowned in the Yamuna near Jalmana village of Bapoli block of Panipat district today. Three bodies have been fished out, while search is on for the remaining three.Sushil of Jalmana village along with his wife Sonia (32), son Sagar (12), daughter Payal (10), two close relatives — Badal (15) of Chandoli village and Saurabh (16) of Karhans village — and 19-year-old Sarita, daughter of Sushil’s neighbour Shyam Singh, had gone to the river to take bath.Sushil stood on the banks of the river, while the remaining six entered the water. While bathing three reached a deep end and started drowning. To save them, the other three too reached near them and drowned.Sushil started crying for help when he saw them drowning after which some villagers on the other side of the Yamuna jumped into the river but failed to save them. Besides, scores of villagers gathered at the spot and informed the administration.The divers fished out the bodies of Sarita, Sonia and Badal after three hours. The search for Sagar, Payal and Saurabh is still on. The bodies have been sent to the General Hospital for post-mortem.
16-09-2020||---||Paddy buying norms unjust: Kumari Selja||Chandigarh, September 15State Congress president Kumari Selja has questioned the new conditions for giving paddy to rice millers for custommilled rice.She accused the BJP-JJP government of harassing people during the pandemic. She said after the lathicharge on farmers and labourers in Kurukshetra, other sections were on target.Selja said new conditions had been imposed as part of a conspiracy to harass rice millers. If these new conditions were implemented, farmers and rice millers would suffer, she said.“They will face difficulty in selling paddy,” she stated. She said the government wanted to give paddy to only 600 out of 1,400 rice mills.Selja said it was clear that the government was deliberately harassing rice millers. She said the state Congress was with rice millers and farmers.She claimed that if the government policy was not changed soon, rice millers could refuse to purchase paddy, which would directly affect farmers as they would have trouble in selling the crop.
16-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Panel to be set up in 5 weeks: Haryana to High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15More than nine months after the term of the state committee for regulating admission and fee in private technical institutions came to an end, the High Court asked Haryana to constitute the panel. A five-week deadline was set for the purpose.The direction on the basis of an undertaking given by the state before the Division Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Rajesh Bhardwaj came during the hearing of a petition by Tinku and others against Haryana and other respondents.The Bench observed the state committee for regulating admission and fee in private technical institutions was constituted by the state vide a notification dated December 13, 2016, but its term expired on December 14, 2019.
16-09-2020||---||26 more die, 2,493 new Covid cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, September 15With 2,493 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 98,622 today. A total of 26 deaths were reported — five from Karnal, four from Panchkula, three from Kaithal, two each from Faridabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad and Ambala and one each from Sirsa and Bhiwani.Among fresh cases, the maximum cases were reported from Gurugram (324), followed by Faridabad (270), Hisar (195), Ambala (190), Panchkula (181), Fatehbad (173), Rohtak (151), Karnal (149), Kurukshetra (145), Yamunanagar (123) and Panipat (121).The Development and Panchayat Department at Sector 28 in Chandigarh was closed from September 16 to 18 for sanitisation. A number of cases had been reported from the department.
16-09-2020||---||Palwal-Sonepat rail corridor okayed||New Delhi, September 15The Centre today approved the Haryana orbital rail corridor project from Palwal to Sonepat via Sohna, Manesar and Kharkhoda. The 121.7 km project was estimated to cost Rs 5,617 crore and proposed to be completed in five years.121 km longThe 121.7 km project is estimated to cost Rs 5,617 crore and proposed to be completed in five yearsPalwal, Nuh, Gurugram, Jhajjar and Sonepat districts will benefit from the rail lineThe Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs cleared the project, to be be implemented by the Haryana Rail Infrastructure Corporation Limited, a joint venture company set up by the Ministry of Railways and the Government of Haryana.This would facilitate diversion of traffic not meant for Delhi and help in developing multi-modal logistics hubs in Haryana sub-region of the NCR. The rail line would start from Palwal and end at the existing Harsana Kalan station on the Delhi-Ambala section.This would give connectivity en route to the existing Patli station on the Delhi-Rewari line, Sultanpur station on the Garhi Harsaru-Farukhnagar line and Asaudha station on the Delhi-Rohtak line, an official release said.The districts of Palwal, Nuh, Gurugram, Jhajjar and Sonepat would benefit from this rail line. It would provide high-speed seamless connectivity to the dedicated freight corridor network, resulting in reduction of cost and time of transportation for export-import traffic from the NCR to ports of India.
16-09-2020||---||Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) boycotts meet with Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar||Chandigarh, September 15The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) on Tuesday took a U-turn and boycotted the meeting with Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar in Delhi. However, a delegation of various farmers’ organisations of Haryana met Tomar to discuss the Centre’s three new ordinances.What they seekThe farmers’ want the Centre’s assurance on the MSP, procurement under old system, safeguarding farmers from fraud by purchasers, power to SDM to resolve dispute between farmers and purchasers, e-platforms to be owned by the government or under its strict observance so that farmers aren’t duped and get direct paymentTomar assured them that there won’t be any implications on the MSP of crops.State BJP chief OP Dhankar, Agriculture Minister JP Dalal along with Hisar MP Brijendra Singh, Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini and Bhiwani-Mahendragarh MP Dharambir Singh were present during the meeting. Dhankar had formed a committee of the three MPs to interact with farmers after they were lathicharged at Kurukshetra. The delegation put up eight demands before Tomar on Tuesday.As per the BJP statement, Tomar assured the farmers that the MSP would stay and purchase would happen under the old system in grain markets. He said the ordinances were in favour of farmers.Talking to mediapersons after the meeting, Dhankar said, “People who have been instigating farmers under false premise have been exposed today. Some people just protest by becoming pawn in the hands of others.”Clearing the union’s stand on skipping the meeting, Rakesh Kumar Bains, BKU (Charuni) spokesperson, said: “We reached MP Dharambir’s house at 11 am on Tuesday. Gurnam Singh Charuni asked him whether the ordinances could be stopped till the talks were on, to which he refused. So, we decided to boycott the meeting.”Notably, a video was being circulated where some farmer leaders were seen confronting Gurnam Singh Charuni at Haryana Bhawan.During a press conference with Dalal, allegations were levelled that Charuni had been acting on the behalf of arhityas. Attar Singh Sandhu, who heads BKU (A), claimed that Charuni was misleading other farmers’ organisations and expressed satisfaction on meeting with Tomar.On the other hand, JJP state president Nishan Singh said their party had no problem with farm ordinances if the MSP was assured.Activists protest in AmbalaAmbala: Farmers under the banner of the BKU (Charuni) protested outside the DC office and raised slogans against the BJP government on Tuesday.BKU (Charuni) district chief Malkit Singh said: “The ordinances are actually the death warrant of farmers. The lathicharge done by the government has united the farmers. We’ll continue to stage dharna till September 19 then block roads on September 20.”
16-09-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Canal land in Faridabad freed from encroachment||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, September 15The Irrigation Department recovered about four acres of land encroached upon in neighboring Sector 4 and Ballabgarh city here on Tuesday.This was the second demolition drive in the past 24 hours as the Municipal Corporation, Faridabad, razed around 1,200 unauthorised residential constructions located on its land in Lakkadpur-Khori village on Monday.Virender Rawat, Executive Engineer, Irrigation DepartmentSome still exist along the banksThough several constructions still exist along the banks of the canal, the demolition has been carried out only to clear the way for the ongoing development works. “Bulldozers of the Irrigation Department reached the spot around 11 am and completed the scheduled task by 3.30 pm,” said an official, who claimed that residents of 55 constructions of Patel Nagar had failed to remove the encroachments despite several notices to them. Revealing that these constructions had come up on the banks of the Gurugram canal passing through the city in the past few decades, he said the removal of the encroachments had become necessary as they were posing hurdles in the widening of the national highway and the construction of the service road in the area. He said over two dozen encroachments by shops, sheds and commercial units located on the green belt owned by the department were also removed in the operation on Tuesday.Notices were served to Patel Nagar residents in February this year also, but the drive got suspended due to the outbreak of Covid pandemic.Meanwhile, Hari Lal Gupta, president of the Residents’ Welfare Association, Patel Nagar, and Congress party leader Baljit Kaushik, denounced the action, claiming that the eviction of residents from the colony, which was more than 30 years old, was wrong without the provision of alternative accommodation or land.
16-09-2020||Palwal||Crop on 1,500 acres still flooded in Palwal||A report prepared by the district authorities after a recent survey revealed that over 1,500-acre agricultural land in around two dozen villages is still waterlogged. The authorities have ordered an assessment of the loss to crops in the waterlogged fields in the district.DC Naresh Narwal, who conducted a tour of some of the affected areas, on Monday said he had ordered the officials concerned not only to conduct girdawari (loss assessment) of the region, but also had directed the Department of Agriculture to ensure pumping out the water in the fields. Revealing that the problem was acute in some villages, officials of the department said the problem was mainly in the villages located in low lying areas.“The department has installed pumps in all affected villages and dewatering operation is expected to be completed in 10 to 12 days,” said the DC. He said heavy rains that lashed the district about two weeks ago had resulted in the problem.More than 250 complaints have been received by the Department of Agriculture here. The district has a total of 68,000-acre agriculture area. — TNS
16-09-2020||---||5 illegal shops razed in Yamunanagar colony||Yamunanagar, September 15A team of the Town and Country Planning Department, Yamunanagar, carried out a demolition drive in an unauthorised colony falling in the controlled area of Bilaspur on Tuesday.Amit Madholia, District Town Planner‘Contact dtp office before buying land’It is requested to the general public that they should not invest their hard-earned money in such unauthorised colonies and contact the DTP office for any enquiry before buying land or plots.Amit Madholia, district town planner (DTP), Yamunanagar, said the total area of the colony was approximately 1.5 acres, wherein five newly constructed shops and five damp-proof courses were demolished.According to information, Balram Singh, Block Development and Panchayat Officer, Bilaspur, was appointed as the duty magistrate and the demolition team comprised DTP Amit Madholia, assistant town planner Dinesh Singh, junior engineers Mohit and Ravinder Kumar.“It is requested to the general public that they should not invest their hard-earned money in such unauthorised colonies and contact the DTP office for any enquiry before buying land or plots,” the DTP said.
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Now, private security agencies’ licence valid till December 31 in Haryana||In a major relief to operators of private security agencies, the controlling authority of the state has extended the validity of all licences issued under the Haryana Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, 2005, till December 31, which were expiring between April 1 and December 31.Giving this information, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk, who is also the controlling authority of the Haryana Private Security Agencies, said taking into consideration the present circumstances and the hardships faced by private security agency operators, this step had been taken. — TNS
16-09-2020||Palwal||7 vehicles impounded for illegal mining in Palwal||
16-09-2020||Gurugram||Thrashed youth dies in Gurugram||A youth was allegedly beaten up to death by two persons. The victim was thrashed by the accused and was undergoing treatment at a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday. An FIR has been registered against the unknown accused at Sector 40 police station. — TNS
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||From today, board CTU buses to Punjab, Haryana||The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will resume its inter-state bus service in Punjab and Haryana from tomorrow.Uma Shankar Gupta, Director, CTU, said buses would operate from both bus stands — the ISBT, Sector 17, and the ISBT, Sector 43.In Punjab, the buses will cover major destinations such as Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Amritsar, Patiala, Mehatpur, Ludhiana, Dina Nagar and Bathinda. In Haryana, the buses will ply to Panipat, Rohtak, Yamunanagar, Jind, Hisar, Sirsa, Hansi and Delhi (up to the Kundli border).The tickets can be purchased online on CTU website http://ctuonline.chd.gov.in or through the mobile app, “CTU Musafir”, dedicated for the purpose. Tickets can also be purchased from the conductor during the journey.The buses will operate with 50 per cent passenger occupancy in view of the social-distancing norms and guidelines issued by the UT Administration from time to time.Following the nationwide lockdown, the CTU had suspended the bus services on March 23. However, the CTU briefly resumed the inter-state bus services to neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab from June 10, but suspended these after a few days following a sudden rise in the coronavirus cases.
16-09-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Complications haunt patients post recovery||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, September 15Having successfully battled Covid-19, nearly 80 per cent of the recovered patients are thronging local hospitals with complications like chronic fatigue, inflammation, pneumonia, pulmonary fibrosis, cardiac issues, etc.In view of the alarming situation, many hospitals have planned to start post-Covid OPDs. Dr Virender Yadav, CMO, Gurugram, said: “The disease is leaving its footprints, the magnanimity of which differs from patient to patient. After discharge, we stay in touch with people reporting symptoms. To handle such cases in an organised way, we will soon start OPDs in both government and private hospitals.”Sources said there had been instances where patients after testing negative and being discharged from hospitals died within two or three days due to cardiac arrest. Many were rushed back in a critical condition, they said.Dr Yashpal Sharma, Head of Cardiology Department, PGIMER, Chandigarh, said: “Many patients have complained of cardiac issues after recovery. A number of them were even asymptomatic and had normal cardiac health prior to contracting the virus. It is thus important for all recovered patients to get a cardiac analysis done.”“Many people report minor symptoms like fatigue, while others are found suffering from complicated pulmonary conditions,” said Dr Manoj Goyal, a pulmonologist.
