16-11-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  ||With third wave hitting Haryana, Covid cases cross 2 lakh-mark||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, November 16  The cumulative number of Covid cases crossed 2 lakh-mark in Haryana with addition of 2,153 fresh cases on Monday, which is much ahead of its neighbouring states like Punjab with 1.42 lakh and Himachal Pradesh with 29,813 patients.  The infection has been on the surge in Haryana with third wave knocking at the door.  As per the weekly report of state’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), the week November 9-15 reported 17,070 cases, with 22.6 per cent rise over the previous week-November 2-8. It was the third highest for any 7-day period since the inception of the disease in the state on March 17.  There were 13,924 cases in November 2-8, 10,576 in October 26-November 1 and 8,271 in October 19-25.  In cases per million population, Haryana (7,807) is ahead of national average (7,281). Even on the parameter of active cases per million population, the state (771) is ahead of the national figure (396).    In deaths due to Covid, Punjab has so far recorded 4,480 while Haryana has witnessed 2,038 and HP reported 442.  The mortality rate in Haryana at 1 per cent is lower than national average of 1.5 per cent. The maximum cases in Haryana came in the age group of 25-34 but mortality rate was just 0.1 per cent. The death rate starts rising in cases above 55 years. It is 2.4 per cent in 55-64 age group, 4.7 per cent in 65-74, 8.2 per cent in 75-84, 9.8 per cent in 85-94 and 18.6 per cent in the bracket of 95-104 years.      Among the districts, in positive cases per lakh population, Gurugram leads all with the figure of 2,602, followed by 1,781 in Faridabad, 1,405 in Panchkula and 1,005 in Rewari.  Yamunanagar leads in mortality rate (2.1%), followed by Fatehabad (2%), Nuh (1.9%) and Jind (1.9%).  With over 30 lakh tests being conducted so far in the state, the overall positivity rate of 6.7 per cent. The highest positivity rate is in Faridabad at 11.6 per cent, followed by 9.5 per cent in Gurugram and 8.7 per cent in Rewari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-third-wave-hitting-haryana-covid-cases-cross-2-lakh-mark-171183
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Governor tests positive for COVID-19, admitted to hospital||Haryana Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday and was admitted to a private hospital in Mohali in Punjab.The 81-year-old Governor is currently admitted to the ICU, hospital sources told PTI.“His condition is stable,” a hospital official said.Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar in a tweet wished Arya a speedy recovery.Earlier, CM Khattar, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, some of their ministerial colleagues, Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta had contracted the infection and subsequently recovered from it. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-governor-tests-positive-for-covid-19-admitted-to-hospital-171137
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Rains lash Haryana and Punjab, temperatures dip||Many places in Haryana and Punjab received rains, causing a dip in the mercury on Monday, the Meteorological Department said.A few places, including Chandigarh, received showers on Monday morning as well.Among other places which received rains on Sunday are Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Jalandhar, Patiala, Ludhiana, Panchkula, Ambala, Sonipat, Gurgaon, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Jind and Hisar.Isolated places in Haryana were also lashed by a hailstorm.The minimum temperature in the two states dropped by a few notches after the rains, Met department officials said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rains-lash-haryana-and-punjab-temperatures-dip-171113
16-11-2020||---||Former Haryana minister Om Prakash Jain dies of Covid||Panipat, November 16Former Haryana minister Om Prakash Jain died on Monday at a private hospital in Delhi due to COVID infection and lungs infection.He was transport minister during the Congress government regime and had contested Assembly election from Panipat rural constituency on the Congress ticket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-haryana-minister-om-prakash-jain-dies-of-covid-171076
16-11-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Curb cattle menace in developing colonies||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Curb cattle menace in developing coloniesThe cattle menace is rampant, especially in new developing colonies and government-owned sectors. In Sector 51, Gurugram, lots of cattle can be seen roaming around during the day. These are not stray but domesticated, which are let loose by owners for grazing after milking. These cattle damage the pastures and plants grown for beatification alongside the roads and houses. Sometimes, they also harm passersby. The HSVP officials are never seen visiting these sectors for taking cognisance of any issue or problems. The authorities should sit up and take note. Arohi Kansal, GurugramGreen Diwali a distant dreamIT was dismaying and frustrating to see many Panchkula residents bursting firecrackers on the occasion of Diwali despite being aware of its adverse effects on the environment and also Covid patients. People were keen to make optimum utilisation of the two-hour time frame (from 8 PM to 10 PM) for the purpose. Those people who observed green Diwali and kept themselves away from such non-eco-friendly ways to celebrate the festival are the example setters that need to be followed. SK Gupta, PanchkulaFirecracker ban proves ineffectiveTHE firecracker ban by the NGT in NCR was no deterrent to people because of the lackadaisical attitude of the Centre and the state government. In Narwana, firecrackers were easily available for purchase and people had burnt them till late hours. Nobody from the administration intervened due to which the air pollution levels increased to 390 in the morning. People also seem to be unaware of the Covid pandemic and the dangers of air pollution. All roads were also littered with trash which adds to residents’ woes. Ramesh Gupta, Narwana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/curb-cattle-menace-in-developing-colonies-170892
16-11-2020||Karnal||Learning kits for rural students||Vocational course at RKSDKarnal: For enhancement of job opportunities at RKSD College, Kaithal, the management has completed all the formalities regarding the starting of the admission process of Bachelor of Vocational (B Vocational) degree course. Principal Sanjay Goyal said, “To attract enough job employment in the college campus is a commendable job and various companies for the purpose will be called so that students can get employment during their studies. A related admission committee has also been formed. Class XII pass-out students from any stream can apply for this course. The degree will be completely in regular mode and students will have to come for classes in the college campus.”KU students make it to NICKurukshetra: A group of students from University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), Kurukshetra University, has been selected for the National Innovation Contest (NIC) organised by the MHRD and AICTE. The NIC is an annual contest that helps identify the budding minds from Institution’s Innovative Council (IIC)-Institutes and engage them in building innovations and developing into start-ups through a series of mentoring, boot camps and international acceleration programmes. They also provide funding support and connections with technology business incubation units and access to an investment opportunity. The selected group named “Creeping spiders” comprised of Pranshu Pareek, Aishwarya Singh, Sakshi Tomar, Krishnan Poddar, Kumud, Simran and Kushagra Gupta, all in their third year of degree majoring in computer science in the engineering department of the UIET.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/learning-kits-for-rural-students-170893
16-11-2020||Panipat||Hooch deaths: Another casualty in Panipat||One more death was reported from Patthargarh village of the district reportedly after consuming spurious liquor. That took the death toll to nine in the district.The man had died on November 4, but his relatives filed the police complaint on Friday. The police have registered a case against unidentified persons and began a probe.The deceased has been identified as 28-year-old Babu Ram. Banarsi Das, uncle of the deceased, said they had cremated him on November 5 without his post-mortem examination.Meanwhile, the Sonepat police have arrested two more persons for their alleged involvement in supplying spurious liquor in the city. They have been identified as Amit of Garhi Brahmanan and Ashok of Rathdhana village of the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooch-deaths-another-casualty-in-panipat-170894
16-11-2020||Rewari||Rezang La war martyrs remembered||Oath ceremony heldYamunanagar: Newly elected office-bearers of District Bar Association, Jagadhri (Yamunanagar), were administered oath at a ceremony here. The programme was attended by District and Sessions Judge, Yamunanagar district, Deepak Aggarwal; Superintendent of Police Kamal Deep Goyal and advocates of the bar. In the recently held elections, Bhanu Pratap Singh was elected president of the District Bar Association. Mohit Chhibbar was elected vice-president, Jasbir Singh Balyan was elected general secretary, Hari Om Sharma was elected joint secretary and Sunny Verma was elected cashier. Advocate Ram Kumar Radauri, a former president of the association congratulated the newly elected body. Contributed by Ravinder Saini, Shiv Kumar Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rezang-la-war-martyrs-remembered-170895
16-11-2020||Gurugram||Man killed in drunken brawl on Diwali night in Gurugram||A 28-year-old export house employee was shot dead by a friend during a drunken brawl in Gandhi Nagar area on Diwali night. The accused managed to flee while an FIR of murder has been registered against him at the Shivaji Nagar police station.The deceased was identified as Gaurav, a native of Chhapra in Bihar. He was residing with his family at a rented accommodation in Gandhi Nagar area. It was on Diwali night that Gaurav, his friend Golu and another person were consuming liquor on the terrace of the victim’s house when a brawl broke out over some issue. Golu whipped out a pistol and shot Gaurav in his head, killing him on the spot. The accused then fled with his friend.After getting information, a police team led by the city ACP Rajender Singh Dalal, along with forensic experts, reached the spot. “The reason behind the murder is yet to be ascertained,” the ACP said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-killed-in-drunken-brawl-on-diwali-night-in-gurugram-170869
16-11-2020||---||Councillor, father ‘tear’ cop’s uniform, booked in Panipat||Panipat, November 15BJP councillor of ward-3 and her father, who is a former BJP councillor, were among 10 persons booked for allegedly selling firecrackers openly, snatching and misbehaving with a police official in Tehsil Camp area of the city. The video of the incident has gone viral on social media.Video goes viralSI Baljeet Singh, in charge, Tehsil Camp police post, in his complaint to the City police said that he, along with ESI Mahabir, got information that the sons of master Tejbhan along with ex-councillor Harish Sharma were selling firecrackers openly. When they reached there and picked up some firecrackers, Harish Sharma and others snatched the crackers from them.Meanwhile, Harish’s daughter and BJP councillor of ward-3, Anjali Sharma, reached there and allegedly thrashed them. They tore the uniform of ESI Mahabir. Anjali allegedly tried to snatch his mobile phone and thrashed him, SI Baljeet alleged.Satish Vats, DSP headquarters, said that a case has been registered against Harish, Anjali and others.Harish Sharma and Anjali could not be contacted even after several attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/councillor-father-tear-cops-uniform-booked-in-panipat-170874
16-11-2020||Ambala||Three shops gutted at Ambala cloth market||Three shops were destroyed, after a fire broke out on the top floor of a four-storey building of a famous cloth market at the Shukalkund road in Ambala here yesterday night. No casualties were reported in the incident.Goods worth lakhs of rupees were gutted. As many as five fire tenders were pressed into service and it took nearly four hours to douse the flames.After noticing fire, some shopkeepers tried to douse the flames with the help of buckets of water, but to no avail. The firefighters had a hard time due to the narrow lanes of the market.Of the three, two wholesale shops, KD Kalra Enterprises and Kesar Das and Sons belong to a single-family that dealt in garlands, laces and other items required for wedding ceremonies, while the third shop was Chhabra Shoes House. The shops were not insured, as the owners did not have NOC from the fire department.Sonu Kalra, owner of KD Kalra Enterprises, said, “Yesterday night at 9:30, we were here to offer prayers at the shop on Diwali when we noticed the flames. The exact loss is yet to be ascertained.”Amar Singh, fire officer, Ambala, said, “At 9:45 pm, the fire tenders were rushed and the operation was completed at 1:45 am.”One of the shopkeepers suffered a loss of over Rs 10 lakh, while the remaining traders were yet to disclose the exact amount of loss, said the officer.As per the officer, besides the cloth market, fire incidents were reported in Motor market and Lotan village as well. There were no injuries or casualties.Ram Kumar, SHO, Ambala City, said, “A DDR will be lodged and action will be taken as per the complaint of the shop owners.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-shops-gutted-at-ambala-cloth-market-170871
16-11-2020||---||Tardy lifting of bajra costs two transporters Rs 98,000||Rewari, November 15Tardy lifting of procured bajra from grain markets in Kosli and Rewari city has cost two transporters dear, with the HAFED slapping a penalty of around Rs 98,600 on them for violating the agreement conditions. According to the agreement, a transporter is bound to lift bajra within 72 hours of procurement.Penalty imposed in Rewari, KosliThe penalty has been imposed for late lifting of procured bajra from both the grain markets in the time span of October 1 to November 11. The penalty amount of Rs 65,500 has been calculated for Kosli while the amount is Rs 33,100 for Rewari grain market.The non-lifting of procured bajra was not only delaying the payment to farmers, but was also causing inconvenience to commission agents, who had complained to Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh and demanded action against the transporters.“Acting on the complaints, the DC visited the grain markets and found the complaints of tardy lifting true. Thereafter, he warned the transporters to speed up the lifting of procured bajra to avoid action but the transporters did not pay any heed, inviting the penalty,” sources said, adding that it was for the first time in the district that the transporter had been fined for late lifting.Sources maintained that the commission agents at Rewari grain market had also accused the transporter of lifting the procured bajra in arbitrary manner while as per norms, he was supposed to transport the produce as per the serial number of the procurement.Taking a serious note of the allegations, the DC ordered an inquiry and deputed Rewari SDM Ravinder Yadav to look into the matter. The inquiry was still underway, the sources added.DC Yashendra Singh said any sort of negligence in lifting the procured bajra would not be tolerated in the future as well. The transporters had again been directed to ensure lifting of produce within 72 hours to evade further penalty, he added.Sant Ram, District Manager, HAFED, said a penalty of Rs 100 per truck had been imposed on both the transporters for the delay in lifting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tardy-lifting-of-bajra-costs-two-transporters-rs-98-000-170896
16-11-2020||---||Work on Rs 200 crore elevated flyover in Palwal resumes after 1 year||Palwal, November 15The work on Rs 200 crore elevated flyover project in the city lying stalled for a year has finally resumed. The 2.5 km long project, first-of-its-kind in the district, has been lying suspended since October 2019 due to a dispute between the Concessionaire and the agency earlier carrying out the construction.Naresh Narwal, Deputy CommissionerWill be completed in December 2021The project is expected to be completed in December 2021. The district administration has also put forward its proposal to extend the length of the flyover to 4.5 km. DC Naresh Narwal said the work on the project resumed after the replacement of the agency by the Concessionaire, who had been allotted the project in 2017. He said while it was initially targeted to be completed in August 2019, but had been laying pending due to a row that had erupted between the Concessionaire and its contractor. Adding that the project is expected to be completed in December 2021, he said the district administration had also put forward its proposal to extend its length to 4.5 km to provide a signal-free access to the commuters. The original design of the flyover allows it to be only 2.5 km long, he said.Admitting that the delayed project had been a cause of acute traffic congestion, he said it was likely to give a new lease of life after completion.Claiming that the work on the project resumed after a long gap, PD Bansal, General Manager and Project Director, NHAI, said the work had now been allotted to Cube Highways, a Singapore-based firm. “Only 40 per cent of the work has been executed on the project till October end last year when the work had come to a standstill,” said an official, who said the contractor had left the work midway due to a ‘tussle’ over some payments.Blaming laxity on the part of the supervising authorities for the unusual delay, Kulveer Chauhan, a local resident, said it had emerged as a bane instead of a boon due to the traffic congestion and chaos on the highway passing through the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/work-on-rs-200-crore-elevated-flyover-in-palwal-resumes-after-1-year-170897
16-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Citibank scamster held in Gurugram||Gurugram, November 15Shivraj Puri, a proclaimed offender, who masterminded the Rs 400 crore scam in Citibank in 2010 and went hiding, following conclusion of bail, was arrested again by the Gurugram police.Puri was nabbed by the Sikanderpur crime branch from Dehradun. As per the cops, he had been cheating people even while on run. He was produced before a duty magistrate court and sent to judicial custody.The accused has been identified as Shivraj Puri, a resident of Princeton Estate, DLF Phase-5. In 2010, he was charged with luring high net worth individuals and corporate entities into making investment and diverting the amount into the stock market, causing losses to the tune of Rs 405.52 crore to the investors.Working as a relationship manager with Citibank, Shivraj had allegedly siphoned money worth Rs 400 crore of various customers to fictitious accounts.After coming out of jail on bail in 2018, he jumped the bail and also cheated many persons again on the pretext of getting the best returns in investment. He was declared a proclaimed offender and bail jumper in 2018. An FIR was registered against him at the Shivaji Nagar police station.The crime unit, Sikanderpur, finally nabbed him from Dehradun on Friday. He was sent to jail by a city court on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/citibank-scamster-held-in-gurugram-170898
16-11-2020||---||Faridabad doctor dies of Covid||Faridabad, November 15Gynaecologist Dr Archana Bhatia (57), who ran a private clinic in Sector 7 here, has died of Covid. She was under treatment at a Gurugram hospital.She had tested positive two weeks ago and was hospitalised immediately. She passed away on Friday last week, according to the district unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA).Her husband, Dr Pankaj Bhatia, had also tested Covid-positive last month, but he recovered.8 more deaths; 1,957 casesChandigarh: With 1,957 cases, the state tally stood at 1,99,874 on Sunday. Meanwhile, with eight more deaths, the toll reached 2019. Faridabad reported the maximum cases (643), followed by Gurugram (515), Hisar (163), Sonepat (136) and Rohtak (92). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-doctor-dies-of-covid-170899
16-11-2020||---||Haryana’s first woman MP Chandrawati dies||Hisar, November 15Former Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry Chandrawati, who stormed the Haryana’s political scene when she defeated then Defence Minister Bansi Lal on his home turf Bhiwani in the 1977 General Election in the shadow of the Emergency, passed away at the Rohtak’s PGIMS in on Sunday morning.She was 92. She had been ill for long.Chandrawati, a native of Bhiwani’s Dalawas village, has a number of firsts to her credit. She was the state’s first woman to become a Member of Parliament (1977), the first woman minister in Haryana (1964-66) and the first woman Leader of Opposition (1982-85). She was also the first enrolled advocate from the state.Later, Chandrawati joined politics. She became an MLA from Badhra in 1954 in undivided Punjab. In 1982, she was again elected from the segment on the Lok Dal ticket.In the 1968 and 1972 Assembly elections, she won from Loharu on the Congress ticket.Chandrawati left the Congress after she was sacked from the Cabinet by then Chief Minister Bansi Lal in 1974. Subsequently, she joined the anti-Congress forces (Lok Dal, Janata Party and later Janata Dal).Kanwar Pal Joon, a relative and close aide of Chandrawati, recalled that Indira Gandhi used to like her very much and called her Chandro.“Chandrawati told me once that Indira Gandhi had asked her to join back the Congress and assured her the CM post. But Chandrawati opted to stay with the Janata Party,” he said.Leaders express griefChandigarh: CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda have expressed condolences to the family of former Lt Governor of Puducherry Chandrawati on her demise. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-first-woman-mp-chandrawati-dies-170900
16-11-2020||---||Cases filed for violating cracker ban in Haryana||Chandigarh, November 15The police registered cases in connection with violating the ban on bursting crackers on Diwali in the National Capital Region (NCR) even as the air quality deteriorated from “very poor” to “severe” in a majority of the districts of the state.Many cities, including Gurugram and Faridabad, reported an Air Quality Index (AQI) of over 400.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had imposed a complete ban on the bursting of firecrackers in the NCR because of rising air pollution. The NGT’s order, however, remained on paper. A realty-check by The Tribune reporters is as follows.Gurugram: The district, already reeling under poor air quality, failed to observe the cracker ban. The situation was a bit under control in condominiums and societies with Resident Welfare Societies ensuring compliance with the ban but, in other areas such as old Gurugram, crackers in large numbers were burst in the absence of patrolling by the police.Faridabad: The ban on the sale and bursting of crackers was violated here as well. People continued to burst crackers till late night.The police booked three men on the charge of violating the ban on the sale of crackers. No complaint was lodged regarding the bursting of crackers. The city recorded an AQI of over 450, classified as “hazardous”.Rohtak: The district authorities’ appeal to people to refrain from bursting crackers proved futile in Rohtak, Jhajjar and Rewari districts. The three districts recorded an AQI in the “severe” category.Crackers were reportedly sold clandestinely at high rates. Rohtak DSP Gourakh Pal Rana said, “On a tip-off that people were bursting firecrackers in the city, the police went to at least 10 places. But the information was found to be fake.”Panipat: The police registered eight cases in connection with selling firecrackers in the district without a permit.Yamunanagar: Five FIRs were registered in connection with selling firecrackers and three cases for bursting crackers.Ambala: The district recorded an AQI of 346 (“poor”) on Saturday. The situation improved a bit by 3 pm on Sunday as the AQI was recorded at 286.At least eight cases related to the violation of cracker ban were registered.Kurukshetra: The air quality continued to be very poor in the district post-Diwali. The AQI was recorded at 381 in the wee hours of Sunday.In Gurugram, 28 fires on Diwali nightGurugram: In all, 28 fires incidents were reported on Diwali night here. Among the major incidents was the burning of a private school bus and three cars. In all, 19 fires were reported in old Gurugram. Fire incidents were reported from a liquor vend at IMT, Manesar, a garbage dump yard in Sector 90, an electric panel in Garhi Harsaru, Khandsa Road and a Shivaji Park house. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cases-filed-for-violating-cracker-ban-in-haryana-170901
16-11-2020||---||Rain brings surprise, pollution down in Haryana||Hisar, November 15A day after the bursting of crackers on Diwali night worsened the air quality, the region got a major respite from the month-long air pollution as rain lashed several parts of Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad districts on Sunday evening.ML Khichar, Prof at HAU in HisarSigh of reliefFarmers, who have not irrigated their fields and waited till Sunday for sowing, have benefited. Now, the fields will be moist and this will prove beneficial for wheat sowing.Despite the ban by the state government, Hisar town witnessed fireworks on Saturday night and the air pollution was recorded as “severe”. Adjoining districts including Jind and Fatehabad recorded “worse” air quality, as per the Central Pollution Control Board.However, a good spell of around 20 mm rainfall has not only washed off the pollution but also brought cheer to farmers as the rabi sowing season is under way.But some farmers complained of damage to the mustard crop as hail accompanied the showers in many parts of the region. Farmers will have to re-sow the crop, said a farmer from Adampur region.Prof ML Khichar, head of the agriculture meteorology department in the Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University, said that the Met office had predicted the rain in advance and had recommended to the farmers to wait till today for sowing.“The farmers, who have not irrigated the fields and waited till today for sowing, have benefited a lot. They will get moisture in the fields for wheat sowing which will prove beneficial,” he said. He said that the Western Disturbance which has caused rain in the region would cover the entire state by Monday.The air quality index is likely to come down drastically as the rain has cleansed the environment to a large extent, said environmental scientist of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rain-brings-surprise-pollution-down-in-haryana-170875
