16-12-2020||Sonepat/Karnal||Unable to bear 'farmers' plight', 65-year-old 'sant' commits suicide at Singhu border||A 65-year-old 'sant' reportedly committed suicide by shooting himself dead at Singhu border on Wednesday evening.Deceased Baba Ram Singh of Singhra village in Nissing area of Karnal district had a large following.Read more: SC issues notice to Centre on petitions seeking removal of agitating farmers from Delhi roadsForming new committee no solution: Protesting farmer leaders on SC suggestionJaipur-Delhi highway remains partially blockedBaba Ram Singh was on the seat of Gurdwara Sahib Nanaksar, Singhra village. A handwritten note in Punjabi, purportedly left behind by the deceased, says he was unable to bear the "pain of farmers". The note is being verified by police.An official of the Sonepat police said they had received a call that Sant Ram Singh (65), who hailed from Karnal, allegedly shot himself.The deceased was rushed to a hospital in Panipat where doctors declared him brought dead.The official said the exact spot where the incident took place is being verified and police are in the process of recording statements of the deceased's family members.SAD spokesperson and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa expressed grief over the incident and urged farmers to exercise restraint.दिल बहुत दुखी है आप को ये बताते हुए कि संत राम सिंह जी सिंगड़े वाले ने किसानों की व्यथा को देखते हुए आत्महत्या कर ली। इस आंदोलन ने पूरे देश की आत्मा झकझोर कर रख दी है। मेरी वाहेगुरु से अरदास है कि उनकी आत्मा को शांति मिलेआप सभी से संयम बनाकर रखने की विनती 🙏🏻 pic.twitter.com/DyYyGmWgGg  “A very sad news has been received that Sant Ram Singh, who dedicated his life to the service of humanity, committed suicide by shooting himself,” he said on his Twitter handle.According to Sirsa, the victim wrote in his suicide note that he was unable to to bear the "pain of the farmers".“It is a sin to suffer atrocity and witness it, which I cannot see,” Sirsa said the cleric wrote in his suicide note.Sirsa appealed to farmers to exercise restraint.“It is a very grave time. I request you as the chief sewadar of the DSGMC to exercise restraint because anybody can do mischief in the farmers' agitation. It is a very sad incident for all of us but we need to be restrained,” said Sirsa. Baba Ram Singh came at Nanaksar Gurdwara Singhra in 1990 from Nanaksar Gurdwara Jagraon in Punjab. He had also extended support of Rs 5 lakh to the farmers’ agitation this week at Singhu border. He had distributed 500 blankets yesterday to farmers at Singhu border, said Kamarjeet Virk, one of his followers.As per the followers closed to him, Baba Ram Singh went to Singhu border today to offer 'ardas' (prayer).Congress leader Rahul Gandhi condoled Sant Ram Singh’s death by suicide and said the atrocity of the BJP-led Centre had crossed all limits.“Sant Ram Singh of Karnal died by suicide looking at the condition of farmers. Many farmers have laid down their lives. The atrocities of the government know no bounds. The government should shed its ego and immediately repeal farm laws,” Gandhi said.करनाल के संत बाबा राम सिंह जी ने कुंडली बॉर्डर पर किसानों की दुर्दशा देखकर आत्महत्या कर ली। इस दुख की घड़ी में मेरी संवेदनाएँ और श्रद्धांजलि।कई किसान अपने जीवन की आहुति दे चुके हैं। मोदी सरकार की क्रूरता हर हद पार कर चुकी है। ज़िद छोड़ो और तुरंत कृषि विरोधी क़ानून वापस लो! pic.twitter.com/rolS2DWNr1  Body of Baba Ram Singh was taken to KCGMC, Karnal, where his followers refused to get his post-mortem done. His body was taken to Nanaksar Gurdwara Singhra, where thousands of followers had gathered. However, later the body was brought back to the hospital.As the post-mortem was being done, Baba Ram Singh's followers offered prayers.Tense situation prevailed on the gurdwara premises. The followers said “maharaj ji ne sahadat diti hai kisana vaste, Modi ji, hun te kisana de sun lo" (maharaj ji sacrificed his life for farmers; Modi ji, now listen to the farmers.)A large number of police personnel were also present outside the gurdwara.BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni termed Baba Ram Singh's death as a big loss for the society.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other state have been protesting near the Delhi borders for the past three weeks, demanding that the Centre's farm laws be repealed. — With PTI inputs
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19 positive Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij admitted in ICU; condition stable||The Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij, who tested COVID-19 positive, is on oxygen support and will remain in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for the next few days.Vij, who was moved to Medanta Medicity Hospital, Gurugram on Tuesday, developed complications due to COVID-19 infection.The minister's condition is stated to be stable, and he is maintaining vital parameters.According to Dr AK Dubey, Medical Superintendent of Medanta Medicity Hospital, Gurguram, that the doctors are monitoring his condition regularly."The Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij (67), was admitted to Medanta-The Medicity at 9 pm yesterday, 15.12.2020. He was transferred from PGI, Rohtak with COVID pneumonia and admitted in Medanta, ICU. Relevant investigations, including CT Scan, have been done and the results are satisfactory. His condition is stable and he is maintaining vitals parameters on high flow nasal cannula on oxygen support. He slept well last night and had his meals. He is likely to stay in ICU for a few days. A team of doctors, including Dr Virender Yadav—Civil Surgeon Gurgaon, Dr Deepak Govil—Director Critical Care, Dr Sushila Kataria—Senior Director Internal Medicine, Medanta, besides others, are monitoring his condition continuously,” said the minister's health bulletin.This was issued by Dr Dubey.Gurugram Civil Surgeon, Dr Virender Yadav, who visited Medanta on Wednesday, said, that the minister's condition was stable.Anil Vij's younger brother, Rajinder Vij, on whose insistent the minister agreed to be shifted to Medanta Medicity from PGIMS, Rohtak, said the doctors have told him, that the functioning of his brother's lungs have been affected by the infection, but it was now improving.Senior doctors in Haryana's Health Department said, that Vij had developed pneumonitis due to which his oxygen saturation levels had dropped alarmingly.Vij has co-morbid conditions. He is suffering from hypertension and diabetes. Despite this, he recently went through two surgeries due to a fracture in his left thigh-bone after accidentally slipping in the washroom in June last year.Vij had tested COVID-29 positive on December 5, almost a fortnight after he volunteered for Bharat Biotech’s vaccine CovaxinBharat Biotech, however, had clarified, that the Covaxin clinical trials were based on a 2-dose schedule, given 28 days apart, while the minister had taken only one dose on November 19.The company had further said, that the vaccine efficacy could be determined 14 days post the 2nd dose.“Covaxin has been designed to be efficacious when subjects receive both doses,” said Bharat Biotech.Upon testing positive, Vij had initially started getting treatment from Ambala Civil Hospital and was shifted to PGIMS, Rohtak on December 13 where he was given plasma therapy among other treatments.However, his condition did not improve, and he was shifted to Medanta Medicity by his brother Rajinder, though the minister himself wanted to be treated in a government health facility.
16-12-2020||New Delhi||Technology powering farmers' protest at Delhi's Singhu border||It's been over two weeks since thousands of farmers arrived at Delhi's Singhu border to demand a repeal of the Centre's agri reforms. Over the days, Good Samaritans, gurdwara committees and NGOs have pooled technological resources to ensure the agitation isn't hampered by the lack of basic amenities.Gigantic machines that belt out 1,000-1,200 chapattis in an hour, washing machines and solar panels installed on tractor-trolleys for charging mobile phones -- technology is keeping the protesters camping at this highway-turned-township going.The chapatti-makers ensure timely meals for the protesters and that 'langar' is served smoothly till midnight."This chapatti-making machine is fully automatic, you just have to put the dough inside. It cuts the dough into circles and in no time you get the chapattis."We start the machine around 7 am and it runs till 12 am. We serve meals to over 5,000 people every day," Hardeep Singh from Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, which manages one of the 'langars' at the protest site, told PTI.Living away from the comfort of their homes, another issue faced by the farmers was washing clothes. Initially, some of them bathed and washed their clothes at the petrol pumps. But as the temperatures in the national capital dipped and the number of protesters swelled, some farmers and Good Samaritans arranged for washing machines.On one of his trips back home to Ludhiana in Punjab to wash his clothes, 30-year-old Prince Sandhu decided to bring two washing machines with him so that he and his fellow protesters didn't have to worry about the chore.Soon after, someone donated another washing machine and the 'laundry Sewa' has been going on in full swing ever since."Nearly 250 people come here every day to wash their clothes. Many do it on their own. We help out the elderly who don't know how to operate washing machines," said Sandhu, who joined the protest on November 27."I wake up at 6 am and help people wash their clothes till 8 pm," he said.Not far from the laundry spot is Pushpinder Singh's phone charging station. Singh, 36, said he knew protesters would face problems in charging their mobile phones and hence decided to install two 100 watt solar panels atop his tractor trolley before he set out from home in Haryana's Karnal. "Mobile phones are our only source of knowing what is happening around us. I knew charging them would be a problem. So I bought these two solar panels for Rs 2,400 each before I got here. Not only are they helping us in charging mobile phones but also with lighting," he said."Now I see many others have also installed solar panels, which is good," he added.Earlier, international NGO Khalsa Aid made headlines for installing foot massagers and geysers for the protesters at Singhu border.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Delhi's neighbouring Punjab and Haryana, have stayed put at the national capital's border points since late November to protest against the new farm laws.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their products anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure income, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. PTI
16-12-2020||Gurugram||Traffic fines in Gurugram see 55% dip due to Covid-19||Gurugram district has seen a nearly 55 per cent dip in traffic fines as compared to the previous year due to the Covid-19 impact.The Gurugram Traffic police have issued 2,16,199 challans for no-entry, drunken driving, jumping the red light, wrong side parking, lane change, wrong parking and driving without helmet till December 14 this year.In view of the Covid-19 infections this year, the Gurugram Traffic police have issued only 447 challans for drunken driving as compared to 4,067 during 2019."The reason behind the heavy drop in traffic fines was due to the lockdown and Covid-19 infections. The government had imposed a complete lockdown amid coronavirus. We have stopped the campaign against 'drinking and driving' due to the surge in Covid-19 cases in Gurugram. Amid the infection, the Traffic police is avoiding the use of alcohol breath analyser machine as it helps in spreading the infections," said D.K. Bhardwaj, DCP (Traffic).According to traffic officials, till December 14 this year, there were nearly 2,303 cases of fines of no entry as compared to 5,337 in 2019.Likewise, 1,206 fines for red light violations were collected in the current year as compared to 5,932 during 2019. Also, 38,000 people were fined for wrong side driving this year. In the previous year the figure was 47,594.Similarly, traffic police have issued 1,788 challans for lane change this year while in 2019 it was 25,721. Wrong parking challans were 35,813 this year while in the last year they stood at 88,716. Apart from this 18,023 people were fined for driving without a helmet this year while it was 38,824 in 2019."Ahead of the New Year celebrations we will deploy a number of traffic personnel to keep an eye on drunk offenders at different stretches and locations across the city. Due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, we will not use alcohol machines to avoid infections," Bhardwaj added. IANS
16-12-2020||Gurugram||Two fake call centres busted in Gurugram||The Haryana Chief Minister's flying squad busted two fake call centres in Gurugram on Wednesday morning.The centres were duping US Nationals on the pretext of providing 1,000 to 5,000 dollar grant by deducting 100 to 500 dollars from their google cards. Delhi-based brothers who own one of the call centres have been nabbed and Rs 8.5 lakh has been recovered from their possession. Two laptops and a hard disk were seized by the team and an FIR has been registered at the cybercrime police station under sections of cheating and IT act.DSP Inderjeet Yadav of CM squad, Gurugram got a tip-off that two fake call centres are being run from office number 401, 404 at the fourth floor of Spaze IT Park, Sohna road in sector 49. Following the tip-off, Yadav with the help of local police conducted a raid at the building. They first reached at 401 where six men and four women were busy on their computers and laptops. In 404 similarly, 10 men and two women were busy on their computers and laptop. The majority were busy making calls in English using their headphones and working on their systems. They did not possess any valid OSP licences of Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement/MoU related to their work.Police detained all of them and arrested two owners of call centre running from 401 who are identified as Anshul Mehta (33) and Akshay Mehta (34), residents of Meera Bagh, Delhi. The head of the call centre 404 identified as Ansh Saxena, a resident of Indirapuram, Ghaziabad managed to flee away.The arrested accused revealed that they had duped many foreigners after offering them a grant. They were working in call centres six years ago and picked tricks of the trade from there.“The accused first collected the data like names, mobile numbers, e-mails and then sent them a voice mail. They trapped foreigners after offering them 1000 to 5000 dollars grant. They asked US nationals to purchase google I-cards and then redeemed 100 to 500 dollars. With this trick, they duped more than Rs 1 crore from over 500 foreigners. We are conducting raids to nab the key accused of another call centre”, said Inderjeet Yadav, DSP of CM flying squad.
16-12-2020||Karnal||3 of family shot dead 'over land dispute' in Karnal||Three of a family were shot dead allegedly over a land dispute at Gagsina village in Karnal district on Wednesday morning.The deceased have been identified as Dilbag, Parveen and Meenu, all residents of Gagsina village.A large number of police personnel were at the spot. Family members and villagers refused to lift the bodies, demanding the arrest of the accused.Two bodies were lying in the fields, while one person died in the hospital. A tense situation prevails in Gagsina village.
16-12-2020||Vibha Sharma/Vijay Mohan||Cold wave grips northwest India; likely to continue for 4 days||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi/Chandigarh, December 16Cold wave and dense fog swept the plains of northwest India as temperatures continue to drop over the region with many parts of Delhi, Haryana and Punjab recording the season’s lowest temperatures so far.At 2 degree Celsius, Amritsar was the coldest followed by Ganganagar (2.4) and Narnaul (3.4).Tuesday was the coldest in several cities, including Delhi, where several parts recorded minimum temperature as low as 4.8 degree Celsius.The IMD data on minimum temperature shows Delhi, Hisar, Narnaul, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar and Bareilly leading the pack with maximum deviations from the normal minimum temperatures at this time of the year.Meanwhile, the IMD says cold wave conditions are very likely to continue in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during the next four days.It has also predicted severe cold wave conditions in isolated pockets of the region on December 18 and 19. “Due to the absence of any active Western Disturbance, below normal rain and snow is likely over Western Himalayan Region,” states the forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for the December 17 to 23 period.It has, however, forecast below normal rainfall over the Western Himalayan region for December 24 to 30 period.From December 1 to 16, Punjab has received 55 per cent surplus rain, while Himachal recorded 65 per cent excess rain.According to the IMD data, the hill state of Himachal received 23.9 mm rain against the normal of 14.5 mm for the December 1-16 period. The upper reaches of the state also received snow.Punjab received 6.2 mm rain against the normal of 4 mm, marking a surplus of 55 per cent, revealed the IMD data.Rains, however, were deficient in Haryana by 21 per cent, with the state recording 1.8 mm against the normal of 2.3 mm for the corresponding period.Western Disturbance over north-west India and its induced cyclonic circulation along with moisture feeding from the Arabian Sea have been attributed to the widespread rains and snow in many parts of the region earlier this month.
16-12-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||52 waterbodies vanish in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15Once there used to be 77 waterbodies in Faridabad district of Haryana. Over the years, many failed to exist due to various reasons. While some were acquired by the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (earlier HUDA) for carving out sectors, a few were converted into burial grounds. At one place there is a public road now while there are schools, parks, temples, cowshed and water pumping stations at other places.The Haryana Government submitted this information to the NGT where a case has been filed for restoration of waterbodies.The Haryana Pond and Waste Water Management Authority (HPWWMA) told the NGT that only 25 waterbodies could be revived while 52 had already been encroached upon.The NGT was told that at 11 dry pond sites, the HSVP had either planned or developed sectors. Now, houses and plots exist at the sites.Regarding three waterbodies, it said in 1995, the then CM Bhajan Lal had allotted these as burial sites to the Muslim community.At one site, owned by the PWD (B&R), there is a public road while another place (5.31 acres) was allotted to Aggarwal Pracharini Sabha in 1991. The NGT Bench headed by chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel had called for an action taken report in the matter on March 5. The HPWWMA told the NGT that 25 waterbodies could be restored after receipt of approvals and funds by December 31, 2021.
16-12-2020||Karnal||Nod to three major projects for beautification of Karnal||The Karnal Smart City Ltd (KSCL), a special purpose vehicle (SPV) looking after the smart city project, has speeded up the projects lying pending for the last several months. The board of directors of the KSCL has given a nod to three major projects for beautification of the city as well as for the good health of the people.74 PARKS TO GET OPEN-AIR GYMSOpen-air gyms will be developed in 74 parks with a cost of Rs 6 crore. Footpath and tactile flooring will be laid on seven roads under a project worth Rs 5.7 crore and bituminous concrete layer will be laid on 16 roads with a cost of Rs 3.5 crore. The tender process of these projects has been completed and the work is expected to start within a week.Besides, three new parks will be developed in the Area Based Development (ABD) area. The development and maintenance of the remaining parks will also be done under the project, said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO Smart City, Karnal.“We got conducted a survey and earmarked these 74 parks, where open-air gyms are required. Tot lot area with pathway and equipments will also be constructed in these parks. The existing pedestrian pathway will be dismantled and new 75 mm thick murram and pedestrian pathways and kerb stone will be developed,” the CEO maintained.In the new parks, volleyball court, badminton court and meditation area along with solar LED lights will be installed, he said, adding that the project includes one year of defect liability period and five year of operation and maintenance period.Nearly 17.3 km long footpath will be developed along seven roads. Besides tactile flooring will also be laid on these roads to assist specially abled persons, said Yadav.People usually complaint of poor roads, following which they have kept the construction work of 16 roads of around 12.1 km. “Total cost of these three projects is around Rs 15 crore and we are hopeful the work will begin within a week,” said the CEO.
16-12-2020||Ambala||Candidates file nomination for Ambala civic body poll||Mayoral candidates from Congress and Ambala Vikas Manch along with some candidates from various wards filled their nominations on Tuesday. BJP’s mayoral candidate couldn’t file her nomination today due to some technical issues in the nomination paper, and now she will file her paper on Wednesday.BJP’s Ambala in-charge for Municipal Corporation election Subhash Barala, said “BJP has introduced a well educated candidate for the post of mayor. Over the last six year several new projects have been brought by the government. We have a good team in Ambala and the BJP workers will ensure that all candidates win their respective wards as well as the post of mayor.”To a query, he said “BJP is a party of workers and we have a very democratic system. Some people who are unhappy due to the allotment of tickets will be persuaded and the entire team will work for the party.”Congress candidate Meena Aggarwal, accused the BJP of ignoring several areas of Ambala City and said that Congress will ensure equal development of entire city.Ambala Vikas Manch’s mayoral candidate Gurmeet Kaur said “Make Ambala clean and green city, and resolve the issues that local people face in getting their work done at the corporation would be among the top priorities for us.”In another development, after parting ways from Haryana Democratic Front, Himmat Singh extended his support to Ambala Vikas Manch.Returning officer and SDM Sachin Gupta informed that any eligible elector who had applied for inclusion of names in the legislative assembly electoral roll, has been approved by the competent authority and EPIC number has been generated till the last date of filling nomination, can file the prescribed form A before the returning office and get name included in the voter list. — TNS
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Last date to submit life certificates now February 28||Giving relief to the pensioners of the state, CM Manohar Lal has decided to extend the date for the submission of Jeevan Pramaan Patra (digital life certificates for pensioners) up to February 28, 2021.An official spokesperson said in view of the Covid pandemic, pensioners had been given time from November 1, 2020, to February 28, 2021, to submit their life certificates. The spokesperson said pensioners would be disbursed funds by the pension disbursing authority (PDA) during this period. Apart from this, pensioners have also been asked to update information regarding their ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ by January 15, 2021. — TNS
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||3 HCS officers transferred||The state overnment has issued transfer and posting orders of three HCS officers with immediate effect.Mahesh Kumar, SDM, Bhiwani, has been posted as Estate Officer, HSVP, Bhiwani, in addition to his present duty. Jaiveer Yadav, SDM, Sirsa, has been posted as Estate Officer, HSVP, Sirsa, in addition to his present duty. Rajesh Kumar, SDM, Jind, has been posted as Estate Officer, HSVP, Jind, in addition to his present duty. — TNS
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana working on vaccine plan||The health authorities in Haryana are gearing up to roll out Covid vaccination for nearly 1.90 lakh healthcare workers, who have been placed on the top of priority list among over 67 lakh beneficiaries to be immunised in the first one year.How doses will be administeredRajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, Haryana, said after the health staff, frontline workers (nearly 4.5 lakh), residents above 50 years (58 lakh) and the population below the age of 50 having co-morbidities would be administered the dose in that order of priority.The National Health Mission (NHM), the agency responsible for the vaccination programme, completed its two-day training in all 22 districts today. These trainers will impart training to healthcare workers at the district and block level.“We have identified nearly 1.7 lakh healthcare workers from government and private facilities of the state. Their details have already been uploaded on the Co-Win digital platform. We are expecting the number to go up to 1.90 lakh, as information about healthcare workers in private sector is still pouring in,” said Prabhjot Singh, Mission Director, NHM, Haryana.Initial estimates of the government had put the number of healthcare workers at 2.25 to 2.5 lakh. Singh said though registration of beneficiaries of the second category (frontline workers) had not so far been opened on the portal by the Centre, the state government had already started the process of their identification.Though members of the state and Central police forces, municipal and sanitary workers, civil, defence and armed forces personnel fall under this category, the state has written to the National Expert Group on Covid-19 Vaccine (NEGVAC) to include certain other categories, such as MPs, MLAs, mediapersons, revenue officials and jail staff.“On the NHM’s suggestions, the state has also requested the Centre to include beneficiaries below 50 with co-morbidies in the same category with the elderly population of over 50 year. A request has also been made to exclude those already infected, since they have developed antibodies, and to include those who volunteered for vaccine trials but were given placebo instead of the vaccine,” said Prabhjot Singh.Of 21,085 vaccination session sites in the state, most are in government hospitals, CHCs and PHCs, while some have also been set up in government schools.18 more succumb
16-12-2020||Rohtak||Vij in Gurugram hospital||
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||BSEH compartment exams on Jan 16||Online campus placement driveKurukshetra: Two final-year students of the University Institute of Engineering & Technology, Kurukshetra University, got selected in a placement drive organised by Hexaware Pvt Ltd. The selected students have been offered the post of Graduate Engineer Trainee (GET) at a package of 3.5 lakh per annum. The selected students are Himanshu Malik and Dipesh Narang. Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva and Director Prof CC Tripathi congratulated them. Prof Tripathi said that UIET organised employability tests and training for students, which helped them check their aptitude and verbal, logical and technical skills in the subjects of their choice. Training and Placement Officers Dr Nikhil Marriwala and Dr Sanjeev Ahuja said the drive was organised online for students pursuing BE/ BTech/ ME/ MTech course at the UIET.Sixth edition of IISF-2020Faridabad: The curtain raiser of the sixth edition of India International Science Festival (IISF)-2020 was organised at JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad. The event was organised in association with Vijanan Bharti (VIBHA) Haryana. As many as 500 participants from across the state attended the programme. The event will be held from December 22 to December 25, on the theme ‘Science for Self-Reliant India and Global Welfare’. The event was addressed by Prof Ranjana Aggarwal, Director of National Institute of Science, Technology and Development Studies (CSIR-NISTAD), who is also the Chief Coordinator of IISF-2020, and Jayant Sahasrabudhe, National Organising Secretary of VIBHA, as keynote speakers.Seminar on UPSC EXAMINATIONSFaridabad: The Civil Services Forum, constituted under the Career and Counseling Cell of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, organised its inauguration session on civil services preparation -- 'Elevator”. The seminar was presided over by Vice-Chancellor Dinesh Kumar, who spoke about the career growth prospective for the students ambitious for UPSC. He said the university would provide stimulating atmosphere in which aspiring students could learn, improve, gradually evolve and face the emerging challenges of their career. The keynote speaker of the programme was Dr Sukhbir Singh Malik, a retired IAS, an academician and a social activist. He gave the students an overview about UPSC preparation strategy. Coordinator of Civil Services Forum Dr Parul Gupta said the forum would help students dedicated to clearing civil services exams. Regular group discussions and classes for preparation would be conducted on weekends or after university in weekdays. Besides, regular self-assessment test and other competitions along with motivational lectures would also be conducted, she added.
16-12-2020||THE accompanying photograph was taken on NH 73 (near Sector 7||Error in public notice||Covid report in 48 hrs a welcome stepIT is a matter of great satisfaction that the reports of all persons, who are tested for Covid, will now be communicated to them within 48 hours and also uploaded on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal, so that those testing negative are also informed about their status. Earlier, it used to take at least four days and those persons whose reports were negative were not informed in time and used to remain uncertain until they inquired about it. — Subhash C Taneja, GurugramKalpana Chawla Park in bad shapeTHE Kalpana Chawla municipal park situated between the two canals on Railway road, Tohana, was well known for hygiene and clean air and the citizens used to enjoy walking and passing their good time in the park. But, presently due to lack of supervision and maintenance, it has become a place for stray cattle to move and rest. The park is not in good shape and cries for attention. The readers coming to the adjoining public library run by the Bharat Vikas Parishad are also irked by the polluted atmosphere. The civic body authorities and the administration must take a note of the situation and get the needful done immediately. — Brij Mohan Kumar, Tehri, TohanaEncroachments in NarwanaIN almost all major markets of Narwana, shopkeepers have encroached upon a major portion of the main roads and encourage their customers to park their vehicles in front of the shops. Such practices often lead to traffic jams and cause inconvenience to the commuters. Sometimes even ambulance gets stuck in the traffic. The administration must take a note and get the needful done to smoothen traffic movements immediately. — Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaPolice must follow traffic rulesEVERY motorist who has to pay fine for traffic violation knows the heartburn that comes from seeing policemen flouting road rules with impunity. It is time to turn the tables in Haryana. The police should initiate a drive for city residents to report policemen breaking the law by sending in photographs and videos via WhatsApp and on the basis of this evidence, the errant cops should be issued traffic challans/fine notices. The police should respect the law themselves before asking residents to do so. All developed countries have the same set of rules for policemen and civilians alike. — Ramit, Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
16-12-2020||Sonepat||Farmers to mark December 20 as ‘Shradhanjali Diwas’||Farmers will observe ‘Shradhanjali Diwas’ across the country on December 20 to pay homage to those farmers who had lost their lives during the ongoing agitation.Read alsoFarmer leader Jagjeet Singh Dallewala said 14 farmers had died during the ongoing protest. The united forum of farmers had decided to pay homage to them at the village and block levels from 11 am to 1 pm, he said.Laws will affect every peasant: BKURishipal Amawata, a farmer leader from UP, said the Union Government wanted to defame protesters, but farmers across the country had woken up and knew everything. He said the protest was not limited to farmers now as it had become the agitation of all people of the country.Sandeep Gidde, a farmer leader from Maharashtra, said the three farm laws were a death warrant for farmers.He further said, “The Centre must have awaken from its slumber after the Bharat Bandh and Monday's fast by leaders. It is answerable for every farmer dying at the protest.”Inderjeet Singh, a farmer leader from Haryana, said the government wanted to divide farmers, but its tactics would not work.
16-12-2020||Sonepat||72-year-old dies at Singhu||A 72-year-old farmer, camping at the Singhu border for 11 days, died on Tuesday after he complained of pain in the chest. The deceased has been identified as Gurmeet Singh of Kandala village in Mohali district (Punjab).Jagbeer Johal, also from Kandala village, said: “Gurmeet Singh was fine in the morning. He went for a walk and had breakfast. Around 12.30 pm, he complained of pain in his chest and sought help. As we tried to help him, he fell and died at the spot.”Ravi Kumar, SHO, Kundli police station, said the body was handed over to victim’s family after the postmortem. “Prima facie, the cause of death seems to be heart attack. The exact cause will be ascertained in the autopsy,” he added.Gurmeet’s death was third at the Singhu border. — TNS
16-12-2020||Karnal||Two returning from dharna die in mishap||Two farmers were killed while four others sustained injuries as a truck rammed into their tractor-trolley near the Taraori flyover in the wee hours of Tuesday, the police have said. They were returning from the protest at the Singhu border.The deceased were identified as Gurpreet (24) and Labh Singh (60), residents of Sapeda village in Patiala district (Punjab). Taraori police station SHO Inspector Sachin said Gurpeet died on the spot, while Lab Sabh died in Patiala.Farmers block NHScores of farmers blocked the National Highway-44 after a roadways bus hit a tractor-trolley of farmers near Nilokheri on Tuesday. Some farmers sustained minor injuries. The situation remained tense for around 20 minutes. DSP Rajiv, Butana police station SHO Surinder Sidhu and Nilokheri police post in-charge Satpal pacified the farmers and got the blockade lifted. The protesters demanded action against the bus driver.“A case has been registered against an unidentified truck driver under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC,” the SHO said.There were 11 persons in the tractor-trolley.Narinder Singh, one of the farmers in the trolley, said he and others decided to return home as more people had joined the protest.“Around 1.30 am, a truck hit the trolley, killing Gurpeet on the spot. He was the only son of his parents,” he said.
16-12-2020||Yamunanagar||Venue of MP’s event vandalised||Farmers held a protest against the visit of Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini in Damla and Khurdi villages of the district on Tuesday.Protesting against the three farm laws, the farmers led by district president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) Subhash Gurjar assembled in Damla village in the morning. Later, they went to Khurdi village. They painted the inauguration stones red and wrote BKU on them.The angry farmers uprooted the tents in Damla village and removed chairs kept for the programme of MP Nayab Singh Saini in Khurdi village.MP Saini on Tuesday inaugurated and laid foundation stones of a number of developmental projects and works in the Radaur area of the district, a part of the Kurukshetra parliamentary segment.He was scheduled to inaugurate the building of a knowledge centre in Damla village, ‘baraat ghar’ and another developmental work in Khurdi village.Heavy police force was deputed in both villages but the cops remained mute spectators and could not do anything.Later, MP Naib Saini reached the villages and inaugurated the projects. Saini said the farmers were being misled by the leaders of the opposition parties for their political benefits.
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||BJP raising SYL to create rift: Arora||
16-12-2020||Rohtak||Refused leave, Moga woman quits job to join protest||For 35-year-old Sarbjeet Kaur (35) of Moga (Punjab), the decision to leave her job and join farmers protesting at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border was an instant one.Working as a Senior Life Planning Officer (SLPO), she had requested for leave so that she could make a contribution to, what she called, “the fight for our future generation”. Her employer’s response was curt: “Not more than two days.”She didn’t bat an eyelid and put in her papers.Tuesday was her fifth day at the Tikri border. Sarbjeet has the company of her husband, their three children and father-in-law. They raise slogans, listen to speeches attentively and distribute langar.They came here after locking up their home and requesting their relatives to take care of their fields.“I worked as an SLPO with a private company for four years. My employer refused to sanction me leave for more than two days, forcing me to resign. It is important to secure the future of our next generation. Job is a trifle thing in the context of this fight,” she told The Tribune.She and her family are determined to stay put till the three farm laws are not repealed. “Our tractor-trailer is our home and we can stay in it for months,” she says.Her husband, Paramjeet Singh, chips in. “It is not easy to stay here with children in this bone-chilling cold. Having said that, we are determined to get the three laws repealed. Children have brought their books with them so that their studies are not disrupted,” he says.Like Sarabjeet, several other protesters are camping at Tikri with their families. Among them are Nirmal Singh from Mansa and Sukhvinder Kaur from Sangrur. Nirmal is camping with his parents, while Sukhvinder has the company of her husband. They left their children at a relative’s home.
16-12-2020||Gurugram||3 students killed in accident in Gurugram||Three medical students of SGT University at Chandu Budhera were killed in an accident in Farukhnagar on Tuesday morning. Four others, including the driver of the van they were travelling in, were injured.According to the police, the accident took place near Kaliyawas chowk on the Gurugram-Farrukhanagar road around 8 am when the six students were headed to their college.The driver, Rajesh Rathi of Majri village, was driving the van on the wrong side towards a fuel station when a Haryana Roadways bus coming from the Gurugram side hit the vehicle. The van hit a divider. A few bus passengers were injured. The bus driver fled the spot. The deceased were identified as Varsha, her brother Akshay and Prashant, residents of Lukshar village.An FIR was registered against the bus driver at Farrukhnagar police station and the bus was impounded. The bodies were handed over to families of the deceased after postmortem. — OC
16-12-2020||Yamunanagar||Drivers, owners of overloaded vehicles may lose licence, RC||The state government is mulling strict action against drivers and owners of overloaded vehicles. A driver may risk losing his licence, while the owner may lose the registration certificate (RC) and goods carriage permit of the vehicle if it is found loaded with weight more than the permissible limit.‘Drivers from other states to blame’An order in this connection was issued by Dr SS Phulia, Transport Commissioner, to all secretaries of the Regional Transport Authorities (RTAs) on December 10.To discuss the matter, a video-conference was held on December 2.It was decided that provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, should be invoked to curb the menace of overloaded vehicles.“Transporters are being made aware of the problems caused by overloaded vehicles. The first-time offenders will be let off with a fine. But habitual offenders will risk losing their driver’s licences, registration certificates and permits,” said Dr SS Phulia, Transport Commissioner, Haryana.The Yamunanagar’s Stone Crushers’ Association, however, has a different take on the matter. It blames the authorities for allowing overloaded vehicles from other states enter Haryana.Rampal Kamboj, president, Stone Crushers’ Association, Yamunanagar, said: “Stone crusher owners of Haryana don’t load vehicles beyond the permissible limit. They have been following the state government’s order on overloading. Drivers from other states overload their vehicles with construction material and sell it in Haryana at cheap rates, causing loss to the mining business here.”
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Three-month rent of shops at bus stand waived||Gender test racket busted, one arrestedKarnal: A team of the Karnal Health Department has busted a gang allegedly involved in sex-determination and arrested a tout from Saharanpur in UP, while the doctor managed to escape. Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said they got an FIR registered in Fatehpur police station in Saharanpur against the tout and the doctor of the hospital. TNSProclaimed offenders absconding for yrs nabbedGurugram: The police have nabbed four proclaimed offenders (POs), who have been absconding from last many years. All four are accused of theft and snatching. One of the PO was absconding since 30 years. The accused are being questioned by the police. TNS
