17-06-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Unable to curtail high Covid numbers, Gurugram headed for lockdown||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, June 17With no success so far in curtailing the Covid transmission, Gurugram may soon head for Chennai-like lockdown. Struggling to keep increasing the number of Covid patents in check, local authorities, including MLA Sudhir Singla, Municipal Corporation, Police and Health Department, have mooted a proposal to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in yesterday's meeting to shut the entire city down for 10 days.The lockdown, as per the authorities, will give them much-required time for executing various Covid transmission deterring plans. Highly-placed sources revealed that the CM has decided to explore possibilities not just for Gurugram but other affected NCR districts like Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar.The respective Deputy Commissioners have been asked to hold an immediate meeting with various stakeholders like industrialists, traders and RWAs and discuss hassle-free implementation of lockdown.“We have managed to hold the fort till now but foresee various issues. City needs some time off. It will not just break the transmission chain but will give a breather window to authorities to clear backlog of testing, complete contact tracing, sanitisation of high risk clusters, availability of beds with discharge of treated patients and halt influx of cross border infections. Many cities across India have found this as a key solution and now we need to try it for Gurugram,” said MLA Sudhir Singla.The district has been identified as one amongst four districts of concern in country. Meanwhile, the local health department has found lack of precaution by home isolated patients as one of the key causes of transmissions. With ICMR recommending home isolation for asymptomatic patients Gurugram's 85 per cent of patients are home isolated but majority have raised issues like lack of separate toilets or high number of residents in homes as key concerns. The authorities have thus decided to switch from home isolation to isolation near home.The health department in a letter shot to HSVP and Municipal Corporation sought conversion of all community centres into decentralised isolation wards where patients of a particular sector or colony could be housed. The family can keep a tab and even provide food while it will be medically managed by the health department.“We need to keep a check on all patients and that is possible only if we get them all to isolation wards. It is not possible to house everybody in hospital so we want setting up of decentralised isolation homes in every sector, colony and even society. So that patients can be isolated from family but still be approachable to them. This will go to great lengths in stopping transmission,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav.
17-06-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Despite surge in Covid cases, Haryana is testing below its capacity||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 16Despite constant surge in the number of Covid positive cases, Haryana doesn’t seem interested in increasing testing as the state is using only testing at 53 per cent of its testing capacity.The analysis of testing data week-wise, from April 1 to June 16, points out that the number of tests rose from 218 per day in the first week of April to 1,466 in the week from April 22 to April 28, and further to 2,782 in the week of May 20 to May 26. It further jumped to 4,161 per day, in the week from June 3 to June 9 and from June 10 to June 16, it reached 5,676 tests per day, which is the highest so far.However, as per state health bulletin, issued every day, the state has a total capacity of testing 10,700 samples per day, excluding a Gurugram-based private lab which is under dispute with the state government over false positive cases. This implies, despite surge in testing, Haryana is using only 53 per cent of its capacity as of now.“It is significant as medical experts across the world emphasise on increase in testing as key to fight Covid. More testing would lead to more people testing positive and it seems this is the reason why testing is restricted. Then you need resources to collect samples which are scarce,” said Aswini Nanda, Health Economist, who works with Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID).The state has a capacity of testing 1,500 samples per day each at PGIMS Rohtak and BPS Government Medical College for Women at Sonepat while ESIC Medical College, Faridabad, and Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Karnal, have a potential of analysing 500 samples per day each. The Civil Hospitals of Gurugram and Panchkula have a capacity of 100 samples per day each while that at Ambala has the resources to test 180 samples per day.There is a capacity of 500 samples per day each at NRC Hisar and Nuh’s medical college, 50 samples per day at PGIMER, Chandigarh, and 200 samples per day at CSIR, Mohali. THISTI Faridabad has a capacity of testing 250 samples per day.So, in total there is a capacity of 5,880 tests per day in government-owned institutions alone. Besides it, the five private labs in Gurugram have a capacity of 4,820 tests per day.When questioned over testing below capacity, Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General Health Services, Haryana, said, “We are utilising mostly government services and private labs are contacted only when the need arises.”It takes about 48 hours for sampling, testing and communication of the result.On the other hand, the weekly test positivity rate has been on the rise in the state, which reflects the infection is spreading. In the week from May 13 to May 19, the test positivity rate was just 0.87 per cent but rose to 8.90 per cent in the week from June 3 to June 9, highest so far. It was 7.73 per cent in the week from June 10 to June 16. Till June 16, there were 118 deaths and cumulative number of positive cases had reached 8,272 in the state.“We should be testing more by involving more private labs and hospitals. It is essential for private hospitals who are treating patients with cancer or kidney ailments to test patients for Covid. We have written to health minister on June 10 to allow ‘Point of Care RT-PCR testing’ at private hospitals to segregate vulnerable patients,” said Haryana Indian Medical Association President Dr Prabhakar Sharma.
17-06-2020||Deepender Deswal||BJP leader Sonali Phogat arrested, get bail in assault case||Tribune News ServiceHisar, June 17BJP leader and TikTok sensation Sonali Phogat have got bail from Hisar court soon after she was arrested by the police on Wednesday in a case of assault on public servant Sultan Singh, secretary of the market committee, at a purchase centre at Balsamand village on June 5.The police arrested Phogat at around noon today and brought her to the Hisar court. She was produced before the court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Shifa.Advocate Dileep Jakhar informed that the court granted bail to Sonali Phogat on a bond of Rs 30,000.The police have sought remand of Phogat on the plea that she has assaulted a public servant on duty. Advocate Jakhar said he opposed the plea of the police as there had been cross cases on Sonali Phogat and Sultan Singh.The controversy erupted when Phogat thrashed the MC secretary Sultan Singh during a visit to the grain market at Balsamand village of the district on June 5. The video of the incident had also gone viral on social media.The police booked Sonali Phogat on Section 147 (Rioting), 149 ( Unlawful assembly), 186 (Obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (Voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (Criminal intimidation) of the IPC on the complaint of the MC secretary.Sonali Phogat, however, alleged that she had thrashed Singh as he misbehaved with her. She, too, lodged an FIR against Singh under Sections 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman).While the police have started probe into both cases, the Binain Khap demanded arrest of Sonali Phogat and threatened to launch stir in case if the police failed to arrest her by next Monday.
17-06-2020||Karnal||Karnal records third coronavirus death||Karnal recorded its third death from coronavirus on Wednesday, officials said.A 67-year-old man from Bastara died at KCGMC hours after he tested positive.
17-06-2020||Ravinder Saini||4 lakh private school staffers in Haryana without pay for months||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 16A majority of around four lakh teaching and non-teaching staff of private schools in Haryana have not been paid salary for May — even for March and April in some cases.The schools put the onus on students claiming over 90 per cent of them were yet to deposit their fee pending for the past three-four months. Layoffs on cards?A teacher working at a prestigious school in the city says all employees at her school have been working without pay for the past three months. “I am the sole breadwinner in my family comprising my children and elderly parents. Survival has been a challenge. I have had to borrow from relatives to meet our daily needs,” she says.Rajbir, who used to drive a school bus, says all drivers and conductors of school transport business are without job. “Our transporter has expressed inability to pay salaries as the buses continue to remain off road,” he adds.Ravinder Nandal, district head of the Haryana Private School Sangh, says many schools are contemplating layoffs.Anil Kaushik, president of the state Progressive Private Schools Association, says they have made partial payments to employees for March and April. “The lockdown has reduced earnings of several parents, which will indirectly impact schools too,” says Kaushik.
17-06-2020||Sumedha Sharma||To rein in hospitals, Haryana to cap Covid cure cost||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, June 16Following repeated complaints about Gurugram private hospitals allegedly fleecing patients for Covid treatment, the Haryana Government has decided to rein in private hospitals and labs.The Health Department has initiated a process to cap treatment charges following the Ahmedabad model. From the current charges that are as high as Rs 70,000 per day for an ICU bed with ventilator in some private hospitals, the facility may now be available for Rs 23,000. A senior official revealed that the process was underway to cap the hospital charges.“There is a huge disparity in prices and we have been getting numerous complaints. We are looking at the Ahmedabad model of Covid management and will try to work out charges for an ICU bed with ventilator for around Rs 23,000 per day,” said a senior health official.CM Manohar Lal Khattar visited Gurugram yesterday to review the Covid situation in the state. Following a meeting with 12 key officials involved in the management of the pandemic, 14 nodal officers have been asked to monitor private hospitals.
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court grants bail to former MLA||More than a month after he was arrested, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today granted regular bail to former MLA Satvinder Rana in a case revolving around alleged liquor theft.Rana had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 state Assembly polls on Jannayak Janata Party ticket from Kalayat Assembly segment. He had earlier served as a Member of the Legislative Assembly in 1996 and 2005 from Rajaund constituency in Kaithal district.An FIR in the matter was registered at Samalkha police station in Panipat district on April 2.Allowing the petition, Justice Jaishree Thakur asserted the trial was likely to take sufficient time to conclude and the petitioner had been in custody since May 13. As recovery was not to be effected from the petitioner, useful purpose would not be served in keeping the petitioner behind bars.“At this stage, without commenting on the merits of the case, the instant petition is allowed and the petitioner is directed to be released on regular bail on execution of adequate personal bond and surety bond to the satisfaction of concerned trial court/Duty Magistrate,” Justice Thakur asserted.His counsel had earlier submitted that the petitioner had been falsely implicated in the present case. The alleged recovery was carried out from the car of a co-accused and the petitioner was involved only on the basis of a disclosure statement suffered by the co-accused.
17-06-2020||Ambala||Two Ambala jail inmates end life||Two inmates have allegedly committed suicide by hanging themselves from the iron grill of a ventilator in a barrack of the isolation block of Ambala Central Jail on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as Sunil (31) of Saha and Ram Dass (35) of Balana village of Ambala. As per the information, the deceased were found missing during the morning counting parade and later were found hanging by the jail staff around 6.30 am. Sunil had two cases against him. He was arrested in a murder case of 2015 and was sentenced to life in 2019, but was released on parole due to Covid. Ram Dass had 10 cases of theft and snatching against him. He was convicted in one case and was undertrial in the remaining cases. They were arrested in connection with a snatching incident reported on June 6. They were sent to the Central Jail on June 7 and as per the guidelines, they were kept in a barrack of the isolation block. Baldev Nagar police station SHO Sunil Kumar said, Their parents were informed about the incident and they saw the scene of the crime. The bodies were shifted to the Civil Hospital for the autopsy.” Jail Superintendent Lakhbir Singh said, “They were kept in the isolation block as they were arrested recently in a fresh case of snatching. A judicial inquiry has been initiated.” — TNS
17-06-2020||Panipat||3 treated on Ayushman cards using fake docus: RTI report||Three persons allegedly got treatment from private hospitals on the basis of their Ayushman golden cards which were made on the basis of fake documents in 2019 in the district. This was revealed in an RTI reply.Though these persons had deposited the amount spent on their treatment after getting notices from Ayushman Bharat Haryana Health Protection Authority (ABHHPA), no action has been initiated against the persons who made the cards on the basis of fake documents.In a reply to an RTI query, Public Information Officer-cum-Deputy Civil Surgeon said that three persons have got treatment illegally under the Union Government’s scheme Ayushman Bharat.The persons were identified as Avnashi Lal of Jain Mohalla; Sumit Chhabra of ward-3 Insaar market and Poonam of Kurar village in the district.As per the details available, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), ABHHPA, at Panchkula sent a letter to the Civil Surgeon’s office in September 2019 that the golden card of Avnashi Lal had been made by adopting wrong means in October 2018.Avnashi Lal had taken treatment at a private hospital and Ayushman Haryana had paid Rs 50,000 to the private hospital for his treatment. The patient had died on December 31, 2018. After inquiry, Rs 50,000 was recovered from Mahender Singh, son of Avnashi Lal.The golden card to Sumit Chhabra of Insar market was reportedly made wrongly by Ayushman mitra without verifying the documents in October 2018. He had got treatment from a private hospital in February 2019. After the matter came to light, a recovery notice was issued to him by the health authorities and he deposited Rs 40,000 into the account of Ayushman Haryana.The third case was from Kurar village and a woman, Poonam, had got golden Ayushman card reportedly by producing fake ration card. She also got treatment for kidney stone from a private hospital. For that, Ayushman Haryana had paid Rs 25,000 to a private hospital. After the matter came to light, CEO, ABHHPA, sent a legal notice to her to recover Rs 25,000.Deepak Kumar, an RTI activist, alleged that there was a scam in the issuance of golden Ayushman cards at Panipat. While three cases had come to the fore, several more fake cards could come out if the government inquires into it properly, he added.It is surprising that no action has been initiated against the employees who issued these cards illegally, he added. Stern action should be initiated against such employees, he demanded.No action against officials
17-06-2020||ribune News Service ---||Deepender slams BJP for political activity amid Covid||Chandigarh, June 16  Congress Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda on Tuesday criticised the ruling BJP over starting political activity in the Baroda Assembly constituency despite Covid and asked what the party had celebrated during virtual rallies.  A byelection is due in Baroda.  Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, he said the Karnal MP had held a workers’ meeting in the Baroda constituency while Power Minister Ranjit Singh and Agriculture Minister JP Dalal had visited the area recently.  “What is the BJP celebrating by holding political rallies across the state? Is the fight against Covid over? Or are we celebrating the rise in the cases or the loss of lives and livelihoods? Or is the record level of unemployment that is being celebrated? Or is the BJP celebrating Khattar becoming the least popular CM in the country?” Deepender asked.   He said the Covid cases were increasing “but the state government was engaged in political propaganda.”  “When there were a dozen cases in the state, the borders with Delhi were sealed. Now that the figure is touching 8,000 then the movement of people and vehicles has been normalised,” he added.
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Manesar firm’s hand sanitiser contains highly toxic chemical||A day after the CBI alerted the police in all states and union territories and other law-enforcement agencies about an Interpol input, warning about some unscrupulous dealers selling fake hand sanitisers, manufactured using the highly toxic methanol, it has come to the fore that samples of a Manesar-based unit have been found to contain this lethal substance.Two of the three samples taken by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) from a “fake” hand sanitiser unit based in Manesar during a raid on March 11 have been found to be containing methanol — 10.11 per cent in one sample and 8.52 per cent in the other.Another company gets NoticeHisar: The Food and Drug Administration has served notice to a disinfectant manufacturer which was being marketed as herbal product. Jind Drug Controller Mandeep Singh said that the firm needs requisite certificate to manufacture the product. Product samples have been taken, he added. TNSInterestingly, the labels claimed that the sanitisers contained 75 per cent ethyl alcohol, but the tests report issued by the Government Analyst, Regional Drugs Testing Laboratory, Chandigarh, said it did not contain this ingredient at all. Instead, the samples contained isopropyl alcohol in the concentration of 46.16 per cent and 54.33 per cent, respectively.GL Singla, Ex-State Drug ControllerMethanol is a highly toxic substance which can cause blindness and failure of kidneys. Direct exposure to methanol should be avoided. It can degrease the skin, which may cause dermatitis.The third sample, though not containing methanol, was found to be containing only 54.54 per cent isopropyl alcohol, instead of 75 per cent ethyl alcohol claimed on its label. Though the Government Analyst signed these reports on May 14, the contents have come to the fore now.“Methanol is a highly toxic substance which can cause blindness and failure of kidneys. Direct exposure to methanol should be avoided as it can be harmful if swallowed, absorbed through the skin or inhaled. It can degrease the skin, which may cause dermatitis. Any eatable touched with hands to which methanol has been applied can harm humans,” said GL Singla, former State Drug Controller, Haryana.A sanitiser containing 46 per cent or 54 per cent isopropyl alcohol will provide a false sense of protection against coronavirus to the people using it, but actually their hands may not be sanitised even after rubbing their hands with it. The Centre for Disease Control and Prevention as well as WHO provide that an alcohol-based hand rub for protection against coronavirus must contain more than 70 per cent alcohol.Ashok Meena, Commissioner, FDA, Haryana, said appropriate criminal action would be initiated against the firm manufacturing the sanitiser. Narinder Ahooja, State Drug Controller, Haryana, said Amandeep Chauhan, District Drug Control Officer, Gurugram, had been told to initiate criminal and legal proceedings against the firm and its partners.
17-06-2020||Chandigarh||Record 18 deaths in 24 hours in Haryana||Eighteen Covid deaths were reported on Tuesday, which is the highest so far, taking the death toll to 118.Besides that, 550 fresh cases were reported in the past 24 hours, which is also maximum so far, taking the cumulative Covid tally to 8,272, with 5,656 males, 2,615 females and one transgender.The deaths were reported from Gurugram (9), Faridabad (5), Sonepat (1), Jind (1) and Bhiwani (2) today.A 67-year-old woman from Adarsh Nagar, Ballabgarh; 51-year-old man from Jawahar colony (NIT); 60-year-old man from Brahmanwada locality in Ballabgarh; 70-year-old man from Sector-35; and 39-year-old man from Vishnu Colony, Ballabgarh, were among the casualties from Faridabad district.A pregnant woman from Sonepat died at the PGIMS, Rohtak, on Tuesday.Meanwhile, fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (205), Faridabad (174), Sonepat (32), Rohtak (25), Rewari (21), Ambala (21), Karnal (13), Jhajjar (8), Panipat (8), Bhiwani (7), Mahendragarh (6), Charkhi Dadri (6), Palwal (6), Hisar (5), Fatehabad (4), Sirsa (3), Kurukshetra (3), Panchkula (1), Jind (1), and Nuh (1).The localities from where the fresh cases came in Faridabad district included Ballabgarh, Old Faridabad, NIT, Jawahar Colony, AC Nagar, Bharat Colony, SGM Nagar, Dabua Colony, Sanjay Colony, Adarsh Nagar, Kheri Kalan village, Sector 15, Sector 16, Sector 23 and Gonchhi village.Among the fresh cases from Rewari, five were from Durga Colony, two each from Dhaaruhera, Bawal and Mohalla Kayasthwada, while one each came from Shakti Nagar, Subhash Basti, Vijay Nagar, Surkhpur, Kaluvaas, Gokulgarh, Kutubpur, Jeewali Bazar, Khandoda and Turkiyavaas.In Mahendragarh, three cases came from Deroli Ahir while one each from Kanina and Seka villages.The new cases in Palwal district came from Chajju Nagar, Chirawata Mod, Kuslipur village and one each in Arya Nagar and New Colony in Palwal.Among the positive cases in Ambala, five were from a family from Kala Amb industrial area, eight from Ambala Cantonment and one each from Ambala City, Naraingarh, Barara and Dharauli village.COVID-19 CASES DISTRICT-WISE COUNT
17-06-2020||Ambala||2 run over by speeding vehicle in Ambala||Two friends riding on their bike were run over by a speeding car in Mullana near here, the police said on Tuesday.The deceased have been identified as Rohit, alias Sonu (21), and his friend Vikas, alias Gagan (32), both residents of Kansapur village near Mullana. Both the victims died on the spot.According to the police, Ravi Kumar, a bread seller of Kansapur village, reported that when he was supplying bread at a dhaba near Mullana, he saw Rohit and Vikas riding a motorcycle.“When they reached near the dhaba, a recklessly driven car, coming from behind, ran over them, and dragged the bike for around 40 meters before falling in the gorge on the roadside,” Ravi told to the police. He said when he reached the spot both Vikas and Rohit were lying in a pool of blood. The car driver fled the spot after leaving behind the vehicle. — TNS8 injured in separate mishaps
17-06-2020||Karnal||3 teens consume poison, two dead||Three boys consumed some poisonous substance in Kaimla village of Gharaunda block on Monday. Two of them died. The reason behind the extreme step is yet to be known.  The deceased have been identified as Akshay (19) and Yash (16). Shubham (17) is undergoing treatment at the KCGMC, said Gharaunda SHO Manoj Kumar. He said the families were not aware of the reason behind the step. The victims had left an audio message that no one was responsible for their step. —TNS
17-06-2020||---||Sandalwood worth Rs 70 lakh seized, 1 held||Jhajjar, June 16  Over 2,000 kg of sandalwood worth Rs70 lakh being smuggled in a canter was seized by the police near Sampla bypass on Monday night. The canter driver has been arrested. Deputy Superintendent of Police Shamsher Singh informed they got a tip-off that a canter carrying sandalwood was coming towards Jhajjar city from Gurugram. A police team was immediately deputed at Sampla bypass. It launched a vehicle checking operation and seized the canter.
