17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Five more Covid-19 deaths in Haryana, record one-day jump of 795 cases||Haryana reported five more deaths due to COVID-19 on Friday while the infection tally reached 24,797 with the highest single-day spike of 795 cases, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Two more deaths were reported from worst-hit Gurgaon, another two from Nuh district while one person succumbed to the infection in Palwal. The new fatalities pushed the COVID-19 death toll to 327 in the state.The state had recorded its previous highest single-day spike of 699 cases on July 14, while 696 cases were reported on Thursday.Among the districts which reported fresh cases included Faridabad (160), Rewari (156), Gurgaon (133), Sonipat (69), Mahendragarh (67), Nuh (43) and Panchkula (26), the bulletin said.The number of active COVID-19 cases in the state stands at 5,752, while 18,718 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection, it said.The state’s recovery rate on Thursday was 75.48 per cent, while the rate of doubling of infections was 22 days, according to the bulletin. PTI
17-07-2020||---||15-year-old Bhiwani rape victim succumbs to burns||Bhiwani, July 17A minor rape victim who was allegedly burnt by the two accused in a Bhiwani village succumbed to her injuries at PGIMS, Rohtak, on Friday.The victim, 15, was rushed to a local hospital with burn injuries and was later shifted to the PGIMS where she died during the treatment.The police sources said that the family of the victim had lodged a complaint on July 14 accusing a neighbouring youth and another person of raping their daughter and also filming a video.After the complaint, the father of the accused youth had committed suicide by consuming poison.The police spokesperson informed that a case of rape and murder has been registered against the accused and he was arrested.The accused has been taken on one-day police remand, the spokesperson added.The police have also registered a case of abetment to suicide against the girl’s family members in connection with the death of the accused youth’s father.
17-07-2020||---||Temples across Haryana set to reopen from July 19||Chandigarh, July 17Keeping in view the religious significance of Shivratri, the Haryana Government has allowed the opening of temple across state, except in districts of Gurugram and Faridabad, on July 19 from 5 am to 10 pm.However, no collective congregation or ‘aarti’ would allowed and the temple managements would ensure that no more than five persons gathered inside the temple by following proper standard operating procedures (SOPs).The devotees would have to wear masks and observe social distancing, the order issued here today said.The devotees would not offer any prasad or sprinkle any water on the idols and would only be allowed ‘individual’ prayers. The order said no ‘langar’ would be organised on the occasion though community kitchens already functioning would be allowed to function by following proper SOPs.
17-07-2020||Sumedha Sharma||High drama outside ITC hotel in Gurugram as Rajasthan police’s Special Operations Group denied entry||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 17High drama prevailed outside ITC Grand Bharat Tauru when the Rajasthan Police’s Special Operations Group (SOG) was stopped from entering the hotel by a team of Haryana police.The arguments between two khaki brigades continued for over one-and-half-hour before the team looking for Sachin Pilot supporter MLAs was allowed to enter the resort.While Gurugram police denied it being their jurisdiction, Nuh police had nothing to say so far. The Haryana cops who stopped SOG did not even have name badges and refused to divulge any details about their names, ranks and concerned department to the SOG team.Haryana police have shown up at two resorts, about 5 km apart, reportedly setting up a showdown with the visiting cops from Rajasthan. While one is ITC Grand Bharat, which hosted MLA’s till Tuesday, the other is Best Western Country Inn, where they shifted on Tuesday.A video grab of the 16 MLAs was allegedly shot here and it was declared a quarantine centre overnight. The speculations are rife that the showdown between cops is allegedly aimed at helping some MLAs to leave for another safe location.The SOG team is looking for The MLA’s to quiz them about ‘unverified’ leaked audio recordings where the MLAs have been allegedly caught discussing bribes from BJP to allegedly topple the Congress’ Gehlot government.The Tape was used as evidence by Rajasthan government to file an FIR alleging trading and the team is reportedly here to collect evidence in the form of voice samples. While the FIR mentions unknown as key accused, sources claim that they had been looking for suspended MLA Bhanwar Lal Sharma, who, according to the Congress party, is ‘heard 'conspiring’.The team reached the resort late evening and was stopped by Haryana cops saying they had no information of any inter-state police operation.High places sources revealed that the Haryana police not only was present at Grand Bharat but also Best Western Country Inn, five kilometres from here.The MLAs were reportedly shifted there two days ago and it had been declared a quarantine centre to shield them. The SOG, which has found nothing in Grand Bharat so far, is expected to reach there then.The MLAs reportedly ‘scared’ of an impending arrest of two — Bhanwar Lal Sharma and another MLA Vishwendra Singh. The Rajasthan Congress alleges that Pilot has “hidden” MLAs in Haryana to get cover from the local BJP government.
17-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Human trials of Covid vaccine begin at PGIMS, initial response encouraging||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 17The human trials of the country’s first indigenous Covid vaccine began at the Rohtak PGIMS on Friday. The vaccine was administered on three healthy persons in the age-group of 30-40 years who volunteered for the purpose.Rohtak PGIMS is among the 12 health institutes across the country where the human trials of the Covid vaccine being developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech are being conducted.Prof (Dr) O.P.Kalra, the Vice-Chancellor of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, stated that the initial response of the vaccine was encouraging as none of the three patients showed any immediate adverse effects after being administered the vaccine.“The vaccine will now be given to 10 persons and all of them would be observed on a regular basis. Then, in the second phase, the vaccine will be given to more persons and its dosage would also be increased,” Professor Kalra said while addressing a news conference here today.He maintained that the final results of the human trials of the Covid vaccine would be known in about six months, though the initial indications would start emerging within two to three months.Dr M.C.Gupta, Head of the Department of Pharmacology at the PGIMS, disclosed that the effect of the vaccine would be assessed in two ways: the generation of antibodies after the administration of the vaccine and any adverse reaction caused by it.Dr Savita Verma, the Principal Investigator of the project, appealed to the healthy young persons to come forward and volunteer for the human trials of the Covid vaccine so that the trials could be completed timely. The persons desirous of volunteering for the cause can get themselves registered by calling on PGIMS Covid helpline no. 9416447071, she added.Dr Dhruva Chaudhry, State Nodal Officer (Covid-19) and co-investigator of the project, asserted that despite the fast-tracking of the human trials of the Covid vaccine owing to its urgent necessity, the safety of the volunteers as well as patients would remain the primary concern.Dr Ramesh Verma, another co-investigator of the project, said the human trials of the vaccine being would be conducted on 375 persons in the first phase and 750 persons in the second phase.The PGIMS Director, Dr Rohtash K Yadav, Medical Superintendent Dr M.G.Vashishth and Covid Control Room in-charge Dr Varun Arora and Dr Amrish were also present.
17-07-2020||Deepender Deswal||Over 100 persons test coronavirus positive after attending marriage function in Haryana's Hisar||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 17The chain of COVID-19 infected persons, who had attended a marriage function in Hisar, is getting longer as nearly 120 persons from Hisar and other towns who attended the wedding function have tested positive so far.The marriage of a nephew of a well-known jeweller was held from June 28 to 29. The health officials, who are engaged in contact-tracing of the COVID-19 positive cases, stated that 150 to 200 persons had attended the function.The team of the health officials led by biologist Dr Ramesh Punia claimed that the photographs and videography of the wedding-related events indicated that there were 150 to 200 persons. The family, although, claimed that they adhered to the guidelines and restricted the function to less than 50 persons.The health officials also informed that the ‘mehandi’ event was organised at their residence in Dogran Mohalla on June 28 while the wedding function was organised in a marriage palace the next day.However, a family member developed symptoms and was admitted in a private hospital on July 2, after which his COVID-19 report came out positive.The health officials said as many as 120 persons, who were part of the chain of people who attended the marriage, have tested positive. These included 86 persons from Hisar, 22 persons in Pilibanga town of Rajasthan belonging to the family of the bride and guests from Sirsa, Fatehabad, Hansi and Ganganagar towns.Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Jaya Goel said subsequent testing of the family members revealed that all 18 members of the family had been found infected with COVID-19.“The contract tracing of the persons who attended the wedding function is still to be concluded. Yesterday, five persons including the mehndi worker and her family members tested positive,” she said.Dr Punia, who is leading the contact tracing team, informed the health authorities about the gravity of the situation on July 10 when 50 persons related to the wedding event were found COVID-19 positive.He stated that the contact tracing history revealed that the family members not only violated the guidelines but also ignored the warnings after a bridal make-up shop owner tested positive. “The shop owner informed the family about the positive status and urged avoid gathering and got themselves tested. But the alert was ignored,” he wrote in his report.The jeweller, however, stated that they restricted the gathering in the wedding events and did not send invitations to their neighbours and relatives. “It was unfortunate that my family and some other people have tested positive for the disease. We followed the guidelines and also adhere to the physical distancing,” he said.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni has constituted a team of three officials to find out laxity which resulted in infection to multiple people.
17-07-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Pandemic lockdown proves lifesaver in Faridabad; death on roads drop 51 pc||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, July 17The lockdown and restricted movement caused by the COVId-19 pandemic proved beneficial on at least one point. The number of accidents and deaths on roads in the district dived sharply in the past three months, thus making the roads safer in comparison to last year.While road accidents dropped up to 64.4 per cent, the number of casualties (deaths) also decreased sharply by 51.8 per cent in the period between April and June this year, which witnessed the maximum impact of the lockdown caused by the pandemic.The number of persons injured in the accidents in this period also declined by 70.4 per cent in comparison to the figure of the corresponding period of 2019, according to the details compiled by the officials of traffic police.The impact was most impressive in April this year in the district when only one person died in road mishap against the total 25 deaths recorded in the same month in 2019. Only six cases of accidents took place against a total of 61 cases registered last in this period (April), making the drop to be 90.1 and 96 per cent of the accidents and death, respectively.Describing it as a positive development and after-effect, SK Sharma, district coordinator of NGO Road Safety Organisation — working in the field of traffic regulations and discipline — said the police and other authorities needed to devise and implement more measures to curb the number of accidents on road.He claimed that this fallout had been due to the lesser number of vehicles on the roads, adding that the loopholes in the trafficking and movement of traffic, which include illegal cuts and jaywalking on the highways and roads, are required to be plugged.With adequate underpasses and foot-over bridges, the traffic police must be properly staffed with proper infrastructure to help the accident victims, Sharma added.
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Bharat Biotech starts human trial of its anti-COVID vaccine at PGI Rohtak: Minister Vij||The human trial of Bharat Biotech's anti-COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin began at Rohtak's Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences on Friday, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij tweeted.“Human trial with Corona vaccine (COVAXIN) of Bharat Biotech started at PGI Rohtak today,” Vij, who is also the Home and Science & Technology minister said.“Three subjects were enrolled today. All have tolerated the vaccine very well. There were no adverse effects,” Vij further said in his tweet.Bharat Biotech got the country's drug regulator's approval to start clinical trials of its anti-Corona vaccine Covaxin recently. There are over seven anti-corona vaccines at various stages of development in the country with two of them having received the drug regulator's go-ahead to start the human clinical trials of their vaccines.Earlier this month, Zydus had said it has received approval from authorities to start human trials for its anti-COVID-19 vaccine. PTI
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Armed assailants shoot dead 75-year-old sarpanch of village in Haryana's Rohtak||Armed assailants shot dead the 75-year-old sarpanch of a village in Haryana's Rohtak district inside his home, police said on Friday.The unidentified assailants came on a motorcycle to the residence of Balkrishan, the village head of Chidi in Rohtak, and sought to meet him.As they were allowed inside, they shot Balkrishsan at close range."The sarpanch died on the way to PGIMS Hospital in Rohtak," Deputy Superintendent of Police Shamsher Singh Dahiya told PTI over the phone.He said police were hopeful of making early arrests in the case.The motive behind the crime was not immediately clear, he said."We have registered a case and further investigations are on," the police officer said. PTI
17-07-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram civic body seals 200 shops, owners up in arms||Gurugram, July 16High drama prevailed at Sadar Bazar in Gurugram on Thursday as the Municipal Corporation went on to seal around 200 shops for encroachment.Shopkeepers were in for a shock when they arrived to open their shops in the morning and found them sealed with an MC notice pasted on the shutters.The notice held the shops guilty of nurturing temporary encroachments and not getting rid of them despite repeated warnings and public announcements. Refuting the allegations and fine, the shopkeepers have started a protest and demanded MLA Sudhir Singla to intervene into the matter.“These shopkeepers have a host of squatters and rehriwalas in front of their shops on rental basis. This has made Sadar Bazar non-commutable and congested. In case of any emergency, not even fire brigade or ambulance can pass through. In current Covid times, social distancing has gone for a toss and the market has been converted into an infection hotbed. We had been issuing warnings since a week and videos were being recorded to identify the accused,” said MC Joint Commissioner Gaurav Antil, who spearheaded the move.The shopkeepers, however, alleged that the drive was meant to extort money. They said they got a call at night by some persons, who said they had shot the videos of the area encroached upon in front of shops and sought money to delete them.Meanwhile, the MC has reduced the fine from Rs 3,000 to Rs 2,000, owing to the economic slump but has refused to unseal the shops.Following a protest that carried on till afternoon, many shopkeepers paid the fine and opened the shops while others will be meeting the Joint Commissioner on Friday. The market opened later.‘MC minting money’The MC has hired bouncers, who make fake videos and seek money. We are already facing economic crisis and such an act to mint money is unacceptable. — Sumit Narang, Senior Vice-President, Sadar Bazar Vyapar Mandal‘Action as per law’Encroachments are illegal and a punishable offence. All allegations are baseless. We’ve been issuing warnings, but to no avail. The problem will be dealt with as per law. — Vinay Pratap Singh, Gurugram MC Commissioner
17-07-2020||Nitin Jain||CM sanctions Rs13 cr for new Ambala fire station||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, July 16Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has met the long-pending demand for a new fire station in Ambala Cantt by sanctioning a special grant of Rs 13.38 crore for the project.A senior officer of the Local Government Department confirmed here on Thursday.The old fire station, with its walls and roof on the verge of collapse, will be demolished to make way for the new one.It was last year that the local civic body had raised the demand for a modern fire station equipped rescue and foam tenders. Filling of vacant posts was its other demand.Sources say at least six posts of fireman are lying vacant, while 24 on rolls are working without the safety equipment such as masks, gloves, body suits and breathing apparatus. They make do with helmets and gumboots only.A senior firefighter said he and his colleagues had been putting their lives at risk. It will be equipped with hydraulic tools, drills, jackhammers, and flood rescue and disaster rescue equipment.
17-07-2020||Rohtak||No BPEd, MPEd admission at MDU||The department of physical education at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) will not admit any student to bachelor’s and master’s courses (B.P.Ed and M.P.Ed), its flagship study programmes, in the new session.This has arisen as a result of non-grant of recognition to the courses by the National Council for Teacher Education, a statutory body under the aegis of the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development.As per a notification on May 12, the MDU had been accorded recognition to run B.P.Ed and M.P.Ed courses from 2006-07 to 2017-18 retrospectively.“We will not be able to admit students for want of fresh recognition. The fate of students admitted during the last session hangs in the balance,” said Prof RP Garg, head of department of physical education. He said they were in correspondence with the authorities concerned for recognition. — TNS
17-07-2020||Ambala||With 98.6%, Ambala girl excels in Class X exams||Kripi Singla of DAV Police Public School, Ambala City, has scored 98.6 per cent marks in the Class X examination, the results for which were announced by the CBSE on Wednesday.“I did not opt for any additional subject. I have opted non-medical and I want to become an engineer. I have interest in psychology and if possible, I want to do psychology honours after completing engineering,” Kripi said.Besides her, Simran and With 98.6%, Ambala girl excels in Class X exams.Dikshant of DAV Police Public School have scored 97 per cent and 95.8 per cent, respectively.At Army Public School, Rakhi Kumari scored 98.2 per cent, Simran and Manas Gandhi 97.2 per cent.At SD Vidya School, Anushka Aggarwal got 98.2 per cent followed by Mehak and Anuj Srivastava 97.4 per cent and Salina with 97.2 per cent.At PKR Jain Vatika, Ambala City Sanchit Singh scored 98.2 per cent, Chahat 97.2 per cent and Vardaan 97 per cent.At Murlidhar DAV Senior Secondary School, Priyal got 96.4 per cent, Saanvi and Aditi secured 96 per cent and Harleen got 95.6 per cent.At DAV Public School, Akshit Dhiman scored 97.4 per cent followed by Arpita 97.2 per cent, Ashmit Singh and Smriti Walia with 97 per cent.At St Joseph School, Shatrupa got 94.8 per cent followed by Paras 94 per cent and Pavneet 92.8 per cent. At Delhi Public School, Anika Saxena got 95.2 per cent. — TNS
17-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Bail to juvenile the rule, barring rarities||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 16The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that grant of bail to a juvenile is “the rule” and gravity or nature of the offence is not a relevant factor for consideration while deciding a juvenile’s application for bail.Calling attention to Section 12 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, Justice Suvir Sehgal stated that bail could be declined only in case a juvenile’s release was likely to bring him in association with known criminals, expose him to moral, physical or physiological danger or defeat the ends of justice.‘Apprehension insufficient’Nothing could be referred to by the state-respondent to show that if enlarged on bail, the juvenile would be exposed to moral, physical or physiological danger or would come in contact with known criminals. Mere apprehension of the prosecution without any basis would not be sufficient grounds to decline the bail to the juvenile. — Justice Suvir Sehgal, Punjab and Haryana High CourtJustice Sehgal asserted: “Under Section 3(i) of the Act, a presumption of innocence of any malafide or criminal intent arises in favour of the juvenile.” The assertion by Justice Sehgal came on a petition by a juvenile in conflict with the law.He had challenged the order dated February 4, whereby his third application for bail under Section 12 of the Act was declined by the Principal Magistrate of the Rohtak Juvenile Justice Board. He had also challenged an order dated March 6, passed by the Rohtak Additional Sessions Judge, vide which his appeal against the order was dismissed.The petitioner’s counsel argued that the juvenile was entitled to bail as a matter of right. The counsel pointed out that the petitioner was a student and his studies had been disrupted. Opposing the petition, the state counsel argued that an attack by the petitioner and his family had resulted in a death and an iron pipe was recovered at the instance of the petitioner.Referring to another order passed by the High Court in January, Justice Sehgal stated that a juvenile was entitled to bail as a matter of right in accordance with Section 12 of the Act, unless the case fell in exceptions carved out in the provision itself.“Nothing could be referred to by the state-respondent to show that if enlarged on bail, the juvenile would be exposed to moral, physical or physiological danger or would come in contact with known criminals. Mere apprehension of the prosecution without any basis would not be sufficient grounds to decline the bail to the juvenile,” Justice Sehgal asserted.Accepting the petition, Justice Sehgal noted that the petitioner had spent more than seven months in incarceration. The maximum period that could be ordered to be spent by a juvenile in a special home under Section 18(1)(f) of the Act was three years.
17-07-2020||Karnal||Gangrapes: Haryana Women panel pulls up cops||Namrata Gaur, a member of the Haryana State Commission for Women, today reprimanded the police for “shoddy investigation” into two gangrape cases.An FIR into the gangrape of a teacher at a local private school was registered on July 6 against the school owner and tehsildar, along with the director-principal for connivance.The police registered another case against nine persons on July 13 for gangrape at a rice mill in Taraori. No arrest has been made in either case.Gaur said had the police taken action in the first case, the second could have been averted, but did not clarify the link between both cases.“The police did not take the first case seriously. Had they taken action, the second incident could have been averted. Action in the teacher gangrape case would have created fear, preventing the second gangrape in a week,” she told mediapersons.She accused the Karnal SP of not taking her phone call. She interacted with the Taraori gangrape victim and took police feedback. — TNS
17-07-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Rajasthan MLAs shifted to secluded Manesar resort||Tribune News serviceGurugram, July 16To escape the media glare, 20 Rajasthan legislators supporting Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot were shifted to a more secluded resort near Manesar in the dead of Monday night, it has been learnt.An ambulance was parked outside the resort and a sign of “quarantine centre” was reportedly pasted there.Guards have been telling visitors that the resort was for Covid patients only, though the hotel authorities have not issued any statement in this regard.A call made by The Tribune to the resort seeking a reservation for the weekend elicited a negative response. The receptionist informed this correspondent that all rooms were booked till next week.When asked about visiting the resort for a forthcoming wedding, the receptionist said the visit would be possible after one week. Quizzed about the “quarantine centre” status of the resort, she claimed, “No ma’am, we have no Covid issue or quarantine centre. We had some guests last week, so we have closed the resort for sanitisation.”A source says Pilot, who has been avoiding media glare in light of the political rumblings in Rajasthan, wanted his team of MLAs to be shifted to a more secluded place. He was seen entering the resort riding pillion on a bike from the gate reserved for staff. He was wearing a helmet.About 45 rooms have reportedly been booked in the name of two persons. The names of MLAs are not mentioned in the booking register. A video in which 16 MLAs could be purportedly seen inside the resort was “leaked”. There was no visual of Pilot.
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Covid tally crosses 24K mark in Haryana||With 696 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 24,002 today. Three deaths pushed the toll to 322. The deaths took place in Panipat (2) and Jhajjar. In Panipat, an 86-year-old woman and a 64-year-old man died.Meanwhile, 518 patients were cured today, taking the tally of recoveries to 18,185. The number of patients on oxygen support and ventilator went up to 84.Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (170), Gurugram (142), Rewari (84), Sonepat (59), Ambala (45), Panipat (36), Palwal (25), Hisar (21), Jhajjar and Panchkula (18 each), Mahendragarh (16), Fatehabad (15), Rohtak (14), Sirsa (9), Bhiwani and Kurukshetra (8 each), Kaithal (5), Jind (2) and Yamunanagar (1). — TNSDeputy CM’s personal secy tests positiveRahul Gaud, personal secretary of Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, has tested positive. He had gone to Delhi recently. He stays at Dushyant’s residence in Chandigarh. The house has been sanitised and the entry of visitors barred. Dushyant has also been quarantined.CCTV cameras to be installed in wardsKarnal: All isolation wards in the state where Covid patients are admitted will have CCTV. The step has been initiated in compliance with an SC order. “We have installed 10 CCTV cameras in all wards,” said Dr Jagdish Dureja, Director, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College. He said they had constituted a team of experts for isolation wards. TNS
17-07-2020||---||Rs 135 cr bank fraud: CBI raids Faridabad real estate firm||New Delhi, July 16The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday said it had registered a case and carried out searches at 19 premises of a Faridabad-based real estate firm, SRS Group, and its directors in a case of Rs 135-crore alleged bank fraud.CBI officials said in the FIR, the agency had named the SRS Group of Companies, Faridabad (M/s SRS Real Infrastructure Ltd and M/s SRS Real Estate Ltd), and their directors Anil Jindal, Rajesh Singla, Nanak Chand Tayal, Bishan Bansal, Vinod Jindal and Jitender Kumar.“It was alleged that the said borrower group of companies had availed term loans from Canara Bank. The borrower defrauded the bank and diverted the funds by not routing the proceeds of sale/booking of the flats through accounts maintained with the bank,” the officials added.The searches were conducted at the premises of the company and its directors in Delhi, Faridabad and Bengaluru, they said, adding that it led to the recovery of “incriminating documents and material”, as further investigation in the case continued.
17-07-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Teachers’ records to be digitised in Haryana||Gurugram, July 16Learning a lesson from the incident in Uttar Pradesh of a local teacher working in multiple schools, the Haryana Government has decided to digitise service records, current postings, transfers, performance and even complaints of all teachers.Moving on from filing manual annual confidential report and service books, the education authorities have already started uploading the data on the human resource management system portal.It will take some months to completely digitise everything and after that, information about any government teacher will just be a click away.Going the corporate way, teachers will have to file leave applications also on this portal.“This will have complete information right from the day a teacher is appointed — all the person’s postings, complaints if any and number of leave etc,” said Ritu Chaudhary, Deputy DEO and district project officer.The drive has started in the entire state and is being done on the block level. The data is being monitored by special nodal officers appointed to supervise the process.“Four nodal officers are deployed at the block level and the work of data uploading is in full swing. In some months, all teachers and officials will get their record on one click,” said Satya Prakash, district nodal officer and assistant project officer.
17-07-2020||---||Several options in the offing for Delhi-Chandigarh commuters||Chandigarh, July 16One of the projects likely in December 2022The 304-km trans-Haryana project from Ambala to Ismailabad to Kotputali is expected to be completed by December 2022, costing Rs 10,000 crore. It is expected to decongest National Highway (NH)-1 and NH-8.Of the 600-km Katra-Amritsar-Delhi road, about 135 km will fall in Haryana. A part of Bharatmala project, it is expected to cost about Rs 30,000 crore.With the trans-Haryana and Katra-Amritsar-Delhi road projects, more options will be available for people going from Chandigarh to Delhi. More options will reduce traffic and less time will be taken. The trans-Haryana project is a six-lane 304-km project from Ambala to Ismailabad to Kotputali. It is a green field project. It is expected to be completed by December 2022. It’s a Rs 10,000 crore project. It is expected to decongest National Highway-1 and National Highway-8.Another ambitious project is the Katra-Amritsar-Delhi road, which will be 600-km long. About 135 km will fall in Haryana. About Rs 30,000 crore will be spent on it. It is a part of the Bharatmala project. It is expected to be awarded in December 2022 and will take three years to complete.The Dwarka Expressway, which is also known as the Northern Peripheral Road, is coming up at a cost of Rs 8,667 crore and is expected to be completed by 2022. It will improve connectivity of Gurugram with Delhi and benefit those coming from the Delhi airport.“With the completion of new projects, there will be more options for people commuting from Chandigarh to Delhi. The Dwarka Expressway will improve connectivity for those coming from the Delhi airport,” said RP Singh, Regional Officer for Punjab and Haryana, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).Web of highways in stateOn July 14, Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari inaugurated three big road projects worth Rs 2,240 crore. These included a 35-km four-lane Rohna-Jhajjar section costing Rs 1,183 crore, 70-km four-laning of road from Punjab border to Jind costing Rs 857 crore and 85.36-km 2-lane Jind-Karnal highway costing Rs 200 crore.He also laid the foundation stones for eight projects worth Rs 17,787 crore. These included 227-km six-lane access-controlled expressway from Ismailpur to Narnaul costing Rs 8,650 crore, 46.11-km four-lane Gurugram Pataudi-Rewari section costing Rs 1,524 crore, 14.4-km four-lane Rewari bypass costing Rs 928 crore, 30.45-km four-lane Rewari-Ateli section costing Rs 1,057 crore and 40.8-km six-lane Narnaul bypass costing Rs 1,380 crore.He also laid the foundation stones for 40.6-km four-lane Jind-Gohana section costing Rs 1,207 crore, 38.23-km four-lane Gohana-Sonepat section costing Rs 1,502 crore and 40.47-km four-lane Uttar Pradesh border to Rohna costing Rs 1,509 crore. According to the NHAI, the length of national highways in Haryana, which was 2,050 km in 2014, was 3,237 km now.
17-07-2020||rveen Arora
||Marital discord complaints pending for three months in Haryana||Tribune News Service Karnal, July 16 The fate of hundreds of couples embroiled in matrimonial disputes hangs in balance as mediation proceedings at the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) centres across the state remain suspended in light of the Covid pandemic. In all, 203 complaints are pending in Yamunanagar district, 110 in Faridabad, 80 in Karnal, 60 in Ambala, 25 in Jhajjar and 20 in Panipat.  The law provides for mediation proceedings before registering an FIR. A cop at the Karnal women’s police station said, “Every day, we receive one or two such complaints. Since mediation proceedings are suspended, we make efforts to settle the dispute through counselling. We have registered one FIR, in which the medico-legal report (MLR) was submitted.” A woman from Karnal said she had in March filed a complaint against her husband, mother-in-law and two others for domestic violence and demanding dowry. “No action has been taken," she said. SP Surinder Singh Bhoria said mediation proceedings were expected to start on August 1. In Faridabad's Central Police Station (women), seven out of 16 cases were resolved during the lockdown.  The women’s police station in Yamunanagar received 398 complaints from April 1 to July 15. Of these, 164 were disposed of, while FIRs were registered in 31 complaints.  Jhajjar women’s police station SHO Sudesh said, “As the district’s ADR centre is closed, the police have started the mediation process.”  Charu Bali, ADGP (Crime Against Women), said, “Directions have been issued to all SPs to take action on marital discord complaints on priority. The police try to resolve the disputes through counselling while following all safety guidelines.” (Inputs from Bijendra Ahlawat, Ravinder Saini, Nitish Sharma, Mukesh Tandon and Shiv Kumar Sharma)
17-07-2020||---||Hisar man arrested for conducting gender test||Hisar, July 16Tainted pastAccused Naresh Sharma Gorakhpuria faced arrest 2 months ago as well in a similar case in Adampur. He got bail a fortnight ago.In a joint operation, Hisar and Kaithal district authorities arrested a man for carrying out sex determination tests in Barwala town of Hisar. Identified as Naresh Sharma Gorakhpuria, the accused has faced arrest in the past as well in connection with a similar case and he got bail around a fortnight ago.The raiding team sent a decoy customer to the accused who demanded Rs 40,000 and was arrested red-handed. The team comprised Kaithal PNDT nodal officer Gaurav Punia and Hisar’s Anil Ahuja. They said health authorities in Kaithal had got information about Sharma’s activities.Sharma got Rs 40,000 from the decoy customer transferred electronically and the moment she reached the accused’s nursing home yesterday, officials who were waiting outside arrested him. However, his ultrasound machine was not found, indicating that his aide dashed with the machine.Barwala SHO Kuldeep Singh said the accused had been taken on a two-day remand and his ultrasound machine couldn’t be seized. The police have booked him under the PC-PNDT Act, Sections 420,120-B of the IPC and also under the Indian Medical Council (IMC) Act.The accused was also arrested in a similar case in Adampur two months ago and he came out of jail 15 days ago on bail. Sources said the accused had an expired certificate for practicing electropathy.
17-07-2020||Hisar||Illicit liquor unit unearthed by Charkhi Dadri police, four arrested||The Charkhi Dadri police have unearthed a spurious desi liquor manufacturing unit at a hatchery in the fields of Jewli village of the district on Wednesday night.The police arrested four persons and recovered empty bottles and raw material being used in preparing the liquor.Dadri DSP Ram Singh Bishnoi said the police team raided the spot after getting a tip-off about the unit. The team arrested four persons identified as Sudhir, Rajesh, Mahipal and Manjeet, while three others managed to flee the spot. The DSP said the police also recovered 7,400 empty bottles, 230 litres spirit besides the labels of desi liquor and other material used in packing the bottles.Bishnoi said the police had registered a case under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC and the Excise Act against seven persons and started the probe. — TNS
17-07-2020||Yamunanagar||Minor raped in Yamunanagar||A 16-year-old girl of Yamunanagar has accused a youth of rape. The police have booked Jubar and his three aides under Sections 4, 17 of the POCSO Act and 323 of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of the victim's father. — TNS
17-07-2020||---||Government: Diversification can save 954 bn litres of water in Haryana||Chandigarh, July 16Farmers in Haryana opting for crop diversification and direct seeded rice (DSR) technique for sowing paddy during the kharif season 2020-21 can expect to save more than 954 billion litres of water, says Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Sanjeev Kaushal.He said farmers had been so far committed to growing alternate crops on 1,16,500 hectares under the crop diversification scheme ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat’.This year, farmers in the state have brought 25,859 hectares under the DSR, which saves up to 30% water, as compared to 6,976 hectares last year.Kaithal farmers are leading, with 8,450 hectares as compared to 903 hectares last year under DSR. Rohtak farmers are practising the water-saving method on 3,860 hectares as compared to 500 hectares last year, and on 2,860 hectares in Karnal as compared to 544 hectares last year, he added.
17-07-2020||Chandigarh||Land record digitisation on in Haryana, says Deputy CM||Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala has said the Revenue Department has minimised human intervention in tehsils by implementing e-registry. Now, a person, after submitting documents in a tehsil, can get his land registration done from any other tehsil.He said the digitisation process was pending in 13 sub-tehsils and officials had been asked to do it expeditiously. The work to make villages free from ‘lal dora’ system is under way, he added. — TNS
17-07-2020||Hisar||Webinar on cloud computing||1st e-issue of journal releasedRohtak: Prof OP Kalra, Vice-Chancellor, Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, released the first e-issue of the Haryana Journal of Ophthalmology, an official publication of the Haryana Ophthalmological Society, on Wednesday. UHS Registrar Prof HK Aggarwal and PGIMS Director Dr Rohtas Yadav were also present. Dr Manisha Nada, the chief editor of the journal, said it was for the first time that an e-issue of the journal had been published in view of the Covid pandemic. The journal contains information about the role of ophthalmologists during the Covid crisis, she added.Domestic help’s daughter shinesRohtak: Pooja, daughter of migrant labourer Kailash and domestic worker Manku, has scored 80.4 per cent marks in Class X board examinations, the result of which was declared by the Board of School Education Haryana, recently. Pooja studies at a Government School in Rohtak and also goes to Gandhi School, an informal school for children of migrant workers and other underprivileged students. Pooja, her three sisters and parents, live in a makeshift shanty built along a road. She wants to become a teacher when she grows up.
17-07-2020||THE cover of a manhole on the Hansi Road||Manhole poses threat||Amit Ahuja, Hansi road, KarnalDamaged road not repairedA road was cut in front of house numbers 123, 124, 125 and others in Sector 9 in Ambala City for the repair work of a water pipe around 15 days ago, but till date it has not been repaired. Despite several requests no attention has been paid towards the issue. The concerned authorities must look into the issue immediately and get the needful done.Ram Kumar Saini, Ambala CityNo end to power cutsRESIDENTS of the South City-I, Gurugram, have been experiencing unending power woes for the last many years and the DHBVN has not paid any heed to their problems. The electric voltage fluctuates throughout the day (in violation of the Indian Electricity Rules) resulting in damage to electrical gadgets, besides hindering legitimate operation of the equipment. The power supply is cut even after a spell of rain or not so strong winds. Though the issue has been highlighted several times yet the authorities have not paid any attention.Vijay K Kapoor, GurugramTurbid water supplyThe residents of Sector 9, Ambala, are facing numerous problems such as turbid drinking water supply with a foul smell and blocked sewerage for the last fifteen days. Stray dog and animal menace is adding to their woesWe are thankful to The Tribune for highlighting the grievances of residents of Sector 9, Ambala, and urge the administration to look into them and get the needful done.Gian P Kansal, AmbalaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
17-07-2020||Ambala||Woman dies, in-laws booked||Abducted boy rescuedAn eight-month-old abducted boy has been recovered and his two kidnappers, including a woman, have been arrested, said the police on Thursday. Both the arrested persons were produced before a local court, which remanded them to one-day police custody, the police added. TNSProclaimed offender heldThe district police have arrested a proclaimed offender Rishi Pal of Karnal who was wanted in a criminal case registered against him at Baldev Nagar police station, said the officials here today. According to the police, the accused was evading his arrest ever since he was booked in a criminal case following which a local court had declared him proclaimed offender. TNS
17-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||Dug-up streets in CM Khattar’s village cry for repairs||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 16The delay in the laying of sewer and water pipelines in Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s ancestral Nindana village in Rohtak district is posing a problem to its residents.A majority of the streets in the village under Mohammadpur and Khas panchayats have been dug up but the pipeline-laying work has remained stalled for past several months. Villagers are facing hardship as they are being forced to park their vehicles far away from their houses.“My son, a bank employee in Sonepat, used to go to his workplace in his car but now he is compelled to use a motorbike to commute,” said Ramphal Kaushik, a villager.Indrawati, another villager, said there was also the danger of tripping for the women wearing veil and carrying heavy load on their heads. “We have demanded the repair of the streets but no one is paying any heed,” she claimed. Jaswant, Mohammadpur sarpanch, said the non-availability of labour due to the Covid crisis was the reason behind the slow pace of work.The contractor, Kulbeer, however, expressed his inability to resume work because of shortage of labour and funds. “I started the work in January and the government was to make payment in March but the payment of around Rs 2 crore is lying stuck due to the pandemic.”Akash Hooda, Junior Engineer (Public Health), said he had recently been transferred to the district, hence did not full information about the project.Located 30 km from the district headquarters, Nindana village has a population of more than 15,000.A rough ride
