17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Maximum temperatures hover above normal in Haryana, Punjab||The maximum temperatures hovered above normal limits in Haryana and Punjab on Thursday. The maximum temperature in Narnaul, Bhiwani and Hisar in Haryana settled at 38.5 degrees Celsius, 38.3 degrees Celsius and 38 degrees Celsius respectively.Ambala and Karnal recorded respective highs of 36.2 degrees Celsius and 35.2 degrees Celsius, according to the meteorological department here.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 36 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Patiala recorded a high of 36 degrees Celsius while Amritsar and Ludhiana recorded above normal maximum temperatures of 36 degrees Celsius and 36.6 degrees Celsius respectively.According to the Met department forecast, mainly dry weather is likely to prevail at most places in Haryana and Punjab until Friday. PTI
17-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports one death and 112 COVID-19 cases; toll at 54||Panchkula reports one death and 112 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the district's death total to 54.The coronavirus tally stands at 4,608.COVID-19 death:A 54-year-old man from Sector-12A succumbed to the deadly disease. He had chronic kidney disease, hypertension, and diabetes.COVID-19 cases:The fresh cases include 13 from Kalka, 11 from Sector 21, 10 from Sector 15, 6 each from Sector 20 and Sector 7, 5 each from MDC Sector 6, Pinjore and Sector 6, 4 each from Sector 10 and Sector 24, 3 each from Rajjipur, Sector 12A, Sector 19, Sector 4 and Tipra, 2 each from Barwala, Beer Ghaggar, Sector 11, Sector 2, Sector 25, Sector 26, Sector 28 and Sector 8, one each from Abheypur, Amrawati Enclave, Bunga, Kot, MDC Sector 5, Sarakpur, Rattewali, Sector 16, Sector 17, Sector 27, Sector 9 and Shabilpur.So far, Panchkula has conducted 56,760 COVID-19 tests.
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||ADGP Arshinder Chawla's responsibilities withdrawn over pending work: Vij||ADGP Arshinder Singh Chawla was divested of all the charges on the direction of Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij who paid a surprise visit to the Haryana Police Headquarters in Panchkula, here on Thursday.Chawla has proceeded on a 15-day leave.Speaking to The Tribune, Vij said that Chawla had failed in discharging his duties and had particularly failed to make headway when it came to the ambitious “Dial 112” project which would have changed the face of the Haryana Police.“For over a year, Chawla has been sitting on this particular project. While there has been no progress, he has never taken the trouble of briefing me on where it stands, what initiatives we have taken to push it forward. I was left with no option but to withdraw his work as punishment,” Vij said.Further, the home minister said that he had not only ordered withdrawal of work but had directed the Director General of Police, Manoj Yadava, to let Chawla sit in office without any work in orders passed last evening.“I was very disappointed with his behaviour towards work. Since he was not interested in working, I added to my directions that Chawla report to office every day, sit out his duty hours and go back,” Vij said.However, Chawla has proceeded on leave following the minister’s orders.Vij said that he had asked the DGP to issue orders withdrawing work till noon today.“Since I did not receive a copy, I decided to make a surprise stop on my way to office in Chandigarh to see if my orders had been executed. The DGP gave me a copy of the order withdrawing work,” the minister said.Chawla’s work has been distributed among three officers. ADGP (Modernisation) Alok Kumar Roy will supervise the work of Telecommunication Department in addition to his present duties.ADGP (law and Order) Navdeep Virk will additionally supervise the work of General Administration Branch and IT while ADGP (HQ and Crime Against Women) Kala Ramachandran will look after the Establishment Branch I, the legal cell and the training branch in addition to her present duties. #Haryana Home Minister @anilvijminister withdraws all works from ADGP @arshindersingh @thetribunechd @cmohry @mlkhattar @police_haryana pic.twitter.com/hzHLZGW6iw
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Police returns over 1,200 stolen mobile phones to owners||The Haryana Police have traced and returned 1,215 stolen/lost mobile phones worth around Rs. 1.28 crore to their owners between January and August this year, a senior officer said on Thursday.“Our IT and cyber cell teams have tracked these mobile phones and recovered 1,215 of these handsets. The recoveries also include costly high-end mobile phones," Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order), Navdeep Singh Virk said.The phones were either stolen or lost in various parts of the state, Virk said.       At 144, the maximum phones were recovered in Gurgaon followed by 133 in Hisar, 93 in Kaithal, 92 in Panchkula and 85 in Sirsa, Virk said in a statement.         “For most people, mobile phones are more important than their monetary value due to saved data including contacts, passwords and personal information. Police have made it a priority to trace lost or stolen phones with the help of technology," he said."Our teams continue to track till it is activated. Once the handset is activated, police track the location and recover the device,” he added.       Virk also advised people to quickly report loss of mobile phones, especially smartphones, so that they are not misused by anti-social elements. PTI
17-09-2020||---||Honey-trapped, Rewari man held for 'passing' military info to Pakistan through social media||Sanjay YadavGurugram, September 17The STF, Haryana, in collaboration with Military Intelligence, Lucknow, have arrested a civilian employee of Military Engineering Services (MES) posted in Jaipur from Dharuhera in Rewari late last night for allegedly passing classified information to Pakistani Military Intelligence unit after allegedly getting honey-trapped on Facebook.Interrogation is under way and an FIR has been registered at Dharuhera police station in Rewari district.According to the STF, the accused is deployed at the military engineering wing’s multi-tasking staff (MTS) in Jaipur and he was allegedly passing secret information to a Pakistani intelligence agency through social media. Sources claim that he was honey-trapped.Following a tip-off from Military intelligence, Lucknow, inspector Anand Yadav of STF conducted a raid late last night and arrested 30-year-old Mahesh Kumar from Dharuhera bus stand when he was returning home by bus from Jaipur.He was reportedly in touch with operatives of Pakistani Military Intelligence unit for two-and-a-half years and has received money on multiple occasions. Examination of his mobile device and his joint interrogation are in progress.“We have registered case with Rewari police. The Military Intelligence tipped us off. He was passing information but any further details can’t be shared, “said B Satheesh Balan, IG of STF, Haryana.“The accused was nabbed by STF but now our CIA unit is interrogating him to find out more information and his modus operandi. We took him on remand and probe is on,” said Abhishek Jorwal, SP, Rewari.
17-09-2020||Ambala||1 arrested for theft||The district police have arrested Gaurav of Saha near here in a case of showroom theft. The arrested accused was sent to one-day police remand by a local court. TNSMinor girl abductedA 14-year-old girl was abducted after being lured of marriage, said the police said here on Wednesday. A case has been registered, added the officials. TNSTwo held for assaultThe district police have arrested two persons - Mukesh Kumar and Raman of Naraingarh near here - in a case of assault and criminal intimidation. Both the arrested accused were produced before a local court, which ordered to release them on bail, said the police. TNS3 die in separate mishapsThree persons were killed in separate road mishaps reported during the past 24 hours on Wednesday. The police have registered separate cases against the accused drivers. tns
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Schools set to reopen, Education Department issues SOPs||As school in Haryana are set to open from September 21 in keeping with the Centre’s phase-wise unlocking of activities, the Haryana School Education Department issued standard operating procedures here today.All teachers will have to undergo Covid test before joining school. The orders state that schools will reopen for offering guidance to students of Classes IX to XII with 50 per cent staff presence, while online classes will go on as usual.While schools will be sanitised and laboratories will have to be disinfected for practical classes, the institutions will have to mandatorily display posters on prevention of Covid and keep sanitisers at the entrance.Teachers and students should maintain six-foot distance while interacting and weather permitting, these interactions should be in the open while assemblies and sports activities will be prohibited on the school campuses.Helpline numbers will need to be displayed at various places, while thermal screening will have to be carried out before entering the premises. Also, it is recommended that multiple gates be used for entry and exit and entry of visitors be regulated.Students will not be allowed to share pencils, notebooks and water bottles and teachers will be required to assign separate time slots for children seeking guidance. They will be seated six-foot apart.For schools offering transportation, the buses will have to be disinfected and social distancing will have to be ensured in seating.Further, the schools should ensure counseling sessions for those facing mental health issues, including anxiety and depression. According to the directions, alternative arrangements to biometric attendance will have to be made, wearing of masks will be compulsory, installation and use of Arogya Setu app will be necessary and the students will require a written consent of the parents for interaction. — TNSIn a nutshell
17-09-2020||---||Register complaints online, power consumers told||Chandigarh, September 16 The Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam has urged its consumers to make maximum use of online medium to register any electricity-related complaint to avoid coming to the office in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. An official spokesman said complaints could also be filed at the reception desk of Vidyut Sadan, Hisar Headquarters, which would be forwarded to the officer concerned. He said the complainant must write his name, address and mobile number on his complaint letter so that the officer concerned could inform him after the redressal of the grievance. He said the employees of the nigam and the consumers had been requested to strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the government at regular intervals for timely redressal of complaints.
17-09-2020||---||5 structures demolished in Rohtak||Rohtak, September 16  A team of the District Town Planner (DTP) office razed five illegal structures and 28 DPCs in an unauthorised colony being developed over seven acres near Peer Bodhi Lake on Gohana road here on Wednesday.  Mandeep Singh Sihag, DTP, said the land owners were served notices for the removal of the structures but they did not remove those. Hence, the structures were pulled down and electric poles and sewage systems were removed. “The registration of FIR has also been recommended against the land owners,” said the DTP.
17-09-2020||---||No CLU certificate, 12 dhabas along NH-44 razed, 2 sealed||Karnal, September 16The district Town Planning Department has carried out a demolition drive with the help of the UHBVN and razed 12 dhabas along the National Highway-44 while two others were sealed.Power supply to all 14 dhabas has been suspended and meters confiscated, said Vikram Kumar, DTP. He said the action was taken on these dhabas as they do not have the change of land use (CLU) certificate, for which the department had sent them several notices and reminders.“We have held meetings with the owners of these dhabas in the past, asking them to get the CLU certificate. Several notices were also issued to them, but they did not pay any heed to the directions of the department, forcing us to take this step,” Kumar added.The DTP said they had identified 26 dhabas along the NH-44, which do not have the CLU certificate, of them action had been taken against 14 so far. “Action against the remaining dhabas will be taken soon.”Besides, a demolition drive was also carried out in an unauthorised colony at Taraori, wherein three damp-proof courses, four boundary walls and road network were razed.33 constructions on 8 acres razed in FaridabadFaridabad: A team of the District Town Planner (Enforcement) on Wednesday pulled down as many as 33 constructions which had come up in three unauthorised residential colonies in the vicinity of Saroorpur village of the district.According to DTP Naresh Kumar who led the demolition drive, the constructions razed include five residential buildings, eight industrial sheds and 20 DPC (Damp Proof Course) that had been made illegally in the area spread over about eight acres.Legal action has been launched against the property dealers whom he said had carved out the plots in the area in the past few months.
17-09-2020||Sushil Manav||Tohana MLA speaks out against Dushyant||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 16Dissenting voices in Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), the BJP’s alliance partner in Haryana, have become shriller with the party’s MLA from Tohana Assembly seat Devender Babli expressing resentment over his neglect in the ruling dispensation.Babli, who has been upset for long over his “neglect” in the government, today went to the extent of saying during his interaction with mediapersons in his Assembly segment that if Dushyant Chautala is Deputy CM today, it is only because of the nine MLAs who elected him leader of the party.Nishan Singh, state president of the JJP, however, played down the MLA’s outburst and said the issue would be solved within the party.Babli is the second JJP MLA after Narnaund MLA Ram Kumar Gautam to have spoken openly against their leader Dushyant Chautala.“If Dushyant Chautala has been able to become Deputy CM, it was only because he was able to rope in winning candidates of other political parties at the time of filing of nominations. Otherwise, from his own people, only he, his mother Naina Chautala and Anoop Dhanak could win the election. We elected him leader after he assured us that the JJP will have four ministers besides chairpersons and other posts. But now, we are all feeling ignored,” the JJP MLA from Tohana said.Meets KhattarBabli was among the three JJP MLAs who met CM Khattar on Tuesday. The other two were Ram Kumar Gautam from Narnaund and Ram Niwas from Narwana. Babli said that their meeting with Khattar was a routine affair.
17-09-2020||Panipat||Three more bodies fished out of Yamuna||The bodies of three persons, including a girl, were fished out of the Yamuna here today, 30 hours after they had drowned along with three others while taking bath yesterday. The bodies recovered today were that of Sagar and Payal, fished out from the river near Mirjapur village, and Saurabh, recovered from near Issopur teal village of Shamli district, UP. Bapoli SHO Shree Bhagwan said the bodies had been handed over to their family after post-mortem. Former CM Bhupinder Hooda and Samalkha MLA Dharam Singh Chhokkar reached Jalmana village and expressed grief over the death of six persons. Sushil of Jalmana village, his wife Sonia (32), son Sagar, daughter Payal, neighbour’s daughter Sarita, sister-in-law’s sons Badal and Sourabh and sister’s son Ritesh had gone to take bath in the Yamuna yesterday. Except Sushil and Ritesh, all six had drowned. The bodies of Sarita, Sonia and Badal were fished out yesterday. — TNS
17-09-2020||---||Faridabad-Chandigarh bus service  resumes; less than 5 onboard||Faridabad, September 16The Haryana Roadways on Wednesday resumed its bus service from here to Chandigarh after a five-and-a-half-month hiatus triggered by the Covid pandemic, even though the number of passengers was fewer in all four buses that plied during the day.“Not more than five passengers travelled in each of the four buses. The reason behind low occupancy is that Haryana Roadways has not received permission to enter New Delhi, an important stop. The buses will be taking only the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) route. Hence, several important stops will be missed,” an employee at the local bus depot said.In the pre-Covid times, he said, the occupancy was at least 50 per cent.The first bus left the local depot at 4.50 am and the last one departed at 10 am. All four buses were back here by 11 pm. This will be the schedule till further orders.The bus service was halted in the last week of March following the Covid-induced lockdown. When the Centre started to ease the restrictions, the bus service resumed on shorter routes on June 3, but that on long and interstate routes remained suspended.Rajeev Nagpal, General Manager, Haryana Roadways, said: “The Roadways bus service to Jaipur, Aligarh and Agra has already resumed. Now, Chandigarh has been added to the list. Gradually, we will be back to full capacity.”He admitted the passenger occupancy had been low. “The permission to ply buses via New Delhi is awaited,” he added.Of the 105 buses at the bus depot, only 65 are plying. The depot is incurring a daily loss of Rs 15 lakh to Rs 20 lakh, sources say.
17-09-2020||---||Congress to seek special Assembly session on farm ordinances||Kurukshetra/Karnal, September 16Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday said the Congress would meet Governor Satyadev Narayan Arya to demand a special session of the Assembly to discuss the three controversial farm ordinances introduced by the Centre.“The Congress will launch a ‘jihad’ (struggle) from Kurukshetra as soon as the Covid pandemic subsides against the forcible implementation of the ordinances,” he told the media in Kurukshetra.The former Chief Minister said, “We will bring a resolution in the Assembly and show farmers that we are their well-wishers. Imposing laws without the consent of farmers is tantamount to dictatorship. We will not let the government implement the laws forcibly.”“If a farmer will be allowed to sell his crop anywhere, what is the need of the Meri Fasal, Mera Byora portal in Haryana,” he asked.Hooda also visited farmers and arhtiyas at Gharaunda and Karnal grain markets, and criticised the Centre for introducing the ordinances, which, he said, were “anti-farmer”.“The Congress will oppose the ordinance tooth and nail. Party leaders will hit the streets and raise their voice in the Vidhan Sabha,” he told the media at the Karnal grain market.Former Assembly Speaker Kuldeep Sharma and former chairperson of the Haryana Minority Commission Trilochan Singh accompanied Hooda.The former CM claimed, “The produce is procured at throwaway prices, and not at Minimum Support Price (MSP). The Centre should bring in an ordinance to ensure the procurement at MSP.”Leaders detained, freed laterPanipat: The Delhi Police on Wednesday detained BKU (Charuni) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni and his supporters on the Haryana-Delhi border when they were on their way to Delhi to meet National Kisan Sangathan president VM Singh. However, the Alipur police released them after around three hours.
17-09-2020||Hisar||Four booked for extortion||The police have registered an extortion case against a youth and three other unknown persons on the complaint of a retired official in Hisar. A police spokesperson said complainant Jaibeer (62) said he got a call from an unknown woman asking about some office work. He told her that he was retired, but she asked him to meet her and later took him to her house, where she gave him tea laced with sedatives. She later threatened him of rape case and sought Rs 10 lakh to settle the matter. He gave her Rs 5 lakh.  But the accused was trying to extort more money from him. A case under Sections 384, 389 and 34 IPC has been registered.— TNS
17-09-2020||Yamunanagar||Yamunagar woman gangraped||A 25-year-old woman was allegedly gangraped by two minor boys at her room at a brick-kiln in the Camp area of Yamunanagar.On the victim’s complaint, a case was registered against the minor boys — 16 and 17 years old — under Sections 323, 376D, 452 and 506 IPC at the women police station, Yamunanagar, on Monday.The complainant said she, along with her husband, lives at a room at a brick-kiln.She said her husband, a labourer, had gone to work in Chandpur Colony on September 12. “Around 4.30 pm, I was alone in my room. Two known youths came there and raped me. They also beat me,” alleged the complainant.She further alleged that they threatened that if she told anyone about the incident, they would kill her husband. — TNS
17-09-2020||Yamunanagar||Man held with 590 tablets of banned drugs||A team of the anti-narcotics cell of the local police arrested a man with 590 tablets of banned drugs here today.The accused has been identified as Naib Singh of Jamalpur village of the district who was produced before a court in Jagadhri and sent to judicial custody.Naib ran a shop of grocery and vegetables in his village. Mahavir, in-charge of the anti-narcotics cell, received information that Naib also sold banned drugs.“A police team today raided his shop and recovered 590 tablets of banned drugs,” Chamkaur Singh, spokesman for the police, said.In another case, Akshay Kumar Singla of Shakumbhari village of Saharanpur nd Sandeep Gupta of Radha Vihar Ram Mandir Colony of Saharanpur were arrested yesterday and the Special Task Force unit of Ambala recovered 4,475 injections and 1,440 capsules of banned drugs from their possession.On the complaint of sub-inspector Dinesh Kumar of STF, a case had been registered against the duo under the NDPS Act at the Chappar police station of Yamunanagar district. Both of them were produced before a court of Jagadhri today, which remanded them in two-day police custody. — TNS
17-09-2020||Karnal||Karnal hit-and-run turns out to be murder, 3 held||A hit-and-run accident that took place on September 10 in Sector 13 here killing a youth, Robin Nagpal, and injuring his friend, Arvind, has turned out to be a murder. The probe has revealed that the murder was planned by one of the three accused who wanted to kill Arvind due to some old enmity.  “The police have arrested three persons, including mastermind Raj Kumar Bathla, alias Raju, of Ram Bagh Colony and two others Gaurav of Roop Colony and Neeraj of Hari Ram Enclave in the city,” said Surinder Singh Bhoria, Superintendent of Police (SP). The police also recovered the vehicle used in the accident. On late September 10 evening, Robin and Arvind, residents of Ram Bagh Colony, was taking a stroll on the dividing road of Sectors 13 and extension. In the meanwhile, a speedy car hit them from behind. They were rushed to a hospital, where Robin was declared dead while Arvind is still battling for life.  “Initially, we registered a case under Sections 279 and 337 of the IPC against unknown person on the complaint of Robin’s father, but the family members were suspecting it to be murder. I handed over the investigation to the CIA-1, which worked with dedication and cracked the case,” the SP added. Bhoria said plotter Raj had admitted that he had an old enmity with Arvind over a shop on Kunjpura road. On the day of incident, Raj was driving the car of Neeraj, who along with Gaurav accompanied him. While driving the car, he saw Arvind and Robin taking a stroll and decided to hit the former with an intention to kill him, the SP added. They will be produced in the court on Thursday. — TNS
17-09-2020||Hisar||Four on morning walk run over by vehicles||Four persons on morning walk were run over by vehicles in two separate incidents in Hisar and Hansi towns on Wednesday morning.  As per information, a couple, identified as retired Army personnel Jitender Singh (38) and his wife Mukesh Rani (32), was crushed to death by a speeding truck in front of Hisar cantonment. As per eyewitnesses, the truck dragged the victims some distance and drove away without halting. Two brothers — Tushar and Mayank — also suffered injuries. In a similar incident, two youths identified as Prince and Jaswant (both aged 17) were run over by a speeding car near Shekhpura village on Hansi-Jind road near Hansi town on Wednesday.  The victims were preparing for the Army recruitment and were busy exercising along the road when the car hit them. Three other youths — Amit Gurjar, Rahul and Ankit — suffered multiple injuries and were rushed to a hospital. Police chowki in charge Suresh Kumar said the driver fled with the car. The police have registered two separate cases of causing death due to rash driving. — TNS
17-09-2020||Karnal||Raise people’s issues: Surjewala to workers||Former Kaithal MLA Randeep Singh Surjewala, who has been promoted as AICC general secretary, Karnataka, and has also been made a regular CWC member, was today welcomed at various places in the district by party workers and his supporters during his way to Kaithal.  He said that it was an honour for all Congress workers and not just Randeep. “I have appealed to all party workers to raise the issues of farmers, labourers, traders and arhtiyas to expose the BJP-JJP government in the state as well as the Modi-led BJP government at the Centre. Besides, the workers should apprise the people about the policies of the Congress,” said Surejwala while talking to mediapersons. He accused the BJP government at the Centre and BJP-JJP government in the state for pushing the state and country behind. He said now, the fight was not political but has turned into one between a few capitalists and rights of farmers, labourers and poor people. “Those who will not stand with farmers, labourers and poor people, history will not pardon them,” he said, adding that the BJP wanted to make the people slave of some capitalists. He accused the BJP-JJP government of lathicharge on farmers in Pipli. — TNS
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||19 more lose battle to virus||With 2,694 fresh Covid cases, the highest so far, and 19 deaths, the Covid-positive tally on Wednesday crossed one lakh in Haryana.Five deaths were reported from Karnal, two each from Faridabad, Gurugram, Panchkula, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar and one each from Kaithal, Bhiwani, Mahendragarh and Ambala.The maximum fresh cases came from Gurugram (421) followed by Faridabad (292), Kurukshetra (234), Karnal (197), Ambala (192), Rohtak (178), Sonepat (169), Sirsa (141), Panipat (133), Hisar (129) and Panchkula (110). — TNS
17-09-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur---||Covid cases surge, tally breaches 1Lakh mark||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, September 16 The number of Covid cases crossed 1-lakh mark in the state onWednesday, with the last 25,000 patients reporting in the past 10 days alone. The first 25,000 cases were reported in four months but in just past two months 75,000 cases had been added to the tally. On March 17, the first case of the virus, a 29-year-old Gurugram woman, was reported in the state. The state crossed 25,000-mark on July 18 — 207.7 cases per day. The rate of growth in cases has been on the rise since then as the government announced more relaxations following the Centre’s directions. The 50,000 mark was breached on August 20 — 769.1 cases per day. The next 17 days further saw the growth rate doubling to 1,507.2 cases per day as 75,000 mark was crossed on September 6. However, the last 10 days witnessed the rate climbing to 2,476.7 cases per day as the state’s Covid tally clocked 1.01 lakh onWednesday. The maximum cases in the state have been registered from Faridabad (16,701), followed by Gurugram (16,344), Sonepat (6,447), Ambala (6,390) and Panipat (6,124). As many as 78,937 persons have recovered so far with a cure rate of 77.91 per cent and 21,334 are active ones. The testing was also ramped up and reached 15.65 lakh tests today, including rapid antigen tests. The fatality rate in the state is 1.03 per cent with 1,045 deaths — 731 men and 314 women. At present, 363 cases are under critical care with 300 on oxygen support and 63 on ventilator. Haryana has 46,133-bed quarantine facilities in the dedicated Covid care centres and as many as 12,263 beds are available in the dedicated Covid hospitals and  health centres.
17-09-2020||Faridabad||Faridabad man electrocuted||A 27-year-old man residing in M block of the NH-5 locality of the NIT here got electrocuted by a low-lying high-tension power line passing adjacent to his house on Tuesday night.  The accident took place around 8.30 pm when Rohit Batra, a shopkeeper, was talking on his mobile phone on the rooftop of his house. Claiming that the 11-kV power line is just 2-ft from the balcony of the house, the victim’s kin said Rohit failed to notice it due to darkness.  Rohit was rushed to the Civil Hospital with serious burns, but he succumbed. — TNS
17-09-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Flood abatement steps save farmers of misery||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 16Though rain was 5 per cent short this monsoon in the last two months, the state managed to restrict flooding to less than 3,000 acres this year against 1.2 lakh acres last year due to better preparedness and a proactive approach when it came to flood abatement and control.Though Haryana received 351.50 mm rain against normal rainfall of 371.60 mm, its distribution was uneven across the state, with some districts receiving rain in excess of 2 per cent to 56 per cent while others were deficient by 1 per cent to 62 per cent.The altered climatic conditions changed the rainfall pattern, where rain intensity was high in a short period between July 1 and September 2 this year.The Irrigation Department re-engineered and planned the dewatering strategy differently despite flood control works remaining stalled through the entire lockdown and monsoon, ahead of schedule by a few days this year.“We began by ensuring that all pumps at our disposal were in working condition. Departing from the tradition of allowing water to accumulate till September 30 and then beginning the process of dewatering the fields, we decided to go right ahead with the process soon after it rained. Consequently, though 48,040 acres were submerged this year, less than 3,000 acres remained to be dewatered,” said Additional Chief Secretary (Irrigation), Devender Singh.The mere advancing of the dewatering schedule changed the flooding pattern in Haryana this monsoon. The department, through regular monitoring and exhaustive planning, installed pumps in chronic low-lying areas which faced flooding every monsoon and used mobile pumps in other temporary areas which were flooded this season to drain out water, saving crop loss for farmers.The water was drained out from these pockets in just over three weeks against the usual period of three months since operations began after the monsoon was over.According to information available, the maximum rainfall of 461 mm against 296.3 mm was recorded in Kaithal, while Panchkula, with a rainfall of 301.6 mm against a normal of 786.1 mm, recorded the least rainfall.
17-09-2020||Kurukshetra||Examinations rescheduled||Virtual declamation contestHisar: The Training and Placement Cell, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, here organised an online declamation competition on topic ‘New Education Policy 2020 (NEP-2020)’ under its fortnightly virtual speakathon programme. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar was the chief guest and said the university was continuously striving for making students learn new things by holding such events amid the pandemic. He said the most prominent aspect associated with the New Education Policy was national character building through which the nation would get committed citizens for the betterment of the country. Placement Director Pratap Singh said the programme had been organised to encourage students to study the NEP-2020 and express their views on it. He said this was the 12th sepakathon event in a series that began in May to enhance the communication skills of students.
17-09-2020||I want to draw the attention of the civic body authorities to the increasing menace of stray cattle in Sector 20-21||No end to stray cattle menace in Panchkula||Col KJ Singh (retd), PanchkulaCommuters suffer as rain floods underpassFOR the past many years, the Railways have implemented a decision to eliminate manned railway crossings into underpasses so that traffic could move unhindered. But, at most places in the state, I observed that such underpasses have become a big nuisance to the people. During rainy season, such underpasses remain flooded and even heavy vehicles such as buses and trucks get stuck in the midway. The government should plan such underpasses in a scientific manner with proper drainage so that they do not become an inconvenience to the commuters.Ramesh Gupta, narwanaRWAs should be given a chanceTHIS refers to a story, ‘Panchkula RWAs to enter civic body poll fray’, published by The Tribune on September 15. It is highly encouraging to learn that fed up with the working style of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation, members of several Residents Welfare Associations (RWAs) have decided to contest the upcoming civic body elections, including for the post of Mayor, expected to be held in 20 wards late this year or early next year. They will definitely bring about a change. So, it obviously gets incumbent upon the city residents to give them a chance.SK Gupta, PanchkulaCitizens lack civic sense, responsibilityWhile I was riding a cycling on the Panjokhara Sahib - Kallarheri Road on Wednesday, a heap of used disposable plates thrown on the road side grabbed my attention. This must have been done by people who had organised a ‘bhandara’ or some function in the recent past. These plates should have been rightfully disposed off in a garbage bin and not thrown around. Sadly, being citizens, we lack civic sense and responsibility and love to blame the authorities for all bad conditions in the area. No wonder why our city is far from being a smart city and heaps of garbage dumps can be seen easily in the city. Let’s educate people about cleanliness and raise our civic sense.Col RD Singh, Ambala CanttIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
17-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||After 28 years, widow gets dues with interest||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 16For almost three decades, widow Ram Rati fought for her legitimate dues. But justice evaded her even after she won a legal battle against the state. Asked to pay interest on the payment delayed since 1991, Haryana moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court, seeking the order’s review on a “factually incorrect” plea — an act that resulted in a reprimand.Rapping the state for harassing the widow by denying legitimate pensionary benefit to her for 28 years, Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi dismissed the state’s review petition with Rs 50,000 costs. The amount is to be paid by Haryana Roadways General Manager (GM) Amarinder Singh Manais from his own pocket without reimbursement by the state as the plea was filed by him.Justice Sethi said the cost was being imposed as “during the restricted hearing, the court time, which could have been used for deciding other urgent matters, has been wasted for this kind of frivolous petition”.Justice Sethi ordered initiation of suo motu contempt proceedings against the GM for not implementing the court’s earlier order on payment of interest. The officer intentionally and willfully disobeyed the order, Justice Sethi said. Ram Rati filed a petition more than a decade ago, seeking compassionate appointment for her son and monetary benefits admissible to her after her husband’s death, along with arrears. Allowing the petition in September 2010, the court granted only compassionate appointment to her son following which she moved the court again for the pensionary benefits.The state, during the course of hearing, itself decided to grant pensionary benefits from 1991 to January 2017 to the petitioner for service rendered by her late husband. But it filed a review petition, claiming that the grant of pensionary benefits along with interest was liable to be reviewed.
