17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Out on bail, two undertrials in Haryana test positive for coronavirus||Two undertrials in Haryana, who had come out on bail, have tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Sunday.They were arrested last week on rioting and other charges and subsequently released on bail from Bhondsi jail in Gurgaon.A judge from Rewari before whom they were produced a day after their arrest and 13 others, including some court employees present during the hearing and the police officials who had escorted the undertrials, have been placed in home quarantine, the officials said.The samples of the undertrials were collected by the health department on May 12, the day of their arrest, and they were out on bail the next day. On Saturday, their report came positive.The undertrials have been admitted to an isolation ward of civil hospital at Rewari. The jail authorities at Bhondsi have been informed.Earlier, an undertrial kept in the Sonepat district jail's isolation ward was found infected with coronavirus. He was later admitted to the civil hospital.A jail official posted in Gurgaon district had also contracted the infection a month ago when he was on leave to his hometown in Bhiwani, officials said.Haryana's Jail Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala on Sunday, however, said that there has been no case of virus outbreak in various jails in the state.“As such there is no case of any prisoner inside the jail testing positive for coronavirus. Even in the case of these undertrials, they are kept separate and not straightway lodged with other prisoners,” he said.The state has nearly 20,000 inmates in 19 jails, including three central prisons – one in Ambala and two in Hisar.He said in view of the prevailing pandemic situation, the Haryana government has made COVID test and 14- day quarantine mandatory for prisoners returning from interim bail, parole, furlough or remand from police to judicial custody.COVID-19 test has also been made mandatory for prison staff returning to jails after availing leave on emergent grounds, Chautala said.Such prison staff will be allowed to join back his or her regular duties only on receipt of COVID-19 negative test report and fitness report from the Medical Officer of the jail, he said.The Haryana government had recently extended by another six weeks the duration of parole or interim bail granted to convicted prisoners in view of coronavirus.As many as 3,817 prisoners were released last month on interim or regular bail, parole or extended parole. The state government decided to release convicted prisoners facing up to seven years of sentence and undertrials liable to get similar jail terms on conviction.Foreign nationals, however, are not included in this. Also, prisoners convicted in cases like drug smuggling, rape, acid attack are not among those released.“In view of the extraordinary circumstances prevailing due to the pandemic, reported increase in number of COVID infected persons across the country and the directions given by the Supreme Court, readmitting around 4,000 prisoners released on parole or interim bail back into jails at this stage is a huge risk and is likely to increase risk of infections to existing inmates," Chautala said."In this background it was decided that it would be appropriate to extend the parole period of the convicts for another six weeks from the date of their first surrender,” he said.The decision to release the prisoners had been taken in accordance with the Supreme Court's directive to decongest crowded prisons to prevent them from becoming fertile ground for spread of the coronavirus.A high-powered committee under Justice Rajiv Sharma of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and comprising Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Haryana, Vijai Vardhan and DGP (prisons) K Selvraj in its recommendation had on May 5 stated that “readmitting around 4,000 prisoners released on parole or interim bail back into the jails at this stage is a huge risk…”.The committee was formed on the directive of the Supreme Court. PTI
17-05-2020||Faridabad||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 45-year-old man's death, new case; toll rises to 14||Haryana on Sunday reported a coronavirus death and a new case of the deadly disease, taking the death toll in the state to 14 and case tally to 888.Covid-19 claimed yet another life in the Faridabad district after a 45-year-old man hailing from Faridabad’s Bharat Colony died in the hospital in the wee hours on Sunday.He is the sixth person to die from the disease in the district. This is also the second death in the past 48 hours, after a 17-year-old girl had died on Friday morning. The total number of positive cases in the district has also risen to 147 after three more persons were found positive in the past 24 hours.According to the health department officials, the latest victim had been shifted to ESI Hospital here on May 13 after he was found to be positive. A patient of diabetes, he was undergoing treatment in a private hospital when he was tested positive after symptoms of fever.Man tests positive in KarnalA 40-year-old man of Chaugama village has tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total active cases to seven in Karnal district.The man went to Ambala for a stone surgery and his sample was sent to KCGMC on Saturday, which came as positive.The patient is being shifted to KCGMC. Dr Ashwani Ahuja, Civil Surgeon, said that since the sample has been tested in Karnal's lab and patient belongs to the district so he will be added in Karnal's patient list.
17-05-2020||---||Karnal village flooded after canal breach||Karnal, May 17Ranwar village in Karnal was flooded after a canal breached in the wee hours of Sunday.As per the residents, the breach in the canal occurred around 4 am on Sunday. Despite efforts to plug the breach by the residents, the village houses and farms were flooded with water.Employees of the irrigation department and villagers were trying to plug the breach with sand bags. Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan and the DC Nishant Kumar Yadav, along with the SDM and other officials, reached the village to inspect the work.Officials are in the process of assessing the losses.
17-05-2020||Mahendragarh||Haryana’s central varsity registrar resigns||The registrar of the Central University of Haryana (CUH) here resigned from his post citing family and health reasons. He had joined the university around five years ago and his tenure was scheduled to end in March 2021.Ramdutt, a resident of Noida (Uttar Pradesh), cited health and family reason in his resignation letter but growing differences between him and officiating Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad is the main cause behind the move, said sources.Kuhad had completed his five-year-term as VC on April 15 but the Ministry of Human Resources Development allowed him to continue in office till the appointment of a successor.“Due to my health/family problem as well as certain other pressing reasons, it will not be possible for me to continue to serve the university anymore. Therefore, I have decided to resign from the post of Registrar,” reads the resignation letter sent by Ramdutt to the VC. Sources said differences between the VC and the registrar intensified when the former called the latter to the university last month to work from office while citing an order of the HRD ministry in this respect. At the time, the registrar was in Noida that was a red zone for being a hotspot of COVID disease. “Complying with the orders, Ramdutt had to come back to the university. He was quarantined at his official residence in the university for 14 days when the health authorities learnt about his return from the hotspot area. The issue later became the matter of discussion and questions were also raised over the authorities’ order,” sources maintained. Confirming the resignation, Ramdutt told The Tribune that he had served one-and-half month resignation notice and would work till June 30.“I am tired and my health does not allow me to work more,” he said, adding that some other issues also forced him to take this step.VC Kuhad could not be contacted for his comment.
17-05-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||For e-passes, essential service providers to submit medical certificate, says Vij||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 16Despite the Delhi High Court order for hassle-free movement of essential service providers, the state government has said that anyone applying for e-passes for to-and-fro movement between Haryana and Delhi has to submit his medical certificate.“A person has to submit his medical certificate that he is Covid-negative,” said Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij.‘Migrants on roads will be stopped’On the movement of migrants on the roads, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said that directions have been issued for stopping and shifting them to nearby shelter homes. So far, about 1 lakh persons have been sent home by special trains and buses. The Union Home Ministry had written to all states to stop the movement of migrants on roads and rail tracks on May 15.He added, “As per the Delhi High Court order, essential service providers have to be allowed and they will not be quarantined unless and until they test positive for Covid or have been found to be in contact with a Covid patient. So, people who are seeking e-passes have to submit their medical certificate in this regard.”Also, an employer has to submit a list of employees seeking e-passes. “If the Delhi Government employees are seeking e-passes, then the government concerned would apply on their behalf,” clarified Vij.Applicants are also required to have Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones.On May 14, the Haryana Government had submitted before the Delhi High Court that e-passes “shall be issued” to all essential service providers “within 30 minutes of receipt of the applications”.Also, the state government had added that “each e-pass will be valid for the entire duration of the lockdown and could be used for multiple visits”.
17-05-2020|| ---||Liquor theft probe finds ‘pass’ issued by SDM office||Panipat, May 16 In a major development in the liquor theft case from a sealed godown in Kharkhoda, the police have recovered a movement pass for essential goods issued by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate’s office at Dera Bassi for interstate movement during the lockdown period.  Besides, kingpin Bhupender Singh of Sisana said during police remand that he usually managed to get non-duty paid liquor directly from distilleries especially in Rajpura of Punjab and Naraingarh of Ambala district. Jashandeep Singh Randhawa, Superintendent of Police, Sonepat, said we are verifying if the movement pass issued by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate office at Dera Bassi is fake or original. And if it was issued by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate office, then which official was involved in issuing it. It has been revealed during investigation that Bhupender managed to get liquor without depositing excise duty, bringing the cost down by 50 per cent, the Superintendent of Police said. During investigation, it was also revealed that the kingpin had a nexus with some transporters and suppliers. He purchased onions in huge quantities. The gang managed fake bills and then supplied the liquor by hiding it under the bags of onions to other states especially those where liquor sale is prohibited after pasting a copy of the movement pass on the trucks, the Superintendent of Police said.
17-05-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Foreign returnees pay through the nose||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, May 16Brought back under the Vande Bharat project and currently quarantined in Gurugram and Faridabad, over 350 foreign returnees claim that they are being asked by taxi operators to shell out anything between Rs 10,000-20,000 to take them back to their homes in the state.The majority of them have been quarantined for a week now and will be out next week. With no official decision on ways to get back home, they have already started queuing up for taxis. Shockingly, the majority of taxi operators have demanded huge amounts to take them to stations like Hisar, Ambala or Kurukshetra, citing their foreign return status.Contacting the returnees through the front desk of their hotel-cum-quarantine centres and making advance bookings, the taxi operators are charging up to Rs 20,000 for districts like Ambala or Panchkula. The returnees who are yet to be informed about travel protocols or arrangements to take them back home are “booking” their seats in the fear of being left stranded.“I will be completing my quarantine next weekend and have to travel to Yamunanagar. There is no communication about any bus or train being run. So I decided to pre-book a taxi as many claim to be having a long waiting list. The operator has asked me to pay Rs 15,000 saying that as I have come from aboard, their driver will be at risk. I have called over 10 taxi operators and everybody is saying the same thing. Those returning to Punjab are being allowed to go to their home districts. We want the same in Haryana,” said an IT professional returning from the UK.“When the taxi operators get to know that we have returned from abroad and are under quarantine, they double the prices. The government should step in and make arrangements to send us home or, at least, put a cap on the price,” added a returnee from Spain.The returnees, the majority being students, have moved the Haryana CM seeking immediate transfer to their home districts and approval of home isolation, citing their inability to pay for quarantine facilities in hotels for 15 days.“I am the son of a small-time farmer and went abroad to study on loan. I paid Rs 1 lakh to get back home and now, I have no money to spend on quarantine which is Rs 4,000 a day. There are many like me and we want to go back to our homes. We have written to the CM saying we have no money left now,” said a student quarantined in Faridabad.“We are getting the returnees here on buses free of cost and checking them in quarantine homes as per their paying capacity and preference. Those who are unable to pay are being adjusted in government quarantine homes. As of now, there is no communication about transfer of returnees,” said Amit Khatri, DC, Gurugram.
17-05-2020||---||33 fresh cases reported, Ambala now Covid-free||Chandigarh, May 16With 33 fresh cases of Covid, Haryana’s tally has jumped to 887 on Saturday. As many as 50 patients were discharged, including 23 from Gurugram and six each from Panipat and Sonepat, which took the tally of discharged cases to 514 with recovery rate of 57.94 per cent.The fresh cases were reported from Gurugram-14, Faridabad-4, Nuh-4, Jhajjar-3, Rewari-3, Sonepat-2, Palwal-2, and Fatehabad-1. Among the 14 cases in Gurugram, six cases were of new infections while the rest were contacts of previously tested positive cases. The district’s tally with these cases has jumped to 193.4 linked to Rohtak PGIMS test positiveRohtak: Two sweepers deployed at Covid wards at the Rohtak PGIMS, a driver of a Covid ambulance and the wife of a Casualty Medical Officer (CMO) have tested positive for Covid late on Saturday evening. Dr Varun Arora, in-charge of the Covid Control Room at the PGIMS, said that screening of at least 60 persons associated with the Covid-positive persons was under process.Ambala is now Covid-free as the last Covid patient – a 22-year-old youth from Model Town in Ambala City – was discharged from a private hospital in Panchkula today.Among the four new cases in Faridabad, two women, including a 35-year-old pregnant hailing from Parvatiya Colony and another 45-year-old woman from Barh Mohalla of Old Faridabad, had tested positive. Two others were male workers from Dabua Subzi Mandi. The district’s tally has reached 144 with these cases.In Nuh, four contacts of a truck driver, who had tested positive earlier, got confirmed of the viral disease. The total number cases of the district have reached 65.Among the three cases in Jhajjar, two were sons of a Covid-positive Delhi cop. The cop is undergoing treatment in Delhi while his family resides in Bahadurgarh town here. A 55-year-old woman, wife of a vegetable seller also tested positive in Bahadurgarh. The district’s tally has reached 90 with this.In Rewari, among the three cases, two were aged about 25 years and were residents of Mamaria Ahir village. The total count has reached nine. One of the youths had a travel history to Delhi while the other contacted the infection from him.In Sonepat, a 54-year-old person of Sandal Kalan village of Sonepat tested positive. He had come from Mumbai two days ago. He was making locks and keys there. Along with him, a 34-year-old staff nurse of BPS Medical College Khanpur Kalan also tested positive. The total cases in Sonepat have reached 134.Among the two cases in Palwal, a 35-year-old woman and 12-year-old boy, both from a Covid-positive dairy operator’s family, engaged as a retailer of a booth in New Delhi, tested positive. The total cases in the district have jumped to 39. A 23-year-old woman tested positive in Fatehabad, taking the tally to eight. She had returned from Agra on May 13.
