17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Chief Minister turns Good Samaritan for e-rickshaw driver hurt in accident||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar who was on his way to Karnal from here on Monday got his cavalcade stopped after seeing an injured e-rickshaw driver lying on the road and helped him reach hospital.When the chief minister’s cavalcade was passing through Karnal’s Mahatma Gandhi Chowk, Khattar noticed that an e-rickshaw driver had fallen on the road after being injured in an accident.The chief minister got his cavalcade stopped and got down from his SUV, officials said. Khattar enquired about the incident from the e-rickshaw driver who had sustained minor injuries.He then directed Karnal Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav to ensure that the driver received the required treatment immediately.Later in his home constituency Karnal, Khattar inaugurated a plasma bank set up on the premises of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) and presented certificates and mementos to 10 people. After the inauguration, the CM went to a plasma room and interacted with four people who donated plasma on Monday and enquired about their health.Earlier on August 7, Khattar and Union minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar had inaugurated a plasma bank at the ESIC Medical College and Hospital in Faridabad through a video conferencing.Plasma banks have also been set up at Rohtak, Gurgaon and Panchkula districts. In Karnal, Khattar also inaugurated the construction of a stretch of the National Highway-709 A. It will be built at a cost of about Rs 106 crore. He said with the construction of the road, people of Haryana and neighbouring Uttar Pradesh will be benefited. This route will be ready in next 15 months, he said, adding that it will be opened to the public by February 2022.The highway, which starts from Devi Lal Chowk to Yamuna Bridge, is approximately 14.5-km long, he said. PTI
17-08-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 4 more Covid deaths; district toll rises to 8||Four more coronavirus patients succumbed to the disease in Panchkula on Monday, taking the district's COVID toll to eight.On Sunday, the district reported 42 new Covid-19 cases today, taking the tally to 1,209.The fresh cases included eight from Kalka, six from Sector 20, five from Pinjore, four from Sector 7, two each from Abheypur, Sector 12-A, Sector 16, Sector 21 and Mansa Devi Complex, one each from Sector 10, Raipur Rani, Sector 6, Rally village, Sector 4, Nanakpur, Sector 25 and Sector 15.A 27-year-old man from the ITBP also contracted the virus. At least seven persons, who tested positive, are being traced and are yet to be added to the total count. The district now has 444 active cases. As many as 761 patients have been cured and discharged.
17-08-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Generate 50% pay from ‘own sources’, Haryana tourism field staff told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 16Without salary for three months, the field staff of Haryana Tourism has been asked to generate 50 per cent of their salaries from their “own sources” at a time when the hospitality industry is in the doldrums in the wake of the ongoing Covid pandemic.Blaming the current situation on “financial crunch due to Covid”, an order of the Chief Accounts Officer of Haryana Tourism asked the Drawing and Disbursing Officers (DDOs) that “it was expected from them to generate 50 per cent of the salary from their own sources.”If 100 per cent salary is to be paid to the employees, the field staff should be able to generate half of the salary with 50 per cent contribution from the headquarters. In the meantime, the DDOs and the counter in-charges (receptionists) will get only 25 per cent of their salaries as the headquarters is not even in a position to pay 50 per cent of the salary.Meanwhile, Suresh Nohra, chairman of the Haryana Tourism Karamchari Sangh, demanded that full salaries of the field staff should be released immediately as it was not possible for them to generate any revenue because the hospitality industry was in a shambles due to the Covid pandemic.Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh, flayed the state government’s decision asking employees to generate their own salaries. He termed it “illegal and unjust”.However, the order assured that 100 per cent salary to certain categories for May, June and July would be released soon. These included outsourced, contractual staff, gardeners, sweepers and staff covered under the budgetary support of infrastructure and horticulture departments and employees transferred from one tourist complex to another.In the wake of the lockdown and other Covid restrictions since late March, 44 properties owned and managed by Haryana Tourism are running in heavy losses. The majority of the tourist complexes are currently being used to house Covid warriors, including medical and paramedical staff.In heavy lossesIn the wake of the lockdown and other Covid restrictions since late March, 44 properties owned and managed by Haryana Tourism are running in heavy losses. The majority of the tourist complexes are currently being used to house Covid warriors, including medical and paramedical staff.
17-08-2020||Yamunanagar||With fake signatures, woman made partner in firm||A woman was made partner in a firm allegedly without telling her and by putting her fake signature on the partnership deed.After the formation of the firm and fixing of share, the other partners allegedly obtained mining contract of a quarry in Yamunanagar district.When the matter came to the notice of the woman, she got an FIR registered against four persons.On the complaint of Aasma Parveen Khan of Dehradun, a case was registered against Radhika Gupta, Radhey Shyam Wadhwa, Vivek Bansal and Manoj Kumar, all residents of Karnal.They were booked under several Sections of the IPC including 120-B (to hatch a criminal conspiracy), 419 (cheating by personation) and 420 (cheating) at Buria police station on August 15.In her police complaint, the complainant said that a firm had been set up on May 20, 2015, showing her as a 50 per cent shareholder in the firm. Radhika Gupta was made shareholder of 23.5 per cent, Radhey Shyam Wadhwa of 16.5 per cent and a construction firm of 10 per cent.She said that the firm got a mining contract of a quarry in a village of Yamunanagar district in January 2018. The other partners of the firm submitted the partnership deed having her fake signature in the office of District Mining Officer, Yamunanagar.“I never became partner of the said firm. I neither knew about the partnership deed nor did I put any signature on it,” alleged Aasma Parveen Khan in her police complaint.She alleged that they had forged her documents and put her fake signature with an intention to get financial benefits from the mining business and to cause loss of revenue to the government exchequer.After knowing about the matter, the complainant sent complaints to CM Manohar Lal Khattar; Yamunanagar DC Mukul Kumar; SP Kamaldeep Goyal; Director, Mines and Geology Department, Haryana and Mining Officer, Yamunanagar, on July 28. — TNS
17-08-2020||---||Only Rahul Gandhi has put PM Modi on mat, says Selja||Rohtak, August 16State Congress president Kumari Selja has stated that the party is playing its role as the opposition party at the Centre and only Rahul Gandhi has put Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the mat on various issues of national interest.She claimed here today that Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government, which kept a pretence of honesty, was the most corrupt regime the state ever had.ON GOVT ROLESuch scams can’t take place without government patronage. The BJP regime’s mask is coming off and people have seen through its divisive policies and corrupt practices. —Kumari Selja, tate cong chief“There have been huge scams in paddy procurement, property registration, liquor, scholarships, kilometre scheme and overloaded vehicles, to name a few. Instead of getting to the bottom of the matter, the government institutes inquiries as an eyewash and makes junior officials the scapegoats,” she said.She demanded a thorough probe into the liquor scam by a sitting High Court Judge, adding that they had sought a meeting with the Governor regarding the matter.CM needs to replyA report has been submitted on the liquor scam, but the govt is not taking action against those found guilty. We will seek a reply from the CM and not let the Assembly function if he fails to reply. —Geeta Bhukkal, Congress MLA“Such scams cannot take place without government patronage. The BJP regime’s mask is coming off and people have seen through its divisive policies and corrupt practices,” she stated.She pointed out that the Khattar regime had dumped the report of Prakash Singh panel regarding arson and violence during the Jat agitation for reservation and given prized postings to indicted officials.Questioned about infighting and factionalism in the Congress, the state party president maintained that different leaders had their own aspirations, but there was no infighting as such.“In fact, there is rampant infighting in the BJP. There is no coordination between the Chief Minister and Cabinet ministers of the BJP and the JJP,” she claimed.Responding to a query, she stated that the JJP had lost its identity and other opposition parties in the state rendered insignificant, which indicated that the Congress and the BJP were the only political forces in Haryana.
17-08-2020||---||Car rams into truck, 3 killed||Palwal, August 16Three persons were killed and one injured seriously when the car they were travelling in rammed into a stationary truck near Karman border on the National Highway-19 in Hodal subdivision on Sunday morning.According to the police, the accident took place around 6 am when the car, on way from Uttar Pradesh to Delhi, entered the district. A case was registered in this connection.The driver of the car lost control and the vehicle rammed into a truck parked on the roadside, resulting in the death of two persons on the spot, said Mahender Singh, investigating officer.They were identified as Santosh Kumar (42) and Pramod (45). A woman aged around 70 years, who was yet to be identified, succumbed to her injuries on way to hospital. The fourth occupant was hospitalised.
17-08-2020||Gurugram||British teen thrashed||A 17-year-old boy from London was thrashed by over 12 youths at the posh Sushant Lok society here. The boy, who was returning from a birthday party, was cornered, thrashed and his clothes were torn.The miscreants videographed the incident and it was when they posted it on social media that the teen’s family moved the police.An FIR was registered against unidentified persons, but the police are yet to divulge any details.The video that has gone viral hints at the victim having a tiff with another boy whose friends came and bashed him. There are reports of the involvement of the son of a politician, but police are silent on the issue.“We’ve received a complaint from the boy’s family who claim he was returning from a party in the society when he was attacked. We are questioning the society’s security men and other witnesses,” said a senior investigator. — TNS
17-08-2020||Hisar||Bank loot accused nabbed||The police have arrested the main accused in a bank robbery case of Rewari Khera village in Bhiwani district. On August 4, a gang of robbers looted Rs 4.78-lakh cash from a branch of Canara Bank in Rewari Khera village. The main accused, Dinesh, alias Fauji, confessed to his involvement in 10 criminal cases, including a cop’s murder and loot at four petrol pumps.  A police spokesperson said Dinesh was arrested on August 14 from a Bhiwani village and taken on two-day police remand. The police have recovered Rs 50,000. The court sent him to police custody for two more days. — TNS
17-08-2020||Ravinder Saini||Rewari administration ‘bans’ stray cattle movement||Tribune News ServiceRewari, August 16A few days after an owner of a photo studio died in a road accident caused by a stray bull, the district administration has banned the movement of stray cattle and ordered the civic bodies in Rewari, Dharuhera and Bawal towns to catch stray animals from densely populated areas.District Magistrate Yashendra Singh has issued the order while invoking his power conferred to him under Section 144 of the CrPC. He has also directed officials to send him a daily report about the number of stray cattle caught.‘Essential to catch them’It has been noticed that stray cattle are roaming on roads in densely populated areas, especially in municipal areas of Rewari district, causing nuisance and accidents. Therefore, it has become essential to stop such incidents by prohibiting the movement of stray cattle and catching them. —District Magistrate Yashendra Singh’s orderOn August 13, photographer Sanjay of Meharwada Colony here was on his way to his photo studio on a scooter when a stray bull hit him. He was taken to hospital, but doctors declared him brought dead. The incident caused resentment among residents, who started demanding action against the authorities for letting the stray cattle roam on roads.The District Magistrate has directed the executive officers and secretaries of the civic bodies of the three towns to chalk out a plan of catching the stray cattle.
17-08-2020||Rohtak||CBI arrests official in GST ‘graft’ case||A CBI team raided two places under the Urban Estate Police Station on Friday night in a case registered against four employees of the Central GST wing in Rohtak on the charges of demanding bribe from a firm owner in Sonepat.The raid continued till Saturday afternoon and the team reportedly arrested one of the accused and recovered a bag containing cash from his house, said the sources.In his complaint to the CBI, Manoj Kalra, MD of Research Medicine Private Limited, said four employees of the Central GST raided his factory on August 6. They said he had evaded GST and would get a case registered against his company. Later, they demanded Rs 12 lakh as bribe, of which Rs 3 lakh was paid, he said.Acting on the complaint, the CBI lodged a case under Sections 120B IPC and 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act against Gurvinder Singh Sohal, Kuldeep Hooda, Superintendent in CGST, and two Inspectors Rohit Malik and Pradeep. Later, the CBI laid a trap to nab them and conducted raids at two places. — TNS
17-08-2020||---||Haryana CM promises  24-hr power supply for 200 more villages||Panchkula, August 16Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday unfurled the national flag on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day at Parade Ground in Sector 5 here.“This is a day to remember our martyrs who sacrificed their lives to make India independent,” Khattar said at the outset of his speech.At the event, Khattar also announced a string of incentives for the people of the state. He said his government would ensure 24-hour power supply to an additional 200 villages under the ‘Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon’ scheme, raising the total number of such villages to 4,838.Cops faintOther announcements by the Chief Minister included ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ to 20 lakh families by the end of this month, 3,000 play-way schools for children of which 1,000 schools are to be opened this year and the opening of 82 new Sanskriti Model Schools in the state.Highlighting steps taken by his government to empower women, the Chief Minister said his government’s recent decision to ensure 50 per cent participation of women in panchayats is a major step towards women’s empowerment.“Today is the sixth occasion when I am hoisting the national flag on Independence Day. In the past five-and-a-half years, we have utilised every moment to serve the people and this has been the focal point of the functioning of my government,” he said.He said both central and state governments have taken several steps for the empowerment of farmers.“The government enabled the farmers to sell their produce in mandis or markets of their choice and also to do contract farming,” the Chief Minister said.Khattar also praised other schemes by the state government like ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ in his speech.“The state government has so far provided 75,000 jobs to the youth on merit basis. Today, our youth no longer search for recommendations for getting jobs. Instead, they work hard in preparing for competitive examinations,” Khattar said.He also mentioned national issues in his address. “The foundation stone laying of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ended a 500-year-long wait and struggle,” he added.He also spoke about Article 35-A and Article 370. “Just a year before this, on August 5, the Prime Minister had taken a concrete step towards ‘Akhand Bharat’,” he said.The Chief Minister honoured Covid warriors at the event — from doctors to sanitation workers to the police — for performing their duties with enthusiasm in this hour of crisis.
17-08-2020||---||Farmers protest new ordinances||Kurukshetra, August 16Farmers under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) held demonstrations on Independence Day by sporting black flags and taking out bike rallies in Kurukshetra and Ambala in protest against the three new agricultural ordinances introduced by the Centre.They have decided to launch a statewide agitation on September 10.The farmers reached the district headquarters and burnt the copies of the ordinances. They submitted memorandums for Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU (Charuni) chief, said: “The BJP government at the Centre has been taking anti-farmer decisions. The new ordinances will disturb the mandi system. Farmers will be forced to sell their produce to private players at cheaper rates. The Centre should bring in a law covering all crops.”He also demanded a rollback of taxes imposed on fuel and the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal.“The BKU has the support of other farmers’ unions and organisations. A meeting will be held in Sirsa district on Monday to chalk out a strategy for the statewide agitation,” Charuni added.Meanwhile, the Haryana Democratic Front extended support to the BKU. Its leader Nirmal Singh said the ordinances would only benefit corporates.
17-08-2020||---||10 more die, Covid  toll reaches 538 in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 16The Covid death count continues to rise in Haryana with 10 more persons succumbing to the virus on Sunday, taking the toll to 538. Besides, 743 new cases were reported. With this, the tally stands at 47,153.Faridabad, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar reported two deaths each, while Hisar, Rohtak, Panipat and Karnal reported one death each.Faridabad reported a maximum of 117 cases on Sunday, followed by Gurugram (78), Kurukshetra (72), Panipat (70), Ambala (68), Rohtak (65) and Panchkula (42).With two more deaths in the past 24 hours, the death tally due to Covid in Faridabad has risen to 152. The total number of positive cases surged to 11,030.The good news is that the number of recovered patients has also increased to 10,034, with 119 patients discharged on Sunday.In Faridabad, a 69-year-old woman from Sanjay Colony and an 84-year-old man from Charmswood village died. They were suffering from comorbidities. A 71-year-old woman died of Covid in Karnal on Saturday night.
17-08-2020||Rohtak||Meritorious students get laptops||Social outfit donates masksMahendragarh: Ready to Help, a social outfit, donated 750 masks to the district administration. Deputy Commissioner RK Singh said Covid could be defeated only by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing with other precautions.Blood donation camp heldKarnal: The Association of Migration and Education Consultants, Karnal, organised a blood donation camp at the Civil Hospital to pay tributes to freedom fighters on the occasion of Independence Day. Twenty persons donated blood at the special camp for thalassemia patients.81 units of blood donatedKarnal: A total of 81 donors donated blood and paid tributes to freedom fighters at a camp organised by the National Integrated Forum of Artists and Activists. The camp for patients of thalassemia was inaugurated by Amit Sharma, Chief Judicial Magistrate and secretary of the District Legal Services Authority.
17-08-2020||Within a couple of months of the inauguration of the Jind-Narwana National Highway 71||NH-71 full of potholes||Waterlogging A perennial issueMild showers and the apathy of the district administration surfaces. Waterlogging in front of the main post office at Sector 8 in Panchkula has been a perennial problem, inviting the ire of residents. The other problem is the uncovered manhole. It is a case of trying to fit a round peg in a square (man)hole, literally. Does the administration care? It doesn’t seem so. —Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaStray cattle on the riseThe Panchkula administration has been sleeping on the issue of stray cattle in Sector 21 of Panchkula. A herd of cows on roads is a common site, posing risk to the lives of commuters. Sometimes, residents’ feet get dirty with cow dung while walking on roads. It seems the district administration is in no mood to find a solution to the long-pending problem. —Atul, Panchkula.Misspelt words common in KaithalIt pains me to see misspelt English words written in Haryana Roadways buses and on hoardings. The other day I was travelling in a roadways bus and I noticed ‘Modal 2012’ and ‘Sheets 52’ written near the driver’s seat. It should have been ‘Model 2012’ and ‘Seats 52’. At some places, I see ‘bypass’ being misspelt as ‘byepass’. The spellings of ‘confectionery’ and ‘restaurant’ are often misspelt on hoardings in Kaithal. This leaves a negative impact on the language of school-going children, who learn by observing things. It is the duty of the parents to make their children learn the correct spellings. —Kapil Sharma, KaithalWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
17-08-2020||Karnal||Assistant professor of Karnal's KVA DAV College honoured||Admissions on at Rohtak varsityRohtak: Despite the Covid pandemic, the admission at Pandit Lakhmi Chand State University of Performing and Visual Arts (PLC SUPVA) is expected to be better than previous year. Over 520 applications have been received till date for 14 undergraduate and four postgraduate programmes being offered at the university. Earlier, the last date for applying for UG and PG programmes was extended to August 20 and August 31, respectively.Webinar on education policyKurukshetra: "The New Education Policy (NEP) 2020 is necessary but not sufficient for transforming the nation into a global knowledge economy. To make it sufficient, we must have a time frame for the implementation of comprehensive, holistic and learner centred NEP with flexible system by adopting well defined public private partnership (PPP) model," said MM Goel, retired professor from Kurukshetra University. He was addressing a national webinar organised by Jain Deemed University Bengaluru on the topic 'Perceptions on Higher Education in New Education Policy 2020'.Free edu for martyrs’ childrenMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) will provide free education to children of martyrs so that they can pursue higher education without any financial hurdle. This was announced by Vice Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad at the Independence Day function held in the university.
