17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Committee to be formed to draft law against ‘love jihad’: Haryana minister Vij||A committee will be setup to draft a “strict” law against “love jihad”, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said on Tuesday after a meeting with senior officials on the issue.He also said Haryana will study the laws made by other states in this regard.“A strict law will be enacted against ‘love jihad’ in the state. A committee will be constituted to draft this law,” said Vij, who chaired the meeting with senior officials of the home department, according to an official statement issued here.The home minister, according to the statement, said “with the enactment of this law, strict action will be taken against any person who is found indulging in religious conversion by pressuring, tempting someone or is involved in any kind of conspiracy or tries to do so in the name of love”.Vij said officials of the home department, the advocate general, among others, will be part of this committee.Additional Chief Secretary (Home Department) Rajeev Arora, Director General of Police Manoj Yadava, Additional Director General of Police, CID, Alok Mittal, were among the officers present in the meeting.Earlier this month, Vij had told the Haryana assembly that the state government is considering a law against “love jihad” and has sought information from Himachal Pradesh, which had passed a bill on the issue.The Himachal Pradesh assembly had last year passed a bill against conversion by force, inducement or through marriages solemnised for the “sole purpose” of adopting a new religion.“We are mulling bringing a law against ‘love jihad’ in Haryana,” Vij had said while replying to a calling attention notice drawing attention towards the Ballabhgarh Nikita Tomar murder case.“Anyone can marry anyone, anyone can fall in love with anyone. But if there is a conspiracy of changing religion by trapping someone in love, then it is very important to stop that conspiracy. We will take whatever steps required for it,” he had said.If anyone is instigated for changing religion, it will not be tolerated, Vij had said, claiming that many cases of “love jihad” are surfacing. — PTI
17-11-2020||New Delhi||AAP demands cases to be lodged against Punjab, Haryana CMs for stubble-burning||The AAP wants to appeal to the Air Quality Commission as well as the Supreme Court to take suo motu cognisance and lodge cases of criminal negligence against the chief ministers of Haryana and Punjab for pollution plaguing Delhi due to stubble-burning, party spokesperson Atishi said on Tuesday.Addressing a press conference, she said the people of the national capital are unable to breathe in clean air due to stubble-burning in Punjab and Haryana.The pollution caused by stubble-burning has further weakened the lungs of people, which were already affected due to COVID-19, the Kalkaji MLA said.“We want to appeal to the Air Quality Commission as well as the Supreme Court to take suo motu cognisance of the matter and file cases against the chief ministers of Haryana and Punjab. We demand that cases of criminal negligence must be filed against them. It is their criminal negligence because of which Delhi-NCR and the entire north India are suffering from a public health emergency,” the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said. PTI
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 2,450 new cases, 25 more fatalities reported in Haryana||Haryana on Tuesday reported 2,450 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the tally in the state to 2,04,477, while 25 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,063, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Of the 25 fatalities, six were from Rohtak, five from Hisar, four from Faridabad, three each from Gurgaon and Panipat and one each from Ambala, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Fatehabad.Among the districts which reported a huge spike in cases include Faridabad (756), Gurgaon (588) and Hisar (268).At present, there are 19,153 active cases in the state, while the recovery rate is 89.62 per cent. PTI
17-11-2020||---||Covaxin trials: Only adult volunteers to be involved in Phase III||Sunit DhawanTribune News ServiceRohtak, November 17While volunteers in the age-group of 12-65 years were involved in the second phase of the clinical human trials of indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, only adult volunteers (above the age of 18 years) will be involved in the third phase of the trials.Some 25,800 volunteers will be given measured doses of Covaxin in the third phase at 20 centres across the country, of which nearly 1,100 are likely to be administered the vaccine at Rohtak PGIMS.Talking to The Tribune here on Tuesday, Dr Ramesh Verma, a co-investigator of the project, said fresh doses of Covaxin are likely to arrive at the PGIMS within a couple of days, after which Phase III of the human trials of the vaccine will begin.It may be pertinent to mention here that the healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses and other paramedical staffers, will also be included as volunteers in the third phase of the trials.As per the project investigators, the clinical trials have been largely successful so far, though a few volunteers had mild reactions after the administration of the vaccine in the first two phases.In Phase I, two doses of Covaxin were given to healthy volunteers in the age-group of 18 to 55 years, while in Phase II, two doses of the vaccine were given to a different set of volunteers in the age-group of 12 to 65 years.While only healthy volunteers were involved in Phase 1, the volunteers who have controlled diabetes, hypertension or asthma etc were involved in Phase 2 of the trials.Patients who are suffering from chronic diseases but whose blood sugar, liver and kidney function test reports are normal will be involved in the third phase of the trials.
17-11-2020||---||HCS officer shifted||Chandigarh, November 16  The Haryana Government has issued transfer and posting orders of one  Haryana Civil Service (HCS) officer. Vatsal Vashist, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Palwal, and Secretary, RTA, Palwal, has been posted as Chief Protocol Officer, Gurugram, relieving Surender Singh-I of the said charge.
17-11-2020||---||Haryana CM to officials: Take steps to develop ancient sites||Chandigarh, November 16Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday directed the officers concerned to take strategic initiatives to bring ancient heritage sites like Kurukshetra, known for the Mahabharata War; Lohgarh, the first capital of the Sikh empire, and the civilizations that existed even before the Harappan and Mohenjodaro times on the world map.These directions were given by the CM on the occasion of release of a special cover made by the Department of Archaeology and Museums in association with the Indian Postal Department on Rakhigarhi, the world-famous archaeological site of the Indus Valley Civilisation.Minister of State for Archaeology and Museums (Independent Charge) Anoop Dhanak was also present on the occasion.The Chief Minister while wishing the people on Dhanteras and Diwali said that ancient wisdom, culture and history have their own importance. He said that a country or state could be on the path of progress only if its youth were aware of its history and culture.He said that Haryana had more than 100 sites with historical and religious links and the state should work towards preserving such sites to promote ancient culture for future generations. Besides this, tourism would also be encouraged at these sites.A museum along with a martial arts school is being established at Lohgarh in Yamunanagar.Dhanak expressed gratitude to the CM for issuing the special cover. He said that the special cover would further enhance the importance of the archaeological site of Rakhigarhi.Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said that Rakhigarhi had special importance as it was older than Harappa and Mohenjodaro. He said that ancient and invaluable artefacts were found during excavation of the site. Those suggest that the state of Haryana must have been highly developed at that time.He added that a museum and lecture centre is being set up at Rakhigarhi. He expressed gratitude to the Chief Minister on whose initiative the Saraswati Heritage Board has been set up.
17-11-2020||Ambala||Rain brings cheer to wheat farmers||Rainfall on Sunday night improved the air quality in Ambala and Kurukshetra districts, providing the much-needed respite to local residents from pollution post-Diwali.Ambala recorded an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 69 at 6 pm on Monday, while it was 272 (“poor”) at the same time the day before. In Kurukshetra, the AQI was recorded at 89 at 6 pm on Monday, while it was around 370 (“very poor”) at 6 pm on Sunday.Ambala Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The particulate matter has dipped, thanks to rain. This will certainly give relief from burning sensation in eyes. One needs to be cautious as well. The sudden drop in temperature will increase the threat of viral infections and may also increase the number of Covid cases. The Health Department has been appealing to the public to wear masks and maintain social distancing.”Rain has brought cheers for wheat farmers as well. The crop is sown over 86,000 hectares of land in the district every year. Deputy Director (Agriculture) Girish Nagpal said, “Rain is conducive for wheat and other rabi crops. Nearly 80 per cent of sowing has been completed in the district. Farmers, who had sown wheat around October 25, need not irrigate their fields intensively. It will reduce pressure on groundwater.”— TNS
17-11-2020||---||15 Rohtak villages ban liquor sale||Rohtak, November 16The sale of liqour has been banned in 15 villages of the district in the current financial year following a resolution passed by their gram panchayats in this respect. As per new amendments in the Haryana Panchayati Raj Act 1994, the gram panchayats can send a proposal to the state government for a ban on sale of liquor in its villages concerned.“An FIR will be lodged with the police against those found indulged in selling liquor in these villages. There is also a provision of imprisonment of six month for selling liquor illegally,” said Deputy Commissioner Manoj Kumar, adding that officers concerned had been directed to ensure regular checking in these villages.He said 58 licenses for liquor sale in retail had been allotted in the district for the current financial year. The government would earn a total Rs 130.82 crore from it, he added.
17-11-2020||ibune News Service---||Bajra in Mahendragarh, Kanina not procured, farmers protest||Mahendragarh, November 16  Farmers of various villages staged a dharna outside the grain market in Mahendragarh city and raised slogans in Kanina town to protest non-procurement of bajra on Monday.  In Mahendragarh, the protesters also shut the main entrance of the grain market and disrupted the vehicular traffic for about an hour by parking their vehicles on the road leading to the market. They lifted the dharna following an assurance by the authorities that their bajra would be procured soon. “We came to the mandi in the morning but the officials of the procurement agency refused to buy bajra stating that the procurement was to be done by November 15,” one of the protesters said.  In Kanina, farmers lost their temper when they were apprised of no further procurement of bajra. They expressed their anger by raising slogans against the state government and the district administration. Puneet Panghal, District Manager, HAFED, said since the procurement schedule ended on November 15, hence bajra was not procured on Monday. Farmers were made aware about it but they sat on the dharna in a fit of anger. A notification regarding extension of the procurement date had come in the evening. Hence, a direction regarding the same was awaited, he added.  “Around 1.5 lakh MT bajra has already been procured in the district this season, which is much higher than the previous season,” he added.
17-11-2020||Gurugram||Woman scribe chased by rowdies in Gurugram||Even after 24 hours, the Gurugram police are yet to register an FIR in an alleged chase of a woman scribe by a group of rowdies on Diwali night.The police that have taken the CCTV footage of the area into custody are waiting to speak to the cab driver before filing the FIR.The scribe of an English daily had taken to Twitter to highlight her ordeal while returning from a friend’s home. She, in her complaint, alleged that her desperate calls to the police at 100 went unanswered and there were no PCRs the entire distance.“We are investigating the allegations of the police control room being unresponsive as usually, it is not possible. We did not receive any complaint from the scribe immediately after the incident, but reacted proactively on seeing her tweet,” said Police Commissioner KK Rao.The scribe filed the complaint through e-mail.ACP, Sadar, Aman Yadav said they are trying to identify the SUV and have also asked to cab driver to join the investigation. —OC
17-11-2020||---||Ex-minister Nirmal Singh ‘shoots at’ cows, booked||Ambala, November 16A case under the cow slaughter law has been filed against former Haryana minister and Congress leader Nirmal Singh in Saharanpur district, the police have said.He is accused of shooting at three cows at a farmhouse. The complaint was filed against him at Behat Kotwali police station. The incident took place three days ago.The case was registered in Saharanpur district in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday night, but police officials did not say if the case would be transferred to Haryana.According to the complaint lodged by Hindu activists, including the owner Maandeen, Singh owns a farmhouse located on the Haryana-UP border.It has been alleged in the complaint that on the day of the incident, “three cows accidentally strayed into Singh’s farmhouse to drink water. Singh was present at the time”.The victim claims Singh had shot bullets at the cows, injuring one of them. Two of them are still missing.After revolting against the Congress, Nirmal Singh and his daughter Chitra Sarwara had contested as Independent candidates from Ambala City and Ambala Cantonment constituency, respectively, in the last Assembly elections and secured second positions.Chitra said, “It is sad that a case of shooting at cattle has been registered against my father, who is an animal lover. He is a son of a farmer. We have horses and more than 50 cows at our stud farm in the Yamunanagar area. We are among the complainants of the area where cattle are smuggled for slaughter.”
17-11-2020||---||Covid cases cross two lakh mark in Haryana||Chandigarh, November 16The cumulative number of Covid cases crossed the 2-lakh mark in Haryana with the addition of 2,153 fresh cases today. With this, the state is now much ahead of its neighbouring states Punjab (with 1.42 lakh cases) and Himachal Pradesh (with 29,813 patients).Governor tests positiveThere were 13,924 cases in November 2-8 week, 10,576 in October 26-November 1 and 8,271 in October 19-25.In cases per million population, Haryana (7,807) is ahead of national average (7,281). Even on the parameter of active cases per million population, the state (771) is ahead of the national figure (396).In deaths due to Covid, Punjab has so far recorded 4,480 while Haryana has witnessed 2,038 and HP 442.The mortality rate in Haryana at 1 per cent is lower than the national average of 1.5 per cent.Among the districts, in positive cases per lakh population, Gurugram leads with the figure of 2,602, followed by 1,781 in Faridabad, 1,405 in Panchkula and 1,005 in Rewari.Yamunanagar leads in mortality rate (2.1%), followed by Fatehabad (2%), Nuh (1.9%) and Jind (1.9%).
17-11-2020||Gurugram||In Gurugram, 75% ICU beds reserved||Having recorded 6,000 new Covid patients in the past 10 days, Gurugram has gone ahead and reserved 75 per cent of its ICU and 50 per cent of non-ICU beds for Covid patients in all private and government hospitals.The order was issued by DC Amit Khatri. He has ordered health authorities to be prepared to provide the best of help to those infected and ensure the city has optimum availability of hospital beds.“To tackle the surge in numbers and ensure efficient management of positive patients, we have mandated reservation of ICU/ventilator beds and normal beds. The hospitals and entire health machinery are to see that there is no dearth of logistics,” said Khatri.“About 600 cases have been reported daily for the past 10 days. As of now, the health infrastructure is robust,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav. — TNS
17-11-2020||---||Colleges reopen, only 10% attendance||Rohtak/Hisar, November 16Less than 10 per cent of undergraduate students turned up on the first day of the new academic session in Rohtak, Jhajjar and Hisar districts on Monday as colleges reopened after a long hiatus of seven months.Given the fewer number of students, a majority of the colleges did not conduct classes. The faculty remained busy in preparing the timetable and answering queries of students.Lack of information about the reopening of colleges and the festival of Bhai Dooj on Monday are believed to be the reasons behind the poor attendance.The state government had decided to reopen universities and colleges from November 16 on the condition that the institutions would follow standard operating procedures (SOPs) in view of the Covid pandemic.An assistant professor at Pt Neki Ram Sharma College, Rohtak, said: “Classes were not conducted on Monday as teachers were busy in exam duties. Four centres for the re-appear examination have been established in our college. Hence, enough rooms were not available for conducting the classes.”Students, who went to colleges in the hope of attending classes, returned home soon. Only 60 students of the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, turned up.Harish, a student of BA (first year), said he went to the college to clarify doubts, but it was not to be.Another student Vaishnavi said the online classes did not suffice. “Students need to meet teachers to clarify doubts. My friends and I are delighted to return to the college after about seven months. Students have been told about the schedule. It is their duty to comply with the norms of physical distancing,” she said.Deepa, principal, Government PG Nehru College, Jhajjar, said: “More than 50 per cent of my college staff are busy in exam duties. It will take a couple of days to start the classes. Students, who came to the college on Monday, were issued identity cards and apprised of the timetable.”Some colleges have started two batches so that no student misses out on the lessons. “Classes of all faculties will be held in two batches — morning and evening. Students will be informed about the timetable,” said Sudhir Kumar, principal, Government College, Bhiwani.Meanwhile, the Department of Higher Education has directed universities and colleges to update the attendance of students on its portal by 3 pm every day. A new link “Student Attendance” has been created on the portal for the purpose.
17-11-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Former minister OP Jain dies at 72||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16Former minister OP Jain passed away on Sunday night at a private hospital in New Delhi following lung infection due to Covid. He was 72.He was down with liver infection for the past one week. He was shifted to Delhi two days ago, where he tested positive for Covid.A grassroot leader who gradually climbed up the political ladder, Jain contested as an Independent and won twice to become a minister. He was the Education Minister in the Bansi Lal government (1996) and the Transport Minister in the Bhupinder Singh Hooda government (2009).During his term as minister in the Hooda government, Jain was forced to resign in 2011 after his name surfaced in an abetment to suicide case of a sarpanch of Karnal’s Kambopura village.It was alleged that Jain and then Chief Parliamentary Secretary had allegedly promised jobs to the sarpanch’s son and relatives in lieu of money. They, however, failed to keep their commitment and refused to return the money. The CBI is still investigating the case.Always accessible, Jain maintained his Independent tag in five of the six Assembly elections he contested. However, in the 2019 Assembly elections, he had joined the Congress and was given the ticket. Though he was defeated, he remained politically active till the very end.Jain began his political career as a sarpanch of Panipat’s Jatal village and remained at the position for two terms. Later, he rose to become the chairman of the market committee, Panipat. At one time, he was the chairman of HARCO Bank. Later, he contested the Assembly elections and tasted success twice.His campaigning is best remembered for reaching out to people residing in colonies while he contested from the Panipat City and Panipat Rural segments. The colonies were considered his stronghold.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar expressed grief over Jain’s demise. “Jain took keen interest in politics and social work. He held a special place in the Aggarwal community,” he said.Was accused in abetment to suicide case
17-11-2020||Bhiwani||PO arrested||A murder accused, who was a proclaimed offender, was arrested from Bhiwani on Monday. The accused, Deepak of Charkhi Dadri, was carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 on his head. He was wanted in a murder case registered in February last year. — TNS
17-11-2020||---||2,000 retail outlets to be opened for youth||Chandigarh, November 16 To inspire youth to become entrepreneurs, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will launch the Retail Expansion Project on February 11, 2021, on the occasion of birth anniversary of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya. Under this project, 2,000 retail outlets will be opened across the state.  In all, 1,500 retail outlets will be opened in rural areas and 500 in urban areas. The decision was taken during a meeting held under the chairmanship of the Chief Minister with the Haryana Agro Industries Corporation Limited regarding setting up of the retail outlets.
17-11-2020||Jind||6 criminals held in Jind||The police have arrested six most-wanted criminals carrying a collective reward of Rs 1 lakh from Jind district.A police spokesperson said the police had also recovered two pistols, three cartridges and a car from them.The arrested accused were identified as Sunil alias Sheela of Kharakrakji, Naveen alias Bablu of Pai (Kaithal), Sanjit alias Sachin from Sonipat, Shivam of Shamlo Kalan (Jind), Sombir of Sindhvi Khera and Sahil, a resident of Nizampur (Sonipat).The spokesperson said the Haryana police had declared a reward of Rs 25,000 each on them. — TNS
17-11-2020||Gurugram||Car hits 2 friends in Gurugram, 1 dead||An overspeeding car hit two friends near Ramgarh Chowk in Sector 66 late on Sunday evening. One of them died while undergoing treatment and other is critical.The deceased has been identified as Manjit (21), a native of Gopalganj in Bihar, and the injured as Sunil of the same place. They were plumbers.As per the police, the accident took place around 7.30 pm on Sunday near Ramgarh Chowk when Sunil and Manjit were on foot and a speeding i20 car hit them from back. The car overturned and both the friends were critically injured. In the meantime, the car driver fled the spot.Soon people from nearby areas gathered at the spot and rushed the injured to a private hospital, where Manjit died during the treatment while Sunil is still critical.Following the complaint of Rajan Kumar, cousin of Manjit, an FIR has been registered against the unidentified car driver under Sections 279 and 304A IPC at the Sector 65 police station. The police have taken the i20 car into custody.“We have handed over the body to the kin after the post-mortem and are trying to identify and nab the car driver,” said SI Mangal Singh. — OC
17-11-2020||Chandigarh||Make contingency plan for November 26 strike, depts told||The Chief Secretary’s office has written to the heads of all departments, divisional commissioners, deputy commissioners and managing directors of boards and corporations for preparing a contingency plan in viewof the November 26 strike call by the Haryana Karamchari Mahasangh, an association of the state government employees.  The letter from the CS office states: “The government has examined the issues on which the call has been given. These issues at the moment do not warrant such a course of action on their part. Therefore, the government does not consider the call legitimate.” All offices have been directed to prepare a contingency plan so that the office functioning and essential services to the public may not suffer. The Chief Secretary’s office has clarified that “if anyone indulges in disruption of work, such persons should be dealt with firmly”.  It has also directed for sending the report regarding those participating in the strike and present on duty at 12 noon and 4 pm on November 26. The employees’ unions have been going on strike on November 26 across the nation and the state government employees are supporting the call too. — TNS
17-11-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Maiden survey of health centres exposes gaps in service delivery||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16The first survey on Health and Wellness Centres (HWCs) in Haryana has pointed out gaps in the service delivery. While at some places, in the absence of Medical Officers (MOs), the pharmacists, staff nurses or Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs) were found prescribing medicines, there were centres where drug procurement and dispensing had become difficult in absence of pharmacists.Prof Aswini Kumar Nanda and Associate Professor Rajesh Kumar Aggarwal of CRRID carried out the survey on the behalf of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The study found that in spite of the rising demand for diagnostic tests at the HWCs, most of them (Primary Health Centres (PHCs)/Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs)) were withoutregular technicians. The arrangement of part-time technicians did not fully meet the day-to-day demand.At some places, with onlyone ANM, Mid-level Health Providers expressed the need for a helper to facilitate the services.“We have recently recruited a number of doctors so vacancies have been filled and we have sent the requisition for pharmacists and lab technicians. These posts will also be filled soon,” said Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General Health Services (DGHS).In Kaithal and Fatehabad, no Sub-Health Centre (SHC) was upgraded to HWC. Only PHCs and UPHCs were converted. So, there was no Mid-Level Health Providers in these districts.The formation of Mahila Arogya Samiti for health awareness was not common in slums or slum-like settlements under the jurisdiction of most HWCs.The non-availability of OPD slips meant to prescribe medicines was reported at Jaidhar SHC in Yamunanagar. There was no maintenance of building at Hafizpur SHC.The quality of repair and upgrade work at Kaptan Majra HWC, Yamunanagar, seemed unsatisfactory to both staff and visiting patients.The shortfall in receipt of iron-folic acid (IFA) tablets and paracetamol syrup was reported from Fatehabad HWCs. The children were often prescribed tablets instead of paracetamol syrup. All eight HWCs in Kaithal district were found without a MO.Formed in 2019
17-11-2020||Deepender Deswal||14 doctors absent from duty for over a month in Hisar: RTI report||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 16Amid the pandemic, when health services are crucial for people, a number of doctors are abstaining from their services.The issue came into light when an RTI activist sought details of a doctor — Dr Ritu Khurana —posted as a medical officer at Maharaja Agrasen Civil Hospital, Hisar.On November 2, the Directorate of Health Services office had asked the civil surgeon office to submit details of the doctors who were absent from duty for over a month. The report revealed that there were 14 such doctors.Director General of Health Services Dr SB Kamboj said they were compiling the details from across the state and would serve a notice to these doctors.Among these doctors, Dr Ritu Khurana, who had joined in 2008, had gone to Rohtak PGIMS for a diploma course and has been absent since December 2015. Dr Udaydeep has been absent since 2017 and Dr Rohit Sagu since 2014.Other doctors mentioned in the list included Dr Subhash Chand Meel posted at Adampur, Dr Neeraj Gautam posted at PHC Gawar, Dr Amita Singhal posted at CHC Arya Nagar, Dr Kanika Mehta and Dr Himansu Sagar posted at CHC Mangali, Dr Anjali Agrawal and Dr Sandeep posted at Hansi, Dr Anish Kumar Bhoria posted at CHC Barwala and Dr Priyanka Verma, Dr Sachin Khangwal and Dr Shekhar posted at CHC Sorkhi.According to sources, some of these doctors had got admission in diploma/PG courses through government service quota and had started private practice instead of delivering their services in government hospitals.
17-11-2020||New Delhi||AAP to fight local body polls||After putting in place its organisational structure in Haryana, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will now make a foray into the state’s panchayat and urban local body elections.  The party had contested three Lok Sabha seats in the state in 2019 in alliance with the JJP, but had come a cropper.  “Aam Aadmi Party will contest the local elections,” AAP Rajya Sabha MP and in charge of Haryana Sushil Gupta said here on Sunday. “The local elections will help the party consolidate its base at the grassroots level. That will help it prepare for the next Assembly and Lok Sabha elections.”— TNS
17-11-2020||Hisar||Om Prakash Chautala calls govt a ‘gang of looters’||In a hard-hitting attack on the BJP-JJP government, INLD supremo and former CM Om Prakash Chautala termed the incumbent regime as a ‘gang of looters’, which was robbing the hard-earned money of the state people.Presiding over a meeting of the office-bearers in Sirsa on Monday, Chautala said the voters of the state had been waiting for an opportunity to throw out the combine government and the Baroda bypoll result had given a clear indication to this effect.“The bypoll outcome has indicated that the people are fed up with the government. The BJP and the Congress have tried to vitiate the social atmosphere by raking up caste issues during the electioneering. Though the Congress succeeded in the poll, the INLD has been successful in drawing the attention of the people,” he added.Chautala said the farmers had clearly rejected the three farm Acts introduced by the NDA government. “The INLD is going to launch a comprehensive agitation on the issue of farm Acts and will force the government to revoke them.”Meanwhile, Ellanabad MLA and INLD general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala said party workers don’t need to be disheartened over the Baroda bypoll result, which was influenced by the caste politics of the Congress and the BJP. The state has also misused the government machinery in the bypoll but still suffered the defeat,” he said.Abhay alleged that the farmers were not getting the MSP for their produce in mandis and demanded the CM’s resignation as he had failed to protect their interests. — TNS
17-11-2020||Nitish Sharma||16 months on, elevated rail track yet to come up||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, November 16As many as 16 months have passed since the project of an elevated railway track was cleared by the Centre in Thanesar of Kurukshetra, but the project is yet to come up on the ground.Earlier, the government had planned to complete the tender-related process in August so that the work could be started in September, but following an objection — related to the project’s design — raised by the Railways, the project got delayed. A 6-km-long elevated railway track in the Kurukshetra-Narwana section of Delhi division in Thanesar town of Kurukshetra was approved in July last year. Its foundation stone was laid in August and the tender of Rs 212.73 crore was floated by the Haryana Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation, a joint venture of the Union Ministry of Railways and the state government, in July this year. While the Railways’ contribution is Rs 100 crore, the state government will spend the remaining amount. The track will eliminate five railway crossings at Main Bazaar, Jhansa Road, near Birla Mandir, near LNJP Hospital and near the third gate of Kurukshetra University in the town.Earlier, two rail overbridges (ROB) and underpass were to be constructed near the old bus stand and the third gate of Kurukshetra University but even after the construction of these ROBs and underpass, commuters continued to wait at three railway crossings. Considering these facts, a demand for an elevated railway track was raised before CM Manohar Lal Khattar. Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha said, “The Railways had raised some design-related objection which has been cleared now. I am in constant touch with the authorities and the tender will be allotted in a few days. After the tender is allotted, the firm will be given 30 months to complete the project.”
17-11-2020||Ambala||2 held for bursting crackers||The police arrested Mohit of Ambala City and Naveen Kumar of Naraingarh and later released them on bail for bursting crackers on Diwali in violation of the prohibitory order imposed by the District Magistrate, said officials here on Monday. TNSLiquor smuggler nabbedThe district police have arrested Rajpal of Patiala in a case of liquor smuggling and claimed to have recovered 11 bottles of illicit liquor from his possession. He was later released on bail. TNSMan held for cheatingThe police have arrested Vinod Kumar of Shahzadpur near here in a case of cheating. As per the police, Kulwant Singh of Shahzadpur had reported that Vinod along with one of his accomplices had prepared fake documents of his motorcycle’s insurance. He has been sent to three-day police custody. TNSFive arrested for assaultThe police arrested and later released on bail Ram Charan, Manish Kumar, Harish, Satish and a woman of Naraingarh near here for assault and criminal intimidation. As per the police, Pradeep Kumar of Naraingarh had reported that the accused had assaulted and threatened him and his wife of dire consequences. TNS5 held for creating ruckusThe police have arrested Devinder Singh, Ankit, Himanshu, Astik and Prince of Ambala City for creating ruckus after consuming liquor in the Baldev Nagar near here. The accused were later released on bail. TNS
17-11-2020||The municipal authorities of Shahabad Markanda claim ‘Swachh Shahabad’ by running garbage vans in the town to collect garbage. But the reality is not so. The lane which leads to the common chowk of Shivmandir and Hanuman Mandir remains dirty. The garbage van is running on the outer road which seems to be just a mere formality. The authorities need to make effort to keep Shahabad clean. Dr Ravinder Kwatra||‘Swachh Shahabad’ a far-fetched cry||Use canal drains for drainageFarmers were given water on rent to irrigate their agricultural land with canal water, for which drains were made from canals to farmers' fields and these drains were owned by the Irrigation Department. But for the past several years, in many cities and towns, the farmers are not getting canal water and now all these canal drains have been converted into empty spaces on which the land mafia has become illegitimate occupiers. Due to the negligence or connivance of the government officials, the land mafia has either cheated the innocent people by selling most of such places or have utilised these for illegal construction. The government should use these canal drains for the purpose of drainage. Shakti Singh, KarnalNeed to check crime rate in stateTO check crime rate in the state, the Haryana Police’s experiment to observe one day in a month as ‘Police Presence Day’ is a step in the right direction. Despite this, the rate of crime is still high in the state. This is also not in tune with the CM's statement “Haryana ka badia haal chokha bitya pehla saal” which is advertised in most of the newspapers at the cost of public exchequer. There is also a need for public-police cooperation to reduce trust deficit and strengthen faith in the police. The stakeholders should be street ‘SMART’ (simple, moral, action oriented, responsive and transparent) for effective governance at all levels. — Prof MM Goel, KurukshetraIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
17-11-2020||Karnal||Students shine in MSc results||Online classes for orphansYamunanagar: Amid the ongoing pandemic, Kansey Trust, a Yamunanagar-based NGO founded by some IIT alumnus, is conducting online classes at AMMA Foundation Orphanage Home, Srikakulam (Andhra Pradesh). Girls of the orphanage aged between 13-15 years had operated computers for the first time. The aim of the NGO is to provide future-essential digital skills to these students for a better livelihood. “The progress of girls at orphanage shows the inherent capacity of kids to learn fast if provided an enriching learning environment,” said Anupam Mourya and Rohit Kansey, organisers of the NGO. He said they had created a kid's storybook and made animations through scratch coding. Many e-volunteers from software companies had joined to teach online. He further said the trust had joined a network of Coderdojo, an NGO based in Ireland, to provide an enrich environment similar to Atal Tinkering Lab to the students.MDU Prof elected ISPC secyRohtak: Prof SC Malik, Head of the Department of Statistics, has been elected unopposed secretary of the Indian Society for Probability and Statistics (ISPC) for a period of two years. The ISPC was formed by a group of professors of Mathematics from IIT Bombay, IIT Madras and SV University, Tirupati, in 1978. It aims at providing an academic platform for Indians to share their views on emerging research areas in mathematics, statistics and operations research in order to compete with the world renowned associations such as the American Society of Mathematics, Royal Statistical Society, London, and International Institute of Mathematical Sciences. The ISPC has, at present, more than 1,500 life members.Seminar on Nat’l Press DayKurukshetra: Speaking as the chief guest at a one-day webinar organised by the Institute of Mass Communication and Media Technology, Kurukshetra University, on Monday on the occasion of National Press Day, KU Vice-Chancellor Som Nath Sachdeva said amid the Covid crisis, journalists had done a commendable job for the nation and society. “The generations to come will always remember this spirit of journalism. The crisis has been as challenging for the common man as it has been for the media industry. Despite all challenges, the media did a commendable job,” he said. Pankaj Bhargava, a senior anchor, said it was challenging to keep public updated about the daily updates amid the pandemic. There was also a huge economic crisis in the media industry. Many newspapers were shut and discontinued and many journalists became victims of this. A number of media persons also caught Covid infection while giving their essential services during the lockdown restrictions too. This was the period when e-newspapers became more prominent. Working in field and newsroom had also been a challenging task for media persons during this period. But fighting all challenges like doctors, health workers and police employees, journalists too served the nation being the frontline warriors.
17-11-2020||---||Haryana government moots policy for working women’s hostels||Chandigarh, November 16Against the backdrop of rising crime against women in the state, the government has mooted a policy for setting up of working women’s hostels to provide safe and affordable accommodation to employed women.The policy is aimed at addressing the ever-increasing boarding and lodging requirements of working women, who do not own an accommodation owing to certain economic and social conditions.“Young women are required to leave their homes and move to various urban centres for the purpose of employment. It is important to provide such women with a safe and convenient accommodation,” said K Makrand Pandurang, special secretary, Town and Country Planning Department.Besides the working women, the women who are under-training for jobs would also be accommodated in these hostels. Meanwhile, girls up to the age of age of 18 and boys up to the age of 10 accompanying working mothers would also be able to stay with them.The promoters of the working women’s hostels, which can be established on an area ranging from 0.5 acres to 2 acres in the residential zones of the development plans across the state, would have to provide certain other facilities, including common dining, common room with indoor games, laundry, day-care facility for young kids and parks.Meanwhile, a monitoring committee under the concerned Deputy Commissioner would be constituted to check and review the working of the hostels. The hostel management would also have to file annual report containing complete list of occupants, the duration of occupancy, rent charged and facilities offered on the premises.Minor girls can stay with mother
17-11-2020||---||Haryana Housing Board to e-auction 579 flats||Chandigarh, November 16The Haryana Housing Board has decided to e-auction 579 flats in Panchkula, Hisar, Gurugram, and Faridabad on November 18.After this, 7,312 flats for the EWS or BPL category and 84 commercial sites will be auctioned too.The Chief Administrator, Housing Board, Haryana, Anshaj Singh, said the state government was striving to help realise the dream of the needy living in the state of owning a house.Giving information about the reserve price of flats to be e-auctioned on November 18, he said in Sector 14, Panchkula the reserve price for type-1 flat is Rs 18 lakh (covered area 42.25 sq m) for type-2 flats is Rs 25 lakh (covered area 52.56 sq m), for type-3 flat is Rs 35 lakh (covered area 70.45 sq m), for type-4 is Rs 40 lakh (covered area 90.45 sq m), for type-5 flat is Rs 50 lakh (covered area 142.71 sq m), and for Duplex in Sector 6 is Rs 1crore 60 lakh (covered area 167.22 sq m) Also, Rs 90 lakh is the reserve price for type-1 flat in Sector 20 (covered area 191.31 sq m).In Sector 1 and 4 of Hisar Rs 14.89 lakh (covered area 68.68 sq m) is the reserve price for HIG-1 flats, Rs 14.02 lakh (covered area 69.74 sq mts) for MIG-1 flats, and Rs. 12.17 lakh (covered area 38.04 sq m) for LIG-1 flats.He said for a MIG-1 flat in Sector 28 of Faridabad the reserve price is Rs 1crore 50 lakh (covered area 195.65 square meters) and Rs 1crore 50 lakh (covered area 125.50 square meters) for Gurugram Type-2 flat.
17-11-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Nameplates for social equality to ‘molkis’||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, November 16“I hardly remember what it was back home. I was bought as a bride and have lived here for 45 years. I am lucky to have what an average Haryanvi matriarch has, but today it feels I have got my home in the true sense. I am happy I will die as Reena, rather than a molki (bought-one),” says Reena (64), who is among the first bought brides in the state to get her nameplate installed outside her home.Like over 1.5 lakh other such women in the state, Reena was bought from West Bengal to be married to a man around 15 years older than her. Her husband treated her well, but this “pardeshi bahu” (outsider bride) could never get the same respect as other brides in the village.“It may be a simple nameplate for others, but for me it’s a stamp of equality as regards my existence and identity,” she says. The unique endeavour started in Kharkadi village of Farukhnagar block by the Selfie With Daughter Foundation aims at getting social equality for such brides, including property rights. “The aim is to give such brides their due,” says Sunil Jaglan who spearheads the initiative.“I was brought here from Gujarat 42 years ago. I am a grandmother today, but my identity is that of a molki. I don’t know what this will change, but this nameplate feels like a proof of my existence,” says Sheela (61).
