17-12-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  ||As only home secy gets stay from HC, CBI court says no bar on proceeding against other accused||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, December 17  In Manesar land scam, CBI Special Court, Haryana, on Thursday declared that “there is no bar for proceeding ahead with the trial” against accused, including former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda or four additional accused including former IAS officer DR Dhingra, who were summoned on December 1, as the high court had granted relief to only Haryana home secretary Rajeev Arora.   Earlier on December 1, the CBI court had called Arora, former Director Industries DR Dhingra, former Chief Town Planner (CTP) Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development (HSIIDC) Surjit Singh, former CTP of Town and Country Planning Department (TCPD) Dhare Singh and former Deputy Superintendent of TCPD Kulwant Singh Lamba as additional accused in the case.They were cited as witnesses by the CBI but the CBI Special Court was of the opinion that a prima facie case was made out against them as well.  After that Arora approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court which granted stay on CBI proceedings against him on December 14, while issuing a notice of motion to the CBI. Also, the case is listed for April 30 in the high court.  The alleged scam pertains to purchasing land from farmers at meagre rates and then earning huge profits by getting it released in connivance with bureaucracy and politicians. Three former Principal Secretary to CM (Hooda), SS Dhillon, ML Tayal and Chattar Singh, are also accused in the case besides private builders.   During a resumed hearing today, CBI Special Judge Jagdeep Singh observed that CBI’s senior public prosecutor had submitted that under provision of Section 19(3)© of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, “there is statutory interdiction regarding stay of proceedings under the Prevention of Corruption Act by the Court”.  “…this Court has to proceed ahead with the trial proceedings and accordingly now matter stands adjourned to January 11,” said the judge. The framing of charges could take place in the next hearing. Meanwhile, DR Dhingra, Surjit Singh and Kulwant Singh Lamba filed regular bail applications. While granting bail, the court observed, “The question as to guilt or innocence of the applicants-accused is to be adjudicated upon on the basis of evidence to be adduced during the course of trial. Undisputedly, nothing remains to be recovered from the applicants-accused and in such situation, no useful purpose would be served in sending the accused persons in custody.” “Former CTP Dhare Singh couldn’t appear before the court as he has tested positive for Covid,” counsel Sameer Sethi told the CBI court.
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cold wave sweeps Haryana and Punjab, fog reduces visibility at few places||Biting cold conditions prevailed in Haryana and Punjab on Thursday, with temperatures hovering below normal limits.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a minimum temperature of 5.1 degrees Celsius, Meteorological Department officials said here.In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar, Karnal, Bhiwani, Rohtak and Sirsa recorded below normal minimum temperatures of 4.4 degrees Celsius, 4.2 degrees Celsius, 4.9 degrees Celsius, 4.8 degrees Celsius, 4.4 degrees Celsius and 4.8 degrees Celsius, respectively.Amritsar in Punjab also experienced a cold night at 4.2 degrees Celsius, while Ludhiana registered a low of 5.5 degrees Celsius.Patiala recorded a minimum temperature of 5.8 degrees Celsius, Adampur6.6 deg C, Halwara 6 degrees Celsius and Bathinda 5 degrees Celsius.According to the MeT Department officials, fog reduced visibility in the morning at some places such as Karnal, Hisar, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala.Cold weather conditions would prevail in most parts of the two states during the next two days, they said. — PTI
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder, Khattar condole death of Sikh preacher near Singhu border||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday termed the death of Sikh preacher Sant Ram Singh, who was supporting the farmers' protest and allegedly committed suicide near the Singhu border, "an irreparable loss".His Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh also expressed grief over the death of the 65-year-old preacher.Also read: Baba Ram Singh's body kept at Karnal's Nanaksar gurdwara; cremation on FridayPolice said Sant Ram Singh allegedly died by suicide near the Singhu border on Wednesday. A handwritten note in Punjabi, purportedly left behind by the deceased, says he was unable to bear the "pain of farmers". The note is being verified by the police.An official of the Sonipat police said they had received a call that Sant Ram Singh (65), who hailed from Singhra village in Nissing area of Karnal district, allegedly shot himself.He was rushed to a hospital in Panipat where doctors declared him brought dead.Khattar said Sant Ram Singh's death "is an irreparable loss for the Sant Samaj, the country and the state".The Haryana chief minister added that the demise was also an "irreparable loss" to him. "This is a moment of great sorrow," he said in a tweet.Khattar said the real tribute to Singh would be to walk the path of human welfare shown by him.Amarinder Singh too said he was saddened on learning about the preacher's death."Extremely shocked and saddened on learning the tragic news of Sant Ram Singh ji of Nanaksar Singhra wale from Karnal ending his life at Singhu Border in protest against the Centre's Farm Laws. My prayers are with his family and supporters in this time of grief," he said in a tweet.Sant Ram Singh's body was on Wednesday night taken to the Nanaksar Gurdwara in Singhra village in Karnal, where a large number of his followers had gathered.Many recalled that he had dedicated his life in service of humanity and also used to organise 'satsangs' (prayer meetings) and 'langars' (community kitchen) for thousands of people.Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union chief Gurnam Singh on Thursday said Sant Ram Singh was a noble soul who dedicated his life to humanity's service."Being a pious soul, he was deeply hurt on seeing the pain and sufferings of thousands of farmers, many among them old and women too, out there on roads during cold wintry days and nights for past several days seeking repeal of anti-farmer laws," he said.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had on Wednesday said the Modi government should quit its "stubbornness" and withdraw the new farm laws that the farmers are protesting.Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal said he was anguished to hear that the cleric allegedly committed suicide.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other states have been protesting near Delhi's borders for over three weeks, demanding that the Centre's new farm laws be repealed. PTI
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Farmer dies near Tikri border||A 38-year-old farmer from Punjab was found dead at a protest site near the Tikri border on Thursday morning, police said.Jai Singh, a resident of Tungwali village in Bathinda district, and his brother had been part of the farmers' protest at the Haryana-Delhi border against the Centre's three farm laws for the last several days, according to Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Shingara Singh.Jai Singh was found dead in the morning. The exact cause of the death could be ascertained after a post mortem, an official of the Bahadurgarh police in Haryana said.Singh's brother suspected that he might have died of a heart attack. The body was sent to the Bahadurgarh civil hospital in Jhajjar district, the official said.Shingara Singh demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh and a government job for the kin of the deceased.Around 20 farmers, many of them are from Punjab, have so far died either of natural causes or in road accidents, the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader said.The farmers have been camping at several border points into Delhi for three weeks, demanding that the new farm laws be repealed as they claim it would benefit the corporates and end the traditional wholesale markets and the minimum support price regime.  PTI
17-12-2020||Karnal||Baba Ram Singh's body kept at Karnal's Nanaksar gurdwara; cremation on Friday||The body of Baba Ram Singh—the 'sant' who committed suicide by shooting himself dead at Singhu border on Wednesday evening—has been kept in Nanaksar Gurdwara in Karnal's Singhra village for devotees to have a last glimpse and pay homage to the departed soul.The cremation will be held on Friday.Also read: Traffic disrupted on Delhi's key routes as thousands stay put at border points on day 22 of farmers' stirA large number of devotees were assembling at the Gurdwara. A heavy deployment of police force was witnessed near the Gurdwara.The 65-year-old 'sant' left a handwritten note in Punjabi saying he was unable to bear the "pain of farmers". The note is being verified by police.Also read: Amarinder, Khattar condole death of Sikh preacher near Singhu borderSAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal along with his wife former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal arrived here at the Gurdwara to pay homage to Singh.Badal said that Baba Ram Singh was a noble soul who devoted his life to serving the society. "It is a big sacrifice by Baba Ram Singh. He was pained over the plights of farmers. I am surprised that the Union government is still adamant. Around 30 farmers have lost their lives," he said, adding that the PM and Home Minister should "leave their ego and roll back these laws."Harsimrat Badal criticised the Union government for not listening to the issues of the farmers.The protest is the farmers right and farmers are dying daily, she said, adding, Baba Ram Singh "sacrificed for the sake of humanity."MLA from Punjab's Majitha Vikram Singh Majithia and Delhi Gurdwara Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa also paid tributes to Baba Ram Singh.
17-12-2020||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Two fake call centres busted in Gurugram||The Chief Minister’s flying squad on Wednesday busted two fake call centres, which duped US nationals on the pretext of providing them with 1,000 to 5,000 dollar grants and deducting 100 to 500 dollars from their Google cards.Two owners of the one of the call centres have been arrested. They were identified as Anshul Mehta (33) and his brother Akshay Mehta (34), both residents of Delhi. They have been booked under Section 420 of the IPC and the Information Technology Act.DUPED US NATIONALS ON PRETEXT OF GRANTSAround Rs 8.5 lakh was recovered from the accused. Besides, two laptops and a hard disc were seized.On a tip off, DSP Inderjeet Yadav of the CM’s flying squad and the police raided the fourth floor of Spaze IT Park in Sector 49. In one of the call centres (office number 401), six men and four women were found working on computers and making calls. In the other (office number 404), 10 men and two women were found working.When asked to furnish Other Service Providers (OSP) licences, which is issued by the Department of Telecommunications, or any MoU related to their work, they drew a blank.All employees were detained.The owner of call centre 404, identified as Ansh Saxena of Ghaziabad (UP), managed to flee.On the modus operandi, Yadav said: “The call centre employees first collected the data of foreign nationals such as their names, mobile phone numbers and e-mails, and then sent them voicemails. They asked US nationals to purchase Google I-cards and, in return, offered them grants of 1,000 to 5,000 dollars. With this trick, they duped more than 500 foreigners of Rs 1 crore.”The accused picked tricks of the trade while working in others call centres, he added.
17-12-2020||Gurugram||Order to rename Faridabad hospital causes uproar||In what has led to a huge uproar in the entire region, the state government has ordered renaming of the Faridabad civil hospital from Badshah Khan Hospital to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Hospital.Bacha Khan: FOUNDER OF Khudai KhidmatgarA letter in this regard was issued by the Director, Health Services, to the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) asking him to do the needful as CM Manohar Lal Khattar had ‘desired’ the name change. Many opposition leaders and various communities have accused the government of trivialising the sacrifice of a freedom fighter to allegedly promote communal motives.“It is shameful that they go ahead snatching the tribute given to a noted freedom fighter just because our CM ‘desires’ it. If they want, they can make a new hospital in the memory of former PM Vajpayee but renaming assets in communal way is shameful. Haryana, especially southern Haryana, which has Muslim dominated district like Nuh, is known for a secular social fabric, which they are tearing apart,” senior Congress leader Captain Ajay Singh Yadav said.“A freedom fighter has no religion and is a national asset. Badshah Khan was a national leader. Rather than making efforts to create awareness about such people, this government is busy wiping away his name from public memory. We condemn this act and demand a rollback of the orders,” Meo leader and Nuh MLA Aftab Ahmed said.Various Muslim associations have threatened agitations if the name of the hospital is changed.
17-12-2020||Karnal||3 days after reopening, only 5% turnout in govt schools||On the third consecutive day after the re-opening of schools amid Covid for regular classes, schools in the district witnessed a thin attendance.As per authorities, just 5 per cent students of classes IX to XII were in attendance in 177 government schools on Wednesday. In most of the schools, the presence was almost nil. The authorities said only around 1,700 students out of around 35,000 enrolled in classes IX to XII attended classes.Enquiries revealed that in a majority of schools, attendance was negligible. In a couple of schools, not even a single student turned up.The authorities said medical examination reports of students are compulsory to attend the classes, but parents are reluctant to get the medical examination of their wards done due to Covid scare.A parent having two children said: “I took both my children for medical examinations and the doctor asked me to get their Covid test done, even as both do not have any symptoms.”Chandresh Vij, Deputy DEO, said the number of students was very less and only a few were turning up to attend classes. The medical examination certificate was compulsory for the students but parents were hesitant in getting it, due to which the attendance was low.Meanwhile, the attendance is high in private schools. Dr Rajan Lamba, president, CBSE Schools Association, Karnal, said: “We are conducting pre-board examinations of classes X and XII while studies of Class IX and XI will resume from December 21. Most of the schools conducting examinations have good attendance.”
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||DFO assaults senior for refusing to clear ‘illegal’ payments, held||The Ambala police have arrested a Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) posted in Kurukshetra for allegedly assaulting his senior, a Chief Conservator of Forest (CCF), as he refused to give approval to “doubtful” files and payments.The allegationsIn a development allegedly related to this, the state government has withdrawn administrative powers from Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) Amarinder Kaur, who has the additional charge of the the Chief Wildlife Warden and chairperson of the Haryana Biodiversity Board.G Raman, Chief Conservator of Forests, Ambala, had lodged a police complaint, accusing DFO Virender Gill of “manhandling, committing torture, lowering reputation, using abusive language, hampering the functioning of government work and forcing to do illegal work with threat of dire consequences” in his office at Forest Complex, Ambala, on December 7.Raman alleged in his complaint that Gill wanted to get a file pertaining to e-tenders of plantations sanctioned from him. It was against norms, he claimed. The value of the tender is alleged to be more than Rs 1 crore.Raman also alleged that Gill wanted him to clear a file and sign cheques towards the payment of labour “at his own terms and dictates”.The payment amounted to more than Rs 24 lakh.“When I recorded my comments on the file, seeking more information about the work for which the cheques were to be signed and details of persons who were to be paid, Gill hit the chair and thrashed me and manhandled me by twisting my hand,” he alleged.Gill allegedly threatened Raman of dire consequences including his transfer from the post of the CCF.“He threatened that if I won’t sign the cheques, he would get them signed from the new incumbent,” Raman alleged in his complaint.In his complaint to senior officers, the CCF had alleged that Gill wanted to get the files cleared with the “blessings” of a senior officer of the department, sources said.On Wednesday, G Anupama, Principal Secretary, Forest and Wildlife, issued an order that “no administrative action will be taken by Amarinder Kaur”.When contacted, Kaur, who is to retire on December 31, refused to comment on either of the two developments.The police have booked Gill under Sections 186, 332, 353, 506 and 504 of the IPC. He will be produced before court in Ambala on Thursday.
17-12-2020||New Delhi||Centre to take up SYL issue with Punjab CM||Responding to the representation from BJP MPs and MLAs seeking Central intervention for speedy construction of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal, Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria on Wednesday said the Union Government would take up the issue with Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh soon.“The Union Government is trying for an amicable resolution to the SYL issue between the two state governments,” Kataria said, adding that the process would be followed up with the Punjab Government.“The Punjab Chief Minister had assured us during the meeting on August 18 that he would organise the second round of talks on the SYL at his residence soon, but it could not materialise due to Covid. The ministry will follow it up with the Punjab Chief Minister,” he said.
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula, Ambala meet Jal Jeevan Mission target||In a significant achievement, two districts of Haryana, namely Panchkula and Ambala, have bagged the title of ‘Har Ghar Nal Se Jal districts’ with 100 per cent functional household tap connection (FHTC) in rural households under the Jal Jeevan Mission.The mission aims to ensure access to sustainable drinking water through piped water connection to every rural household by 2024.Additional Chief Secretary, Public Health Engineering Department, Devender Singh was committed to providing the FHTC to every rural household in the state by December 2022.Singh said Panchkula and Ambala had 100 per cent FHTC in rural households. Panchkula with 34,433 FTHCs in four blocks, became the first district of the state having 100 per cent FHTCs in rural households. Ambala with 1,19,431 FHTCs in six blocks secured the second position by having 100 per cent FHTCs in rural households.
17-12-2020||BEING impartial spectator of the events on the on-going farmers’ agitation and the role of the Government of India||Farmers’ agitation is unfortunate||Govt must resolve farmers’ issuesTHE agitation supported by certain vulnerable factions has reached to impermeable level. The agitation can bring serious effects on economy when long route transportation has come to standstill. On the other hand, the Defence Minister has refused for any retrogation and claw back resulting in a serious belligerence which in no way is conducive for the security and integrity of the nation. Not only this, because of Covid pandemic everybody is perplexed for one or the other reason. The country is already in tremendous phase of pressure in view of the disturbances on the both sides. Keeping this in view both should shun ego and come to conclusion amicably. The government in consultation with agriculture experts, scientists, stakeholders and farmer unions should look for a common path to solve the issue. The bureaucracy should show their dexterity and conscientiousness in resolving issue once for all. — Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityNo end to cattle menace in Ambala CanttTHE cattle menace is rampant in distinct areas of the city as well as in villages. Cattle became one of the main reasons of road jams and accidents these days. They pose a threat to commuters, particularly at night and on foggy days. Just because of cattle, parents feel unsafe to send their children out of the house. Even, the elderly people hesitate to go out alone. The issue is being ignored, but now it is peak time to look into the matter. Therefore, the authorities must solve the problem. — Aakash Dhiman, Ambala CanttCollection of garbage irregularIT is a matter of utter grouse that the person in whose favour the Municipal Corporation Hisar has released the contract for collecting the garbage is not rendering the services regularly. The vehicle pressed in service for the purpose has rarely been seen in the locality. Since it is fitted, as was done by the predecessor contractor, with no loudspeaker or other instruments sending pre-intimation of arrival. More saddening is this that the workers neither alight from the vehicle nor they bother to ring the doorbell. Due to their laxity and callous way of working, the garbage is left to stink for days which can be a cause of many lethal diseases such as dengue etc. The Municipal Corporation authorities should direct the incumbent contractor to give a serious thought to the agonies of the residents and get the needful done immediately. — Baljeet Singh Deep, HisarIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
17-12-2020||Rohtak||Varsity centre webpage launched||Online placement driveHisar: Two students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Gurugram-based Company Nagarro, organised by the Training and Placement Cell of the university. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar and Registrar Prof Avnesh Verma congratulated the selected students. Aditya Vir Singh, Assistant Director, said Sachin Sharma of B Tech (CSE) was selected for full-time role and Aman Kumar B Tech (CSE) was selected for internship. Pratap Singh, Director, Placement, said e-campus placement drive was conducted virtually by Tanya Jain, analyst, human resource. Total 68 students participated in this drive.‘Fit India Week’ celebratedYamunanagar: ‘Fit India Week’ is being celebrated by the Khelo India Weightlifting Centre, established by the Union Sports Ministry at Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar. The ‘Fit India Week’ is celebrated all over the country from December 14 to December 18. Principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said the programme had been initiated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi so that every citizen of the country could remain healthy. Dr Amrita Pritam of the Sports Department, Dr Bodh Raj, Dr Ranjit Singh, Dr Sanjay Vij, Dr Parveen Kumar and SAI Coach Sukhchain Singh were contributing significantly for the successful conduct of this programme, he added. Bhupinder Singh Jauhar of the managing committee congratulated the sports department of the college on organising the event.Quotation writing competitionYamunanagar: The Department of English of Mukand Lal National College, Radaur, organised a quotation writing competition on the topic “Thematic Quotes of Famous Poets”. Many students participated zealously and jotted down the celebrated lines of renowned poets of Hindi and English languages. The competition was organised under the mentorship of Dr Mala Sharma, Assistant Professor, English. Muskan, Komal and Neelam won the first, second and third positions, respectively. Principal Dr Deepak Kaushik gave away prizes to the winners.
17-12-2020||Sonepat||Sant Baba Ram Singh of Nanaksar Singhra shoots self at Singhu||The head of a gurdwara in Karnal reportedly shot himself with his licensed pistol to express support to farmers near the central stage at the Singhu border on Wednesday evening.The deceased was identified as Baba Ram Singh (65), head of Nanaksar gurdwara at Singhra village in the Nissing area of Karnal district.He left a suicide note in Punjabi. People with him rushed him to a private hospital in Panipat, where doctors declared him brought dead.A follower of Baba Ram Singh said he had been going to the Singhu border every day and was deeply hurt due to farmers’ problems and the condition of the elderly, women and children during the protest.“I saw farmers’ problems. They are on the road for their rights. I am feeling very hurt. It is a sin to commit a crime and also a sin to suffer a crime. I am sacrificing my life for their cause,” Baba Ram Singh had written in the note.Kundli police station SHO Ravi Kumar said investigation was initiated into the matter and a team of investigation officials left for Karnal to record the statements of relatives of the deceased.Baba Ram Singh had come from the Nanaksar gurdwara at Jagraon in Punjab to Singhra in 1990.
17-12-2020||Karnal||Baba Ram Singh sacrificed life for cause: Aides||A pall of gloom descended on Karnal soon after the news of Baba Ram Singh’s death spread. Soon after his body was brought to Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, followers wailed in grief.They refused to get the postmortem examination conducted. They left for Nanaksar gurdwara with the body, but came back midway.Till the filing of this report, the body was kept in an ambulance outside the mortuary and followers were offering prayers.The followers referred to the death as a sacrifice for farmers and blamed the Union Government for his ‘suicide’. “He has sacrificed his life for farmers and the government should now listen to the grievances of farmers,” said Gurpreet Singh, a follower.Balbir Singh, another follower, said farmers were sitting in the open in the chill, but the Union Government was not paying heed to issues concerning them. “I urge the government to listen to farmers,” he said.SidelightsTeen on way to stir site dies in mishapKarnal: A boy from Punjab, going to join the stir at the Singhu border, was killed in a road accident on the NH-44 on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Gurjinder Singh (17) of Hoshiarpur. He was reportedly crushed under the wheels of an unidentified vehicle after falling off the trolley in which he was travelling.Deepender joins Dhansa dharnaJhajjar: Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda on Wednesday joined the dharna by khap panchayats and farmers of nearby villages at the Dhansa border. He expressed solidarity with farmers and assured them of succour.MLA launches ‘kisan rasoi’Rohtak: Independent MLA from Meham Balraj Kundu on Wednesday started a ‘kisan rasoi’ at the Tikri border. A chapati maker has been installed. “The ‘rasoi’ will continue till the time the protest continues,” Kundu said.
17-12-2020||Jhajjar||To fight cold, farmers pitch tents, light bonfire||Farmers protesting at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border for the past 20 days have been adopting different ways to brave the bone-chilling cold. Some have pitched waterproof tents and some have made makeshift rooms on the divider of the highway by covering it with tarpaulin sheets.“At the start of the protest, we slept in tractor-trailers. As the days progressed, the temperature dipped. So, we bought tents from Delhi. Two persons can sleep in a tent. We have made an arrangement for 30 persons,” said Gurpreet Singh from Ludhiana (Punjab).Another farmer Veer Singh from Muktsar said, “By pitching tents, we want to tell the Centre that we are in for a long haul. We will not return till the three farm laws are taken back.”There are some who put stubble beneath their mattresses to keep themselves warm.Jagsheer Singh of Ratia (Fatehabad) and his group members have developed a makeshift room on the divider by covering its railing with a tarpaulin sheet.“Winter is gradually reaching its peak. To keep ourselves warm, we covered the divider from all sides. About 40 people can sleep in the makeshift room,” Jagsheer said, adding the tractor-trailers were being used to keep clothes and other things.Almost everyone light bonfire in the evening. “We knew the protest would last long. So we brought wood with us to light bonfire,” said Gurdeep Singh of Ludhiana.
17-12-2020||Jhajjar||Tikri tale: Heaps of garbage, stinking toilets||Heaps of garbage, stinking toilets and the awful stench. This is the state of affairs along the 10-km stretch of the Rohtak-Delhi highway from the Jakhoda bypass to the Tikri border, raising a question mark on the working of the Bahadurgarh Municipal Council.Farmers have been protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border for 20 days.They claimed the MC failed in its duty to maintain cleanliness on the highway.Karamjeet Singh, a farmer from Moga (Punjab), said. “The MC has not placed enough dustbins on the 10-km stretch. As a result, farmers throw plates, glasses and peels of fruits on the road.”Another problem facing farmers is the stinking mobile toilets, forcing them to defecate in the open. Besides, the road from the Sector 9 turn, Bahadurgarh, to the Tikri border has turned into muddy pathways causing inconvenience to protesters and shopkeepers alike.“Mobile toilets are few and placed far from the protest site. Moreover, the toilets are not cleaned every day. The stink is unbearable,” said Jaskirat Singh from Sangrur.When contacted, Naveen Dhankhad, Executive Engineer, MC, refuted farmers’ charges. “Mobile toilets and dustbins have been placed in adequate numbers, while the garbage is lifted every day.”
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||MC poll: Congress MLAs seek Speaker’s resignation||A group of Congress MLAs on Wednesday targeted Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta demanding his resignation for lowering the dignity of his office by indulging in the BJP activities in the run-up to December 27 MC election in Panchkula.Congress MLAs BB Batra, Jagbir Malik, Amit Sihag, Aftab Ahmed, BL Saini and Subhash Deswal said the Speaker should first resign from his post and only then actively participate in the BJP’s election campaign.However, Gupta asserted that he being the elected representative of Panchkula, he was accountable to the people of the constituency and there was no rule that he should quit to participate in the MC poll campaign. He clarified that he had never participated in the BJP meetings in the Vidhan Sabha complex in the last one year.Meanwhile, the Congress legislators also demanded a White Paper from the government on the matter of former chairman of the Special Publicity Cell Rocky Mittal, alleging misuse of Rs 1500 crore on publicity in the last six years.Batra alleged that the government was making every effort to crush the farmers’ movement. Batra cautioned the Prime Minister against taking the farmers’ issue lightly as it was directly related to 80 per cent of the country’s population.The Congress MLAs said Cm Manohar Lal Khattar should call a special session of the Assembly to discuss the farmers’ issue.
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||14 more succumb, 807 fresh cases in Haryana||With 807 fresh cases, the state Covid tally reached 2,55,014 on Wednesday. Also, the death toll reached 2,765 with the addition of 14 more fatalities.Gurugram reported a maximum of 230 cases followed by Faridabad (180), Sonepat (46) and Karnal (32).Meanwhile, Congress MLA from Mullana Varun Chaudhry tested positive for Covid on Wednesday. — TNS
17-12-2020||Karnal||Three dead, 11 hurt in clash over land dispute in Karnal||Three persons were killed while 11 sustained bullet injuries in a clash over a land dispute at Gagsina village this morning.Those killed were identified as Dilbag (55), Balraj (55) and Parveen (28), all residents of Gagsina. Dilbag and Parveen died on the spot, while Balraj breathed his last in a hospital, sources said.Encroachment allegedJoginder, Jitender, Roop Chand, Balinder, Dayanand, Dhan Singh, Naveen, Surinder, Lakhwinder, Deep and Sultan were injured in the incident. Dhan Singh has been referred to a private hospital, while others are admitted to the Civil Hospital. The police have reportedly detained two persons in this connection.Demanding immediate arrest of the accused, villagers refused to lift the bodies from the crime spot. Alleging that the Munak SHO and police personnel remained mute spectators to the entire episode, they also demanded action against the cops for negligence. They relented only after Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia assured them of speedy action in the case.“The residents have levelled allegations against the Munak SHO and other policemen. We are looking into their allegations and appropriate action would be taken against anyone found guilty,” the SP said.The SP also constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to inquire into the case. “We are probing the case from all angles and the accused will be arrested at the earliest,” he said. An FIR has been registered against 38 persons under Section 302 of the IPC, he added.
17-12-2020||---||Selja: Fighting for strong network at grassroots||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief Kumari Selja on Wednesday said the BJP believes in divide and rule, not in development while the Congress prefers to keep its promises.She was in the city to inaugurate the party office for the Ambala Municipal Corporation election and addressed a gathering in support of Congress’ mayoral candidate Meena Aggarwal.During her address, Selja said: “For the first time, the Congress is contesting the MC election on its symbol and it is an opportunity for us to strengthen the party’s base at the grassroots level. For the last few years, there is no party structure in Haryana but we are confident that all Congress workers will strengthen the network. The manifesto is being prepared and it will be released soon. Some workers are unhappy with the selection of candidates but we will try to persuade them and ask them to work for the party.”While taking a dig at Congress workers who quit and joined other parties to contest the election, she said no one was bigger than the party.The HPCC chief further said: “The Covid pandemic has wasted the entire year, but the government is least bothered about development. The BJP has made hollow promises. During the Congress regime, the city witnessed a lot of development but now it has come to a standstill.”On being asked about the impact of Venod Sharma’s HJP (V) and Nirmal Singh’s HDF in the MC poll, she said: “Their parties have made the contest multi-cornered, otherwise it would been a direct contest between the Congress and the BJP.”
17-12-2020||Ambala||6 more mayoral hopefuls file papers in Ambala||Six more mayoral candidates filed their nominations on the last date of nominations for the Ambala Municipal Corporation election.On Wednesday, BJP’s candidate Vandana Sharma, Haryana Janchetna Party’s (V) Shaktirani Sharma, Bahujan Samaj Party’s Jolly and Independent candidates Veena Dhall, Nina Sharma, and Shubhangi filed their respective nominations.Earlier, HDF candidate Amisha Chawla, Ambala Vikas Manch’s Gurmeet Kaur and Congress’ Meena Aggarwal had filed their nominations.Meanwhile, Diksha Rani (21), who wanted to contest from Ward Number 14, sat on a dharna along with her supporters and alleged that while her papers were not accepted because she was 15 minutes late, the nominations of two more candidates were accepted after 3 pm.Diksha’s supporters said that if her nomination was not accepted they would start a hunger strike in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office on Thursday and would make a complaint with the Election Commission.Meanwhile, HSVP Estate Officer-cum-ARO for Ward Numbers 12, 13 and 14 Satinder Siwach said: “The candidate was late. She reached around 3.27 pm and no nominations can be accepted after the time is over.”
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij stable on oxygen support, to stay in ICU||Home Minister Anil Vij is on oxygen support and is likely to remain in the ICU for the next few days. His condition is stated to be stable.He was shifted to Medanta in Gurugram on Tuesday after he developed complications due to Covid. According to Dr AK Dubey, Medical Superintendent, doctors are monitoring his condition regularly.“Vij was transferred from the PGIMS in Rohtak with Covid pneumonia. Probes have been done and the results are satisfactory. He is maintaining vital parameters on high flow nasal cannula on oxygen support. He is likely to stay in the ICU for a few days,” read the minister’s health bulletin.Dr Virender Yadav, Gurugram Civil Surgeon, who visited Medanta on Wednesday, said the minister’s condition was stable. Vij’s younger brother Rajinder Vij said doctors had told him that functioning of his brother’s lungs was affected by the infection, but he was improving.A senior doctor said Vij had developed pneumonitis, due to which his oxygen saturation levels had dropped alarmingly. He had comorbid conditions like hypertension and diabetes and had recently undergone two surgeries due to a fracture in his left thigh bone.Vij had tested positive for Covid on December 5, a fortnight after he volunteered for Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate Covaxin. Bharat Biotech had clarified that clinical trials were based on a two-dose schedule, given 28 days apart. Vij had taken the first dose on November 19.The company had said efficacy could be determined 14 days after the second dose. “Covaxin has been designed to be efficacious when subjects receive both doses,” it had said. — TNS
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Release scholarship to J&K students studying in Haryana: HC to AICTE||In a major relief for students from Jammu and Kashmir studying in Haryana, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to release scholarship to them under the Prime Minister’s Special Scholarship Scheme for 2014-15 and subsequent years.Prime Minister’s Special SchemeThe direction by Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu came after the counsel for Danish Nazir and other petitioners argued that students had to face great hardships and could not appear for counselling following large-scale floods in Jammu and Kashmir in 2014-15.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, counsel Harsh Aggarwal contended that the students should not be made to suffer because of the unprecedented situation. He said the advantage of the scheme should not be solely denied because of “some procedural lapse, especially as they fulfilled all conditions as envisaged in the scheme”.In an attempt to buttress his arguments, the counsel relied on a J&K High Court decision dated June 7, 2017, wherein the action of declining the benefit was quashed in an identical situation and the respondent was directed to release the scholarships. The judgment was upheld in appeal, he added.The submission came in response to an argument on behalf of respondent AICTE that the petitioners were admitted to Ganpati Business School and Ganpati Institute of Pharmacy on their own and in contravention of the scheme’s terms and conditions and subsequent modification and amendments.It was added that the Ministry of Human Resource Development had authorised the AICTE to implement the scheme strictly, adhering to the guidelines framed and methodology approved by an inter-ministerial committee and the act of the institutes in admitting the petitioners without their finding place in the merit list was unauthorised.Justice Sidhu asserted that the petitioners’ case was similar to the matter in the J&K High Court. “Accordingly, this petition is allowed. The respondent is directed to release scholarship to the petitioners for the academic session 2014-15 and subsequent years,” Justice Sidhu ruled.
17-12-2020||Yamunanagar||3 die in mishap in Yamunanagar||Three persons were killed and one seriously injured when their car rammed into a tree on Yamunanagar-Jathlana road near Khajuri village.The deceased have been identified as Gaurav (20), Ajay (22) of Sura village of Kurukshetra district and Mohit (25) of Alipura village of Yamunanagar district. After autopsy, the bodies were handed over to their kin. — TNS
17-12-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Stop parallel talks, farmers’ forum tells Centre||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 16The farmers’ joint forum has formally rejected the Centre’s proposal to amend the contentious farm laws. Representatives of farmers at a meeting with the Centre had on December 9 turned down the proposal but the government maintained that it had not received anything in writing.Krantikari Kisan Union’s Darshan Pal, in a letter to the Union Government on Wednesday, also sought that parallel talks with other farm bodies be stopped and the government must not “discredit” the stir. Braving the cold, thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Singhu and Tikri borders for the past 20 days, demanding that the recent farm laws be repealed.Dilbagh Singh, a farmhand, who cycled all the way from Panchwar village in Tarn Taran district of Punjab to the Singhu border, said: “The government should repeal the laws. If the farmer does not survive, the farm labourer will not survive either. It’s a matter of do or die for us.” Former DIG (Prisons) Lakhminder Singh Jakhar, who resigned recently, and Kavita Vinod Khanna, wife of the late Gurdaspur MP and actor Vinod Khanna, were among those who joined the protesters at Singhu on Wedneday. “I am with the farmers. It’s a worrying situation,” the latter said.Preacher shoots self at Singhu; understand the gravity, says BadalBaba Ram Singh (65) of Gurdwara Sahib Nanaksar Singhra in Nissing area of Karnal reportedly shot himself near the main stage at Singhu on Wednesday, leaving a suicide note in Punjabi. Sources said he would daily visit the protest site to express solidarity with the farmers. He was rushed to a private hospital in Panipat where the doctors declared him “brought dead”. He headed Ek Onkar Ashram Thath Nanaksar Singhra and had a sizeable following in the country and abroad.Repeal agri laws, say War veteransA number of 1971 war veterans, while commemorating Vijay Divas at Singhu border, on Wednesday opposed the three farm laws, showing solidarity with the protesting farmers. The Acts should be repealed, they said. 20 farmers from Pb, Hry dead since NovAt least 20 farmers from Punjab and Haryana have died during the agitation since November 24 — some in road accidents and some owing to health issues, say sources.
