18-04-2020||---||ANM tests positive in Ambala; district tally now 8||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, April 18An auxiliary nurse midwife on coronavirus duty tested positive for the virus on Saturday, taking the district tally to eight.Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said the woman worked at a containment zone. She has now been admitted to an isolation ward, the doctor said.Her contacts have been quarantined, and their swab samples have been taken for testing.Ambala health authorities have so far tested 751 samples in the district, of which eight have tested positive. Authorities are waiting for results for 106 cases.Three people have so far been cured and released from hospitals.Sonepat meanwhile reported three new cases on Saturday.
18-04-2020||---||Karnal staff nurse discharged after negative Covid reports||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 18A staff nurse from KCGMC in Karnal, Meenu, who had tested positive for Covid-19 was discharged from hospital after her two consecutive reports came negative on Saturday.The nurse was given a warm send off. She thanked the staff who took care of her during treatment.Sending out a message, she told people not to be afraid of the coronavirus, but be aware and alert.
18-04-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||To decongest jails, 4,933 prisoners released so far in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 18To decongest jails and maintain social distancing in view of Covid pandemic, Haryana has released 4,933 prisoners so far. It has brought down jail occupancy rate from 106.4% to 87.6%.The authorised capacity of 19 jails in Haryana is 19,306. However, on March 24, there were 20,546 inmates and the occupancy rate was 106.4%.Then, a high-powered committee, formed on the orders of the Supreme Court, comprising Member Secretary Haryana Legal Services Authority (HALSA) Parmod Goyal, Home Secretary Vijai Vardhan and DGP Prisons K Selvraj, in consultation with Justice Rajiv Sharma, who is Executive Chairman of HALSA, on March 24, decided the class of prisoners who could be released.As on April 16, there are 16,915 prisoners in Haryana jails, including with fresh arrests, with occupancy rate of 87.6%.As per the rules framed by the high-powered committee, the convicts above 65 are to be granted six-week special parole while those who are already on parole or furlough, their Special Parole is be extended for four weeks. Those who have already availed one parole peacefully and surrendered in time are to be granted fresh one time six-week Special Parole.Also, those sentenced for seven-year imprisonment or lesser are to be considered for parole for six weeks extendable to eight weeks.The high-powered committee has also advised the head of jails department and Superintendent of Jail to exercise their power to grant additional remission of two-month and 1-month respectively in eligible cases.It benefited 2,666 convicts. Among them, 36 are granted remission in sentence, 2,306 are granted special parole or regular parole, while parole has been extended for 324 convicts.For undertrials, the high-powered committee has allowed a 45-day interim bail extendable to 60 days, if he or she is facing one or two cases, in which maximum punishment is seven years or lesser.It benefited 2,267 undertrials as 1,175 got interim bail and 1,092 got regular bail.However, those convicted and undertrials of NDPS case with intermediate or heavy quantity, or rape or Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSOA) or snatching or acid attack are not considered for any relief. Foreign nationals are also not considered for any relief.“We have decided on decongestion of jails as there are directions from the Supreme Court. A high-powered committee has framed the rules for release of jail inmates,” said Jails Minister Ranjit Singh.Comparison Date                                    Prisoners              Occupancy RateMarch 24                             20,546                     106.4%April 16                                16,915                     87.6%
18-04-2020||CHANDIGARH The Haryana Government on Friday decided to further extend the temporary closure of toll collection at 15 toll points in the state being run on build-operate-transfer (BOT) basis till May 3. A spokesman of the Public Works (Building and Roads) Department said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar approved a proposal in this regard. He added that during the temporary closure of these toll points||15 toll points to remain shut||PALWAL Cong ex-MLA gets threat callKaran Dalal, a senior Congress leader and former MLA, has lodged a complaint with the police that he got a life-threatening call on his mobile phone on Friday. Dalal, a resident of New Colony, told the police that an unidentified person called from a mobile number showing Iran as country of origination. He threatened him using abusive language in the call received at 12.45 pm. He said the caller, who was speaking in Hindi with Haryanvi touch, warned to eliminate him without citing any reason. He added that when he tried to ask the reason for his calling, the caller hung up abruptly. The police have filed an FIR and started a probe into it. TNSChandigarh Farmers donate Rs1L to fundAs many as 8,882 farmers visited 163 procurement centres in the state, where 23,222 metric tonnes (MT) of mustard was purchased on the third day. Agriculture and Farmers Welfare ACS Sanjeev Kaushal said total 56,781.68 MT of mustard had been purchased in the state in the first three days. He said 91 farmers had voluntarily contributed Rs1.02 lakh to the Haryana Covid Relief Fund. Kaushal said farmers in containment zones should not worry about the procurement of their produce and assured that the government would buy it as per their registration details on ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal. TNSFARIDABAD Online Seminar by varsityThe Civil Engineering Department of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, organised a one-day online seminar on ‘Covid 19: Challenges and Opportunities’ on Friday. Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar emphasised the need for online discussion and solution to the various problems arising out of Covid. Shekhar Gupta, Assistant General Manager, Ador Welding Limited, advised students to stay at home. He stressed upon the need to change the design of working spaces and sitting plan. TNSKarnal Screening must for house callsWith the government giving permissions to self-employed persons like carpenters, electricians and plumbers to work after April 20, Karnal district authorities have asked such persons to get themselves screened at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC). DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said screening will be mandatory for house calls. “Workers will be allowed to work only after the health check-up. They have to wear masks, gloves, cap and sanitise themselves before and after work.” TNSKarnal School waives 3-month feeAnand Educational Society, which runs Anand Public School in Nigdhu village near here, has announced waiving off monthly fees of students for the months of April, May and June. “Majority our students are from economically-weaker sections and it is our duty to stand with by the parents in this time of hardship, so we have decided to waive off the monthly fees of more than 900 students for three months,” said Subhash Chand Doda, president Anand Educational Society. TNS
18-04-2020||---||With limited manpower, soap, packaging firms start production||Karnal, April 17After pharma and cattle feed industries, some soap and detergent industries, along with print and packaging industries, have started production with limited manpower. The industrialists claimed that shortage of manpower was affecting the production.As per the information gathered by The Tribune, around 15 pharma industries and five cattle feed industries have started working, days after the lockdown was enforced, as they fall in the essential category. Around six soap and detergent industries out of 15, and around five print and packaging industries, which are engaged in packaging of essential commodities have started production.They have been instructed to operate the industries following the guidelines to prevent the spread of Covid pandemic.The Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) Ltd claimed that all essential services were given to these sectors. “The industries dealing in essential commodities have started production. We are ensuring that they get sufficient supply of water and cleanliness is maintained,” said Vaneet Bhatia, Additional General Manger-Cum-Estate Officer, HSIIDC. “After April 20, relaxation is expected to be given to more industries,” he said, adding that they had started online services for granting clearance.
18-04-2020||Palwal||37 labourers on way to Palwal booked||As many as 37 labourers trying to reach the district for work were intercepted by the police before they could enter the state from New Delhi on Friday.Booked for violation of the lockdown orders, all have been sent to a shelter home in Delhi. As per the police, the group of labourers stranded in Chhatarpur area of Delhi were earlier working at Okhla Mandi, but from March 20, they were stuck. A labour contractor based here approached the group offering them work in grain market in Palwal. — TNS
18-04-2020||Parveen Arora||55% lecturers not keen on sharing mobile no. for feedback: Survey||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 17The order of the Department of Higher Education (DHE), directing each lecturer to call up 50 persons each, is not going down well, with 55 per cent lecturers uncomfortable in sharing their personal telephone numbers to collect feedback from people they do not know.A majority of them are women lecturers, who fear unnecessary calls, stalking and teasing by unknown persons. This came to light in a survey conducted by Rashmi Singh, assistant professor in mass communication department of Government College in Karnal, with the help of retired lecturers for getting feedback to know the impact and effectiveness of “online teaching and work from home phenomena”.The survey was done through online forms sent to teachers of government colleges, government-aided colleges and universities. Of the 763 responses received within 24 hours, 90.8 per cent were from government colleges. The response ratio of men and women was 43.1 per cent to 56.9 per cent.“One lecturer was given 50-odd numbers on MIS portal and asked to call them up, asking them whether they were getting essential commodities being provided by the government. The lecturers were asked to collect details regarding source of income of these people, besides Covid symptoms,” said Singh.This survey came out with the opinion that lecturers must be involved in decision-making by the DHE and related issues must be carefully dealt with.A total of 55.6 per cent lecturers said they were never asked. “Had they been asked for their opinion, then according to 53.9 per cent teachers, some new ideas might have evolved,” the survey said.A total of 63.3 per cent lecturers did not know if their college principal was taking classes online. A total of 64 per cent said Deputy Directors must be posted in colleges for fixed tenure so that they were familiar with ground realities.Around 50 per cent lecturers said their administrative heads were not concerned about their mental well-being. Around 60 per cent were of the opinion that lecturers should review work of the DHE from time to time.Around 50 per cent lecturers said some policies and decisions taken by the DHE like rural policy, transfer policy, daily lesson plan and EDUSAT had failed when implemented.A total of 61 per cent lecturers felt comfortable in taking classes online, 60.5 per cent used WhatsApp and 28.5 per cent used multiple platforms.Replying to the question whether online classes could replace classroom teaching after the lockdown, 82.3 per cent replied in the negative while 94.6 per cent emphasised face-to-face interaction.It was found that 57.9 per cent students were happy with online teaching material. Asked how many students joined classes online, 52.2 per cent said 75 per cent students were present whereas 29.1 per cent said attendance was only 50 per cent.Asked about limitations of online classes, 52.7 per cent responded that all students did not have android phones. A total of 31.5 per cent lecturers were of the opinion that there were many limitations like bad internet connection, security issues and children using phones for other purposes.
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||State gets 10,000 rapid kits, speeds up testing||Haryana received 10,000 rapid diagnostic tests kits from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Friday, and with this the state health department is planning to speed up testing for Covid in the coming days.Pool samplingPool sampling is based on mixing of samples and making 1 out of 3 samplesIf the result comes negative, it means all 3 samples are negativeIf the result is positive, all 3 samples have to be tested separately.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, Haryana, said in an exclusive chat with The Tribune that the kits have already arrived in the health department’s warehouse in Gurugram on Friday and will be distributed in the districts from tomorrow.The rapid diagnostic kits, also called antibody tests, provide prompt results by indicating whether the person tested has developed antibodies against the Covid.Arora said Haryana also started pool sampling in Rohtak, which will help speed up Covid testing in the state. “Because of pool sampling, the lab with a capacity of around 200 gave an output of 500 samples today based on pool sampling technique of pooling in three samples,” Arora said.The ICMR has recommended pooling up to five samples.Arora said the state government improved immensely on the testing front ever since the Covid crisis emerged. “Initially, we had only National Institute of Virology laboratory in Pune. Today, we have seven laboratories of the government sector and five in the private sector working in the state. Till April 1, we performed 1,000 tests. Today, we have already completed 9,000 tests and we hope to complete 10,000 tests by tomorrow,” the Health Secretary said.As far as hospitals for treating Covid is concerned, Arora said that 36 private hospitals, seven government hospitals, five government medical colleges and three private medical colleges have been providing these facilities in the state. “We have 11,094 Covid beds, 51 Covid hospitals, 744 ICU beds exclusively for Covid patients and 292 ventilators. Order has been placed for 300 more ventilators,” he said.
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Give food, shelter to eligible migrants: High Court||Taking suo motu cognisance of issues pertaining to migrant labour, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed Haryana to immediately examine and provide food, shelter and necessary assistance to eligible, but left out migrant labourers or persons approaching nodal officers personally or on helpline numbers.The direction came after the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli took on record an undertaking given by Haryana Additional Advocate General Deepak Balyan. He submitted that any person in need of assistance even today could approach the respondents with his grievances.He said it would be considered immediately in accordance with the directions issued by the state government. He stated that the government was taking all possible steps to provide food, shelter and monetary assistance to the eligible.Disposing of the PIL, the Bench asserted that it was evident that the state had and was taking steps to provide necessary relief to the needy. The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice by the Indian Federation of Trade Unions for providing food, shelter and monetary benefits to 4,314 migrant labourers in Panipat district in terms of orders issued time and again by the state government pursuant to directions issued by the Government of India.As the petition filed in public interest came up for hearing through video-conferencing, the Bench asserted that the plea could not be entertained as the petitioner was not having juristic status or legal entity. The Bench, at the same time, accepted the submission of the petitioner’s counsel for taking up the issue suo motu.Responding to the contentions, the state submitted in its reply that it had notified helpline number 1100, on which online registration forms could be furnished by unorganised labour for financial assistance of Rs 1,000 per week for a month. It stated that two more helpline numbers had been notified.The state submitted that 29,533 labourers had got themselves registered and after verification, 13,182 persons found eligible were granted benefit. It stated that as on April 16, no less than 772 persons were residing in 10 shelter homes in Panipat district.The state also stated that landowners and landlords had been directed not to demand rent from labourers and workers for a month. “In the circumstances, by taking on record the statement and undertaking given by the Additional Advocate General for Haryana, the petition stands disposed of,” the Bench concluded.
18-04-2020||Rohtak||Just want to return home: Gudiya||Gudiya, a migrant woman from Chhatarpur district of Madhya Pradesh who has been lodged at a shelter home in Rohtak amidst the ongoing lockdown, has given birth to a son.Gudiya’s husband Ashok works and lives in Rajasthan while her parents stay at Ranila village in Charkhi Dadri district of Haryana. Last month, Gudiya and Ashok came to see Gudiya’s parents in Ranila.“We wanted to go to our native place in Madhya Pradesh as we were out of work due to the lockdown. As no transport was available, we started walking towards Delhi. However, the borders got sealed and we were stopped by the police in Rohtak district. We were then sent to this shelter home,” stated Gudiya’s father Bihari Lal.Gudiya, who was pregnant, was sent to the Rohtak PGIMS a couple of days ago as the expected time of her delivery neared. She gave birth to a boy and has returned to the shelter home set up at Dayanand Matth.“Proper arrangements have been made for the woman and her child,” maintained Rampal Arya, president of Arya Pratinidhi Sabha, Haryana, which looks after the Rohtak-based matth.
18-04-2020||Hisar||Advance preparation helps Sirsa administration contain Covid||The advance preparation strategy to tackle any emergency situation in wake of Covid seems to have paid off in Sirsa district. So far, all four positive patients have recovered.All patients recovered4 Covid positive cases4 patients recovered377 samples taken364 test negative13 reports awaited605 with travel history traced487 complete 28-day quarantine periodThe health authorities have also managed to trace 133 contacts of these positive cases and all of them have tested negative. Besides, the persons with foreign travel history and those from outside the state were traced and all of them — 605 — were home-quarantined while 487 of them have completed the quarantine period.The Health Department authorities were apprehensive of the infection as the district shares its borders with Punjab and Rajasthan – the states that have seen higher number of Covid-positive cases than Haryana. However, the district officials said they had educated and imparted requisite training to the health staff, including ASHA and anganwadi workers, besides sweepers and other employees who are frontline warriors in the fight against Covid.Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Viresh Bhushan said the entire machinery was in action after the test report of the first patient arrived at 10 pm on March 30. “We have adequate trained workforce and the entire locality was contained by next morning. We even managed to trace 22 contacts of the woman and the samples were sent to the PGIMS in Rohtak for testing,” he added.Besides the woman, her two children and a cook working in a mosque in a village of the Rori block of the district also tested positive for Covid. “Though it raised the concerns of the authorities, we were able to trace the contacts and contain the suspected area. The police too sealed the borders with Rajasthan and Punjab. With the help of the police and the administration, frontline warriors took care of the affected areas. It’s a matter of great satisfaction that we have not only successfully treated the four affected persons but no new cases are also being reported so far,” he added.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner RC Bidhan said they had fixed the timings for shopkeepers to sell essential commodities to the locals. “We have been issuing directions to the people, especially shopkeepers, to abide by the instructions of the authorities,” he said.
18-04-2020||Rohtak||Cash withdrawal on doorstep for Rohtak residents||A mobile post-office facility was launched here on Friday to provide postal services and cash withdrawal from bank accounts on the doorstep.Deputy Commissioner RS Verma flagged off the mobile post-office from the Head Post Office. He said apart from postal services, it would allow residents to withdraw money from their savings account in any bank.Locals can dial 9467715560 to request the service in their area. The underlying idea behind the exercise is to provide postal services at doorstep and facilitate cash withdrawal without having to go to the bank or ATM.Meanwhile, Senior Postmaster Dharambir Saini said the mobile post-office would reach out to residents of the eastern half of the city on even dates and those of the western half on odd dates.
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Register property from April 20||An official spokesman said proper compliance of social distancing would be ensured by allowing presence of only those connected with one deed at one time. He said proper staggering of e-appointment for registration would be ensured by specifying time for presenting documents. — TNS
18-04-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Can’t afford to let guard down till Diwali: CM, Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 17Though the Covid graph trajectory will decide the fate of Lockdown 2.0 clamped till May 3, the Haryana Government intends to be in a state of heightened preparedness till Diwali to tackle any relapse cases, while development in the state will be a casualty due to paucity of funds.Speaking exclusively to The Tribune here on Friday, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said though number of cases being reported from smaller states was not showing a rise, the same could not be said about bigger states.“This ambiguity around the progress of Covid is what lends it uncertainty. Though everybody is committed to dealing with it and every state has arrangements in place, lifting of the lockdown is directly linked to number of cases. So far, some states have flattened the curve, while cases are still rising in others. A downward dip in the curve will indicate the possibility of lifting the lockdown. As of now, nothing can be said,” Khattar said.In keeping with the directions of the MHA, the state has been divided into red, orange and green zones. Though economic activity will begin in the green zone after April 20, no activities will be allowed in the red zone and containment areas till 14 days from the last case reported. “There are reports of relapse of the virus in patients who recovered in other countries, though there is no such case in ours. The arrangements of separate isolation and quarantine wards will have to continue till Covid is wiped out. The Prime Minister has indicated that we be in a state of preparedness till Diwali. So, once the spread is controlled, we can reduce the number of wards but the arrangements will have to be in place,” the CM explained.Adding that the broader directions of the action plan post-lockdown will have to come from the Centre since Covid is a countrywide issue, Khattar stated that the government will decide on its roadmap for animpetus to the state’s economy after knowing the broader framework and concession on planning ahead.Mounting lossesAdding that Covid upset the state’s budgetary calculations, the CM said Rs 2,000 crore was lost in revenue last month. “Of the Rs 6,200 crore revenue expected this month, we are likely to get only Rs 1,600 crore. This is the time for everybody to donate liberally. Cash benefits to the tune of Rs 450 cr have been given, while Rs 500 cr has been given to the Health Department for purchase of equipment and kits. Ration worth Rs 140 cr and Rs 22 crore to Deputy Commissioners for food packets has been given, besides relief in payments of power bills among others,” he said.The loss, coupled with the unforeseen expenditure, is bound to affect development in the state. “There is no income from VAT, excise, stamp duty and mining. We have only expenditure, no income. Obviously, development will be a casualty, since we have to use available funds to pay salaries, pensions and repay debts. So, nobody should expect anything more from the government. They should, in fact, consider giving a part of what they earn. For the first time, we have had to ask farmers also to contribute because there is no income,” Khattar said.Procurement smooth nowReferring to problems being faced by farmers in mandis, Khattar said these were “teething troubles” and things had settled down since mustard procurement began on April 15. “We have doubled the number of procurement centres. At places with no infrastructure, minor issues that came up have been settled. For wheat procurement, we will start will 1,000 centres of the 1,800 in the first phase.If these seem enough, we will carry on with these instead of expanding. The farmer will not be put to inconvenience and every single grain will be purchased,” the CM emphasised, as he sat monitoring procurement in mandis on Friday on real-time basis.All’s well after Tablighi spikeOn the spike in cases in Haryana after the Tablighi event, Khattar said the current focus was to identify and treat patients. “There was no hate-crime or violence. While the police did its job, we reached out to leaders of all communities to contain strife and maintain peace. The maulvis helped by urging those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event to report themselves and we also hardened our stand by announcing action against those who continue to hide. It paid off and all is well,” Khattar said. He concluded by hoping that normalcy would returnand the Centre would find ways to compensate the states for the loss of revenue over the last two months.
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Government clears Rs 72 cr for masks, protective kits||As six new cases were reported today taking the state’s tally to 214, the Haryana Government cleared purchases of Rs 72.32 crore for N-95 masks, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, testing kits and ventilators.Three cases were reported from Panchkula today with all three having Tablighi Jamaat connection. They were part of a group of 27 people who had come from Sikar, Rajasthan, recently. So far, six people have tested positive in the group. The district’s tally reached 17 today.Two cases were reported from Palwal and one from Nuh. All three had Tablighi Jamaat connection. Nuh now has a tally of 56 cases, highest among all districts, followed by Faridabad (33), Gurugram (32) and Palwal (32).A total of 8,834 tests have been conducted so far with 7,148 coming out negative and results in 1,527 cases still awaited. A total of 86 patients have been discharged and three have died.With the budget of Rs 72.32 crore, the state is set to buy 11.91 lakh N-95 masks, 54.54 lakh triple layer masks, 14.81 PPE kits, 38.59 lakh gloves, 11.63 hydroxychloroquine tablets (400mg), 3.12 lakh hand sanitisers (500 ml), 85,000 rapid test kits and 7,000 real-time PCR kits.Besides them, 1.1 lakh disposable bedsheets, 4,400 body bags and 1.03 lakh VTMs will be bought too. Also, 2,200 hand-held thermal scanners with 100 for each district, 46 ventilators for adults and 35 paediatric ventilators are also on the shopping list.Sampling rate to riseAdditional Chief Secretary Health Rajeev Arora said that PGIMS Rohtak having a capacity of 180 samples per day is able to test 500 samples with a pooling method that was started recently.He said with the testing machines, which are expected sometime this week, the capacity of the PGIMS, Rohtak, will increase to 1,000 samples per day using the pooling method.According to the ICMR, a pooled-testing algorithm involves the Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) screening of a specimen pool comprising multiple individual patient specimens, preferably five, followed by individual testing only if a pool screens positive.If the pool test is negative, it results in substantial cost savings for large number of tests.Arora added that they were expecting 10,000 rapid testing kits. These willbe used in hotspots of Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Nuh, and Panchkula. Random sampling of the workers who will startgoing to work in industries will be done.
18-04-2020||Karnal||2 patients -ve now||Fresh reports of two patients, including a staff nurse, who tested positive a few days back, came negative today. They’ll be discharged only after their two consecutive reports were negative.One patient is a youth of Rasin village, who got the infection from his father, the first Covid patient in the district. He died at the PGI in CHandigarh earlier this month. The staff nurse also got the infection from the first Covid patient.“The youth tested negative after 22-day treatment at the KCGMC. His three previous reports were positive,” said Dr Jagdish Dureja, KCGMC Director.Dr Ashwani Ahuja, Civil Surgeon, said both patients tested negative today. — TNS
18-04-2020||Karnal||Principals resent ‘delay’ in pension||Resentment prevails among the members of Retired College Principals and Teachers Federation (RCPTF), Haryana, allegedly over delay in disbursement of pension.Members said 17 days of April had elapsed, but they did not receive the pension for March which is paid by seventh of every month. —TNS
18-04-2020||Karnal||Waive fixed electricity charges, HCCI to govt||The Haryana Chamber of Commerce and Industry (HCCI) is unhappy with the condition of waiver of fixed charges of electricity by the government. As per the HCCI, the government has fixed a condition of 50 per cent consumption of electricity during March month based on average consumption of January and February. HCCI members also demanded withdrawal of the condition of capping of Rs10,000 of waiver.They said the lockdown was enforced on March 25 and before that day the industries had already consumed almost 75 per cent of electricity of the month bill, so they will not get benefit of the waiver off fixed charges. They demanded waiver of the fixed charges without any condition. — TNS
18-04-2020||Chandigarh||High Court turns down bail plea of Bollywood producer||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today dismissed the bail plea of Bollywood producer Kabir Lavee in a cheating and forgery case after observing that the allegations were serious in nature. Lavee was seeking regular bail in a case registered in August last year under Sections 120-B, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC at the DLF police station in Gurugram district.About the caseThe petitioner had in October 2016, being the guarantor, along with the co-accused, allegedly conspired to defraud the complainant-financier to advance a loan of Rs5,02,59,573 in favour of a company, while creating equitable mortgage of landed property, depicting the same to be owned by co-accused and his father Shravan Kumar Aggarwal.After hearing counsel for the petitioner and advocate Harsh Chopra for the complainant, Justice Lalit Batra asserted that the petitioner had in October 2016, being the guarantor, along with the co-accused, allegedly conspired to defraud the complainant-financier to advance a loan of Rs5,02,59,573 in favour of a company, while creating equitable mortgage of landed property, depicting the same to be owned by co-accused and his father Shravan Kumar Aggarwal.“Without commenting anything on the merits of the case lest it may prejudice the outcome of the trial, but taking into consideration the fact that allegations against the petitioner are serious in nature; that co-accused are still at large; that there is serious contention of respondent-state that the petitioner, if released on bail, will interfere in the trial or tamper with evidence; keeping in view the above scenario, the petitioner does not deserve the concession of bail,” Justice Batra asserted.
18-04-2020||Gurugram||Gangster shot dead over personal rivalry||A 30-year-old history-sheeter and gangster was gunned down by unidentified assailants late Thursday night in Sector 9.An FIR has been registered against five at Sector 9-A police station.According to the police, the deceased is identified as Rahul, a resident of Feroz Gandhi Colony, who died on spot after getting eight bullet shots. He was involved in over 10 cases of murder, murder attempts, and Arms Act. He was also involved in the murder of slain gangster Neetu Gehlot in 2008. Recently on April, 4, he was let off in bail from Bhondsi jail."We have identified and nabbed four accused — Manish, Mangal, Prem, and Vicky — residents of Feroz Gandhi Colony. All were involved in liquor smuggling and recently had a tiff with Rahul. The police are interrogating them and no revelation has been made till the filing of the report," said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime. —OC
