18-08-2020||Deepender Deswal||Haryana board follows CBSE, cuts syllabus by 30 per cent||Tribune News ServiceHisar, August 18Taking a cue from the CBSE, the Board of School Education Haryana has decided to reduce the syllabus for classes from 9 to 12 for the current academic session to ease pressure on students.BSEH, Bhiwani, chairman Jagbir Singh said they have rationalised the syllabus on the pattern of the Central Board for Secondary Education (CBSE). Thus, the BSEH too has decided to follow the same pattern in curriculum so that the students have no problem in further class examinations and the tests like National Talent Search Scheme being conducted by NCERT.He said the decision to cut the syllabus by 30% has been taken in view of the Covid 19 pandemic which has adversely affected the studies of students. The schools have been closed due to coronavirus and students are being taught through online mode.The chairman maintained that the state government has suggested to the education board to rationalise the syllabus after which the latter discussed the matter with the experts of the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and principals and lecturers of the schools and colleges.He said the reduced syllabus will ease the pressure on students as well as teachers. “We hope that students and teachers will be comfortable with the cut in syllabus in absence of regular schooling on account of closure of school,” the board chairman added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-board-follows-cbse-cuts-syllabus-by-30-per-cent-127959
18-08-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak DC tests positive for Covid-19||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 18Rohtak Deputy Commissioner RS Verma has tested positive for COVID-19. Verma got himself tested after he had a fever.Rohtak Civil Surgeon Dr Anil Birla said the Deputy Commissioner had quarantined himself at his residence after testing positive for the novel coronavirus.“He had a fever and got himself tested for COVID. He has been found positive and is quarantined at his residence. Contact-tracing is being carried out and the persons who had met the Deputy Commissioner recently are being screened,” Dr Birla informed.As many as 2,296 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Rohtak district so far. Of these, 1,809 have been discharged after treatment while 26 have died.As per official figures, the number of active COVID cases in the district is 461, out of whom 34 have been hospitalised while 427 are under home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-dc-tests-positive-for-covid-19-127958
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Pharmacists are now pharmacy officers in Haryana||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij said on Tuesday that the nomenclature of pharmacists working in the department has been changed to pharmacy officers.This is a matter of dignity for 1800 pharmacists working in various health centres across the state, he said.Vij said in this regard the Government Pharmacy Association had met him several times and requested to amend the nomenclature of pharmacist posts.Apart from this, other pending demands of Government Pharmacy Association are also being considered. He said that in future, pharmacist will now be known as pharmacy officer, senior pharmacist as senior pharmacy officer and the chief pharmacist as chief pharmacy officer.The state government has issued a notification in this regard. Upon changing the nomenclature of the pharmacist, there will be no change in pay scale, duties and responsibilities.In this regard, the head of the association, Vinod Dalal, extended sincere gratitude to the health minister and said Vij is a decent, honest and noble person who has always worked for the welfare of the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pharmacists-are-now-pharmacy-officers-in-haryana-127947
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Come Nov 1, Haryana govt set to become ‘paperless’ with e-Office in place||Come November 1, 2020, the functioning of the Haryana Government is set to be “paperless” with the e-Office software set to be implemented across different departments of the state government.In fact, with 22 departments already switching  over to electronic movement of files to the Chief Minister’s Office(CMO), Chief Secretary (CS) Office and the Finance Department (FD), the e-Office project has got a major boost. The CMO, the CS Office and FD have already switched over to the e-Office for processing the official files.A senior officer said while another 20 departments would move to the e-Office software for disposal of the official files on September 1, the state government had set the November 1 deadline for all departments to follow suit.“The usage of e-Office shall significantly speed up the file movement and improve the operational efficiency of the departments,” he hoped.Prominent among 22 departments opting for e-Office included Development and Panchayats, Employment, Higher Education, Housing, HSIIDC, Public Health Engineering, Labour, Rural Development, Social Justice and Empowerment, and Science and Technology.Meanwhile, an elaborate standard operating procedure (SOP) has been put in place by the state government to guide the officials in the functioning of new institutional mechanism.Sources said the e-Office would prove to be a boon in the COVID-19 times as the officials concerned could dispose of files through electronic mode on desktops, laptops and smartphones, which will cut unnecessary delays.Developed by the National Informatics Centre, e-Office provided a digital workplace solution that would pave the way for an efficient and open government by streamlining workflow.Highlights*As many as 22 departments shift to e-Office for movement of files to CMO, CS Office & FD.*Another 20 departments to implement e-Office from September 1.*Government fixes November 1 deadline for other departments to switch to electronic movement of files.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/come-nov-1-haryana-govt-set-to-become-paperless-with-e-office-in-place-127945
18-08-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula sees yet another high; reports 62 new coronavirus cases||Panchkula reported 62 new coronavirus cases---the highest single-day spike for the district yet---on Tuesday, officials said.This takes Panchkula district’s tally to 1,267.The health department meanwhile said that 19 people whose tests came back positive could not be tracked down, primarily because they provided wrong contact details when their swabs were taken. The health department said that these cases will not be taken into account in the overall tally.Nine of the new cases came from Sector 15; four Sector 8, 3 each from Sector 21, Pinjore, Sector 9, Sector 20, Sector 10, Sector 19 and ITBP, one each from Sector 25, Sector 2, Mansa Devi Complex Sector 4, village Kundi, Sector 4, Mansa Devi Complex Sector 5, Kalka, Sector 27 and Sector 17.The district has 398 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-sees-yet-another-high-reports-62-new-coronavirus-cases-127925
18-08-2020||Sushil Manav ||‘Logjam broken’, claims Union minister even as Capt-Khattar meet on SYL ends inconclusively||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, August 18 The much-hyped meeting between Chief Ministers of Punjab and Haryana convened by the Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to work out a solution on the ticklish SYL issue on the directions of the Supreme Court ended inconclusively on Tuesday. While Sekhawat sounded positive after the meet saying that today’s interaction was held in a cordial atmosphere and all the parties will meet again, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh minced no words in warning the centre that “Punjab will burn” if the state is forced to share water with Haryana. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, on the other hand, said whatever the outcome of today’s or the subsequent meetings to be held on this issue, Haryana will put up it before the Supreme Court. “The talks were held with open hearts. There is no doubt that the SYL must be constructed, as this is the verdict of the Supreme Court too. Whatever comes out of these meetings, will be brought to the notice of the apex court by Haryana,” Khattar said after the meeting.  “The Punjab CM couldn’t attend the meeting personally, because he has isolated himself after deputy speaker, some ministers and MLAs of his state tested positive for Covid-19. However, he attended the meeting through virtual mode. We will have second round of meeting in the next couple of days as and when doctors allow the Punjab CM to move out and will start from where we have left. I can’t say what solution we will come with, but at least I can say that the logjam between the two states on this issue has been broken with today’s meeting,” Shekhawat said after the meeting. Urging the central government to be cautious on the SYL issue, which had the potential to disturb the nation’s security, Amarinder Singh reiterated the need for a tribunal to make a fresh time-bound assessment of the water availability, even as he sought complete share of water for his state from the total resource available, including from Yamuna river. “You have to look at the issue from the national security perspective. If you decide to go ahead with SYL, Punjab will burn and it will become a national problem, with Haryana and Rajasthan also suffering the impact,” Amarinder Singh told the Centre. It was decided during the meeting that the Chief Ministers of Punjab and Haryana will meet in Chandigarh, on a date to be fixed later, for further talks on the issue, and will then go to the Union Minister again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/logjam-broken-claims-union-minister-even-as-capt-khattar-meet-on-syl-ends-inconclusively-127907
18-08-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Engineering student shoots himself dead in Gurugram||Gurugram, August 18A 20-year-old engineering student reportedly committed suicide in posh Gurugram apartment in sector 84 late Monday night.Police claimed that the deceased shot himself with a gun while the family was away to a hospital attending to his ailing father. No suicide note was recovered.The deceased identified as Oshit Sharma, was a B-Tech first year student at Chennai based Ocean Engineering college. During the lockdown he had returned home and was staying with his family.Police said that on Monday around 10:00 pm when Oshit shot himself. After hearing the gunshot, neighbors informed society security staff and later police was called.“After getting information we reached at flat which was locked from inside. We broke the door open and entered into the flat and found body of Oshit  in his bed room. He had shot himself dead. We recovered a country made pistol from the spot but no suicide note was found there. We informed his family and took the body in custody”, said Sub inspector Krishan Kumar who is investigating the case.The police is trying to ascertain the reason behind the extreme step and the origin of the gun with which he shot himself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/engineering-student-shoots-himself-dead-in-gurugram-127878
18-08-2020||New Delhi||SC Collegium approves elevation of advocate Rajesh Bhardwaj as judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court||The Supreme Court Collegium on Tuesday recommended names of seven advocates for their elevation as judges in the Delhi High Court and the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The Collegium recommended the names of six advocates for appointment as judges of the Delhi High Court. Those recommended for elevation to the Bench are Jasmeet Singh, Amit Bansal, Tara Vitasta Ganju, Anish Dayal, Amit Sharma, and Mini Pushkarna.The Collegium recommended the appointment of advocate Rajesh Kumar Bhardwaj as a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-collegium-approves-elevation-of-advocate-rajesh-bhardwaj-as-judge-of-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-127847
18-08-2020||The street alongside Patel Nagar is Narwana was dug up about one year ago by the public health contractors to lay sewerage pipes||Narwana Street in pathetic condition||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaRationalise medical consultation chargesThe charging of unbearable consultation fees and unwarranted clinical tests has incapacitated the common people to cash in on medical benefits. The consultation fee in Hisar starts from Rs 200 onwards. If the appointment is sought on phone, the hospital administration adds Rs100 more to the routine consultation fees. However, to attend an emergency case, the fees touches the mark of Rs1,000. Unable to meet such heavy medical expenses, patients risk their lives by going to quacks for treatment.The medical fraternity should rationalise consultation charges so that nobody is deprived of medical services.Baljeet Singh, HisarStray cattle menace continues in GurugramThe stray cattle have become a very big problem in the Badshapur Sohna Road area. While going to Sector 53-54 crossing through Sector 69 becomes very risky. No doubt they sit on the roads and pose danger to commuters' life. It is the responsibility of the authorities concerned to make it a safe place for all.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/narwana-street-in-pathetic-condition-127825
18-08-2020||Hisar||Online training concludes||Academic session starts at DAVIMFaridabad: The DAV Institute of Management (DAVIM), Faridabad, commenced its new academic session on Monday through online mode for the second and third year undergraduate and postgraduate students with hawan yajna. The hawan was performed in a peaceful and positive environment and was attended by the principal director and all staff members. Dr Sanjeev Sharma, principal director, DAVIM, motivated the staff and emphasised on the need of online classes in the pandemic situation and encouraged the faculty to connect to students through various online modes till the situation improved .He also praised the efforts of the faculty and also addressed them as Covid warriors.Campaign on environment beginsFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has launched a "one week for nation" campaign on a mission to support, protect, and nurture the environment. The campaign is being carried out by Vasundhara, the environment society of the university in collaboration with the Unnat Bharat Abhiyan cell. The campaign was inaugurated by Vice-Chancellor Dinesh Kumar by planting a sapling of fruit-bearing plants on the campus. He said such activities were required at regular intervals to cultivate a sense of belongingness with nature and environment among students so that they could make an eco-friendly lifestyle as part of their lives. Detailing about the campaign, the chairperson of environmental sciences Dr Renuka Gupta said various online activities had been lined up with the theme "My Earth, my environment" which included plantation drive and selfie contest "Nurture your plant", wherein students and faculty members would have to plant a sapling and share his or her selfie with the plant.Skill varsity signs MoUPalwal: The state government-owned Shri Vishwakarma Skill University(SVSU) Dudhola, Palwal and Maruti Suzuki India Ltd have signed a memorandum of understanding(MoU) for a technical collaboration for providing required skills in the related field for students of the university. The MoU was signed recently in the presence of Minister for Skill Development, Haryana, Mool Chand Sharma. Revealing that the aim of the MoU is to promote graduate programme (BBA) in retail sales skilling through its earn and learn model, Raj Nehru, Vice-Chancellor of SVSU said this would create an opportunity for the youths of Haryana, especially with SVSU-affiliated colleges across the state as Maruti Suzuki was a giant automobile manufacturer and had a large dealer network available in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-training-concludes-127824
18-08-2020||Mukesh Tandon
||Post deadline, work on Panipat old Industrial Area still pending||Tribune News Service Panipat, August 17 Waterlogged broken roads, choked sewerage and non-functional street lights have become the identity of the old Industrial Area here. The BJP-led state government had sanctioned Rs 31 crore for providing basic infrastructure in the area in 2017, but reportedly only 12 per cent work was completed so far due to the lethargic attitude of the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) officials and the contractor.  The deadline to complete the work ended in March. Industrialists had raised their voice before the MP, MLAs and Mayor for poor infrastructure but the problem was not resolved.  Notably, former Industries Minister Vipul Goel had announced Rs 31 crore for improving infrastructure there, including street lights, roller compacted concrete (RCC) roads and sewerage on July 28, 2017.  The HSIIDC had allotted work orders worth Rs 16.93 crore in March 2019 to a construction company for upgradation of roads to Balaji Construction Company and that of construction of box drains worth Rs 9.39 crore to Shiv Darshan associates on September 12, 2019. Panipat Industrial Development Association president Roshan Lal Dhiman said the condition of roads in the industrial area was pitiable. Commuters find it very difficult to ply their vehicles on the roads here, said Dhiman.  “I have filed complaint on the CM Window against the lethargic attitude of the HSIIDC officials, but to no avail,” he added. Dhiman said on Friday he gave a call to the members of the industrial association to protest and start hunger strike against the issue. Vinod Dhamija, an exporter, said they had been suffering due to the absence of basic infrastructure in the area.  The government had sanctioned funds worth crores in 2017 and the tenders were allotted last year, but only 8 to 10 per cent work had been done so far while the contractor had to complete the work within 12 months i.e. up to March 2020, he said. Contractor got the roads dug and stopped the work midway, he alleged.  Sunil Tuli, another industrialist, said they had raised the issue before MP Sanjay Bhatia, MLA Pramod Vij and Mayor Avneet Kaur several times, but to no avail. Gulshan of Balaji Construction Company said the work was delayed due to some technical reasons. Around 15 per cent work has been completed and the work would be completed by December, he claimed. He had installed a concrete plant of increased capacity at the site to speed-up the work, he added. Despite several attempts, Virender Kadyan, XEN, HSIIDC, did not respond.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/post-deadline-work-on-panipat-old-industrial-area-still-pending-127556
18-08-2020||Parveen Arora||Karnal doctor joins Sonu Sood’s ‘Adopt a needy patient’ drive||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 17Joining the campaign “Adopt a needy patient” launched by actor Sonu Sood, Karnal’s neurosurgeon Dr Ashwani Kumar has announced to operate one brain tumour patient free of cost every month. He said the patients from across the nation could avail the facility at Virk Hospital here.“My humble request to everyone who can afford to help a needy, please come out of your comfort world, adopt a patient in any hospital near you if you can or at least someone’s medicine expenses. If you all do this I promise you half the misery will just vanish (sic),” said Sood in his tweet.In response to Sood’s call, Dr Kumar promised, “I adore philanthropic wake-up call of Sonu Sood to ‘Adopt a needy patient’. I promise to operate one brain tumour patient per month totally free of cost.”Sood also applauded the step of Dr Kumar and replied in tweet, “I am so proud of you brother. We need more doctors and individuals from different fields to come forward and adopt a patient. Let’s make this country misery free. Ask your friends to do the same (sic).” One operation costs between Rs 1.5 lakh and 2 lakh. “I appeal the patients suffering from brain tumour, who cannot afford the surgery to come to our hospital. I assure to get his/her operation conducted free of cost,” said Dr Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-doctor-joins-sonu-soods-adopt-a-needy-patient-drive-127557
18-08-2020||---||Finally, Metro project for Gurugram; residents elated||Gurugram, August 17City residents are happy at the Cabinet decision approving a final detailed project report (DPR) of Metro rail, which will connect several parts of the city, including old Gurugram. The long-awaited 29-km-long corridor will be built at a cost Rs 6,821.13 crore. It will have 27 elevated stations and six interchange stations.As per the plan, the corridor will extend the Metro connectivity from HUDA City Centre to Sector 45, Cyber Park, district shopping centre, Sector 47, Subhash Chowk, Sector 48, Sector 72 A, Hero Honda Chowk, Udyog Vihar Phase 6, Sector 10, Sector 37, Basai village, Sector 9, Sector 7, Sector 4, Sector 5, Ashok Vihar, Sector 3, Bajghera Road, Palam Vihar Extension, Palam Vihar, Sector 23 A, Sector 22, Udyog Vihar Phase 4, Udyog Vihar Phase 5 and merge with rapid metro corridor near Cyber City.The upcoming Metro will provide seamless connectivity with Delhi.The daily ridership on the corridor for the years 2025, 2031 and 2041 is expected to be 5.34 lakh passenger trips, 7.26 lakh passenger trips and 8.81 lakh passenger trips, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/finally-metro-project-for-gurugram-residents-elated-127558
18-08-2020||
||Gurugram lost over 10K acres of green cover in 15 years||Gurugram, August 17 A report of the Town and Country Planning Department to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) revealed that green cover of around 10,000 acres was lost in the past 15 years to build the millennium city.  The figures have left the environmentalists fuming. Reportedly, area under the national conservation zone (NCZ) has reduced from 47,980 acres in 2005 to 37,270 acres in 2020 which was 47,481 in 2012.  The NCZs are the locations which receive protection because of their recognised natural and ecological values. As per the mandate, no non-forest activity or construction that disrupts the character of the place is allowed in these zones. Gururam since last two decades has been under the scanner owing to rampant loss of forest and green cover to aid unchecked commercialisation and industrialisation process. The state government has been drawing flak for non-finalisation of the NCZ and alleged attempts to keep parts of the Aravalis out of it. The report states that while the NCZ area stood at 3,01,747 in 2005 and now it is 2,23,338 . The authoritites argued that the 2005 figures were satellite based and the present figures had been submitted as per the ground report. To clear the ambiguity, the NGT has formed a four-memebred committee to comprise of experts from the National Remote Sensing Centre, Hyderabad, Forest Survey of India, Dehradun, and Ministry of Forests and Revenue Secretary, to examine the report. The committee shall also probe validity of the reasons behind the reduction in the area. Environmentalists meanwhile demand strict exemplary action against the concerned to save forests from further damage. “It will take decades to naturally replenish the loss done to the environment. Man-made green belts or zones can never replace natural zones. Despite the loss, the authorities are still trying to keep the Aravallis out of the NCZ and turning a blind eye to the constructions being done here,” said Sanjay Bhadana of Save Aravali Trust.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-lost-over-10k-acres-of-green-cover-in-15-years-127559
18-08-2020||Nitish Sharma
||Notification for delimitation of Ambala wards issued||Tribune News Service Ambala, August 17 The state government has issued a notification for the proposed delimitation of the municipal corporation wards, the objections and suggestions regarding which can be submitted at the DC office. The tenure of the previous house got completed in July 2018 and last year the corporation was bifurcated into Ambala Municipal Corporation and Ambala Sadar Municipal Council. In the last tenure there were 20 wards under the corporation — 11 in Ambala City and the remaining nine in Ambala Sadar (Cantonment). In the next term the corporation would have 20 wards. Of all 20 wards while seven will be reserved for women, including two for women candidates from Scheduled Caste, five for SC candidates, two for BC candidates and six in open (general) category. An ad hoc committee appointed by the state government had finalised the delimitation exercise. Meanwhile, former councillors and Congress members expressed dissatisfaction with the delimitation process. Himmat Singh, a former councillor, said, “We are not satisfied with the procedure being followed. A map should have been issued.”  Parth Gupta, Municipal Commissioner, said, “The state government has issued a draft notification and people can submit their objections to the decision as well as their suggestion at the DC’s  office.” DC Ashok Sharma said, “The residents can submit their objections and suggestions by August 23, these will be considered and then a final notification will be issued by the government.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notification-for-delimitation-of-ambala-wards-issued-127560
18-08-2020||
||Parties gear up for Baroda poll||New Delhi, August 17 The Election Commission is yet to announce the schedule for byelection to Baroda, but leaders of major political parties have started girding up. The byelection has been necessitated due to the death of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda. The buzz is that the byelection will be held by the end of September or in first week of October. The strategy of the BJP and JJP is being woven around former Chief Minister  Bhupinder Singh Hooda. The Congress stalwart is considered to have a strong influence on farmers, especially in rural areas. The JJP is desirous of fielding its nominee as the joint candidate. A segment in the BJP is keen on fielding its nominee. The Congress has stepped up efforts of public contact within lockdown limitations. Its Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda is working overnight to connect with the public, especially the youth. A number of Congress MLAs have paid low-profile visits to the area. In the last Assembly elections, the BJP nominee was runner-up, while the JJP candidate had finished third.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parties-gear-up-for-baroda-poll-127561
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Baroda will teach BJP a lesson: Deepender||Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda said today that the people of Baroda would teach the BJP a lesson for its “anti-farmer” initiatives. “The BJP has committed a sin by calling the farmer a traitor. This statement has caused anger among farmers of Haryana,” he said at a press conference. “The BJP has continued its tirade against farmers and three ordinances during the Covid crisis is an indication of this mindset. Such serious policy decisions have been taken without the consent of Parliament. The government wants to promote capitalists.” Deepender took on the state BJP government, saying Haryana had the highest unemployment across the country this month.  “Instead of giving jobs to the youth, the government is snatching employment that exists. The government does not stand anywhere compared to jobs created during our term,” he pointed out. He said the government did not defend 1,983 physical training instructors because of political reasons and their jobs could have been saved had the government put forward all facts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/baroda-will-teach-bjp-a-lesson-deepender-127562
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||ASHA workers extend strike||With talks between the state government and ASHA Workers Union failing today, the union decided to extend the statewide strike till August 21. Paresh and Surekha, union’s president and general secretary, alleged that the government delegation gave no assurance on their genuine demands, forcing them to extend the strike. They said there was no assurance on implementing the notification dated July 21, 2018, through which the Health Department agreed to accept some of their demands. At least 20,000 ASHA  workers had been on strike since August 7 in support of their demands. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/asha-workers-extend-strike-127563
18-08-2020||Sushil Manav||SYL an issue between Centre & Punjab: Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 17A day ahead of his meeting with his Punjab counterpart over the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal, convened by the Centre, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said he was hopeful that Capt Amarinder Singh would agree to completion of the canal in accordance with the Supreme Court order.Talking to The Tribune, Khattar said Haryana would decide its future course of action on the issue on the basis of the outcome of this meeting.Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat had convened the meeting to work out a way for implementation of the Supreme Court order, that mandated completion of the remaining part of the SYL canal by Punjab.“Basically, the issue in tomorrow’s meeting is between the Centre and Punjab. The Centre has convened the meeting in compliance with Supreme Court directions issued last month that Punjab and Haryana should sit together to work out a solution,” Khattar said.“As far as Haryana’s stand is concerned, it is well known as we are eager for early completion of the canal. I am hopeful that Punjab will show a positive attitude in tomorrow’s meeting,” he stated.Asked whether he was hopeful of a positive response from his Punjab counterpart in view of the neighbouring state’s oft-repeated stand that it did not have a drop of water to spare, Khattar said he would not jump to conclusions before the meeting.Asked about Haryana’s course of action if Punjab stuck to its previous stand, he said it would be decided only after taking into consideration the outcome of the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/syl-an-issue-between-centre-punjab-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-127564
18-08-2020||
||With 12 more deaths, toll rises to 550 in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 17  A total of 887 fresh cases were reported in the state on Monday. taking the tally to 48,040. Twelve deaths pushed the toll to 550. Four deaths were reported from Panchkula, two from Yamunanagar and one each from Kaithal, Nuh, Kurukshetra, Jhajjar, Ambala and Faridabad.  A 48-year-old resident of Ambala City died of Covid at Mullana Medical College. He was on ventilator for critical ailment. A 76-year-old male from Sector 16 in Faridabad also succumbed to the viral disease. The fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (107), Gurugram (97), Panipat (81), Rewari (71), Ambala (71), Yamunanagar (62), Rohtak (58), Kurukshetra (51), Karnal (46), Mahendragarh (41), Sonepat (39), Charkhi Dadri (34), Kaithal (31), Hisar (29), Panchkula (15), Jhajjar (12), Bhiwani (12), Nuh (9), Fatehabad (9), Palwal (6), Sirsa (5) and Jind (1).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-12-more-deaths-toll-rises-to-550-in-haryana-127565
18-08-2020||Manohar Lal Khattar unveils the statue of martyr Madan Lal Dhingra at new bus stand in Karnal. Tribune photo||Karnal gets Haryana’s 4th plasma bank||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-gets-haryanas-4th-plasma-bank-127566
18-08-2020||---||Over 1L samples tested at Rohtak PGIMS since March||Rohtak, August 17The Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory at Rohtak PGIMS has tested more than 1 lakh Covid samples since March.“The testing capacity of the laboratory, which was around 200 samples per day in March, has been gradually enhanced and up to 2,500 samples are being tested daily as of now,” says Prof PS Gill, incharge of the laboratory.A dedicated team of microbiologists and research scientists has been working round-the-clock for the past five months. The PGIMS lab is currently catering to six districts of Haryana, including Gurugram, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Rewari, Charkhi Dadri and Yamunanagar, apart from the patients admitted.As per official sources, there was only one RT-PCR machine and one extraction system at the PGIMS lab in March. At present, there are five RT-PCR machines and four extraction systems. Another RT-PCR machine and extraction system have been demanded by the PGIMS authorities.Moreover, single sample testing protocol was being followed earlier, which was replaced by pool-testing regime, owing to the rapid increase in the number of samples arriving at the lab.“Initially, three samples were pooled, but it was gradually increased to five,” the officials said, adding that the number of trained professionals working at the lab had also been increased from eight to 16.The turnaround time – from receiving the sample to reporting – is 6-24 hours, depending upon the sample load.“More staff is required to increase the capacity and maintain the turnaround time of testing and reporting,” says Dr Gill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-1l-samples-tested-at-rohtak-pgims-since-march-127567
18-08-2020||---||Month after rain, 25 Hisar villages under water||Hisar, August 17It’s been a month since the district received a good monsoon downpour, but residential areas and agricultural fields in about 25 villages are still submerged.Vinay Singh, Commissioner, Hisar division, took stock of the situation at a meeting here on Monday. He directed officials to drain out water on priority and prepare a long-term plan so that affected areas are not submerged again.Hansi, Narnaund worst-affectedThe inundation has damaged cotton and other kharif crops in the affected villages. Families living in “dhanis” shifted to other places after rainwater entered their houses. Even the water supply has been hit in some villages.The Commissioner has sought reports from Sub-divisional Magistrates (SDMs) of the Hansi and Narnaund subdivisions, the worst-affected areas. In all, 11 villages in the Narnaund subdivision and 14 in Hansi are facing the problem of inundation.Officials, however, claimed in the meeting that the water had been drained out in most of the areas and the situation was under control. They said pump sets had been installed to drain out water from the fields.The Commissioner asked the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) to ensure power supply to run the pump sets.Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni, who was also present in the meeting, said officials tasked with draining out water should not try to shirk their responsibility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/month-after-rain-25-hisar-villages-under-water-127568
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Builders can mortgage land in lieu of govt dues||Coming to the rescue of the  cash-starved realty sector, Manohar Lal Khattar government has allowed builders to  mortgage land to the state government in lieu of payment of statutory charges, including external development charges (EDC). The new policy, apparently unveiled to take care of the liquidity crunch in the realty sector, allowed builders to mortgage part of the land for which licence had been granted or was being granted in lieu of submission of bank guarantee against cost of internal development works and EDC. “In case the licensee does not wish to submit any bank guarantee, he shall mortgage 20 per cent of saleable area or built-up area in the same licensed colony,” said AK Singh, Principal Secretary, Town and Country Planning. The mortgaged frozen area could not be sold to any third party. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/builders-can-mortgage-land-in-lieu-of-govt-dues-127571
18-08-2020||Sushil Manav||Fatehabad village loses its son||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 17It was the last day of 2003 and Pandit Jasraj, one of the greatest exponents of Indian classical music who passed away at the age of 90 on Monday, was visiting Pili Mandori, his native village in Fatehabad district, after 27 years.As his car reached the village boundary, Pandit Jasraj was so overcome with nostalgia that he asked the driver to stop the car; he alighted, took a handful of soil and touched it to his forehead with reverence.Asked to address the audience, largely from Pili Mandori and neighbouring villages, the great maestro was overwhelmed with emotion.Wiping tears with a towel, Pandit Jasraj spoke in chaste Bagri dialect. “Main thane kih kahun, maine to kih shabad hie koni pan lagriha. Mera mann to kare se ke is rajj mein lot jaun. Mere liye yeh bhumi Brindavan se kam nahin (What shall I say to you? I am short of words. I feel like rolling my body on the soil of this village. This place is no less than Vrindavan for me),” he said with his voice chocking.When a villager addressed him as “Panditji”, the great Jasraj asked villagers the reason for addressing him so. People in Pili Mandori used to address him as “Jasia”.On learning that no one from the village had tried to learn classical music, he said if villagers formed a cultural organisation to promote classical music, he would visit the village every year while offering Rs 1 lakh for it.After that, Pandit Jasraj started visiting the village almost every year. In 2014, he celebrated his birthday, which falls on January 28, in Pili Mandori.Pandit Jasraj’s wife Madhura, the daughter of noted director of yesteryears V Shantaram; daughter Durga Jasraj, a noted TV personality; son Sarang, a music director; and some other members of his family also accompanied him and mingled with villagers.With Pandit Jasraj’s visits, the village started getting funds from the government. As a result, several development activities were started there.“Villagers will miss Panditji badly. With his efforts, the village got a waterworks with an RO system worth Rs 2 crore from the government. We have a library named after him,” says Anita Kumari, village sarpanch.Pandit Jasraj was born in Pili Mandori village on January 28, 1930. He belonged to a family of musicians. His father Pandit Moti Ram and uncle Pandit Jyoti Ram were singers of the Jammu and Kashmir “raj gharana”. He, however, left the village and started learning classical music under the guidance of his elder brother Pandit Mani Ram.“Panditji’s passing away is a huge loss to Haryana in general and Fatehabad district in particular because he provided our area recognition across the globe,” says Deepesh Rahi, a singer from Fatehabad and winner of Voice of Punjab (2012) and Voice India (2014).“On August 1, my father Mukesh Rahi and I were on Durga Jasraj’s live musical conversation ‘Utsah’ launched by her during the lockdown. Panditji watched us sing from his home in New Jersey, US,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fatehabad-village-loses-its-son-127585
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Mandatory Covid test for MLAs ahead of session: Haryana Speaker||With Haryana set to hold its Assembly session from August 26, all 89 legislators, including ministers, on-duty staff and journalists covering the event will have to undergo mandatory Covid testing. Minimum staff, maximum cautionChairing a meeting to take stock of the preparations for the monsoon session, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said only those with a negative Covid-19 report would be allowed inside the House.The Assembly has a strength of 90, but Baroda MLA Sri Krishan Hooda had died recently. The test for the MLAs will be held at their residence while a special camp will be organised for others, probably on August 23 or 24. It is likely to be a two-day session, but the final decision will be taken at the business advisory committee meeting.This time, no visitor will be allowed inside. “Two MLAs used to share each of the 45 tables in the Assembly. Now, one legislator per table will be permitted. We will use the visitor’s gallery to create additional space,” said Gupta.Cordless mics will be provided to those in the visitor’s gallery. “All documents will be sanitised. Each MLA will get a kit of masks, gloves and sanitisers,” he said. The MLAs’ hostel will be sanitised three days before session. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mandatory-covid-test-for-mlas-ahead-of-session-haryana-speaker-127682
18-08-2020||Ravinder Saini||JE who flagged BJP’s office site booted out||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, August 17A junior engineer (JE) working with the Municipal Council, Narnaul, on a contractual basis for the past four years was relieved from the post six day after he reported that a proposed site for the BJP district office fell in an unapproved area.Sources said BJP national president JP Nadda was to the lay foundation stone of the building via video-conferencing on August 10, but the party had to postpone it due to non-approval of building plan.The service contract of JE Vikas Sharma was to expire on December 30, but it was cancelled by the MC Secretary on August 11 stating no regular post was vacant, hence he was relieved. Interestingly, Sharma was felicitated by the district administration on Independence Day for his commendable work. BJP district president Shiv Kumar Mehta said, “We have applied for change of land use (CLU). A new date for the foundation ceremony will be fixed on getting the CLU.”The JE said his contract had been cancelled mid-way without notice and that he would approach the higher authorities for “justice”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/je-who-flagged-bjps-office-site-booted-out-127683
18-08-2020||---||Capt Amarinder Singh-Manohar Lal Khattar meet on Sutlej-Yamuna Link today||Chandigarh, August 17Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh will be holding a meeting with his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar tomorrow to work out a solution for the implementation of the Supreme Court’s January 15, 2002, and June 4, 2004, orders to complete the remaining portion of the Sutlej-Yamuna link (SYL) canal.Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat will also be participating in the meeting, which will be held through video-conferencing.The meeting has been convened on the directions of the apex court dated July 28. Punjab has been demanding real-time assessment of the water availability in its rivers that has drastically reduced over the years. The Congress government has been stating that the level of rivers in the state has reduced from 17 million acre feet (MAF) to less than 13 MAF.In January this year, Capt Amarinder had convened an all-party meeting on the issue of state’s critical water situation and the need to reassess the water availability. It was unanimously resolved that the Union Government should ensure that the river water was not in any way transferred from basin to non-basin areas of the state’s three rivers.All parties had unanimously demanded suitable amendments to the proposed Inter-State River Water Disputes Act to set up a new tribunal to ensure that Punjab got adequate water “in a just and equitable manner in keeping with its total demand and securing livelihood of the future generations,” an official statement said.The resolution had read: “Punjab does not have surplus water and is facing a threat of desertification with reduced availability of its river water and fast depleting groundwater. The state’s groundwater that meets 73 per cent of its irrigation requirements has declined to alarming levels, threatening the livelihood of farmers and other poor people.”Punjab wants review of water availabilityPunjab has been demanding real-time assessment of the water availability in its rivers that has drastically reduced over the years. The Congress government has been stating that the level of rivers in the state has reduced from 17 million acre feet (MAF) to less than 13 MAF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/capt-amarinder-singh-manohar-lal-khattar-meet-on-sutlej-yamuna-link-today-127520
