18-09-2020||Gurugram||HARERA judgement: Banks cannot auction project without the approval of buyers, authority||Announcing a landmark judgement, Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HARERA), Gurugram has ensured, that no bank or financing agency would auction or sell a loan defaulting project to recover adjustment of allottees dues.Chairman, HARERA Gurugram, Dr. K.K. Khandelwal said, that there has been a rampant increase of complaints in the state—in which a peculiar trend was noticed—where promoters mortgage their project, land or structure, as well as all receivables from the sold and unsold inventory to lend organisations or financial institutions, banks or creditors, in order to attain bank loans to fund the construction costs for developing the projects.But when the promoters fail to repay the loans, then the financial insitutions, banks, or creditors, directly auction residential or commerical properties, that have been pledged with them to recover loans from borrowers by invoking the SARFAESI Act, 2002."Such auctions invoke great anguish and distress to the allottees of the project as there is no acknowledgement of the huge investments made by the allottees into buying their dream home. The future of such allottees is in complete darkness and obscurity. Such aggrieved allottees are bound to languish for their own hard-earned money. The latest judgement in interest of the allottees of the project "Supertech Hues," is the first of its kind in the nation," said Khandelwal.According to HARERA judgement the promoter, M/S Supertech Limited, who is neither a licensee nor a collaborator, approached PNB Housing Finance Limited for a construction loan for the project "Supertech Hues"—which was advanced to M/S Supertech Limited, withM/s Sarv Realtors Pvt. Ltd. as the confirming party, by way of equitable mortgage of the project land measuring 33.33 Acres, by deposit of the title deeds along with receivables from the mortgaged properties.It failed to repay the loans taken and hence became a defaulter.The said project was put for e-auction by the creditor company and allottees moved to HARERA."It's happening across the country. The rights of the allottees are not subservient to those of the bank and therefore, in case of failure of the banks to ensure that the funds were applied for the purpose they were granted, banks cannot be allowed to supersede the rights of the allottees. The financial institutions/lending banks/creditors are duty bound to ensure that the loan payments are released to the promoters after due verification of the fact that the payment so released is actually utilized towards the construction of the project. The lending institutions, individuals shall be held equally responsible if the amount, so released, is not put into construction purpose and is allowed to be diverted," added Khandelwal.
18-09-2020||Ambala||No headway in attack on ADC-led RTA team||Even after 24 hours, no headway has been made in investigations over an attack on a team of local Regional Transport Authority (RTA) led by Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Preeti by the illegal mining mafia.The team led by Preeti, who is RTA Secretary, was attacked on the Haryana-Punjab border near Panjokhra in this district late Thursday evening.Police said they had registered a case of attempt to murder against the unknown assailants at Panjokhra police station.“Investigations were on to trace and track the attackers,” said the DSP Ram Kumar.While the woman IAS officer had escaped unhurt, her official vehicle was badly damaged while one of her staff members sustained injuries and another went missing.“We were on a checking and challaning spree of overloaded vehicles since afternoon and late evening when we caught a few violators, a group of 50-60 persons attacked us on the inter-state border and fled towards Punjab,” said the ADC.After being alerted by her, the district civil and police administration swung into action and a team led by SDM Subhash Sihag and two DSPs were rushed to the spot.The ADC said she had apprised the Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma and the SP Rajesh Kalia about the incident following which the entire official machinery was pressed into service to act against the accused.Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said the district administration has tightened the noose around the mining mafia and all those involved in the attack on the ADC will be taken to task.Recently, the ADC had lodged an FIR against the mining mafia for following her official vehicle and sharing the details of her location to those carrying out the illegal business.
18-09-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Recovered patients being assessed for long-term effects of Covid||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 18The patients who have recovered from Covid are being monitored to assess the long-term effects of the viral infection on their health. As many as 100 recovered Covid patients visiting Rohtak PGIMS are to be registered every month as part of a registry by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“The profiles of these patients, their recovery pattern and after-effects (if any) of Covid on their health will be registered under the ICMR project,” said Prof (Dr) O.P.Kalra, the Vice-Chancellor of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS) at Rohtak.Talking to The Tribune, Professor Kalra pointed out that some patients who had contracted Covid were later found to have cardiac issues, brain-stroke or diarrhea etc.“Once the virus (Coronavirus) enters the body, it may affect any part or organ. Hence, the patients who have recovered from Covid must have regular follow-ups and medical check-ups as advised by doctors,” he observed.On being questioned about human trials of India’s indigenous Covid vaccine Covaxin going on at Rohtak PGIMS, the UHS Vice-Chancellor stated that the volunteers participating in the trials would be scanned for Covid antibodies at regular intervals for a period of six months in the second phase of the project.“The final decision on the conduct of further (phase 3,4) trials will be taken by the ICMR authorities and Bharat Biotech, the company which is developing Covaxin,” he maintained.
18-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 3 deaths and 157 COVID-19 cases||The district on Friday reported 157 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the district tally to 4,765. It also saw the death of three people, aged 55, 73 and 68.The toll has now reached 57.A 55-year-old man from Ashiyana in Sector 26, a 73-year-old man from Raipur Rani and a 68-year-old woman from Sector 2, all suffering from hypertension, succumbed to the disease.The new cases include 15 from Pinjore, nine each from the Industrial Area and Sector 20, eight each from Amrawati Enclave and Sector 15, seven each from Kalka and Sector 21, six each from Sector 10, Sector 12-A, Sector 27 and Sector 28, five each from Sector 26 and Sector 6, four each from the MDC, Sector 4, Sector 9, Sector 11 and Sector 12, three each from Sector 21, Sector 16, Sector 19, Sector 4 and Sector 9, two each from Chandimandir, Indira Colony, Nanakpur, Old Panchkula, the MDC, Sector 5, Raipur Rani, Sector 17, Sector 2, Sector 24, Sector 25 and Sector 8, and one each from Kharag Mangoli, Khera Sita Ram, Madanpur, Rehore, Sector 14, Sector 23 and Sector 7.While 1,222 cases are still active, 3,486 persons have been cured or discharged.Panchkula has so far conducted 57,618 Covid tests.
18-09-2020||---||Mining mafia attacks Ambala ADC’s convoy during drive to check overloaded trucks||Ambala, September 18A team of local Regional Transport Authority (RTA), led by Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Preeti, who is RTA Secretary, was attacked by the illegal mining mafia on the Haryana-Punjab border near Panjokhra in this district late on Thursday evening.While the woman IAS officer escaped unhurt, her official vehicle was badly damaged while one of her staff members sustained injuries and another one went missing.“We were on checking and challaning of overloaded vehicles since this afternoon and late evening when we caught few violators, a group of 50-60 persons attacked us on the inter-state border and fled towards Punjab,” said the ADC.On being alerted by her, the district civil and police administration swung into action and heavy police force, led by Ambala Cantonment DSP Ram Kumar, and the SDM rushed the spot to track and catch the culprits.The ADC said she has apprised the Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma and the SP Rajesh Kalia about the incident following which the entire official machinery was pressed into service to act against the accused.Recently, the ADC had lodged an FIR against the mining mafia for following her official vehicle and sharing the details of her location to those carrying out the illegal business.
18-09-2020||Parveen Arora||New Karnal MC building to be completed early next year||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 17After witnessing several hiccups in the past five years, the project of the new municipal corporation (MC) building seems to be on track. The civil work on 1,618 sq m, with a cost of Rs 4.19 crore, was supposed to be completed in 2016, but got stuck and is completed after four years of its deadline. While, the interior work of the project has been started, the deadline to hand over the building to the MC has been fixed as January 31, 2021.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had laid the foundation stone of the project in Sector 12 here on June 21, 2015. “The deadline to hand over the building has been fixed as January 31, 2021, but we are hopeful that the company will hand over the building before the deadline,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-MC Commissioner.Apart from offices for all Councillors, Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor, Deputy Mayor and the MC officials, the building will have two conference halls and an integrated command and control centre (ICCC) to be built under the Smart City Mission, worth Rs 158.99 crore.The DC said the whole city would be monitored from the ICCC office, on the second floor of the building, through a network of CCTV cameras laid at various points in the city. It will provide better traffic management.“I have visited the site and directed the XEN to get the flooring and ceiling work done at the earliest,” said the DC. “I have also directed the XEN to increase the manpower for speedy completion of the work,” he said.Presently, the MC office is being operated from the old building of Mahila Ashram and the Vikas Bhawan. While, the work related to the Smart City project is being monitored from an office in Dr Mangal Sen Auditorium. After the completion of the project, people could avail all facilities under one roof.
18-09-2020||Parveen Arora||No resale of vehicles without high-security number plates in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 17The transport authorities in the state have made high-security registration plates (HSRPs) mandatory for vehicles manufactured before April 2019. Besides, no fitness certificate will be issued to vehicles without the HSRP.Karnal Sub-divisional Magistrate (SDM) Ayush Sinha has confirmed this.To make sure the order is implemented, the authorities have banned the sale of second-hand vehicles without the HSRP.Earlier, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways had made the HSRP mandatory for vehicles manufactured on or after April 1, 2019.The Transport Commissioner, Haryana, has issued directions to all Additional Deputy Commissioners (ADCs)-cum-Secretaries, Regional Transport Authority (RTA), and SDMs-cum-Registering Authorities to implement the order. Vehicle owners will be challaned if they fail to affix the HSRP.The authorities have been asked to send every month a report on the progress made in implementing the order to the headquarters. Even the progress report of field officers will be submitted to the Supreme Court.SDM Sinha said, “We have received a copy of the directions from the Transport Commissioner, Haryana. As per the order, second-hand vehicles cannot be sold without the HSRP. Even fitness certificate will not be issued.”To affix the HSRP, a special window has been opened at SARAL Kendra in the Mini-secretariat here. People will have to register themselves there. They will get a message on their mobile phone, informing them the number plate is ready.
18-09-2020||---||20 Kaithal villages to get makeover||Chandigarh, September 17As many as 20 selected villages of Kaithal district will be provided with drinking water, sanitation, health and nutrition, rural roads and housing, electricity and ensuring clean fuel and digitisation under the ambit of the Centre’s Pradhan Mantri Adarsh Gram Yojana (PMAGY).Under this scheme, a budget of Rs 20 lakh has been allotted to each village by the Centre. The department concerned will ensure functioning and coordination under this scheme.An official spokesperson said on the basis of 2011 Census, the Centre had selected 20 villages in the district, which have more than 50 per cent Scheduled Caste population.He said nine villages of the Guhla block, seven of Siwan, two of Kalayat and two of Rajaund had been included in this scheme.
18-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Drug trafficking rising at alarming rate: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 17In a scathing observation against the prevalence of drugs in the region, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that the menace is growing at an upsetting rate. Observing that drug peddlers are required to be dealt with firmly, the High Court has stated that compassion cannot be shown to them lest it proves counter-productive.“Drug trafficking is rising at an alarming rate in this region, which has ruined the lives of young men and women. Drug peddlers, for a small monetary consideration, make the youth to use drugs for a small-time excitement or kick. Drug peddlers have successfully destroyed the social fabric of our society and led the youth to the wrongful path. Such persons need to be dealt with firmly and sternly and no sympathy can be shown to them lest that should prove to be counter-productive and result in increased drug trafficking,” Justice HS Madaan asserted.The observations came during the hearing of a pre-arrest bail plea filed by an accused in a case registered on May 7 under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, Indian Penal Code and Disaster Management Act at the Ratia police station in Fatehabad district.During the course of investigation, an accused had stated that he purchased the recovered 5 grams of heroin from the petitioner for Rs 9,000. Apprehending his arrest in the case, the petitioner had approached the sessions court, but his request was declined. The petitioner had approached the court by way of filing the petition, asking for similar relief, which was opposed by the state counsel.After hearing the rival contentions and going through the record, Justice Madaan asserted that as far as the contention of the petitioner’s counsel about his innocence was concerned, the question was to be decided by the trial court after considering evidence adduced before it by the prosecution, statement of the accused under Section 313 of the CrPC and defence evidence, if any, produced by the accused. Justice Madaan pointed out that at the stage of pre-arrest bail, the High Court was to see whether there was some material to show the petitioner’s involvement in the crime.
18-09-2020||
||Truck driver shot on KGP expressway||Panipat, September 17 A-36-year-old truck driver was shot dead near the roundabout of the Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal (KGP) expressway in Sonepat district on Thursday. The Rai police have registered a case against unknown persons for allegedly killing him. The deceased has been identified as Pappu Yadav (36) of Gangepur village in Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh. The police traced the contract number of the sarpanch and informed him about the incident. As per the information available, Vivek Malik, SHO, Rai, along with the team was on patrolling duty near Bahalgarh Chowk on NH-44 on Thursday night, when he received the information about the traffic jam on the KGP expressway. He with his team reached the KGP expressway to facilitate the traffic. He saw a truck parked on the opposite side near the roundabout. He reached there and found a man lying in a pool of blood inside the truck. During the probe, it was found that he had been killed by some assailants as a bullet had hit him in the stomach. The police sent  the body for postmortem. A case has been registered.
18-09-2020||
||Sarpanch arrested for attacking forest officials in Mahendragarh district||Mahendragarh, September 17   The sarpanch of Kalba village was arrested for allegedly assaulting two forest department officials when they objected to the construction in a protected forest area in the village yesterday. Three other accused, including brother of sarpanch Satyender Kumar, are absconding, while the injured officials with multiple fractures in nose and hands are undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Vipin Kumar Singh, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Mahendragarh, said Forest Range Officer Rajnish Kumar and Deputy Ranger Chandergupt were on a routine patrolling in Nangal Choudhary area yesterday morning when they spotted some villagers digging and levelling land with JCB machines in a protected forest area. “The villagers attacked them with sticks and even tried to strangulate them when told to stop the work as the land was under a protected forest area. Both officials have suffered multiple injuries. On being informed, the police reached the spot and rescued the officers,” Singh said. He said the accused were influential people of the village and had threatened the officers with dire consequences if any action was taken against them. “A case under various sections of the IPC has been registered against the sarpanch, his brother and two others.
18-09-2020||ibune News Service 
||Bansal: Will keep factionalism to minimum in Haryana Congress||Chandigarh, September 17  Factionalism would be kept to the minimum in the state unit of the Congress, said new Haryana in-charge Vivek Bansal.  Bansal has recently replaced Ghulam Nabi Azad as state in-charge. Holding his first press conference at Chandigarh, Bansal said, “Factionalism is there in all the parties. Is Vij (Home Minister Anil Vij) not against CM Khattar? It will be there in a progressive party. But if it impacts the common goal, it is harmful. It will be kept to a minimum.” On the question of what formula he has for curing factionalism in the party, he said, “I am impartial and committed to the party.”  “The organisational structure within the state’s party unit will be set up soon. I don’t want to give a deadline but we will soon fill the vacancies,” Bansal said. He took a meeting of MLAs and MPs, both present and former, at Chandigarh today.  A resolution was passed where leaders expressed faith in the leadership of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi.  On a question for the need of passing the resolution, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja replied a new in-charge had joined and we expressed faith in the central leadership.  “Today, our leadership is showing the way to the nation,” she said. Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said, “There is strong resentment in farmers against the three farm ordinances. It opens possibilities of distress sale.”
18-09-2020||Chandigarh||24 deaths, 2,457 new Covid cases in Haryana||Haryana recorded 24 deaths and 2,457 fresh cases of Covid in the past 24 hours.The cumulative number of cases reached 1.03 lakh today.Four deaths were recorded from Hisar, three each from Karnal and Kurukshetra, two each from Faridabad, Ambala, Sirsa, Yamunanagar and Fatehabad while one each came from Panipat, Panchkula, Jhajjar and Nuh.The maximum fresh cases today came from Gurugram at 394 followed by 282 in Faridabad. Sonepat recorded 271 cases while 177 came from Karnal. Also, 160 cases came from Ambala, 159 from Panipat, 142 from Kurukshetra, 113 from Hisar and 112 from Panchkula.Health teams to monitor home-quarantined patientsHealth Minister Anil Vij has said the Health Department would regularly monitor the health of Covid patients under home quarantine. It will also provide patients with medicines as and when required. — TNS
18-09-2020||---||Cong instigating farmers: CM||Chandigarh, September 17Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said that protests by the Congress against the three farm Bills were politically motivated, assuring farmers that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime would remain in place even after the new system of procurement is implemented.“Some of the agricultural reforms were initiated by the UPA government. The Congress, in its manifesto for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, had promised abolishing the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act and ensuring free movement of agricultural produce within and outside the country so that farmers could get remunerative prices,” the Chief Minister told the media here.He made it clear that his government would implement the Bills in letter and spirit. “The state government is considering setting up ‘kisan adalats’ to protect farmers’ interests.”The Chief Minister hit out at the Congress for “instigating” farmers to protest against the farm Bills. “If the Opposition is farmer-friendly, its government in Rajasthan and Punjab should start procuring millet and maize like Haryana is doing. This time, we have decided that Haryana will not be procuring a single grain from others states.”Khattar further said the state had written to the Centre to allow it to advance paddy procurement to September 25 from October 1.To a query related to his Covid treatment, he said he did not face any “mental trauma” during the 17-day isolation at Medanta Hospital, Gurugram. “I spent my time reading, watching TV and exercising.” He expressed his desire to donate plasma.The CM claimed the state had adequate number of beds, ventilators and medical oxygen for more than 21,000 active cases.
18-09-2020||---||Won’t compromise on MSP issue: JJP||Chandigarh, September 17The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), alliance partner of the BJP in the state, made it clear today that it would not compromise on the condition of minimum support price for farmers.‘Have faith in PM’The JJP is committed to ensuring that the produce is bought at the MSP. The PM and the Union Agriculture Minister have assured that farmers will not be paid below the MSP. We must believe them. — Digvijay Chautala, JJP leaderReplying to a question on the party’s stand on the ordinances that have not gone down well with a section of farmers, JJP leader Digvijay Singh Chautala said this at a press conference here to announce programmes for the 107th birth anniversary of his great grandfather and late Deputy PM Devi Lal.“We are committed to ensuring the farmers’ produce is bought at the MSP. The PM and the Union Agriculture Minister have assured that farmers will not be paid below the MSP. We must believe them,” he said.On the birth anniversary celebrations, Chautala said those who believed in the ideology of JJP, INSO and Jannayak Sewa Dal and Devi Lal would remember “Tau” on this day and pay their respect on September 25.Along with collecting 107 units of blood from every district, all statues of Devi Lal would be cleaned with “ganga jal”.
18-09-2020||Gurugram||Auto drivers attack bizman in Gurugram||A group of auto drivers has been booked for allegedly attacking a local businessman and leaving his personal security officer (PSO) injured on Tuesday night. Sanyam Gupta of Mianwali colony told the police his car had accidently hit an autorickshaw on Monday, which led to an argument between the auto rickshaw driver and his PSO. But the matter was solved. “On Tuesday, a group of auto drivers barged into my house carrying weapons. They thrashed my PSO and brother,” Gupta said. The police said they had registered a case. — OC
18-09-2020||---||Panel seeks report on assistant professor’s thrashing at PGIMS, Rohtak||Rohtak, September 17The Haryana State Commission for Women has sought the action-taken report from the Vice-Chancellor of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, regarding the thrashing of a woman faculty member of Rohtak PGIMS by women security guards at the office of the PGIMS director.The complainant, who is serving as an assistant professor at the Department of Biochemistry at PGIMS, was aggrieved at the adverse comments made on her annual confidential report (ACR) by the head of the department and went to meet the PGIMS director on September 3.An altercation allegedly broke out between the complainant and the security guards there following which the woman faculty member was allegedly beaten up by some women security guards. The matter came to light after some videos of the thrashing incident went viral on social media.The assistant professor had written to the UHS authorities in January, mentioning that the HoD was likely to spoil her ACR, she was on anti-depressant and anti-epileptic medication and she could be driven to suicide.However, no action has been taken on her complaint by the authorities “concerned”.Meanwhile, a recent meeting of the UHS executive council decided to get a medical board constituted to assess the mental health of the assistant professor.
18-09-2020||Deepender Deswal||Farmers demand survey of all crops damaged by rain, pests||Tribune News ServiceHisar, September 17After the government ordered special girdawari of the kharif crops in Hisar district due to whitefly attack, the farmers in Sirsa, Fatehabad and Bhiwani districts, who have also been agitating on the issue, have demanded the survey for their districts as well.‘Order for only cotton crop unacceptable’Earlier, the orders for the survey of crop damage due to rain and floods were issued. Then, for assessment of only the cotton crop in Hisar district were issued. This is unacceptable as we have been demanding survey for all the kharif crops across the state. — Balbir Thanak, a farmer from BhiwaniThe farmers have threatened to intensify the stir by resorting to road blockade.The farmers alleged that the state government was not serious about getting the special girdawari done as the orders for the survey are being issued in bits and pieces.“Earlier, the orders for the survey of crop damage due to rain and floods were issued. Then, the orders for assessment of only the cotton crop in Hisar district were issued. This is unacceptable to us as we have been demanding survey for all the kharif crops across the state as the farmers in other districts especially Sirsa, Bhiwani, Jind, Fatehabad have also suffered losses to cotton, moong and other kharif crops as well due to whitefly and other diseases,” said Balbir Thanak from Bhiwani.Farmer leader Kurdaram Nambardar who is leading the dharna at Balsamand village in Hisar said that they are also dissatisfied with the special girdawari orders which are specific to certain areas and certain crops. He said that the dharna would continue until the government orders survey of other kharif crops.Meanwhile, the Kisan Sabha staged a protest demonstration in the cotton market in Uchana town of Jind district today. The activists said that the apathy of the government regarding their issues have added to their woes.The Kisan Sabha leaders attacked the BJP-JJP government alleging that the government has been pursuing anti-farmer policies under the ‘jumla’ of doubling agricultural income but actually leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.Targeting Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, Phool Singh Sheokand, president of Haryana Kisan Sabha, alleged that Dushyant has compromised on the interest of farmers after coming to power.CPM state secretary Surender Singh extended the support of his party to the farmers.The protesters blocked the road near the SDM office after which the SDM came and assured the farmers that the appropriate girdawari orders would be issued soon.The sabha announced to observe September 20 as a dark day across the state against the Pipli lathicharge.
18-09-2020||Panipat||ASI among 2 killed in Panipat mishaps||An Assistant Sub-inspector (ASI) in the Haryana Police was killed in a road accident in Israna on Wednesday night. The deceased has been identified as 49-year-old Rajpal Singh of Panipat. He was posted at the Krishanpura post under the Chandnibagh police station.  Another accident was reported near Shahpur village of Israna on Wednesday. The victim has been identified as 14-year-old Gauarv from Tikola village.  The police have registered cases in both cases and started the investigation.— TNS
18-09-2020||Gurugram||MES employee nabbed for giving info to Pak||The STF, Haryana, and Military Intelligence, Lucknow, have arrested a civilian employee of Military Engineer Services (MES) on the charge of passing on classified information to the Pakistani military intelligence unit after getting honey trapped on Facebook. Posted in Jaipur, the accused, identified as Mahesh Kumar (30), was arrested from Dharuhera in Rewari on Wednesday night. An FIR was registered at the Dharuhera police station. According to the STF, the accused was deployed with the multi-tasking staff in Jaipur and was allegedly passing secret information on to a Pakistani agency through social media. Sources claimed that he had been honey trapped. Following a tip-off from Military Intelligence, the STF conducted the raid and arrested the accused from the Dharuhera bus stand when he was returning home from Jaipur by bus. — OC
18-09-2020||
||CBI busts Net-based malware racket||New Delhi, September 17 The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday said it had busted an Internet-based racket and booked six private firms, including one from Gurugram, that were allegedly installing a malware in computers on the pretext of providing anti-virus protection against bogus security threat flagged through pop-up messages. A senior CBI official said the agency sleuths conducted searches on the premises of the companies — New Delhi-based Softwill Infotech Private Limited and Saburi TLC Worldwide Services Private Limited, Jaipur-based Innovana Thinklabs Limited and Systweak Software Private Limited, Noida-based Benovellient Technologies Private Limited and Noida- and Gurugram-based Saburi Global Services Private Limited. The companies allegedly sent pop-up messages on personal computers of users, giving bogus warnings about purported security issues and presence of malware in the Microsoft Windows System, he said. The pop-up messages carried the phone number of a call centre, where employees of the companies allegedly advised unsuspecting persons to install certain anti-malwares or anti-virus, which were essentially PUPs (Potentially Unwanted Programs), the official said.
18-09-2020||Ravinder Saini||Post lustre loss, Hafed to release withheld arhtiya commission||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 17Fair Average Quality category eligibleSources said the order was not applicable on cases where the procurement agency had specifically mentioned in record about such lustre loss and shriveled/broken grain at the time of purchaseA cut of Rs14.43/quintal against their commission of Rs48 per quintal was imposed. Over 730 lakh quintal wheat was procured by three government agencies at Rs1,925/quintal MSP this yearIn a major relief to arhtiyas across the state, Hafed, the government procurement agency, has decided to release their commission withheld in the name of lustre loss and shriveled/broken grain.The agency had cut more than 30 per cent from the commission amount received by arhtiyas in July-August for the wheat procurement this year. Since then, the arhtiyas had been on warpath and demanding the release of their commission.As per the arhtiyas, a cut of Rs 14.43 per quintal against their commission of Rs 48 per quintal was imposed upon them. Over 730 lakh quintal of wheat was procured by three government agencies, including Hafed, at a minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,925 per quintal in the state this year. A 2.5 per cent commission per quintal on the MSP is fixed for the arhtiyas.Sources said the order issued by Additional General Manager (AGM), Hafed, was not applicable on cases where the procurement agency had specifically mentioned in record about such lustre loss and shriveled/broken grain at the time of purchase itself.“In cases where at the time of procurement no such remarks have been taken on record and the procurement of wheat has been done from the arhtiyas under Fair Average Quality category, the commission will be immediately released to the arhtiyas,” the AGM told the district managers in the order.“A total commission of over Rs 105 crore was withheld by three procurement agencies — Hafed, Haryana State Warehousing Corporation and DFSC. The other two agencies are also requested to release the commission on the lines of Hafed,” said association vice-president Harsh Girdhar.
18-09-2020||---||Vij divests decorated top cop of all work||Chandigarh, September 17‘Delay due to Covid pandemic’Work of “Dial 112” project was given to C-DAC in FebruaryThe project was delayed on account of Covid-19 pandemic, said sourcesThe company, headquartered in Kerala, had sought 4-month extension which was grantedAdditional Director General of Police (ADGP) Arshinder Singh Chawla, awarded the President’s Police Medal for distinguished service on Independence Day last month, was divested of all charges here today on the directions of Home Minister Anil Vij for “failing to discharge his duty”.‘He has failed to perform duty’For over a year, Chawla has been sitting on the Dial 112 project. He didn't even take the trouble to brief me on its status. I was left with no option but to withdraw work from him as punishment. Anil Vij, Home MinisterThe minister had issued the orders last evening withdrawing work from Chawla by noon today. Vij even paid a surprise visit to the Haryana Police Headquarters in Panchkula to check whether his orders had been implemented. Following the minister’s directions, Chawla has proceeded on 15-day leave.Speaking to The Tribune, Vij said Chawla had failed to discharge his duties and had particularly not made any headway when it came to the ambitious “Dial 112” project — a one-stop number for emergency services — which would have changed the face of the Haryana Police.“For over a year, Chawla has been sitting on this particular project. While there was no progress, he didn’t even take the trouble to brief me on its status. I was left with no option but to withdraw work from him as punishment,” Vij said.Further, the Home Minister said he had directed Director General of Police Manoj Yadava to let Chawla sit in office without any work.“We are monitoring every officer’s work. Since he was not interested in working, I added to my directions that Chawla should report to office every day, sit out his duty hours and go back,” Vij said.The minister said that he had asked the DGP to issue orders withdrawing work by noon today. “Since I did not receive a copy, I decided to make a surprise stop on my way to office in Chandigarh to see if my orders had been executed. The DGP gave me a copy of the order,” the minister said.Chawla’s work has been distributed among three officers. ADGP (Modernisation) Alok Kumar Roy will supervise the work of Telecommunication Department in addition to his present duties.ADGP (Law and Order) Navdeep Virk will additionally supervise the work of General Administration Branch and IT while ADGP (HQ and Crime Against Women) Kala Ramachandran will look after Establishment Branch I and Legal Cell in addition to her present duties.Sources in Police Department said the work of the “Dial 112” project was given to C-DAC in February. However, the project was delayed on account of Covid-19. “The company, headquartered in Kerala, explained that the stringent measures in place had delayed the delivery on the scheduled date. The company had sought a four-month extension which was granted,” an officer explained while Chawla was not available for comment and did not respond to calls and messages.A lift operator was also suspended on the Home Minister’s orders after the former was found “absent” from duty when Vij arrived in Police HQ, Panchkula.
18-09-2020||The utility of street vendors has been proved beyond doubt during the ongoing pandemic as they have been the lifeline of all||Regulate street vendors||Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaSewage overflow in Sec 46It is very shocking to point out that in Sector 46, residents are facing grave problems due to blocked drains, overflowing sewage and foul smell. It is not easy to stay there, but the residents are compelled to live in unhealthy surrounding. The sufferers have approached the MCG but to no avail. The civic body must take action.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramHUDA must rectify spelling on signboafdHUDA has miserably failed to rectify the spelling of the word Secretariat being displayed as 'Secretriate' on the directional signboard installed at the Sector 7-8-17-18 roundabout (near Shaheed Major Sandeep Sagar Memorial) in Panchkula. Notably, the said mistake was repeatedly pointed out earlier too. Will HUDA rise to the occasion and do the needful at the earliest?Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaRailing, plants pose threat to commutersThere are five to six blind gaps in the middle of Kurukshetra bypass. Beautifying plants and railing hinder the clear view mandatory under traffic rules. This poses grave danger to a commuter's life. Railing and plantations are required to be trimmed or removed from suitable lengths of median near crossings to avoid accidents.Ravinder Malik, KurukshetraIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
18-09-2020||Kurukshetra||Varsities follow KU's mode of exams||Foundation day at JC Bose varsityFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, celebrated its Foundation Day with great zeal and enthusiasm, and felicitated six senior faculty members and employees who had completed 25 years of service with the university with mementos and citations. The programme was presided over by Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar who said the university had a long and cherished tradition of recognising its employees for outstanding merit and years of service. The faculty and employees who were felicitated included Dr Sandeep Grover, professor in mechanical engineering department, Dr PR Sharma, professor in electrical engineering department, Dr Pradeep Kumar Dimari, associate professor in electrical engineering department, Lalit Mohan, head of section in electronics engineering department, Anil Kumar Sharma, SDE in the university maintenance section and Mahabir Singh, helper attendant in the office of chief hostel warden. Besides, Prof Komal Kumar Bhatia, Dr Neelam Duhan, Ankit Pannu and Omdev were felicitated for outstanding contribution for promoting digital initiatives and the department of civil engineering awarded with the best upcoming department. Arun Bhatia and Mohit Vohra, distinguished alumni of the university were also felicitated on this occasion.Plantation drive on World Ozone DayFaridabad: The DAV Institute of Management, NIT-3, Faridabad, organised tree plantation drive on World Ozone Day. The drive was conducted in two phases following all norms and guidelines of Covid. In the first phase, volunteers of Rotaract Club of DAVIM, the NSS unit and the faculty members of DAVIM in association with Deeksha Smile Foundation planted 40 saplings on Kashif Ali road side near masjid. In the second phase, around 150 saplings were distributed to all staff members on the Institute's premises. Dr Sanjeev Sharma, principal director, appreciated the efforts of the teams of the DAVIM centre for environment and the NSS for taking such a good initiative of planting trees even during the Covid pandemic.
18-09-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||No biz in Punjab, wedding planners, caterers move to Haryana and Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 17With wedding and events business badly affected in Punjab due to the limitation on gatherings, a large numbers of industry vendors, including florists, caterers, disc jockeys, sound and light system operators and other artistes, have started moving to Haryana and Chandigarh to get some work.The wedding market in the state is staring at a hard reset in the face of Covid. A number of palaces and resorts are on lease, and the owners have been badly hit as they had paid the lease amount in advance and earnings are nil since the past few months.Satish Arora, president of Punjab Hotel, Resorts and Restaurant association, said: “Marriage palaces and banquets in Haryana and Chandigarh have started organising events at half capacity. Caterers, florists and tent owners have started moving to these places to get some work.”Arora said: “Lavish resorts and banquets have been hit hard as big fat weddings have dried up in the state, upsetting the entire event industry.”He said there were around 4,500 resorts and marriage palaces in Punjab and almost all of them were lying closed with the cap on gatherings.Gurdeep Singh Walia, a hotelier and general secretary of Hotels Association, Patiala, said the pandemic had hit them badly and there was no business at all, due to which he was planning to start a catering business in Chandigarh or Haryana as they had huge committed expenses to bear.Moreover, these hotel and palace owners do not see business coming back to pre-Covid level anytime soon in the near future.The present scenario is a far cry from the “big fat” Indian wedding, replete with thousands of guests and multi-day revelry with cocktail parties, live bands, and elaborate feasts held at exciting locales.
