18-05-2020||Hisar||RPF cop shot dead in Hisar’s Uklana||A policeman from the Railway Protection Force was shot fatally while he was on patrolling duty near the railway boundary in Hisar’s Uklana town on Monday evening.Police said they got reports of a fight near the railway line, and Sub-Inspector Manish Sharma, who is charge of the railway police station in Uklana, and some other policemen went to break it up.Three unidentified assailants shot Sharma in his stomach. He was taken immediately to Hisar’s Civil Hospital, where he died hours later, police said.
18-05-2020||Karnal||Fire breaks out at Karnal paint factory||A fire broke out at a paint factory in Karnal on Monday eveningThe factory, Karna Paints Pvt. Ltd near Industrial area, is on National Highway 44. Thick plumes of smoke billowed as three fire tenders fought off the flames. The factory was empty. There has been no reported fatality in the incident.Reason for the fire is yet unclear.Authorities said they were using a drone camera to determine the extent of the fire.
18-05-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Unable to pay rent, migrant commits suicide in Gurugram||A 40-year-old migrant has committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance after being allegedly harassed for not paying the rent of his room in Gandhi Nagar.A suicide note was recovered from his room in which he claims that he committed suicide as his landlord was continuously harassing him over room rent and he had no money.Police have booked his landlord for abetment to suicide on the basis of the suicide note and are investigating further.According to the police, the deceased was identified as Madhusudan, native of Odisha. “I continue to suffer without work and do not have money even for food but my landlord is demanding room rent. He is harassing me every day and I cannot take it anymore and so took extreme step,” read the suicide note.On basis of the suicide note, an FIR under section 306 (abetment to suicide) has been registered at Shivaji Nagar police station against the landlord.“We informed the family of deceased in Odisha who told us that he was not in their contact from the last 20 years. Probe is on and the body is kept in mortuary,” said Sub-Inspector Subhash Yadav, the investigating officer.
18-05-2020||Karnal||Coronavirus: Karnal reports new case, Haryana tally rises to 911||Haryana on Monday reported a coronavirus case, taking the state's tally to 911. Karnal reported the new case, taking the total cases in the district to 19. A 22-year-old woman from Chaugama village tested positive for the contagion on Monday. She is the daughter of the 40-year-old positive patient from Chaugama. The family had come from Gurugram.
18-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||15 doctors, 4 nurses at Rohtak PGIMS quarantined after patient found Covid-19 positive||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 18The authorities at the Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Shama Post Graduate Institute of Medical Science (PGIMS) put 15 doctors and four staff nurses under quarantine after a woman admitted to ward-2 of the Gynecology Department was found Covid-19 positive on Sunday.The authorities also sanitised the ward and labour room. The patient was immediately referred to Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the Covid ward.Nine of the doctors are posted at the Gynecology Department and were taking care of the patient who was referred from Delhi for surgery. Three other doctors work in Anesthesia department while three work in Medicine department. They have been quarantined in a hotel. The authorities are also making efforts to ascertain other close and primary contacts of the doctors and nurses so that they could also be quarantined.The emergence of Covid-19 cases on the PGIMS campus has put the authorities on their toes. Four persons, including two sanitation workers deputed at the Covid ward in the PGIMS, an ambulance driver and wife of a PGIMS doctor residing on the campus, tested positive on Saturday.The district health authorities had sent 19 bearers and a sanitary worker to the quarantine centre setup in Brahmanvaas village here. All these came into contacts with two Covid positive sanitary workers.The PGIMS campus was declared as containment zone while samples of 52 persons were collected. All these were primary contacts of the doctor’s wife. Their reports are awaited.Sources said a team of Community Medicine Department of the PGIMS also carried out door-to-door campaign on the PGIMS campus to find out if anyone had complaints of cough, cold and fever.Dr OP Kalra, Vice Chancellor, University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, said the doctors and nurses had been quarantined while taking all the precautionary measures.
18-05-2020||Washington||US to deport 161 Indians this week; special flight to take them to Amritsar||The United States this week will deport 161 Indian nationals, most of whom had entered the country from its southern border with Mexico and have exhausted all legal options.A special chartered flight will take them to Punjab's Amritsar.Among those on the list to be deported, the maximum 76 are from Haryana, followed by 56 from Punjab; 12 from Gujarat; five from Uttar Pradesh; four from Maharashtra; two each from Kerala, Telangana and Tamil Nadu; and one each from Andhra Pradesh and Goa. According to Satnam Singh Chahal, executive director, North American Punjabi Association (NAPA), they are from among the 1,739 Indians languishing in 95 jails across the US. They were arrested by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement or ICE while trying to enter the United States illegally.According to an ICE report, the US deported 611 Indian nationals in 2018, which rose over two-and-a-half times to 1,616 in 2019.NAPA said among the 161 to be deported to India three are women.The youngest of them are two 19-year-old youths from Haryana. “The fate of the remaining Indians languishing in the US jails is still unknown,” Chahal said.Though there is no data to show from which Indian states those languishing in the US jails came, most of them are believed to be from north India. Most detainees had asked for an asylum, claiming that they experienced violence or persecution in their home country.Over the past few years, US judges did not buy their argument and dismissed their applications.Chahal, who has been working among them for years, alleged that there is a nexus of human traffickers and officials in north India, especially Punjab, who encourage young people to leave their homes and illegally enter the US. These middlemen and agents charge Rs 35 lakh-Rs 50 lakh from each individual. In a statement, Chahal urged the Punjab government and the Centre to take action against illegal agents. PTI
18-05-2020||rnal||Karnal gets local food delivery app||To overcome the complaints of restaurants and bakery owners of being charged exorbitant prices by online food delivery apps, the district administration on Friday launched a local online app “Locally”, developed by a developer of Karnal.  The app offers home delivery of food from over 40 restaurants and bakeries at delivery charges between Rs25-40, depending upon distance. The app has been initiated on the call of the PM to endorse products to make ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’.  “It has been developed by Karnal for Karnal in an attempt to provide online food delivery during the extended Covid lockdown period. Partner restaurants and bakeries will offer their food at minimal rates and the entire delivery charge amount will be transferred to the delivery partner,” said DC Nishant Kumar Yadav. “The purpose of the app is to ensure food at lesser prices for customers, besides providing job to locals.” The DC said there would be an endeavour to ensure safe and contactless delivery at all times. He appealed the residents to download the app from Google Play Store to join hands to make the local venture a success. —TNS
18-05-2020||Karnal||In Karnal, mobile units to collect random samples||With an aim to strengthen random sampling initiative, the Health Department is to start two mobile testing units which will start collecting samples from Monday at block level.Civil Surgeon Dr Ashwani Ahuja said two ambulances had been turned into mobile-testing units. Doctors and paramedical staff members have been deployed to conduct random sampling at block level. He said there were seven health blocks in the district and one mobile testing van would be sent to one block each day.Dr Ahuja said so far they had collected 3,725 samples, out of which 3,632 tested negative and 75 reports were pending. Of the total 18 positive cases, one patient had died, seven were active and 10 had been cured and discharged. — TNS
18-05-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram salons go all out to curb virus spread||Gurugram, May 17Other precautionsSalons are regulating the number of people visiting dailyMandatory santisation & thermal screening of staff, visitorsShoe covers a must, which are being sanitised every two daysStaff reduced from 50 to 10, with all wearing N95 masksWith Gurugram limping back to normalcy, salons that were shut for almost two months have started reopening now.Being cited as high-risk zones for Covid transmission, the salons, currently having negligible footfall, are taking all measures to get customers back in shops. From allowing customers only from non-containment zones to getting PPE kits, disposable equipment, cashless payments and physically distanced working stations, salons are out to fight Covid transmission threat.“Everybody is opening shops, so we can’t sit at home. Being out of work for months, we are out of money now. We understand the threat associated with salons, but will do all it takes to keep people safe. As of now, we are allowing only 10 customers a day following complete sanitisation protocols,” says Aarush Sahay of a Sector 31-based salon.Many salons are offering just shaves and haircuts and have still not started other services like waxing, etc.The precautions being followed are among many listed by the Beauty and Wellness Sector Skill Council in its guidelines released recently.Meanwhile, a salon in Sector 15 issued a statement saying: “We’re not just responsible for the well-being of our customers but even staff. We have provided PPE kits to our staff to for their safety.”
18-05-2020||Parveen Arora
||Lockdown brings Karnal Smart City project to halt||Tribune News Service Karnal, May 17 The Karnal Smart City project has come to a standstill due to the ongoing Covid pandemic lockdown. Around 30 projects costing around Rs 450 crore could not be commenced as their tenders were not processed due to the lockdown. To call the tender, permission of the board of directors (BoD) has to be obtained, but the meeting of BoD could not be held due to the lockdown. Even before the enforcement of the lockdown, the projects under the Union Government’s flagship Smart City Mission had been delayed. As per sources in  Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL), the cut-off date for approval of the tenders was March 31, but the lockdown has halted the process, further delaying the project. Karnal was included in the smart cities’ list on June 23, 2017. As many as 57 projects worth Rs 1171.83 crore, in which 40 projects worth Rs 1022.08 crore under the area-based development (ABD) for smart amenities was to be completed  in the next five years, and 17 projects worth Rs 149.75 crores was undertaken by PAN City Solutions. The project is already lagging behind as most of the projects are in limbo. Rajiv Mehta, CEO,KSCL, said  due to the lockdown, the tenders of these projects could not be processed. The meeting of BoD will be held on May 20 for the approval of tenders. “We cannot do anything without the approval from the BoD. After the approval, we will start the tender process,” he further said.
18-05-2020||---||Karamchari Sangh plans statewide protest||Chandigarh, May 17The Haryana State Karamchari Sangh has decided to launch a statewide agitation against the “anti-employee” policies of the Central and state governments.State sangh convener Krishan Lal Gurjar said in the first phase, they would submit memorandums to DCs against suspension of labour laws and putting DA and LTC on hold.He said the agitation would be intensified in the days to come in case the Central and state governments did not take back these decisions.Gurjar said outsourced PWD employees had not been paid salaries for the past six months and Haryana Tourism had retrenched about 350 outsourced employees.
18-05-2020||  ||Two bikes collide, 3 die||Tribune News Service  Yamunanagar, May 17     Three persons were killed when two motorcycles collided near Khajuri village on Sunday evening.  The deceased have been identified as Sushil Kumar of Lal Chhappar village, Komal Rani of Garhi Birbal village and her brother Vijay Kumar. According to information, Sushil was driving towards Yamunanagar, while Vijay and his sister were coming from the opposite direction. Their motorcycles collided head-on near Khajuri village.   The bodies were kept for postmortem at the Civil Hospital in Yamunanagar.
18-05-2020||Gurugram||Engineer ends life in Gurugram||A 28-year-old engineer committed suicide after choking himself with carbon monoxide in his car on Sunday. The deceased identified as Arpit Kumar Khandelwal of Rajasthan carried a carbon monoxide cylinder with him and locked himself in his car, letting the gas loose. He had sent a mail to his cousin informing that his car was parked in Sector 29 and that he was committing suicide.  His cousin reached the spot and the police found him dead in the car. The family of the deceased claimed that he was in depression for six years. He had left his job to start a firm with three friends. The family said they do not suspect foul play and did not lodge a complaint with the police. — OC
18-05-2020||Yamunanagar||Four policemen suspended for liquor misappropriation||Superintendent of Police (SP) Himanshu Garg on Saturday suspended four policemen in connection with the alleged misappropriation of seized illegal liquor. The SP suspended Radaur SHO Sandeep Kumar, Kheri Lakha Singh police post incharge Jasbir Singh and their official drivers Subhash Chand and Sukhwinder Singh.59 liquor cartons go missing, cop bookedSources said SP Ashok Kumar had directed the SHO to verify the stock of seized liquor kept in the ‘malkhana’. He also asked him to submit his report at the earliest. The SHO along with some other cops checked the liquor record and found 59 cartons missing.According to information, the Radaur police seized illegal countrymade liquor from a tractor-trailer near Sikandra village of Yamunanagar on April 30. The police claimed that they had seized 205 boxes of countrymade liquor and registered a case. Sources claimed misappropriation in the consignment, saying 205 boxes were shown instead of the actual number.A complaint was submitted to the SP about the misappropriation, after which he marked an inquiry to Jagadhri DSP Sudhir Taneja.The DSP submitted his report to the SP on Saturday. The DSP said the SP had marked a departmental inquiry against the suspended policemen as well. — TNS
18-05-2020|| 
||2 kids killed in road accident||Faridabad, May 17 A five-year-old girl and seven-year-old boy were killed and two others injured after the motorcycle on which they were travelling rammed into a divider on the national highway here on Sunday morning. The injured have been admitted to a hospital in New Delhi. As per information, the accident took place at 9 am, when the motorcycle driven by Vishnu (28) of Kirari village in Delhi was homebound and he lost control over it, crashing into a divider. While he and his sister-in-law (33) were injured, his nephew Harsh and niece Pari died on the spot. It is reported that accident took place as Vishnu dozed off after feeling sleepy while driving. Vishnu had come from Delhi to take back his sister-in-law and two kids who had come to visit their maternal grandparents at Agra just before the start of the lockdown.
18-05-2020||Our Correspondent
||Two held on theft charge||Kaithal, May 17 The police have arrested two men on the charge of stealing  Rs 3 lakh  from the house of their neighbour, a daily wager, in Faral  village of the district on   May 13. The police have recovered Rs 2.69 lakh from their possession. The theft accused, identified as Satish and Surinder, were produced in a local court on Sunday and sent in 14-day judicial custody. The police said Rani Devi had   collected Rs 3 lakh from relatives to purchase an eight-marla plot and the sale deed   was scheduled to be registered  on May 15.
18-05-2020||---||Hooda condemns use of force on labourers||Chandigarh, May 17Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda condemned the lathi charge on migrant labourers in Yamunanagar. He said it was inhuman to beat up poor labourers who are victims of circumstance and the government should treat them with empathy in this difficult period.The former Chief Minister advised the government to ensure workers don’t leave the state, arrangements be made for their stay and food and they should be provided immediate monetary relief or alternate employment. If the government is not able to do this or the labourers want to go home, arrangements should be made for the same, he said.“The government is not providing relief and workers have been travelling hundreds of kilometres on foot. Instead of running buses or trains, the government is using sticks on them. This is unfortunate. The poorest have been the worst victims of the pandemic. The government should fulfill both its administrative and humanitarian responsibilities towards them,” Hooda said.He drew the government’s attention to Covid patients being referred to other districts. He said most patients from Gurgaon and other districts were being referred to PGIMS-Rohtak. “This increases pressure on PGI and other patients were not being treated effectively. The government should ensure corona patients get treatment in nearby hospitals. This will reduce risk of infection and not affect other patients.”Hooda said the government should not shy away from utilising the services of private hospitals for Covid patients. “There are several large government and private hospitals in Gurgaon, but patients are being referred to other districts. There are several medical colleges in the state, including Mewat, Karnal and Khanpur. It is important to increase treatment facilities in every district so patients of other diseases do not suffer.”
18-05-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Panel to probe power losses||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17About the caseChief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced constitution of the committee in the Vidhan Sabha during the Budget session after the Opposition raised questions about the growing debt burdenSources have said that the inquiry is essentially a political move aimed at hitting back at Bhupinder Singh Hooda as he is raising the issue of increasing debt burden on the governmentTo look into the unusually large losses incurred in the two power distribution companies (discoms) of the state nearly a decade back, the Haryana Government has constituted a four-member committee and sought a report within a fortnight.The committee will look into the increase of losses from Rs 6,505 crore in 2010-11 to Rs 19,708 crore in 2011-12 in Uttar Haryana Bilji Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN). The Congress government headed by Bhupinder Singh Hooda was in power during this period.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced constitution of a committee in the Vidhan Sabha during the Budget session after the Opposition raised questions about the growing debt burden.The treasury benches had countered this argument by stating that the BJP government had to take on all debts left behind by the Congress. During trading of charges, heavy losses in 2011-12 found mention, after which Khattar announced an inquiry.The committee has the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Power, ACS, Finance, or his representative, CMD, UHBVN, and a charted accountant as its members. Since the committee has been constituted on May 11, the report is likely to come by May 25.Sources said that the inquiry was essentially a political move aimed at hitting back at Hooda since he had been raising the issue of increasing burden of debt on the government.The sources maintained that during this period, Hooda government introduced a scheme to provide relief to farmers by chipping in with partial payment of pending dues to increase recovery of unpaid bills.However, that did not happen despite the concession offered, after which the HERC pulled up the discoms and the outstanding amount was shown as pending against power companies.The sources maintained that it could merely be a technical issue in the record books to avail a loan for discoms, which would come out in the inquiry, ruling out the possibility of a scam.
18-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||Cap on patients’ number, long wait at PGIMS-Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 17Suman came to the OPD at the PGIMS-Rohtak from Sonepat, nearly 50 km away, to get her teenage son treated for a neurological disorder, but could not see a doctor. The reason: 50 patients had already been given registration for the neurology department OPD and no more could be accommodated as per new provisions.Suman’s was not an isolated case as PGIMS reopened 11 OPDs in different clinical specialties and super-specialties from May 11 with restrictions to prevent crowding and ensure social distancing.Several patients can be seen struggling daily to get treatment because of curtailing of timings/registration schedule and restrictions on number of patients in OPDs. As per new provisions, merely 50 patients are to be treated in neurology OPD and 100 in others on first come-first served basis.“My son was undergoing treatment in the psychiatry department, but doctors suggested we consult neurologists. So we came to the OPD, but got late as public transport is not available due to the lockdown and we had to arrange a taxi. We hired a taxi for Rs1,500 but are now going back without treatment,” Suman said.Sunil, another patient, said she reached the OPD at 9.30 am, but failed to make it to the first 50 patients of neurology. “I repeatedly requested the officials to give me a registration number, but they expressed their helplessness.”People coming from distant places were the worst affected. Parveen came all the way from Rewari, but had to return without consulting a doctor as officials refused to issue him an OPD card since he had missed the deadline of 11.30 am. Rohtak resident ML Sharma (75) and Sundra Rani from Fatehabad also faced difficulty in getting treatment.Dr Varun Arora, PGIMS spokesman, said priority was given to patients coming from distant places. He said the cap on number of patients had been put to ensure social distancing to curb Covid spread.
18-05-2020||Chandigarh||Out on bail, 2 undertrials test positive||Two undertrials, who are out on bail, have tested positive for Covid, officials said today. They were arrested last week on rioting and other charges and subsequently released on bail from the Bhondsi jail in Gurugram. The judge from Rewari, before whom they were produced a day after their arrest, and 13 others, including some court employees present during the hearing and police officials who escorted the undertrials, had been placed in home quarantine, the officials said. The samples of the undertrials were collected by the Health Department on May 12, the day of their arrest. They were out on bail the next day. Their report came positive yesterday. The undertrials were admitted to an isolation ward of the civil hospital at Rewari. The Bhondsi jail authorities were informed. — PTI
18-05-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Cautious state farmers say they will wait for details||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17Deregulating agricultural items including cereals, onions and potatoes and lifting the stock limit may seem promising to farmers and the choice of selling their produce at attractive prices instead of limiting it to the market committees might look encouraging but farmers’ organisations are treading with caution around the Centre’s announcements, maintaining it might be too early to “celebrate”.Farmers will have funds: Agriculture MinisterThrough the deregulation and lifting the stock limits, the farmer will have the chance to stock and sell his produce, said the minister.Farm-gate allocation and funds for smaller processing units will help add value and raise the price which will benefit the farmer.This relief has given freedom to the farmer to sell his produce anywhere in the country, making it advantageous for him,” Dalal explained.Guarded about being enthused too soon over the Union Government’s economic relief package for the agricultural sector, the organisations of the state have decided to adopt a “wait and watch” policy till details emerge.Though these seem attractive on the one hand, the announcements seem to favour the “moneyed class” on the other. “The manner in which these will ultimately unfold on the ground will decide our fate. We are still awaiting the details of the announcements,” says Rattan Mann, state president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union.However, he says that the amendment of the Essential Commodities Act, a demand repeatedly raised by farmers organisations, as also the “opening” of the mandis by providing barrier-free inter-state trade, will benefit them.“This means that we are free to sell our produce in any market and we can decide the pricing. It means more power in our hands though clarity will come only when the details will be made available,” Mann said.His faction of the BKU has even scheduled a farmers’ panchayat in Panipat tomorrow. This will be attended by two farmers’ representatives each from all the districts and deliberating on the announcements will be the highlight of the event.However, the parallel BKU unit under Gurnam Singh Charuni is sceptical about the announcements from the word go. “Doing away with the limit on stock-holding will mean that the hoarders will benefit. The farmer will be at the mercy of the ‘capitalists’ who will control the market, buy the produce, wait for the price to escalate and then, bring it to the market. We will be destroyed since this is only a new business model,” he rued.Charuni is of the opinion that the government is pushing the cause of private players by allowing them entry in the name of permitting farmers to sell their produce out the Agricultural Produce Market Committees.“This amounts to creating space for these players and gradually withdrawing the Minimum Support Price (MSP) on produce. It means that the private player will take produce-delivery at his doorstep, increase the burden on the farmer and minimise the role of the government, exposing the farmers to the battles of demand and supply in the open market,” he maintained, adding that the details of the announcements will “expose” the government and its design to “sneak in” privatisation in the garb of relief due to the pandemic.While they await details, they maintain that strengthening of farm-gate infrastructure like cold chains and storage places, loan-related relief could benefit the farmer in the long run.
18-05-2020||Deepender Deswal||Package for long term, not instant relief, say experts||Tribune News ServiceHisar, May 17Bhoop Singh, a farmer of Daulatpur village in Uklana block of the district, has stored cotton produce from eight acres for the past seven months.Now, when the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) has resumed purchase, he is readying to take the produce to Barwala mandi for procurement.‘FARMERS NEED TIME TO LEARN TRADE  SKILLS’Though farmers get good returns of agri produce like guar, mustard and cotton sometimes, they will take time in learning trading skills in order to compete with market forces. — Dr RS Dalal, ex-secy, Haryana Kisan AayogSingh opted to hold back his produce as the CCI offered the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 5,450 per quintal while the traders in the open market were offering Rs 4,900 per quintal. “Had I got a better deal in the open market, there would be no need to store the produce for seven months. A similar situation arises before the farmer during the procurement season every year,” he stated while trying to explain the impact of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s recent announcements.She had announced to bring in a law to implement agriculture marketing reforms to provide adequate choice to farmers to sell their produce at an attractive price by removing inter-state trade barriers and providing e-trading of agricultural produce.Agriculture experts and farmers maintained that the FM’s announcements are more of a development plan which can have implications in the future rather than being a relief package which is urgently required to ameliorate the conditions of farmers.They doubt that the farmers would be able to sell their produce at a remunerative price in the open market except in the scenario when there is a shortage of items.Dr RS Dalal, former secretary of the Haryana Kisan Ayog, maintained that promotion of agro-industry is the major requirement for the betterment of farmers. Though the Kisan Ayog too had recommended this measure to allow farmers to sell produce in the open market, this is a long-term plan and not an immediate relief to them.
18-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||Mahendragarh administration relies on private school buses to ferry migrants||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, May 17The district authorities are using private school buses to ferry migrant labourers to shelter homes, leaving the owners fumed. The school owners are raising questions as to why their resources are being used by the authorities when the buses of Haryana Roadways are available.“These buses are parked either on the premises of the Narnaul Municipal Council or sports stadium in the city. The drivers too are made to stay there even at night but not a single penny is paid for the job and the schools have to bear fuel expenses,” said a school owner on anonymity.He said private schools were already reeling under economy crisis due to Covid as parents were not depositing their wards’ fee even when online classes were on. The authorities were adding to their woes by forcing them to provide buses for the transportation of labourers, he added.Another school owner said resentment prevailed among all school owners in the district but no one was daring to resist the authorities openly. “The authorities will start harassing us if anyone raises voice against them,” he added.Abhay Singh, Executive Officer, Narnaul MC, admitted that the buses of private schools were parked on the council premises. “These buses are being used to take migrant labourers to shelter houses on being found walking on the roads,” he added.Expenses borne by school management Private schools are being pressurised by the education officials to provide buses to ferry migrants…. The drivers are made to stay on the MC premises even at night but not a single penny is paid for the job and schools have to bear fuel expenses. — A school ownerEducation official refutes chargeRoadways buses are taking labourers to other districts while private school vehicles are ferrying them locally. This is due to the shortage of roadways buses. Also, no school owner is being pressurised. They are coming forward on their own to help the admn in this noble cause. — Sunil Dutt, District Education Officer
18-05-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Malls shut, no pay for guards, parking staff||Gurugram, May 17With malls being shut for the past two months, hundreds of workers employed there have been left in the lurch.Parking staff, security guards, sanitation staff, lift operators and shop employees have moved the local administration claiming they have not been paid. They are demanding the opening of malls.No money to feed familyWe have not even got our wages for March. We were told that we will be paid only when the mall pays the contractor. But that has not happened as the mall is shut. We have no money to feed our families and we want the administration to step in. — Raghu, a guard at Cross Point MallThe employees have been staging protests across the city with the latest being from the guards at South Point Mall. Though the service has been outsourced through an agency, a guard said that they were not being paid citing closure of mall.“We have not even got our wages for March. We were told that we will be paid only when the mall pays the contractor. But that has not happened as the mall is shut. We have no money to feed our families and we want the administration to step in,” said Raghu, a guard at Cross Point Mall.The woes are shared by guards at banks and ATMs. Om Parkash, a native of Etawah in UP who is deployed as a guard at an ATM booth at MG Road, said he has not been paid and has been threatened that he would be shunted out.“I fear that I will lose my job and two months’ salary. The mall management told us to talk to the security agency and it asked us to wait. I am managing lunch and dinner at the community food site,” said guard Om Parkash.Not just guards, but local housekeeping workers too have been hit. “I used to clean toilets at the mall. It’s not my fault if it’s shut, but the contractor says no mall, no salary. I have two children to feed,” says Pushpa, a native of Bengal employed on Golf Course road.A senior officer of a local mall management said that only outsourced employees are facing problem. Agencies are not paying the workers. The agencies, in turn, blame the malls for not clearing their dues.
18-05-2020||Nitish Sharma||Fighting odds, labourers continue to walk home||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, May 17Braving heat and hunger, migrant labourers from Punjab can be seen carrying their belongings and children and crossing the Ghaggar to enter Ambala.A woman from Punjab with her child in Ambala. Photo: Pradeep MainiThough the state government has been claiming that it has been distributing free ration among migrants and making arrangements of their safe return, the migrants seem to have lost faith in the authorities.“We might not die of Covid, but we will surely die of hunger if we don’t reach our home (Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh),” said Sarvesh, a labourer from Ludhiana who crossed the river with his wife and three children. “I lost my job and got no food from the authorities. We have been eating black grams. For the past 15 days, we have been getting hollow assurances that we will be sent back to our home,” he added.As Punjab hasn’t been able to control the exodus, the local administration has raised the matter with Punjab repeatedly.SP Abhishek Jorwal said, “The migrants who crossed the Ghaggar river or were stopped at the border are being sent back to Punjab. Those who have entered Haryana from other routes have been sent to shelter homes. Nearly 120 buses, carrying 35 persons each, have been sent to Saharanpur in the past three days.”DC Ashok Sharma said, “We have asked the Punjab Government to stop the exodus of migrants as we have limitations here. Nearly 6,000 people were shifted to shelter homes in the past three days. They are being sent to UP in buses. People shouldn’t cross the river or walk on the national highway. Industries have resumed operations and they should stay at their workplace.”
18-05-2020||---||Traffic jam: 33 Haryana Roadways buses turned back from UP border||Ambala/Yamunanagar, May 17Eighteen Haryana Roadways buses from Ambala and 15 from Yamunanagar carrying labourers were sent back from the border by the Uttar Pradesh authorities.‘Heavy rush in Saharanpur’Ambala Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma said the UP authorities didn't allow the buses to drop off the migrants on Sunday due to heavy rush.Drivers of the buses carrying 30 passengers each from Ambala were told that there was a heavy rush in Saharanpur and it was not possible to accept more labourers today. “We kept waiting there for a couple of hours, but were not allowed to drop off the migrants. So we called up the authorities here in Ambala and they asked us to bring the passengers back,” a roadways driver said.Arjun, a labourer, said they left Ambala around 11.30 am and when they reached the UP border, the policemen didn’t allow the buses to go ahead. “They told the drivers that there is already a jam. We were so close but now we have been sent back.”Ambala Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma said the UP authorities didn’t allow the buses to drop off the migrants on Sunday due to heavy rush. “The labourers will be sent back after we get clearance from Uttar Pradesh. Over 10,350 people have been sent to UP and Bihar from Ambala so far in trains and buses. We have been allotted two more trains for Bihar, while we need three more.”The buses from Yamunanagar were carrying about 500 labourers from shelter homes of the district to drop them at homes set up in Saharanpur. “We sent 15 buses to drop off labourers of Uttar Pradesh at a shelter home in Saharanpur. But, our buses were returned back from the border following some law and order problem in Uttar Pradesh,” said Yamunanagar Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar.Earlier in the day, labourers held a protest and blocked the national highway at Shambhu border when they were being sent back by the Ambala authorities towards Punjab. SP Abhishek Jorwal said, “Migrants who come from Punjab are sent back. On Sunday, nearly 500 migrants were sent back.”900 sent home on busesKarnal: More than 900 migrant labourers, who were walking on foot to return to their hometowns, have been sent to their homes by the district administration on Saturday in 30 buses.The authorities got them lifted from roads and sent them to shelter homes. After their screening, they were sent to their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh (UP). Around 1,300 migrant labourers have been sent to UP in the past two days.As many as 2,230 migrant labourers belonging to Bihar are staying in shelter homes. “We have requested for the arrangement of two trains for them, which are expected to be arranged in a couple of days,” said DC Nishant Kumar Yadav, adding that all kind of facilities were being provided to them.
18-05-2020||---||Covid-testing lab to come up in Ambala||Ambala, May 17The Health Department is establishing a laboratory at a polyclinic of city’s Sector 10 to start Covid testing. The machines are likely to be installed by Monday evening.Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh, who reached the polyclinic on Sunday for inspection, said: “A laboratory equipped with the RT-PCR equipment is being established. All mandatory approvals required for testing from the ICMR will be obtained for which we will apply on Monday. We will get the permission within two-three days. We also have a CB-NAAT machine, and its cartridges will arrive in a day or two. The CB-NAAT will have a capacity to test 90 samples a day. The lab will be testing 300 samples a day. We can increase the testing capacity.”Dr Kuldeep said: “So far, we were sending our samples to different labs in Haryana, Panchkula and Chandigarh. We used to get the results the next day but now it will be possible within 10 to 12 hours. Samples from neighbouring districts are also likely to come to Ambala for testing. We have got our staff trained for the testing and additional one-day training will be provided to them. At present, the lab will function for 18 hours a day and within a week, it will work round the clock.”
18-05-2020||---||Faridabad man dies, 23 fresh cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, May 17Kurukshetra man dies day after recoveryKurukshetra: A man (52) from Shahabad, who had recovered from Covid, died due to some lung disease on Sunday evening. He tested positive at the PGI, Chandigarh, on April 30. His samples tested negative on May 13 and 14, , after which he was shifted to a non-Covid ward. He was discharged on Saturday. TNSWith 23 fresh cases, Haryana’s Covid tally reached 910 today. With the death of one more patient, 14 persons in the state had succumbed to the disease. The fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (11), Rohtak (4), Faridabad (3), Panipat (2) and Karnal, Sirsa and Mahendragarh (1 each).A 45-year-old man from Bharat Colony in Faridabad died in the wee hours today. He is the sixth patient to die of the disease in the district. According to health officials, he was a diabetic. He was shifted to the ESI Hospital on May 13 after he tested positive.There were three fresh cases in the district — a 36-year-old health worker with a private hospital, a 32-year-old bank employee from Sector 14 and a 38-year-old factory worker from Bharat Colony.Among the 11 cases in Gurugram are a health worker and a security guard with a multi-national company. Other cases are from Sushant Lok Phase 1, Sector 55 and Sector 48. The total cases in the district had now reached 204.In Rohtak, two sanitation workers deployed at a Covid ward, an ambulance driver and wife of a casualty medical officer tested positive.Panipat reported two positive cases — a 28-year-old from Hali Colony and a 22-year-old from Chhotu Ram Colony, who returned from Mumbai on May 15. The total cases in the district had now reached 38.A 28-year-old vegetable seller from Ateli in Mahendragarh was confirmed to be infected. With this, the district’s count reached seven. A 40-year-old man of Chaugama village in the Indri block of Karnal district tested positive.Among the 48 cases to be cured today, 25 were discharged from Jhajjar, 14 from Gurugram, five from Jind, three from Panchkula and one from Palwal. A total of 562 patients had been cured so far, with a recovery rate of 61.75 per cent.
18-05-2020||Sushil Manav||24 lakh screened in urban slums of 5 hotspot districts in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 17Total 597 casesThe five districts have 597 of total 887 positive cases in the state — Gurugram 193, Faridabad 144, Sonepat 134, Jhajjar 90 & Panipat 36With urban slums becoming Covid hotspots in big municipal towns across the country, Haryana on Saturday completed the mammoth exercise of screening over 24.28 lakh people living in slum areas of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Panipat and Bahadurgarh town of Jhajjar.With 288 of total 360 active Covid cases in the state, the five districts together account for 80 per cent of the total active Covid cases in Haryana.The five districts have 597 of total 887 positive cases in the state — Gurugram 193, Faridabad 144, Sonepat 134, Jhajjar 90 and Panipat 36.“Our experience of major cities of the country, including Mumbai, Delhi, Indore, Ahmedabad and others, shows that once the infection enters a slum area, it becomes difficult for health workers to contain it because of the congested nature of the areas and the thick population. Therefore, we have taken proactive steps to screen the entire population of urban slums in these towns to find out if there are any people with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI), severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARI) and breathlessness with pneumonia,” said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, Haryana.In the programme being run under the National Health Mission (NHM), health workers have so far screened 24,28,151 persons in the five urban slums – 10,05,319 people in Gurugram, 8,98,652 in Faridabad, 2,36,667 in Jhajjar, 1,93,084 in Panipat and 94,229 in Sonepat town.During these screening exercises, the health workers have found 3,018 persons with symptoms of ILI, SARI and breathlessness with pneumonia and tested them for Covid through real-time Reverse-Transcript Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) or with rapid diagnostic tests.The health workers performed 5,469 RT-PCR tests and 786 rapid tests to find out those suffering with Covid.During screening and testing, 129 persons have been found positive for Covid in the urban primary health centres areas of these districts – 34 in Faridabad, 75 in Jhajjar, 14 in Panipat and two in Sonepat.The proactive approach of the Health Department seems to have paid dividends as there is no spread of Covid in any of the slums in the state so far.Today, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had a video conferencing session with 30 municipal towns and cities of the country that account for 79 per cent of the total Covid cases in the country. No town from Haryana figured in the list of 30 cities.“The screening exercise has helped us a great deal in not only containing Covid, but we have also been utilising this for covering mother and child programmes like ante natal and post natal care and immunisation of children,” said Arora.
18-05-2020||---||Migrants cane-charged in Yamunanagar||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, May 17Having traversed hundreds of miles on foot, migrant labourers faced police fury when they moved out of a shelter home and tried to block the Yamunanagar-Panchkula national highway yesterday, demanding to be sent back home immediately.The police resorted to mild lathicharge to disperse them. The incident took place near the shelter home set up at Karera Khurd government school last evening.Some of the labourers, who had been staying in the shelter home for several days, made an attempt to block the national highway. They were joined by some migrants on way to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar from Punjab. Two labourers were injured in the police action.Sukhbir Singh, SHO, Sadar police station, Yamunanagar, said the labourers were adamant on being sent to Uttar Pradesh immediately. “We tried to pacify them, but they did not relent. We then made them return to the shelter home,” he said.3 containers carrying 178 labourers seizedMuzaffarnagar: Three container trucks carrying over 178 migrants were seized by the UP Police. Seventy-eight migrants were found in a container truck at Shamli, while two trucks were seized in Muzaffarnagar carrying 60 and 40 persons, respectively. PTIAuraiya mishap: 2 more succumb to injuriesAuraiya (UP): Two more migrant workers died on Sunday due to injuries sustained in the road accident a day earlier at Auraiya in UP, raising the toll to 26. Twenty-four migrants had died and 36 injured in the mishap involving two trucks on Saturday morning. PTIIn Gujarat, cops hurt as migrants throw stones
18-05-2020||Karnal||Karnal village flooded after canal breach||Residents of Ranwar village here woke up to a flood-like situation following a breach in canal around 3.30 am today. Around 12,000 persons were affected with the village being left under three feet of water.“I woke up to knee-deep water in my house,” said Ramesh Kumar, a resident. It took Irrigation Department officials 10 hours to plug the 30-foot breach. Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan and DC Nishant Kumar Yadav took stock of the situation.Kalyan assured residents of steps to strengthen canal’s banks. “Efforts are on to pump out water. All assistance, including food, water and medical help, is being provided to villagers,” he said. Yadav said a tender to strengthen canal lining had been floated. “We expect work to start by October,” he said. — TNS
