18-11-2020||Sunit Dhawan||‘Indian Covid-19 vaccine has shown least side-effects’||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 18“India is going to be amongst the pioneering nations of the world with the development of its indigenous Covid vaccine in near future. Indian Covid-19 vaccine is unique as it has shown the minimum side-effects.”This was stated by Prof (Dr) O.P. Kalra, Vice-Chancellor of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, while addressing a news conference here today.Kalra said the third phase of the clinical human trials of India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine would begin at Rohtak PGIMS on November 19.“Phase III trials will be conducted on 25,800 volunteers across the country under supervision of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” he said, adding that the volunteers will be tested for Covid-19 antibodies 42 days after the administration of the vaccine.The Vice-Chancellor stated that if the test reports of the volunteers are found to be up to the mark by February or March 2021, the vaccine would be available in the market.Professor Kalra said the modular ICU-cum-operation theatre complex would be inaugurated by Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Ashwani Kumar Chaubey, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij and Rohtak MP Dr Arvind Sharma tomorrow.“Transplantation of human organs, including liver and kidney, would be facilitated in the state of Haryana with the commissioning of the modular ICU-cum-operation theatre complex,” he added.
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Over 150 school students in Haryana test positive for COVID-19||Over 150 school students from three districts in Haryana have tested positive for coronavirus, prompting authorities to order closure of the educational institutions for a few days, officials said on Wednesday.The condition of the children, all students of classes 9 to 12, was stated to be stable and most of them were under home isolation, they said.While 91 students from 13 schools in Rewari district have tested positive for COVID-19, 30 students and 10 teachers of various schools in Jind district too have contracted the infection.Thirty-four students and two teachers from Jhajjar district were also found infected with the virus, the officials said.Health Department officials said the schools where the students tested positive have been shut for a few days as per government guidelines.The officials said they were keeping a close watch and regularly monitoring the health of the children.Besides, those who had come into contact with the children and the teachers were also being screened and tested.State Health Minister Anil Vij, in a statement, said the health department teams will conduct checkups of students and staffers of all schools.He also said that strict action will be taken against the schools that are found not properly following the standard operating procedures (SOPs).Nineteen of the 35 students of government senior secondary school in Kund village in Rewari district, whose samples were taken a few days ago, had tested positive for the infection, Deputy Commissioner Yashender Singh said on Wednesday.Later, random sampling was done in 12 other schools of Rewari district and samples of nearly 1,000 students were taken, Singh told PTI over the phone.“All the children are stable, they are under home isolation. Medical teams are at the job and regularly monitoring their health. The students are of classes 9 to 12,” he said.Jind district’s Chief Medical Officer Dr Manjeet Singh said nearly 4,800 random sampling was done in the schools during the past about two weeks.“So far, 30 students and 10 teachers have tested positive. Though they are doing fine, the health department teams are keeping a close watch and regularly monitoring their condition,” he said.Jhajjar district’s Chief Medical Officer Dr Sanjay said 34 students and two teachers have tested positive for the virus.“We had randomly collected 1,200 samples before Diwali and 34 students and two teachers were found COVID-19 positive,” he said.Dr Sanjay said he has written a letter to the district education officer stating that all school students, teachers and other staff members who show influenza-like symptoms must immediately report to the health authorities.“The health department will start a drive in schools and get such people tested,” he said.The schools in Haryana reopened from November 2, but only students of classes 9 to 12 were allowed to attend with the prior consent of their parents.Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala in a tweet in Hindi said, “In Haryana, 149 school students and 12 teachers have tested COVID positive, which is a cause of serious concern.”     “Is the government ensuring distribution of masks and sanitisers and following of social distancing norms in schools? The chief minister should tell how the spread of infection will be checked and what is the policy being adopted in this regard,” he added.Until Wednesday, Haryana has reported 2,07,039 coronavirus cases with 2,039 fatalities.Earlier in September, students studying in classes 9 to 12 were allowed to visit their institutions outside COVID containment zones only to consult their teachers to clear any doubts.Schools have been asked by authorities to follow all SOPs issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare recently. --- PTI
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Mistrust among BJP-JJP has come to fore after they lost Baroda bypolls: Deepender Hooda||Congress leader Deepender Singh Hooda on Wednesday claimed that “mistrust” among the BJP-JJP coalition has come to fore after the ruling combine’s defeat in the recently-held Baroda bypolls.The Rajya Sabha MP also said the countdown of the year-old BJP-JJP government in the state has begun after their defeat in the bypolls. Deepender Singh Hooda, son of former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, alleged there are visible cracks of mistrust between the coalition partners and added “it is only a matter of time that this shaky building would collapse...their countdown has begun”.“After the historic victory of the Congress in the Baroda bypolls, mistrust among the coalition partners has come to fore and the chief minister had to publicly say that the BJP did not get the JJP’s vote in the by-election,” he said.He said after the bypoll results, which were declared on November 10, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in response to a question of reporters on whether all votes of the coalition partner Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) got transferred to the BJP candidate, said had that happened, Yogeshwar Dutt would have secured 75,000 to 80,000 votes.  “In such a situation, the JJP should clarify if it accepts or rejects this statement of the chief minister. It is clear to everyone that Baroda results have created a crisis of confidence among coalition partners.“These cracks are going to open up and the building built on lies and deceit will come crumbling down,” Hooda told reporters here.This was the second time BJP’s Dutt tasted defeat from Baroda. He had lost the 2019 Assembly polls by about 4,800 votes to Congress candidate Shri Krishan Hooda, who won the seat thrice in 2009, 2014 and 2019. The Congress MLA’s demise in April had necessitated the bypolls.Congress candidate Induraj Narwal polled 60,636 votes while Dutt secured 50,070. Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) nominee Joginder Singh Malik polled 5,003 votes while Loktantra Suraksha Party’s Raj Kumar Saini got 5,601.While the Bharatiya Janata Party and the JJP had separately contested the 2019 Assembly polls, this time the seat was contested by the BJP with former MP Ajay Singh Chautala-led party backing Dutt.Hooda termed the chief minister’s claims that the BJP-JJP’s vote share has gone up this time from the 2019 Assembly polls as “ridiculous”.“The BJP-JJP (contesting separately) had polled 70,000 votes in the assembly elections from Baroda, but secured only 50,000 votes in the by-election. The chief minister should tell whether 50,000 is greater than 70,000? It is clear that the chief minister does not want to face the truth,” he questioned.  The Rajya Sabha MP said the truth is that the Congress got around 40,000 votes from Baroda in the assembly polls and 60,000 votes in the by-election.“This is despite the BJP being power and alliance partner backing the ruling candidate. Within one year, the BJP-JJP lost 20,000 votes and the Congress has increased its support base by 20,000 votes,” he said.In response to a question, Hooda said while it is clear that 20,000 voters more have come to the Congress fold, the BJP and the JJP should decide amongst themselves which party’s vote has shifted more to the Congress.        He said the current government has passed the ‘Right to Recall’ law for sarpanches “but the people of Baroda have used their right to recall against the government. The public has passed a motion of no confidence against the government and we will go to different parts of the state with this message”.Newly-elected MLA from Baroda, Narwal said he would go to the doors of every minister to force the state government to complete the recently-announced schemes for Baroda’s development.“I will seek time to meet the chief minister and ask him to fulfil the promises made during the bypolls to the voters of Baroda,” he said. --- PTI
18-11-2020||Ambala||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij volunteers to be first to get vaccinated using Covaxin||Haryana Health and Home Minister Anil Vij has volunteered to get himself vaccinated first for Bharat Biotech's Covid vaccine Covaxin, the third phase trial of which will commence in the state on November 20.Covaxin- has been developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - National Institute of Virology (NIV) using inactivated Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. The virus was isolated in an ICMR lab. —with PTI
18-11-2020||Hisar||Hisar reports 8 COVID-19 deaths in 24 hours||The COVID-19 situation is getting critical in Hisar as eight people on Tuesday succumbed to the deadly disease with this the death toll has touched 189. Hisar reported 269 COVID-19 positive patients, taking the district's tally to 13,541 cases.Of these, 11451 patients have recovered. Significantly, a lab attendant of the Civil Hospital has tested positive for the second time. He tested positive for the first time in July, and recovered completely.A Sero Survey test was conducted on him which indicated, that he has developed anti-bodies for the coronavirus.Sources revealed, that the lab attendant had complained of body-ache and fever on November 13. He gave a sample for COVID-19 test, and tested positive on November 16.
18-11-2020||Rohtak||Guru Nanak Dev’s descendant on 2,800-km cycle mission for cancer patients||The descendant of 15th generation of the first Sikh Guru, Guru Nanak Dev, is on a mission to make the public aware of cancer.The 64-year-old, Vicky Bedi, is collecting funds for the cancer patients, and is motivating people to cycle daily in order to keep themselves healthy.Bedi has set a target of 2,800 km of cycling, and plans to cover the distance by doing 200 km daily under this mission.Bedi reached Rohtak on Tuesday evening by riding from Delhi. He will head towards Rajasthan on Wednesday."Cancer is curable if it's detected and diagnosed early, hence there is no need for concealing the disease. The cancer patients should immediately contact the doctors as the treatment of cancer is encouraging nowadays. My mission aims at educating people about cancer, and motivating them to get treatment at the earliest," said Bedi.He added, that collecting funds for the cancer patients was another motive of his mission. So far, Rs 1 crore has been collected, and has been donated to a Cancer Foundation—which would be spent in organising a free Mega Cancer Check-up Camp in Barmer and Jodhpur."Health check-up of 2,000 tribal women would be done in these camps through cancer specialists from Delhi. I will cover most of the area of Rajasthan on the cycle, and will also pay a floral tribute to martyrs at various memorials," stated Bedi, adding, that he would also encourage the people to cycle on a daily basis.He informed, that the idea of cycling came to his mind after meeting a cancer-stricken woman 11 months ago, and instead of getting her treatment done, her husband had left her on the mercy of god due to financial crisis."Thereafter, I pledged to take out a cycle yatra to make the public aware of cancer, and collect funds to help the cancer patients," concluded Bedi.
18-11-2020||Karnal||Three years on, pharma park still distant dream for Karnal||Three-and-a-half years after a pharma park was announced for Karnal, the project seems to be distant dream as even the land for it is yet to be finalised. The land was to be purchased by the Karnal Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (KPMA) and the project was to be developed by the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (HSIIDC).The project was announced by former Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertilisers HN Ananth Kumar in the presence of the Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on May 16, 2017, in Murthal, with an aim to make Haryana a pharma hub. It was to be constructed on 100 acres with an estimated cost of Rs 1,600 crore to generate around Rs 3,000 crore investment and provide employment to thousands of people. Later, the Haryana Government formulated the Haryana Pharmaceutical Policy, 2019, which included the project.As per the association, they have earmarked four places but due to the exorbitant rates of the land, the deal could not be finalised. The association demanded that the government allot the plots to manufacturers after purchasing the land and developing the pharma park.“We have earmarked four places — one each in Shamgarh, Taraori, Gharaunda and Kachwa — but the rates of the land are very high, which is not viable to attract pharma industrialists from other states to invest here,” said RL Sharma, president, KPMA.Raman Gupta, general secretary of the KPMA, said “A land piece of HSIIDC is lying vacant in Sector-37 and we demand that the government provide this land to pharma industrialists at reasonable rates. Besides, the government can allot the land to industrialists at Rs 5,000 per yard to attract investors in this sector.”There are 26 small and big pharma units in the district, making Karnal a major district for the industry, he maintained. “The establishment of the pharma park will boost the industry and will help in making Haryana a pharma hub,” he added.Meanwhile, Narender Kumar Ahooja, state drug controller, said establishing the pharma park in Karnal was a dream project of the state government.“Due to unpleasant relations with China on the border, along with the Covid-induced lockdown, the pharma industry had to face the shortage of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), following which the Union Government decided to make pharma industry of the country self-reliant in the manufacturing of APIs. It had invited applications from all states. Haryana has applied for a medical device park in Karnal and an API park at Hisar. The pharma park will be developed as per the policy of the Union Government,” he added.
18-11-2020||Ambala||4 join dowry case probe||Five gamblers arrestedThe district police have arrested five persons and recovered Rs 6,985 cash from their possession in separate cases of gambling registered against them at different police stations during the past 24 hours. As per the police, Pankaj, Ashish Kumar, Mam Chand and Shubham, all residents of Ambala Cantonment, were held with Rs 2,120, Rs 785, Rs 1,500 and Rs 1,280, respectively. Daljit Singh of Baldev Nagar near was nabbed with Rs 1,300. TNS125 bottles of liquor seizedThe police have arrested Amarjit Singh of Ambala Sadar in a case of liquor smuggling and claimed to have recovered 125 bottles from his possession on Tuesday. Jasbir Singh of Ambala Sadar had complained that the accused was involved in liquor smuggling following which a raid was conducted at his place. Amarjit has been sent to 14-day judicial custody. TNS
18-11-2020||Hisar||Talk show on resume writing||Additional charges assignedRohtak: Prof Rajbir Singh, Vice-Chancellor of Maharishi Dayanand University (MDU), has assigned the charge of Director, Centre for Yogic Studies, to Professor Surendra Kumar (Dept of Sanskrit) in addition to his present duties. The VC has assigned the charge of Head, Department of Defence and Strategic Studies, to Prof Shalini Singh (Department of Psychology) in addition to her present duties till further orders. The charge of Head, Dept of Commerce, has been given to Dean, Faculty of Management Sciences and Commerce, in addition to his present duties till further orders.
18-11-2020||Rohtak||MDU students get another chance to take exams||Here is good news for students of various undergraduate courses of the Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), who could not complete or submit exams online of the terminal semester held in October due to poor Internet connectivity or other inevitable reasons.The university authorities have provided students another opportunity to take the offline exams commencing from November 23. The decision was taken, acting on the complaints lodged by students. Various students’ outfits were also raising the demand prominently.As per the information, students of BA, BCom, BSc (pass/honours), BSc (biotech, home science and BVoc), BA (JMC), BBA, BCA, BPEd and BEd courses (regular/ distance mode) will be able to avail this special chance.“A considerable number of students could not submit their answer sheets online despite appearing in the exams or failed to log in to take the exams due to poor Internet connectivity. Majority of such students belong to rural areas. Students are not responsible for this technical fault. They were demanding a chance to take the exams again,” said MDU official. Many more students were also deprived of taking exams due to other unavoidable reasons, the official said.Sanjay, a student, said he had completed his exam online but the Internet server went down when he was submitting the answer sheet. “I was upset as I could not submit the exam. The paper was easy and went well. Now, I will be able to take the exam again,” he said.“More than 500 students from eight districts will appear in the offline exams again. The online exam was based on MCQs, while the offline exam will be descriptive in nature,” said BS Sindhu, Controller of Examination, MDU.Hailing the decision, Deepak Dhankar, a student leader, said the MDU had given a big relief to students, who had to pay the price for no fault on their part.
18-11-2020||Gurugram||358 pollution complaints in 10 days, Gurugram MC in fix||In what puts a question mark on Gurugram MC tall claims of quick redressal, almost half of the complaints pertaining to pollution received in the past 10 days still lie unresolved. It received around 358 complaints of pollution activities while only 178 have been marked resolved. The poor redress rate has led to a failure of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) in the city.After the implementation of GRAP, 20 teams of different departments had been working to manage the pollution levels, which are still out of control. Activities like garbage burning, faulty disposal or non-disposal of construction waste and GRAP violations at construction sites were being reported daily but many were yet to be addressed.Out of total these complaints, 69 were received on November 10, 58 on November 9 and 52 on November 5. Most of these were received on the toll-free number and the official app of the MC.In most cases, the residents complained about dust owing to construction works. While the MCG had been lauded over the past few months for their enforcement of norms at construction sites, there has been a 50 per cent dip in raids and penalisation at such sites since the last House meeting. Jaspreet Kaur, additional commissioner of the MCG, said the authorities were trying to resolve all complaints in time. Many complaints pertained to other departments, which at times led to the delay, she said. — OC
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||IAS officer shifted||The Haryana Government has issued transfer and posting orders of an IAS officer with immediate effect.Monica Malik, Additional Labour Commissioner, Additional Director, ESI, and Member Secretary, Haryana State Commission for Women, has been posted as Director, Science & Technology, and Special Secretary, Science & Technology Department, in addition to her present duties. — TNS
18-11-2020||Hisar||Election for 2 posts of Hisar MC on November 24||The tussle for the posts of senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor of the Hisar Municipal Corporation has started as the Urban Local Body has fixed November 24 for the election to the two posts.The poll is being held nearly two years after the constitution of the MC. Though the BJP, with the support of the Independents, has been in majority in the 20-member MC, the Congress-supported members are also likely to jump into the fray.BJP in majoritySources said the BJP, which contested the poll on its symbol, has seven members while eight other members who contested as Independents support the party.The sources stated that the BJP would try to strike a caste balance in the MC as the post of mayor is being held by Gautam Sardana, who belongs to the Punjabi community, and MLA Kamal Gupta belongs to Bania community. So, the posts of senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor were likely to go to the Saini community and Scheduled Caste community, respectively.The MC members who enjoy the support of the Jindal House and Adampur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi too have started lobbying to bag the posts.A local political commentator maintained that the Congress-supported MCs were buoyed after the party’s win in Baroda by-election and hoped that the Independents who had extended their support to the BJP would make a U-turn.Mayor Gautam Sardana said the elections would be conducted by the ULB in the meeting hall of the mini secretariat. He would also cast his vote, besides the 20 MC members.Former BJP state president Subhash Barala was likely to prepare the party strategy for the poll and would be present in the town on November 24, the sources added.
18-11-2020||Cycling on the Kallarheri–Panjokhara Sahib road has become a nightmare due to heaps of garbage all along the stretch. One can also see some broken street light poles fallen on the road. We should imbibe civic sense and not throw garbage in open. The authorities concerned should place garbage bins and ensure that they are cleaned regularly. Garbage dumps can be removed only if we have an efficient system of waste collection and disposal. As responsible citizens||Waste disposal system inefficient||A salute to Docs, cops’ spiritBelieving in the adage ‘Duty before self’, this year too, firefighters, police personnel and doctors spent Diwali away from their families, ensuring that others can celebrate the festival with their loved ones safely. They stay alert always and are ready to extend their service in case of any mishap. We should thank them always. — Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaIllegal hoardings mar Pkl beautyIllegal hoardings, banners and advertisement boards can be seen at all prominent roundabouts in Panchkula. Though the High Court of Punjab and Haryana have directed the authorities to address the issue, no action has been taken against the violators. Besides diminishing the beauty of the city, the hoardings also hinder smooth movement of traffic. — Gopal Mittal, PanchkulaNeed scientific solution to stubble burningWe have seen scientific progress in almost every field but no solution has been devised to control the menace of stubble burning. The government propagates ‘Don’t burn stubble’ but farmers do not know the right way to tackle the problem. Scientists should conduct experiments and come up with solutions to resolve this issue of stubble burning. — Minaksh Prasher, NaraingarhIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
18-11-2020||Hisar||20K cases of liquor go missing, two firms face Rs 1.12 cr penalty||The Excise and Taxation Department has imposed a penalty of Rs 1.12 crore on two wholesale liquor firms for selling liquor illegally in Fatehabad district during the Covid-induced lockdown, when the sale of alcohol was banned.Seven days to pay fineAbout 20,000 cases of country-made liquor and beer had gone missing from the premises of the two firms. This came to light during the raids conducted by the department in May.VK Shastri, District Excise and Taxation Commissioner (DETC), Fatehabad, said: “The firms have been given a week to pay the fine. The vigilance inquiry will continue as the fine has been imposed to recover the revenue loss suffered by the state exchequer.”Sources say the Fatehabad administration had formed a three-member committee to raid the premises of the wholesalers, who hold the L-1 and L-13 licences.On the premises of Shri Vinayak Associates (L-1 licensee), 456 cases found were missing. Of the 969 cases of beer as on March 31, 513 cases were found during the inspection.At another of its premises (L-13 licence), the committee found only 2,797 cases of country-made liquor out of 12,300 mentioned in the records as on March 31 — a shortage of 9,503 cases.The committee also found a shortage of 10,505 cases of country-made liquor on the premises of Discovery Sales (L-13 licensee). Of the 12,371 cases as on March 31, only 1,866 cases were found during the inspection.The DETC’s report stated the illegal sale of liquor amounted to a cognisable offence.“It appears that the licensees have disposed of the stock in a clandestine manner without the knowledge or permission of the department. The licensees have thus committed not only a criminal act, but also an act punishable under the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, as applicable to the state of Haryana. The fine shall not be less than ten times the amount of excise duty or consideration fee, which would have been leviable if the intoxicant had been dealt with in accordance with the Act,” the DETC said in its report.
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Baroda MLA Indu Raj Narwal takes oath||Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Tuesday administered oath to newly elected Congress MLA from Baroda Indu Raj Narwal.The Congress turned the occasion into a show of strength as several MLAs, former MLAs, leaders and workers thronged the room of the Speaker for the oath-taking ceremony.Narwal termed the Baroda win as a victory of the leadership of former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda. He thanked all communities of the constituency.“I will ensure that the government will fulfil all announcements it made during the bypoll,” he said.
18-11-2020||Rohtak||Phase 3 vaccine trials on adult volunteers only||The indigenous Covid vaccine, Covaxin, will be tested on only volunteers who are more than 18 during the Phase III trials. This is a departure from the Phase II trials, during which volunteers in the age-group of 12-65 years were involved.25 more succumbto virus; 2,450 casesn Meanwhile, the death toll reached 2,063 with 25 more fatalitiesFaridabad reported maximum 756 cases followed by Gurugram (588), Hisar (268), Panchkula (83) and Ambala (82)A maximum of six deaths were reported from Rohtak followed by Hisar (5), Faridabad (4), Gurugram and Panipat (3 each)About 25,800 volunteers will be given measured doses of Covaxin in the third phase at 20 centres across the country. Of them, 1,100 are likely to be administered the vaccine at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here.Dr Ramesh Verma, a co-investigator of the project, told The Tribune the PGIMS would receive fresh doses of Covaxin within a couple of days, after which the Phase III trials would begin.Healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, will be included as volunteers.As per project investigators, clinical trials have been largely successful so far, though a few volunteers had developed mild reactions after the administration of the vaccine in the first two phases.In Phase I, two doses of Covaxin were given to healthy volunteers in the age-group of 18 to 55 years, while in Phase II, as many doses were given to a different set of volunteers in the age-group of 12 to 65 years.Only healthy volunteers were involved in the Phase I trials, while those suffering from controlled diabetes, hypertension or asthma were part of Phase II.
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid set to cast shadow on Budget||The Covid pandemic is set to cast its shadow on Haryana’s Budget for financial year 2021-22.As the Finance Department has initiated the process for the preparation of the 2021-22 Budget, the departments have been told to be “realistic” in their estimates in view of the stress on the finances due to the pandemic.Directive to departments“In the wake of the Covid pandemic, the state government is functioning under stress as the economy of the state has faced a setback due to the lockdown-induced stagnation in the economy,” a communication from the Finance Department to heads of the departments said.The Finance Department has asked the departments to provide item-wise information on the projects on which there had been substantial increase in expenditure and the expenditure on the development activities which had been deferred for the next year due to Covid.“These details will help the Finance Department prepare realistic estimates to be provided in the 2021-22 Budget,” the communication said.Meanwhile, batting for restructuring of the existing schemes, the Finance Department asked for the discontinuation or merger of the schemes having an annual outlay of up to Rs 5 crore. “Besides, all ongoing schemes should be reviewed and the schemes which have outlived their utility must be closed. The existing staff created under the schemes should be transferred to other schemes,” it was highlighted.In view of the financial crunch due to Covid, the departments have been asked to explore the possibilities of new projects under the PPP and invite private capital into the government sector.
18-11-2020||Rohtak||Roadways staff to join Nov 26 strike||The Haryana Roadways Coordination Committee on Tuesday announced that it would participate in the nationwide general strike called by the central trade unions on November 26 against privatisation of public sector enterprises.This was decided at its state-level meeting held here.The other demands of the committee are restoration of the old-age pension scheme, and amendment to labours and farm laws.The committee also formed four teams to carry out a “contact programme” across the state to mobilise support of roadways employees for making the strike a success.“The Centre is pushing the nation on the path of destruction by privatising public enterprises. By amending the labour and farm laws, the Centre is benefitting capitalists. It is implementing laws in a dictatorial manner,” said Amarjit Kaur, national general secretary, All-India Trade Union Congress (AITUC). — TNS
18-11-2020||Ambala||Awaiting payment, cane farmers protest at Naraingarh||As the Naraingarh sugarmills are yet to clear dues of around Rs 19 crore of the previous crushing season that ended in April, and with the next season expected to begin from November 23, the sugarcane farmers blocked the Naraingarh-Shahzadpur highway for nearly half-an-hour to protest the delay in payment.After getting information, Naraingarh DSP Anil Kumar and tehsildar Dinesh Dhillon reached the spot and managed to pacify the farmers. The mill authorities assured that a payment of around Rs 7 crore would be released within a week while the remaining payment would be released by December 15.The farmers have threatened to block the Naraingarh highway again if the payment is not deposited by the assured dates.As per the norms, payments were to be cleared within 14 days of purchase of sugarcane.SDM Vaishali Sharma said: “As soon as the chairman of the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission takes charge, the funds (Rs 7.5 crore against power generation) will be released. All formalities have been completed. We are expecting the payment next week. Efforts are being made to clear the dues of previous season at the earliest.”
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||ED appeal against de-sealing of ex-CM Om Prakash Chautala's farmhouse allowed||The High Court on Tuesday allowed the Enforcement Directorate’s plea challenging the de-sealing of Dabwali farmhouse of former Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala for a month for weddings of his grandsons.Setting aside the order, the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma remanded the case back to the Appellate Tribunal for a fresh decision.The Bench asserted the impugned order indicated the issue raised by the appellant-ED in its reply in the matter had not been dealt with, especially with regard to the statutory provisions referred to and relied upon.The Appellate Tribunal, Prevention of Money Laundering Act, New Delhi, simply said it had inherent powers to restore property in case its possession was taken without following due procedure of law. But reference had not been made in the order on how, when and where there was non-compliance or violation of the statutory procedural and mandatory provisions of law.“This renders the order passed by the Appellate Tribunal unsustainable in law being cryptic, sketchy and non-speaking without any justification for passing such order. There appears to be non-application of mind, rendering the order liable to be set-aside,” the Bench added, while asking the parties, through counsel, to appear before the appellate tribunal on November 18.The appeal was preferred against order dated October 22 passed by the Appellate Tribunal on two applications submitted by Abhay Singh Chautala. He was seeking interim restoration of the attached property on the ground that the grandsons of the former CM, and his sons, were to get married on November 27 and November 30.
18-11-2020||Karnal||Miscreants barge into bank, fail to open strongroom||Miscreants tried to rob the old grain market branch of the SBI here on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. They barged into the bank, but failed to breach the strongroom. Before leaving the branch, they vandalised the passbook machine and CCTV cameras.A case under Sections 380, 457, 511 and 427 of the IPC was registered. — TNS
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Vij: Panel to draft law against ‘love jihad’||Home Minister Anil Vij said a strict law would be enacted to control ‘love jihad’ cases in the state. A committee will be constituted to draft this law.The Home Minister on Tuesday held the first meeting with higher officials of the department in this regard. During the meeting, it was decided that a discussion will also be held with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Vij said with the enactment of this law, strict action would be taken against any person found in religious conversion by pressuring, tempting someone or involved in any kind of conspiracy or try to do so in the name of love.He said Haryana would also study the laws made by other states on the same subject. — TNS
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Returning officer gets High Court notice||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued notice to the returning officer and a member of the election committee of Gurugram’s Sohna Bar Association to show cause why proceedings under the Contempt of Courts Act be not initiated against them for non-compliance of High Court orders.The notice by Justice BS Walia of the High Court came on a petition filed by Natasha Awana and other petitioners against returning officer Devdutt Sharma and member Raj Kishor Khatana.Appearing on the petitioner’s behalf through videoconferencing, counsel Kamal Deep Sehra contended that the petitioners were not a party to a civil writ petition filed earlier in the matter. Yet, in terms of order dated November 5, all eligible persons whose names were recorded were required to be included in the voter list of Sohna Bar Association.Even though the petitioners fulfilled the eligibility conditions for voting and submitted representation, their names were not included in the voter list. As such the respondents were liable to be proceeded against under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, Sehra added.
18-11-2020||Yamunanagar||Elderly couple murdered  in Yamunanagar||An elderly couple was murdered by unidentified person(s) at Bakala village of Sadhaura block of the district on Tuesday afternoon.The couple has been identified as Roshan Lal (72) and his wife Paramjeet Kaur (55).As per information, Roshan Lal retired as a ‘baildar’ from the Public Works Department and was now running a grocery shop in his village. Sources said that the assailant(s) attacked Roshan Lal with a sharp-edged weapon at about 2.30 pm on Tuesday at his shop.After killing him, the attacker(s) went to his house at a small distance from the shop and killed his wife there. Both of them died on the spot. Roshan’s son Rampal (from his first wife) is living along with his family members in a separate house in the village. When the incident took place, Rampal was not present at his house.“No one has so far raised any suspicion on anyone or spoken about the reason behind the crime,” said SP Kamal Deep Goyal.Balbir Singh, SHO, Sadhaura police station, said the bodies were taken to Civil Hospital, Jagadhri, for the autopsy. — TNS
18-11-2020||Hisar||Woman beaten to death by daughter’s ‘molester’, aides||A woman was beaten to death and her brother suffered injuries when a group of assailants assaulted them near Shergarh village in the Dabwali region of Sirsa on Tuesday.The deceased has been identified as Sukhjeet Kaur of Shergarh village.In her police complaint, the daughter of the victim alleged that the one of the accused identified as Baljinder, who was their neighbour, used to molest her and was pressuring her for marriage. She alleged that she along with her mother and maternal uncle Sahab Ram were going to their native village from Dabwali when the accused accompanied by his brother Kulvinder and four-five unknown persons attacked them. They thrashed her mother and uncle with sticks, who was later rushed to a hospital. Her mother succumbed to the injuries, Sahab Ram is under treatment.SHO of Dabwali police station Ishwar Singh said Kulvinder and Baljinder had been arrested and would be produce in a court on Wednesday. — TNS
18-11-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Ahead of rural polls, Haryana clears 90 new panchayats||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 17Haryana will have nearly 90 new panchayats before the upcoming rural elections in March next year. Besides, reports have been sought from the respective district administrations for setting up another 41 panchayats. The matter will be taken up at the next meeting of the reorganisation committee.Sources said the committee, which met here today under the chairmanship of Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, gave its nod to reorganise the administrative limits of existing panchayats to carve out 90 new ones.This will be followed by determination of seats for panchayats, reservation and creation of wards and preparation of voter lists. The committee also approved shifting of three panchayats of Hansi block to Barwala and two from Jind to Kaithal.At today's meeting, the committee dealt with resolutions for new panchayats received from the field, proposed by panchayat members and forwarded by deputy commissioners. Sources said as many as 143 proposals for new panchayats were received, of which over 12 were rejected. Approval for the creation of two panchayats has been kept on hold.
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Day after rains, temperatures hover below normal in Haryana, Punjab||A day after Haryana and Punjab were lashed by rains, maximum temperatures hovered below normal limits in Haryana and Punjab on Tuesday.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 25.9 degrees Celsius, one notch below normal, according to the Meteorological (MeT) Department here.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a high of 24.8 degrees Celsius, down two notches against normal, while Hisar's maximum settled at 24 degrees Celsius, five degrees below normal.Karnal registered a high of 24.5 degrees Celsius, down three notches against normal.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a high of 22.5 degrees Celsius, down four notches while Ludhiana registered a maximum of 23.9 degrees Celsius, down three notches.Patiala's maximum settled at 25.5 degrees Celsius, two below normal limits.According to the MeT Department forecast for Haryana and Punjab valid for the next four days, weather is likely to be dry during the period. PTI
