18-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 749 fresh COVID-19 infections, 21 more deaths||Haryana recorded 749 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday which took its tally to 2,56,477, while 21 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,803, the state health department's daily bulletin said.The latest fatalities include four each from Hisar and Rewari, and two each from Gurgaon, Panchkula, Yamunanagar and Jhajjar, among other districts, it said.Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases are Gurgaon (152) and Faridabad (130).Currently, Haryana's active cases tally stands at 6,577, while the recovery rate is 96.34 per cent, according to the bulletin. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-records-749-fresh-covid-19-infections-21-more-deaths-186155
18-12-2020||Karnal||Thousands attend Sikh spiritual leader Baba Ram Singh's cremation in Karnal||The mortal remains of Sikh spiritual leader Baba Ram Singh were consigned to flames on Friday in Karnal. BKU leaders, spiritual preachers, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur and former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda were among the thousands of devotees who gathered to pay their last respects to Sikh spiritual leader Baba Ram Singh.The 65-year-old 'sant' had committed suicide by shooting himself dead at Singhu border on Wednesday evening.A handwritten note in Punjabi, purportedly left behind by the deceased, says he was unable to bear the "pain of farmers". A large number of BKU leaders, including state president Gurnam Singh Charuni, were present at Nanaksar gurdwara in Singhra village.Singh's dairy, written by him after his first visit at Singhu border on December 9, was read by a granthi. The spiritual leader was pained to see the problems of the farmers at the protest site amid the cold wave.In his diary, Singh accused the government of not giving heed to the protesting farmers.Long queues of devotees were present at the Gurdwara to pay their last respects to Baba Ram Singh.The management of gurdwara has made special arrangements for devotees who cannot visit the shrine personally. They can follow the last rites proceedings through live streaming on Nanaksar Singhra Facebook page. Members of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha said it is a supreme sacrifice by Baba Ram Singh to wake up the Union government and they appealed the farming community and devotees not to take such extreme step as they cannot afford more sacrifices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/thousands-attend-sikh-spiritual-leader-baba-ram-singhs-cremation-in-karnal-186080
18-12-2020||Karnal||Interaction with women groups||Trans-disciplinary researchRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) will do a trans-disciplinary research on bio-natural products/resources of Haryana with its utility for human health. The research work will be facilitated under the Scheme for Trans-Disciplinary Research for India’s Developing Economy (STRIDE) of the UGC awarded to the MDU. An important meeting to prepare the roadmap of this project was held on Thursday under the chairmanship of Vice Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh. He said under this project, steps would be taken to identify medically beneficial bio-natural resources of the state. Documentation of medicinal plants of the state too would be done, he added. Dean, faculty of life sciences, and co-ordinator of the research project, Prof JP Yadav said Rs 80 lakh had been sanctioned by the UGC for this purpose.Aptitude test toppers felicitatedHisar: The GJUST weekly online aptitude test i.e GWOAT programme initiated by the training and placement cell in the Covid lockdown has completed ts 25 weeks. A virtual felicitation function was held to felicitate the top performers of all weekly competitions held to date. Ravi Patel, senior associate from Guild Capital, Mumbai, working for Megaexam online exam platform was the chief guest. Patel said quantitative aptitude, reasoning, verbal ability and data interpretation were the major sections of any aptitude test. He also shared some tips with students for solving aptitude tests efficiently. Partap Singh, director, placement, highlighted the importance of aptitude tests for almost all types of jobs in government or private sector.Transport complex inauguratedSirsa: Vice Chancellor of Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Sirsa, Prof Rajbir Singh Solanki inaugurated a transport complex of the university, which has been constructed at a cost of Rs 55.50 lakh. The complex includes eight garages, of which two have been reserved for cars. There is one retiring room for drivers. It also has a washing facility. Parking is arranged inside and this whole complex is covered with a boundary wall. It has been constructed in such a way that there is no problem in reversing big and small vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/interaction-with-women-groups-186039
18-12-2020||AFTER the lockdown was lifted||People must keep guard up||Subhash C Taneja, Gurugramhoardings should be removedIT is very pleasing to note that the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has got removed 1,600 illegal posters and hoardings in the last three days and has lodged complaints against 70 violators for the defacement of the city. Based on this, FIRs were also registered against the defaulters. Illegal posters and hoardings cause a lot of inconvenience to the commuters and needed to be removed.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramLack of signboards makes commuting difficultWHILE I was travelling to Kurukshetra from Shahabad via Sudhpur, Haripur and Dhurala, on December 14, for submission of some important documents at the DC office, I found that there was not any indicator to reach Kurukshetra. I was not aware of the roads and found it quite difficult to find the correct route. Many a times, I went wrong, travelled several miles uselessly and wasted a lot of time. There are many villages and turns on the way to reach Kurukshetra but no board bearing the name of the village or milestone indicating the distance or any arrow directing the way to guide the travellers. It seems that same is the scene in the entire state. The government should look into the matter and put signboards at the required places for the convenience of the public.Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaHeaps of garbage at farmers’ protest siteALL entry points from Haryana to Delhi such as Singhu, Kundli, Tikri, Gurugram look like war zones where unmanageable crowds of thousands of agitating farmers are squatting, eating and sleeping on an indefinite dharna against the three farm laws. Heaps of garbage, stinking toilets and awful stench can be seen at these spots. The farmers here blame the municipal authorities for the unhygienic conditions while the officials said they were doing their best. The stir must end immediately before more damage is done to the people and the public property.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaRevert decision of no action on anonymous complaintsAPROPOS the TNS report “Now, no action on anonymous complaints”( December15), the Haryana Government needs to revert its decision as there is no smoke without fire and common man lacks expertise and wherewithal to formally stand up to corruption incidents. Anonymous/pseudonymous complaints should be encouraged to furnish supporting evidence to nail the wrong-doers. As per my experience of 75 years, corruption is rampant in our nation. The existence of vigilance department and intelligence bureau lend credence to it. The Punjab and Haryana High Court recently held that an accused is not absolved of moral turpitude even if acquitted by a court in a criminal case unless honourably discharged sans ‘benefit of doubt’ or a ‘hostile’ witness. The conduct of officials and peoples’ representatives should always be above board.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaAwareness on NOTA, VVPAT need of the hourDURING a recent survey by the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), it was found that 37 per cent voters are unaware of the none of the above (NOTA) option and 42.6 per cent had no knowledge of the voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) options in the electronic voting machines (EVM). It is the opportune time to make the Haryana voters aware of the above options by the state election commission through all forms of media to enhance voter confidence and transparency in the wake of the upcoming MC elections in various cities.Ramit, Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/people-must-keep-guard-up-186038
18-12-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Surjewala: Solution lies in repealing 3 ‘black’ laws||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 17Twenty-four farmer martyrs, a farm laws agitation that has stretched on for 21 days and counting, thousands of farmers living through freezing nights and cold days at the Delhi borders and an “arrogant” government that remains unfazed — AICC media in-charge and party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala minces no words when it comes to attacking the Modi government for failing the farmers.Stakeholders were not consultedThe three farm laws were enacted in the boardrooms of the corporates, which are entering the agri trade market. Adani is being given licences in Panipat for constructing silos for the FCI. These laws were framed for the select corporate friends of the Prime Minister and not on the demand of farmers. Not a single farmer union demanded the enactment of these laws, no political party or stakeholder was consulted. - Randeep Singh Surjewala, Media in- Charge, AICCSpeaking to The Tribune today, Surjewala said that the solution lies in repealing the “three black laws” and starting afresh a conversation with the farmers, political parties and all stakeholders.“Agriculture is being annihilated and the 25 lakh crore agricultural produce trade is being handed over to three-four capitalist friends of the Modi government through these laws,” he said.Maintaining that no stakeholder was consulted on the farm laws, Surjewala alleged that these were enacted in the boardrooms of the corporates, which were entering the agri trade market. “Adani is being given licences in Panipat for constructing silos for the FCI. These laws were framed for the select corporate friends of the Prime Minister and not on the demand of farmers. Not a single farmer union demanded the enactment of these laws, no political party or stakeholder was consulted and these were brought through an ordinance in the middle of the night at a Cabinet meeting. The laws were pushed through in Parliament without a majority by suspending Congress leaders,” he said.Dismissing claims that this is essentially a Punjab-Haryana farmer centric agitation, Surjewala sought to know if the PM was not aware that farmers in Karnataka are protesting against the farm laws as also against the land reforms Act for close to two months, that farmers in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are sitting on an agitation, those from Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have joined in at the Tikri and Singhu borders, that the NH is blocked on Jaipur side by farmers from Rajasthan and Gujarat and those from UP are staging a protest at the Ghaziabad and Palwal borders.“This protest being limited to Punjab and Haryana is a line the BJP government is deliberately dishing out,” he said.On whether the Congress is backing the protest in a bid to prop itself up, Surjewala said that this agitation was a BJP versus Congress issue or a BJP versus farmer contest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/surjewala-solution-lies-in-repealing-3-black-laws-185704
18-12-2020||Parveen Arora||Followers pay respects to Sikh preacher Baba Ram Singh in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceSinghra (Karnal), December 17The mortal remains of Baba Ram Singh, who reportedly committed suicide on Wednesday, were kept at Nanaksar gurdwara in Singhra village. The last rites will be performed on the gurdwara premises on Friday.No weapon recovered from vehicleBaba Satnam Singh, a close aide of the preacher, said no weapon was recovered from the vehicle in which Baba Ram Singh reportedly committed suicide. Asked about the postmortem report, Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia said it would be handed over to the investigation officerThousands from Haryana, Punjab and other states, including political leaders, paid their last respects to Baba Ram Singh and recalled his contribution to society.They said people from all religions used to come to seek his blessings. “I and my family have been coming here for the past 20 years. We have seen people from all religions coming here to seek his blessings,” said Gurlal Singh.“He always showed the right path to people and his sacrifice would not go in vain,” said Navdeep Kaur. Naresh Kumar, another follower, said Baba Ram Singh was a great preacher and used to travel within and outside the country to preach.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Majitha MLA Bikram Singh Majithia, Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja, Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda, Assandh MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi and several preachers paid homage to the departed soul.“It is shameful that farmers are dying while the BJP government, instead of finding a solution, is constantly resorting to petty tricks to suppress the voice of farmers. He has attained martyrdom in support of farmers and his martyrdom will never be forgotten,” Selja said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/followers-pay-respects-to-sikh-preacher-baba-ram-singh-in-karnal-185705
18-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC seeks report on sarpanch’s kin performing her duties||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 17Relatives of women sarpanches functioning on their behalf has been a matter of surmises since long. But a petition for anticipatory bail filed by an accused in a cheating and theft case before the Punjab and Haryana High Court has brought the issue under judicial scanner.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan of the High Court has asked the Bhiwani Deputy Commissioner to furnish an action-taken report in the matter. “The Bhiwani DC is directed to file an affidavit as to how complainant Ram Kishan is permitted to work as a sarpanch in place of his daughter-in-law and what action has been taken against him in this regard by the authorities,” Justice Sangwan asserted.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after one Dharmender filed a petition against the State of Haryana seeking anticipatory bail in an FIR registered on July 25 under Sections 379, 407, 420 and 465 of the IPC at Jui Kalan police station in Bhiwani district.The counsel for the petitioner submitted that the FIR was registered at Ram Kishan’s instance. Among other things, it stated in the FIR that his daughter-in-law, Rajesh Kumari, was the sarpanch. It was added that a sub-centre was made for the purchase of the mustard crop in the village primary school. The sarpanch was deputed for the supervision of the labour work and purchase of the mustard crop.It was further stated in the FIR that complainant Ram Kishan was acting as a sarpanch on the behalf of his daughter-in-law and purchased the mustard crop. Later, shortage was noticed in the stock. It was alleged that petitioner Dharmender, being a truck driver, lifted 320 bags of the mustard crop for sending it to Barwala, but the same did not reach there. His counsel submits the petitioner was named as an accused to cover up the loss caused by the complainant himself.Justice Sangwan also directed the Superintendent of Police to look into the complainant’s role for finding out whether he was liable to be arraigned as an accused being the assignee of the crop as per the allegations.Justice Sangwan also ordered that the petitioner, in the event of arrest, would be released on interim bail subject to his furnishing personal bonds and surety to the satisfaction of arresting/investigating officer. He would also join the investigation as and when called upon and abide by the conditions as provided under the CrPC, Justice Sangwan concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-seeks-report-on-sarpanchs-kin-performing-her-duties-185706
18-12-2020||Singhra (Karnal)||Babaji was upset since his first visit to Singhu, says close associate||Baba Ram Singh was upset since his first visit to the Singhu protest site on December 9, said his close aide Baba Satnam Singh here today.He has been associated with Baba Ram Singh, who shot himself with his licensed pistol last evening to express support to the agitating farmers, since 1995.“Babaji was very upset when he came back around 2.30 am on the intervening night of December 9 and 10. He also wrote his diary that day. He could not see the pain of farmers, who are protesting in the open in the cold weather. He also shared it with sangat during the satsang,” said Satnam Singh, who came from Faizabad in UP in 1995, while talking to The Tribune.He said Babaji again visited the protest site on December 15 and gave away 500 blankets for the farmers. He had even extended a financial aid of Rs 5 lakh to the agitation during his first visit on December 9. “I accompanied him during both visits and he shared his sorrow which he felt there. But on December 16, he left for the protest site to offer prayer and took only two sewadars — Gurpartap and Manjeet — along with him,” he said.He said this was a second sacrifice by the head sewadar of Nanaksar gurdwara for humanity. Earlier in 1982, Baba Jang Singh, who had established this gurdwara on a small land in 1972, faced bullets head-on near Parliament in Delhi during a dharam morcha, which was started from Tarn Taran to Delhi, following several deaths in a bus and train accident.Hs said Baba Ram Singh was born on December 3, 1952, in Jagroan. After doing sewa at Nanaksar gurdwara, Jagraon, for 38 years, he came here at Nanaksar Gurdwara, Singhra, in 1990. Singhra gurdwara is associated with Nanksar gurdwara, Jagraon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/babaji-was-upset-since-his-first-visit-to-singhu-says-close-associate-185707
18-12-2020||
||Dispose of cases against Jamaatis in 3 months: HC||Chandigarh, December 17 Less than a fortnight after details were sought of FIRs lodged against Tablighi Jamaat members after detection of Covid cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday called for disposal of cases within three months. “An effort be made to dispose of the cases within three months provided the present circumstances of spread of pandemic do not cause any kind of threat or lead to compromising the safety of any of those associated with the trial,” Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill asserted. As the case came up for hearing, Justice Gill was told that 11 cases were registered in Haryana, of which seven were disposed of mainly by imposition of fine. “Upon a query by this court as to whether the state intended to move any application for transfer of all pending cases to one district, the state counsel stated that since only three cases remained either under investigation or under trial, of which two were at Ambala and the third at Gurugram in respect of a person belonging to Gurugram, the state was not intending to move any application for transfer,” Justice Gill observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dispose-of-cases-against-jamaatis-in-3-months-hc-185708
18-12-2020||---||17 fatalities, 714 fresh cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, December 17With 714 fresh cases, the state Covid tally reached 2,55,728 on Wednesday. Also, the death toll reached 2,782 with the addition of 17 more fatalities.Faridabad reported a maximum of 165 cases followed by Gurugram (108), Panipat (35) and Sonepat (30).Faridabad and Panipat reported a maximum of four deaths each followed by Yamunanagar (3), Gurugram (2) and Hisar, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Fatehabad (1 each).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/17-fatalities-714-fresh-cases-in-haryana-185709
18-12-2020||Sushil Manav||Cold-induced heart attack major cause of deaths||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 17Myocardial infarction (MI), commonly known as heart attack, induced by extreme cold weather conditions, has come out as a major reason for the death of farmers at the Tikri and Singhu borders, where they have been camping for the past 21 days.Another protester dies at Tikri Border, toll mounts to 7Worrisome scenarioThree were found dead in sleep while one was referred to Rohtak PGIMS in a critical condition, where he succumbed. An enlarged heart was detected in all these cases, pointing to heart attack as the cause of death. - Dr JS Punia, Civil Surgeon, SonepatThough 24 persons have lost their life so far, at least nine of them — five at Tikri and four at Singhu — died either in sleep or due to sudden discomfort like chest pain.“We have conducted postmortem of those who died at the Tikri border. The actual cause of death will be known once we get viscera reports from the Forensic Science Laboratory. Prima facie, it appears that the deaths occurred due to extreme winter-induced MI,” said Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, Jhajjar.Dr JS Punia, Civil Surgeon, Sonepat, whose team had been attending to those with health problems at the Singhu border, said an enlarged heart was found during postmortem examination in almost all cases, which was indicative of MI.“Three were found dead during sleep while one was referred to the PGIMS in Rohtak in a critical condition, where he died during treatment. An enlarged heart was detected in all these cases, pointing to heart attack as cause of death,” Dr Punia added.Dr Viney Singla, a physician, explained that cold weather conditions made one’s heart work harder to keep the body warm.“The person’s blood vessels constrict so that heart can concentrate on pumping blood to the brain and other major organs. The cold can also increase the risk of developing blood clots, which can lead to heart attack or stroke,” he said.Dr Singla explained that since a large number of farmers had been camping away from home for three weeks, those suffering MI could already have uncontrolled blood pressure or diabetes or could have been missing their daily medicines.A doctor visiting the protesters said on the condition of anonymity that one could not rule out the possibility of some of them having died due to Covid since farmers had been camping without observing pandemic protocols and the infection too caused MI.Dr Dahiya said the possibility of MI due to Covid was low as one of them had fever before his death. “We have 10 medical teams at the Tikri border, which have examined over 35,000 patients. Initially, a large number of farmers came with fever, cold and sore throat. Over one-third of those coming now have gastroenteritis, which can be because of contaminated water or food,” he said.He said all teams had Covid testing facilities, but the farmers were not giving their consent and they could not test a person against his will.Asked why Covid test was not being carried out on the deceased, Dr Dahiya said according to ICMR guidelines, the test could be done in case of suspected cases and none of them had fever or any other symptom of the infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cold-induced-heart-attack-major-cause-of-deaths-185710
18-12-2020||Deepender Deswal||Haryanvi-Punjabi bonhomie amid dissent steals show||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 17Tarpaulin covered tractor-trailers parked in serpentine queues, small stalls offering free items ranging from medicines to books, langar serving round-the-clock tea and food, flag-bearing bikes, tractors and SUVs playing Punjabi songs, camera-wielding volunteers keeping an eagle-like vigil, turbaned elders discussing the ill-effects of the farm laws and leaders scrambling for mike at the stage put up in middle of the road on the Haryana-Delhi border.No bad blood now Politicians have set the narrative about the SYL and other issues, which have created a mental block among the people of both states. Thanks to the ongoing stir, the fault lines have crumbled all of a sudden. - Khushwinder Singh, Sangrur FarmerThe nearly 15-km stretch from Tikri border to Jakhoda village is witnessing a celebration of the new-found bonhomie between Haryanavis and Punjabis for the last 20 days amid growing dissent against the farm laws. The entire discourse among the gathering of nearly 35,000 people has a common refrain – to save their land from the corporates that are eyeing their fields.An interaction with the protesters indicated that they are in no mood to hurry and are digging their heels for a prolonged struggle on their demands. An elderly farmer, Kaka Singh, from Barnala district said they had no ill feelings towards the government. “We have deeply studied the new laws before embarking on the agitational path. Now, there is no going back. We urge the Prime Minister to repeal the laws as they serve no good to the farming community,” he said, adding that there might be some protesters taking a dig at the ruling party leaders but it’s not their intention to personally attack anybody.Singh said his wife had been taking care of the fields back in his village as they arrived here after sowing wheat. “The farmers are free till February-March. We have the capacity to withstand the vagaries of weather, be it extreme cold or rains, as well as the might of the powers that be,” he added.Mandeep Malik, a young farmer leader from Umra village in Hisar district, said farmers had been in a constant struggle not only for their survival but also to ensure the livelihood of auxiliary communities like labourers, BPL people and even the small and medium-level trading community. “But the new Acts are paving the way for the takeover of the fields and businesses by the big corporates. It will spell doom not only for the peasants but for the beneficiaries of the food security schemes,” he added.Punjab farmers are also happy over the cooperation they are getting from Haryana people and said the joint efforts had strengthened their stir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanvi-punjabi-bonhomie-amid-dissent-steals-show-185712
18-12-2020||---||Farmers flay SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur for ‘SAD support’ remark||Sonepat, December 17The farmers’ joint forum on Thursday paid tributes to Baba Ram Singh, who reportedly committed suicide near the dharna site on Wednesday evening.The farmer leaders left the central stage for two hours and shabad kirtan was organised to pay homage to Baba Ram Singh.No slogan was raised from the stage. All speakers paid tributes to Baba Ram Singh and no celebrity was allowed on the stage.Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal criticised Bibi Jagir Kaur, SGPC chief, for saying the SAD was supporting the farmers’ movement and had sent its groups to join the ongoing agitation.Rajewal further said there was no link between the SAD and the farmers’ agitation. He warned that they would not tolerate political figures who were trying to malign the image of the farmers’ protest.On the Supreme Court’s decision, the forum said it had not got any document so far and it would decide after consulting advocates.Farmer leader Bijju said the committee would decide after consulting four senior counsel — Prashant Bhushan, Dushyant Dave, HS Phoolka and Colin Gonsalves.Meanwhile, condemning the police action at the Chilla border and the arrest of farmer leader Rishipal Ambawata, they said the government should desist from such acts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-flay-sgpc-president-bibi-jagir-kaur-for-sad-support-remark-185713
18-12-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Can proceed against other accused, says CBI court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 17In the Manesar land scam, the CBI Special Court today declared that “there is no bar for proceeding ahead with the trial” against the accused, including ex-CM Bhupinder Hooda, or four additional accused, including former IAS officer DR Dhingra, who were summoned on December 1, as the High Court had granted relief to only Home Secretary Rajeev Arora.During resumed hearing, CBI Special Judge Jagdeep Singh said the CBI’s senior public prosecutor had submitted that “there is statutory interdiction regarding stay of proceedings under the Prevention of Corruption Act”.“This court has to proceed ahead with the trial proceedings and accordingly now matter stands adjourned to January 11,” said the Judge. The framing of charges could take place in the next hearing.Meanwhile, DR Dhingra, Surjit Singh and Kulwant Singh Lamba filed regular bail applications. While granting bail, the court observed, “The question as to guilt or innocence of the applicants is to be adjudicated upon on the basis of evidence to be adduced during trial.” “Former CTP Dhare Singh could not appear as he had tested positive for Covid,” counsel Sameer Sethi told the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/can-proceed-against-other-accused-says-cbi-court-185714
18-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Langar at Tikri to aid of jobless migrants||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 17Mahendra Pandit, a labourer from Bihar, is without work for the last couple of days. But ever since farmers from Punjab and Haryana started camping at the Tikri border, he has been getting much better food to eat, courtesy langar (community kitchen).Non-stop langar is being served by the protesters, social activists and political leaders on a 10-km stretch of the Rohtak-Delhi highway from the Jakhoda bypass in Bahadurgarh to Tikri.Like Mahendra, there are thousands of labourers who are filling their stomachs with these langars daily.“The farmers’ protest has rendered us jobless as the transportation work has come to a halt due to the road blockade, but we are getting good food in langar. Many a time, farmers call us to partake langar,” said Jairam, a UP labourer, while sitting along with other workers at Labour Chowk.Rajeev Singh of Kannauj (UP), who works at a footwear factory, said his establishment had been shut for the past three days, and hence he was having langar and spending time with the protesting farmers, who were generous to people like them. Some labourers also take food home for their wife and children, he added.“Not only migrant labourers, but domestic helps, rag-pickers, vendors, small shopkeepers and people belonging to the lower strata of society are enjoying food in the agitation,” said Akhilesh, a vendor.Raju, a farmer from Faridkot (Punjab), said they feed over 1,500 persons everyday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/langar-at-tikri-to-aid-of-jobless-migrants-185715
18-12-2020||---||55-year-old shot in Jhajjar village||Jhajjar, December 17A 55-year-old man was shot dead by three unidentified miscreants at his house in Kharar village here on Tuesday night. The deceased was identified as Ved Prakash. The police said the miscreants sneaked into the house with the intention of burglary. Ved Prakash woke up on hearing the voices of the accused.One of them opened fire on him from close range, killing him on the spot. Thereafter, they fled the spot. SP Rajesh Duggal said four teams had been formed to identify and arrest the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/55-year-old-shot-in-jhajjar-village-185726
18-12-2020||Submits memorandum to minister ||Ex-MLA seeks completion||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, December 17Former MLA from Ateli and chairman of the Haryana Yuva Kisan Sangharsh Samiti Naresh Yadav on Wednesday submitted a memorandum to Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, demanding the Center Government’s intervention for ensuring legitimate share of the SYL canal to Haryana. He has also threatened to launch a movement if the demand is not met.“Haryana has been struggling to get its share of water through the SYL canal from Punjab for the past three decades. The Supreme Court has also given its verdict in the favour of Haryana. Despite all, the SYL canal is still lying incomplete hence we demand the Centre to not only ensure the completion of the SYL canal but also to intervene immediately for getting the work done,” said Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-mla-seeks-completion-185727
18-12-2020||BOX||Special enforcement team attacked in Yamunanagar||The team was manhandled by the accused, who were reportedly carrying out illegal mining, in Nagla village of Chhachhrauli block of Yamunanagar district. A case has been registered against various Sections of the IPC. Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, December 17A special enforcement team (SET), constituted to stop illegal mining in the state, was allegedly attacked by several persons, who were reportedly carrying out illegal mining in Nagla village of Chhachhrauli block of Yamunanagar district.On the complaint of head constable Manish Kumar, posted in the SET, a case was registered against several persons under Sections 148, 149, 332 and 353 of the IPC at Chhachhrauli police station on Wednesday.The complainant said they got a tip-off that illegal mining was being undertaken in the fields of Aashik of Nagla village.He said when the SET reached near the mining spot at 1.15 pm, Aashik, Abla and other persons manhandled them.He further alleged that soon three-four women also came there from the houses situated close to mining spot and attacked the team.“The attackers also snatched my mobile phone,” alleged the complainant. He said after the incident, the attackers managed to flee the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-enforcement-team-attacked-in-yamunanagar-185729
18-12-2020||---||Use of water cannons on farmers unfortunate, says BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia||Jalandhar, December 17BJP senior leader and former Cabinet Minister Manoranjan Kalia today said the use of water cannons on farmers by the ML Khattar government was an unfortunate step and should have been avoided.Kalia appreciated the farmers for keeping their protest ‘apolitical’ and also for keeping religion at bay. While backing the new farm laws, Kalia exhorted farmers to accept the government’s offer.“I appreciate the farm organisations for keeping the protest apolitical and their willingness to engage in a dialogue. The Central Government has held six meetings with the farm groups during which seven amendments to laws have been offered in writing. It is also willing to give the assurance on MSP in writing,” Kalia said.On the use of water cannons on farmers and creation of obstacles on the way to Delhi, Kalia said: “I don’t approve of water cannons’ use on farmers during winters. Elderly farmers have gotten sick, some have lost lives. It is unfortunate….”On attempts to defame farmers’ stir, the BJP leader said, “I laud farmers for keeping the protest apolitical and focused on core issues. Punjab has borne the time of terrorism. Punjabis have rejected Khalistan and there in no issue now. But some people with bad intentions abroad keep trying to foment trouble. I believe the farmer organisations and the government are both very cautious about this.” He expressed grief over the suicide of Sant Baba Ram Singh at the Singhu border.Read also: Farmers have the right to protest peacefully: Supreme Court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/use-of-water-cannons-on-farmers-unfortunate-says-bjp-leader-manoranjan-kalia-185776
