18-10-2020||Chandigarh||No new COVID-19 fatality reported in Haryana in last 24 hours||No coronavirus-related fatality was reported in Haryana during the past 24 hours as the state reported 952 fresh cases on Sunday, according to the Health Department's daily bulletin.The death toll in the state stands at 1,640, it said.In many months, it is for the first time that no coronavirus-related death has been reported in a single day.In September, for several days Haryana had been reporting more than 20 fatalities during a 24-hour period.On March 17, the state had reported its first COVID-19 case after a 29-year-old woman from Gurgaon district had tested positive for the infection. She had a travel history to Malaysia and Indonesia.With 952 fresh cases, the infection tally in the state rose to 1,50,033.The districts which reported a huge spike in cases include Gurgaon (249), Faridabad (177) and Hisar (131).At present, there are 10,042 active cases, the recovery rate is 92.21 per cent, and the fatality rate is 1.09 per cent while the rate at which infections are doubling is 42 days. PTI
18-10-2020||New Delhi||Chaudhary says Baroda by-election will be test of Khattar's popularity||Senior Congress leader from Haryana and former national president of National Students' Union of India (NSUI) Subhash Chaudhary said on Sunday that the upcoming by-election in Baroda constituency will be a test of popularity of ML Khattar government in the state.“The BJP has compelled people to believe that it is going for broke in Baroda going by the army of leaders it has drafted to campaign for the by-election,” Chaudhary said."The BJP has gone to the extent of roping in leaders from Uttar Pradesh to countervail the popularity and hold of former Chief Minister BS Hooda in the area," Chaudhary added.The Congress will win the by-election under the leadership of Hooda, Chaudhary added.He said that the BJP should have learnt from its "humbling experience" in Delhi Assembly elections where all its campaign came a cropper.The Congress leader said that after more than six-year rule, the BJP should have been facing the by-election on the basis of the performance of its government.All sections of society, especially the farmers, working class and youth in Haryana are reeling under the "misrule" of the BJP-JJP government.“The three farm laws are the latest provocation. The government should repeal them,” Chaudhary added.He said the Congress is also capable of unleashing large number of workers for the election campaign.Responding to BJP leaders, Chaudhary said the Congress was made to lose from Rohtak and Sonipat in the last Lok Sabha elections through machinations of BJP leaders.
18-10-2020||Hisar||Threatened of beheading by Manohar Lal Khattar, BJP supporter Harsh Mohan Bhardwaj joins Congress||Harsh Mohan Bhardwaj, a former member of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission, who was threatened to be beheaded by Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar during a ‘Jan-aashirwad yatra’ in September-2019, joined the Congress at a public meeting of Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda here on Saturday.As Khattar was wielding a ‘farsa’ presented to him during the yatra, Bhardwaj, who was considered close to the Chief Minister, tried to tie a silver crown on his head. Khattar got annoyed and threatened Bhardwaj with beheading.The episode went viral on social media and was decried by the Opposition leaders. Khattar later clarified that the BJP regime had ended the practice of tying silver and gold crowns and he was annoyed as their supporter was still trying to do that.Bhardwaj, who went into oblivion after that episode, resurfaced at a social function at Barwala town on Saturday where he tied a silver crown to Deepender.He, however, claimed that he was not associated with the BJP or any other political party and had extended his support to the Congress MP on being invited by him.
18-10-2020||New Delhi||Share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution likely to increase||The national capital's air quality was recorded in the “poor” category on Sunday morning and the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution is likely to “increase significantly”, according to a central government agency.    It was 19 per cent on Saturday, 18 per cent on Friday, around one per cent on Wednesday and around 3 per cent on Tuesday, Monday and Sunday.  The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 275 at 8:30 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 287 on Saturday. It was 239 on Friday and 315 on Thursday, the worst since February 12 (AQI 320).   An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.  During the daytime, winds are blowing from the northwest, bringing pollutants from farm fires. At night, calm winds and low temperatures are allowing the accumulation of pollutants, according to an India Meteorological Department official.According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, the farm fire count around Haryana, Punjab, and neighbouring border regions was 882 on Saturday.Since transport-level wind direction was favourable for intrusion, stubble contribution in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution was around 19 per cent on Saturday, it said. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the ventilation index – a product of mixing depth and average wind speed – is likely to be 12,500 metre square per second on Sunday – favourable for dispersion of pollutants.Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed.A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants.It, however, said the impact of stubble burning on Delhi's air quality is likely to “increase significantly” by Monday.Punjab and Haryana have recorded more incidents of stubble burning this season so far compared to last year and it is largely due to early harvesting of paddy and unavailability of farm labour due to the coronavirus pandemic, according to officials.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had Friday said meteorological conditions in Delhi have been "extremely unfavourable" for dispersion of pollutants since this September as compared to last year.With less area under non-basmati paddy cultivation this time, CPCB Member Secretary Prashant Gargava hoped the number of stubble burning incidents will be fewer this year compared to 2019.Non-basmati paddy straw is considered useless as fodder because of its high silica content and so farmers burn it.Gargava also said stubble burning peak might not coincide with the peak of adverse meteorological conditions this year due to early harvesting of paddy.PTI
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Trucks with rice from Bihar ‘let off’, Ratia farmers fume||Farm organisations in Ratia today claimed to have intercepted five trucks carrying rice from Bihar. They were furious that these were allowed to go by the authorities. Zila Parishad member RC Sehnal, claimed that millers were bringing cheap rice from Bihar to be mixed with custom-milled rice here.Had valid papers: SDM“Today, we received information that five trucks loaded with rice were parked near a fuel station. Our leader informed the officers concerned. “The drivers admitted to transporting the rice from Bihar but were let off,” Sehnal alleged. Furious, the farmers later held a demonstration.Ratia SDM Surender Beniwal said the drivers carried valid papers. —TNS
18-10-2020||New Delhi||More farm fires due to early harvest: Experts||Punjab and Haryana have recorded more incidents of stubble burning this season and it is largely due to early harvesting of paddy and unavailability of farm labour due to the Covid pandemic, officials said on Saturday.According to the Punjab Pollution Control Board, the state has recorded 4,585 farm fires so far. The number was 1,631 during the corresponding period last year.Haryana has also recorded an increase in farm fires — from around 1,200 incidents till October 16 last year to 2,016 this year. Karunesh Garg, Member Secretary of the Punjab Pollution Control Board, however, said the number of stubble-burning incidents seemed more because of early harvesting of paddy this year. — PTI
18-10-2020||---||In Haryana, body cams to ‘cleanse’ Transport Department||Chandigarh, October 17To weed out corruption from the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) offices, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced a slew of measures, including appointment of dedicated District Transport Officers (DTOs) in place of the existing RTA Secretaries.Keen on “cleansing” the Transport Department, Khattar, at a press conference, said the DTOs would be picked from among Class I officers and appointed in every district since the Secretary, RTA, was only an additional charge held by an IAS or HCS officer, who could not devote much time to the department's working.Khattar said: "A list of 250 ‘undesirable contact men’ will be put up outside the transport offices. The entry of these middlemen will be banned."Automated driving test tracks would be set up in 11 districts — Kaithal, Bahadurgarh, Rewari, Yamunanagar, Rohtak, Karnal, Palwal, Faridabad, Nuh, Sonipat and Bhiwani. “To keep a check on overloading of commercial vehicles, the state government has decided to employ automated portable scales on roads,” the Chief Minister said.Body cameras will be worn by vehicle inspectors going for checking and passing of commercial vehicles.
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||6 more die, 1,148 cases in Haryana||With 1,148 fresh Covid cases and six deaths, the overall tally of the state jumped to 1.49 lakh on Saturday.Three deaths were reported from Karnal and one each from Panchkula, Bhiwani and Jind. Overall, there have been 1,640 deaths in the state and out of which 1,448 were comorbid. There have been 31 patients on ventilators while 164 are on oxygen support.The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (271) followed by Faridabad (159), Rohtak (129), Hisar (118) and Sirsa (72).In all 1,318 people have recovered in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate is 92.01 per cent.
18-10-2020||Kurukshetra||Withdraw murder cases or face agitation, warns Charuni kisan union||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) has served an ultimatum to the state government to withdraw the case in which BKU leaders have been booked under murder charges at Naraingarh before October 29.Otherwise, the union has warned that it would hold a mahapanchayat on October 29 at the new grain market at Mohra village on Delhi-Amritsar national highway and give a call for a bigger agitation.Will block national highways on November 5The union has decided that the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be burnt at the district level, instead of the block level as decided earlier, on the occasion of Dasehra.It has also finalised some locations (Nilokheri in Karnal, Titram Mod in Kaithal, Surewala chowk in Hisar and Sirsa-Dabwali road in Sirsa) to block national highways on November 5 to protest against the three farm laws.The decisions were taken at a state-level meeting of farmer leaders held at Kamboj dharmashala in Kurukshetra on Saturday.BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “The BJP has been using shameful tactics to end the farmers’ movement. Our farmers have been booked under murder charges while there are videos that clearly show that the person (Bharat Singh) has died due to heart attack and no one attacked him. The farmers are ready to make every sacrifice. It has been decided to hold a mahapanchayat on October 29 and give the call for a bigger agitation if the case is not withdrawn before October 29.”While addressing the farmers, he said, “The government may set up barricades to stop farmers from reaching the rally but we will break all barricades.” He asked farmers to contact commission agents, labourers and other traders for their support for the rally.He said, “The PM’s effigies will be burnt on Dasehra at the district level. However, it could be any location in the district and not necessarily the district headquarters. Few locations have been finalised for the November 5 chakka jam. The remaining locations will be finalised soon.”The union has also decided that the expenses to fight the cases registered against the farmer leaders would be borne by the union. A core committee would be constituted to take decisions for further strategy so that the movement could be continued in case the senior leaders are arrested in the coming days.“Due to the ongoing paddy harvesting, the union had given some relaxation in the movement against the three farm laws. But now, the time has come to intensify the protest,” Charuni added. He told farmers to constitute committees at village, block and district levels across the state.
18-10-2020||Ambala||Held for blocking NH, farmers freed on bail||All six farmers, who were arrested on Thursday in connection with a case registered for blocking national highway during the BJP tractor rally in Naraingarh, were granted bail on Saturday.Farmers identified as Manjeet, Gurdev, Dhan Raj Singh, Prince, Deepender and Dharamvir Singh were produced in the local court on Friday, which sent them to one-day police remand, and after the end of their remand, they were produced again today where they were granted bail.Rohit Jain, president, District Bar Association, Ambala, who is also the treasurer of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee, along with the Naraingarh Bar Association president Dharam Vir Dhindsa and some other advocates, appeared for the farmers before the court through videoconferencing on Saturday.Rohit Jain said, “The police had sought 14-day judicial remand, but we argued that there was no requirement for the judicial remand after the completion of their one-day police remand. The farmers have been granted bail on the surety bond of Rs 60,000 each and they have to appear before the court on the next hearing. They were immediately released after furnishing the bonds.”On the complaint of Rishi Pal of Loton village, a case was registered against nearly 300 farmers under Sections 8B (punishment for mischief by injury to national highway) of the NH Act, 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 427 (mischief causing damage) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at the Naraingarh police station.Gurmail Singh, SHO, Naraingarh, said, “The farmers were produced before a court, which granted them bail. Efforts are on to nab the remaining accused in the case.”
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||Radaur former MLA joins INLD||Former chief parliamentary secretary (CPS) Shyam Singh Rana on Saturday joined the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) in the presence of former Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala and his son Abhay Chautala.Rana had recently resigned from the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP). He was denied ticket from Radaur Assembly segment in 2019 polls as the saffron party had fielded Karan Dev Kamboj despite him being the sitting MLA.During a press conference, Rana said, “I am happy to join INLD at a time of widespread agitation of farmers in the state against the farm laws. The INLD is a true representative of farmers, while the BJP and Congress keep dilly-dallying on agricultural issues.”“I had resigned from the BJP as I wanted a guaranteed MSP to farmers, which is not mentioned in the farm laws,” he added. — TNS
18-10-2020||Yamunanagar||Illegal liquor factory busted in Jagadhri, 10 arrested||The Yamunanagar police have unearthed an illegal liquor factory being run from a factory registered for packaging work at Shanti Colony of Jagadhri on Friday night.The police have recovered 145 boxes of country-made liquor, empty bottles and different distilleries brands.The team also arrested 10 persons, including eight labourers working at the liquor factory, and produced them before Jagadhri district court First Class Judicial Magistrate Rajat Verma on Saturday.Jagadhri City police station SHO Rakesh Kumar Rana said Vikas Dahiya of Adiyana village of Panipat, Arjun Kumar of Bihar and Manjeet of Machhrauli village of Panipat were produced before the court which remanded them to 10-day police custody.He said seven more persons, Rajesh Kumar, Dharmendra, Shiv Lal, Anil, Sanjay Kumar, Manoj Kumar and Sujeet Kumar, all residents of Bihar, were also produced before the court, which sent them to judicial custody.Meanwhile, a team of Radaur police station of Yamunanagar district had recovered 689 boxes of illegal country-made liquor from a truck near Radaur town on September 11.Besides, arresting several other persons, the police on Friday arrested Vikas Dahiya of Panipat in connection with this case.“Vikas told the police that an illegal liquor factory was being run at Shanti Colony of Jagadhri. Thereafter, the police conducted a raid,” said the SHO.He said the team also recovered a chemical which might be extra neutral alcohol (ENA), used to produce liquor. He said the liquor factory was operational from August.The SHO further said a team of Yamunanagar police on Saturday raided a liquor vend in Meham of Rohtak district and recovered around 200 boxes of illegal liquor which were supplied there from this illegal factory of Jagadhri.
18-10-2020||Gohana||Voters will teach BJP a lesson: Deepender Hooda||Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda said the Baroda bypoll was the semifinal of the Assembly election and the win of Congress candidate Induraj Narwal would work to overthrow the BJP-JJP coalition government.Hooda along with Induraj Narwal was interacting with mediapersons in Gohana on Saturday. He said though the BJP had crores of rupees and was misusing the government machinery for publicity, Narwal had the love of the people of the Baroda constituency.Deepender said EVMs would mandate the change in the state with the win of Narwal. Taking a dig at the BJP, Hooda said the saffron party had fielded a long list of star campaigners, leaders of other states and the entire government in the Baroda constituency to face the son belonging to a common family, but the people had made their mind to teach a lesson to the BJP, he said.Narwal while interacting with mediapersons claimed that he would win. Besides, Deepender also held a meeting of party workers and began implementation of his electoral strategy on the ground.“This bypoll is a semifinal of the Assembly election and the people of Baroda will decide the future government in the state,” Hooda said.He also gave duties to party workers and said every party worker should get involved in the campaign.Every worker should consider himself to be Deepender Hooda and move among the people and seek their support to overthrow this government, he said. — TNS
18-10-2020||Panipat||People will vote for change: Yogeshwar Dutt||BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt claimed that he has come into politics to serve the people of Baroda constituency.People in Baroda constituency have made up their mood to bring about a change this time. The BJP’s lotus is all set to bloom here, he claimed.Wrestler-turned-politician Yogeshwar Dutt was interacting with mediapersons for the first time on Saturday after filing his nomination on Friday. Agriculture Minister JP Dalal and Shamsher Kharkara were also present during the media interaction programme.Dutt said that the BJP has trusted him again and he would serve Baroda honestly. My only aim is to resolve the problems in Baroda constituency, he said.Baroda has been lagging behind in development for the past many years. But now, the time has come for the development of the constituency, said Dutt.“I have visited several countries and have won medals for the country. I have no experience in politics but I know about the value of hard work,” he added.I lost the last election due to shortage of time, but this time, I have gone from street to street, door to door in all villages of the constituency and heard the people’s problems, said Yogeshwar.“I belong to a poor family and came into politics to rectify the system of education and sports,” he said.Agriculture Minister JP Dalal the BJP has started development work in the constituency. The Congress had ignored the seat completely, he alleged.HSVP sector residents to oppose BJPRohtak: Residents of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) sectors in different towns will oppose the ruling BJP to register their protest against the failure of the state government to finalise the recalculation of enhancement dues. The Haryana State Haryana Urban Development Authority Sectors Confederation will set up an office at Gohana to oppose the BJP after holding a meeting on Sunday.The residents of HSVP sectors resent that the state authorities had failed to get the wrongful enhancement amount imposed on them recalculated and corrected in three years.
18-10-2020||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Navratra celebrations begin amidst Covid alert||The Navratra celebration began with enthusiasm in Gurugram with the famous Sheetla Mata temple attracting large number of devotees from both city and other districts.The authorities have put standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place making masks and physical distancing mandatory, but many were not seen complying with it on the first day.“We have restricted the usage of “puja” material, made masks, thermo scanning mandatory and are ensuring that people maintain social distancing. The facility of online “darshan” is also available. We have put boards across the premises asking people to be cautious in lieu of Covid, “said Vinay Pratap Singh, the chief administrator of the Mata Sheetla Shrine Board.The Health Department too has issued an alert of speculated increase in cases during the festivities.“There has been a surge in the number of cases with the onset of festivals. People need to be cautious,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav.
18-10-2020||Gohana||Baroda bypoll: 7 nominations rejected||Seven nomination papers were rejected today during scrutiny of a total of 24 nominations filed for the Baroda bypoll. Now, there are 17 candidates in the fray.District Electoral Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Poonia said that the final list of candidates has been prepared today after scrutiny of the nominations.He said Induraj Narwal is Congress candidate, Jogender Malik from INLD, Yogeshwar Dutt from BJP, Inder Singh of Rashtriya Majdoor Ekta Party; Rajkumar Saini from Loktantra Suraksha Party (LSP); Sumit from Peoples Party of India (Democratic); Sonu from Bharatiya Jan Raj Party (BJRP) and Kapoor Singh Narwal, Kamaljeet, Gulshan, Joginder Singh, Praveen Kumar, Rajender Singh, Ramphal, Shakti Singh, Dharamvir Chotiwala and Saroj Bala are in the final list of contestants for Baroda bypoll.DC Poonia said that seven nominations were rejected including one each nomination of Congress candidate Induraj Narwal and BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt. Induraj and Yogeshwar had filed double nominations. — TNS
18-10-2020||Ambala||Seven held for thefts in Ambala||The district police have arrested seven persons in separate cases of thefts, officials said here on Saturday.The police said Lakhbir Singh and Neeraj were arrested on the complaint of Pradeep Kumar of Patiala for stealing his Mohindra Balero pick-up in Ambala City on October 4. Both accused were sent to three-day police remand.In a separate case, four persons were arrested on the complaint of Ashsih of Ambala City for stealing taps, television, camera, music system and other items. — TNS
18-10-2020||Chandigarh||A first, govt buying maize at MSP: Haryana CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said all necessary arrangements had been made by the state government to ensurethat the procurement process of kharif crops was done in a smooth and systematic manner.For the first time, the government is procuring maize at the minimum support price(MSP). Earlier, the purchase of millet was also done at the minimum support price. So far, Rs1,000 crore have been released by the government as the procurement payment for paddy and other crops, he said.Addressing a press conference at the Haryana Niwas here today, the Chief Minister said all farmers’ crops will be procured. “Farmers of other states will have to get their crops registered before bringing it to the mandis of Haryana, whether it is through arhtiyas or at their own level,” he said.He said arrangements had been made to make the payment of paddy procurement to the farmers within seven days. After the Form-I is generated and approved, the payment is being made within three days.In reply to a question on the liquor scam, Khattar said there was a link between distilleries and liquor contractors who operated in different states. He said although there was no distillery in Chandigarh, there were many bottling plants, from where the liquor was supplied to other states. He said CCTV cameras had been installed in the distilleries of Haryana and also, there will be joint patrolling by the police and the Excise and Taxation Office.He said in 2014-15, the excise revenue was Rs 3,200 crore which had increased to Rs 6,400 crore in 2020-21 and it was estimated that it would increase to Rs 7,000 crore. The increase in revenue indicated that the state government had certainly reformed the systems.
18-10-2020||Palwal||Man booked for raping daughter||In a shocking incident, the police have booked a man in connection with the rape of his 16-year-old daughter in a village in the district.According to a complaint lodged by the wife of the accused and the mother of the victim, the accused aged around 46 years had been sexually exploiting their daughter, who is a student of Class IX. It is claimed that the victim told her mother that her father had been sexually exploiting her for the past three to four years. The matter surfaced after the accused tried to molest her on October 3, when her mother, who is a daily wager had gone to work and the accused was at home. The younger sister of the victim saw the incident and told her mother about it, who lodged a complaint with the police on Friday.The accused used to sexually exploit the girl on pretext of coaching her in her studies and had threatened her of dire consequences if she revealed the matter to any one, it is alleged in the FIR. The accused is the father of three children, including a son and two daughters. The victim is the eldest of the two daughters.“We have booked him and launched a hunt to nab the culprit,’’ said a police official.
18-10-2020||Faridabad||Mechanic, dog trainer kidnap boy, arrested||The police have arrested an AC mechanic and a dog trainer in connection with the kidnapping of a boy for ransom.A senior official of the Police Department said that the accused identified as Aman Kumar, an AC mechanic, and Sonu working as a dog trainer in Palla area of the city, have been arrested for kidnapping an 11-year-old boy from Sector-91 here.Accused knew boy’s mother He said according to the plan executed by the duo on October 13, they reached the house of the victim at around 6 pm. The boy was alone at his house and they asked him to accompany them on a two-wheeler on the pretext of some work.It is reported that Sonu knew the boy’s mother due to her work connected with the sale and purchase of dogs.According to the police, the duo took the boy to Ghazipur colony in New Delhi on a scooter and put him up at a hotel for the purpose of demanding ransom.In response to the complaint lodged, the police got clues from the CCTV footage of the locality as the mother of the victim recognised Sonu in the footage.The police traced the location of Sonu’s mobile number and rounded up his friend. “The police reached the hotel and rescued the boy after arresting Sonu and Aman, who had planned this crime,” said Mukesh Malhotra, DCP Crime, here.He said the accused told the police that they had planned to earn some money through kidnapping as they had been left with no work or money due to the pandemic lockdown.
18-10-2020||Karnal||NEET: Karnal boy bags 51st rank||Karnal boy Archit Saini has brought laurels to the district by securing all-India rank (AIR) 51st in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET)-2020 for Medical Entrance, the result of which was declared yesterday. His rank in the general category is 39. He got 705 marks out of 720.His father Dr Kulbir Saini and mother Dr Sarika are working as senior medical officers (SMOs) at Civil Hospital, Karnal, while his sister Anshika is pursuing MBBS from Kasturba Medical College Manipal.His uncle Dr Kuljeet Saini and aunt Dr Smita Saini are also serving as senior medical officer and dental surgeon respectively in the Civil Hospital. Archit Saini, a resident of Sector-8 part-II, said that his father, mother, uncle, aunt and sister are his inspiration. Archit wants to be a cardiologist. “I want to serve society as a cardiologist,” he added.He took private coaching and depended on self-study to crack the NEET test. He used to devote 10 hours daily to study. Playing badminton and cricket are among his hobbies which played a key role in his success. Dr Kulbir Saini is elated at the performance of his son. “I am proud of my son who brought laurels to the family and the district. I am hopeful he will get admission in AIIMS, New Delhi,” said Dr Saini.Archit’s grandmother Surjeet Kaur, mother Dr Sarika and sister Anshika said that it was a proud moment for them.
18-10-2020||Ambala||Two held with illicit liquor||Man held with heroinThe police have arrested Himmat Singh, alias Soni of Naggal, near here in a case of smuggling drugs and claimed to have recovered 15.27-gram heroin from his possession, officials said here on Saturday. The accused was remanded in one-day police custody. TNSProclaimed offender heldThe district police have arrested a proclaimed offender Rajesh Kumar, alias Kande Baba of Kurukshetra, who was wanted in a criminal case registered against him at Baldev Nagar police station, officials said here on Saturday. The fugitive was was remanded in 14-day judicial custody. TNS
