19-06-2020||---||Punjab, Haryana record above-normal temperatures; Chandigarh at 37.8 °C||Chandigarh, June 19Maximum temperatures in most parts of Haryana and Punjab settled a few notches above normal on Friday, with Narnaul being the hottest place in the two states with a high of 43.8 degrees Celsius, the Meteorological Department here said.Hisar in Haryana also braved the heat as it recorded a high of 43.5 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.Ambala recorded a maximum temperature of 39 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, while Karnal recorded a high of 38 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala also recorded above normal temperatures at 39.2 degrees Celsius, 38.5 degrees Celsius and 38.9 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, which received showers earlier in the day, registered a high of 37.8 degrees Celsius, which was within the normal limits. PTI
19-06-2020||Ambala||Ambala reports 26 new cases; district tally 263||Ambala reported 26 new cases of coronavirus on Friday, taking the district tally to 263, officials said.  Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said 13 of 26 new cases came from Ambala Cantonment, five from Ambala City, three of a family from nearby Bhalmajra village, and two of a family from Jansua village. Barara and Barauli villages each reported one case. An 11-month-old girl, 5-year-old boy and 80-year-old woman were among those tested Covid positive.Most of the new cases were either contacts of already diagnosed patients or had a recent history of travel.Thirty-four were released from hospitals on Friday.The district now has  114 active cases.
19-06-2020||Pradeep SharmaTribune News ServiceChandigarh||In a first, HPSC to hold exam for entry into IAS||In a first, non-HCS officers wanting to join the prestigious IAS will have to appear in the written test to be conducted by the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) -- a move aimed at instilling transparency in the recruitment process.The Haryana Government has asked the Group A officers to apply to the HPSC, which would soon come out with the modalities for the conduct of first written test for entry into the IAS.After written examination, the HPSC would prepare a panel of candidates, five times the number of vacancies, in order of merit to be sent to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for final selection.Till now, nepotism ruled the roost in the elevation of non-HCS officers to the IAS with accusing fingers bring raised at the kin of top politicians being included in panel sent to the UPSC over the years.Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), said the new institutional mechanism would provide a level playing field to all eligible officers to enter the prestigious IAS.Currently, there are three ways to get into the IAS. First, there is direct recruitment by the UPSC on the basis of all-India examination. Second, the eligible HCS officers can be promoted after stipulated number of years of government service. Third, Group A non-HCS officers with “outstanding merit” can also be promoted to the IAS.Sources said currently Haryana had a sanctioned strength of 205 IAS officers of which 62 could be through promotions either from the HCS or from the non-HCS officers. As many as nine officers could be elevated to the IAS from the non-HCS category.The exact number of vacancies to be filled through written test by HPSC would be notified soon.
19-06-2020||Hisar||Hisar: Cow dies after man hits it in anger over lower milk yield||A cow died after a cattle breeder thrashed the animal with sticks as he got upset over lower milk yield in Patel Nagar locality of the town on Friday morning.The neighbours objected to indiscriminate thrashing of the animal and also informed the police. However, the cow died on the spot.A cow activist, Sitaram Singhal, informed that he got information about the incident and rushed to the spot. The cow was lying motionless when he reached there. It was then taken to the Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences.Singhal said the owner Manoj used to let the cow out every morning and evening after milking.According to information, the cow used to yield 4-5 litres of milk daily.However, it yielded less amount of milk today. A neighbour said the owner hit the cow with a stick repeatedly.“I tried to stop him but he kept on hitting the cow until it fell down,” he said, adding that Manoj reared 10 cows and left all the cows out in the open after yielding milk. The police also reached the spot and started investigation.The cow activists alleged that there are about 50-60 families that own 50 to 100 cows respectively.“These families yield milk of the cows daily and then let the animals out to feed in the fields and in the town. There has been no restrictions on these persons as local politicians provide protection to them,” said an activist.In the areas including Padao Mohalla, Patel Nagar, Rishi Nagar, the cow breeders have been rearing the cows only for milk as they take little care of the animal by themselves, said sources.The stray cattle which include the cows reared by these people have returned to the streets and roads in the town especially during the pandemic. The sources said that there are around 700 cows in the gau abhyaran out of nearly 2,450 cows.
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Policeman-turned-criminal arrested by Haryana police||The Haryana Police on Friday arrested a former Delhi policeman-turned-criminal allegedly involved in several criminal cases, including looting ATMs, from Nuh district.“The accused identified as Aslup is a former Delhi policeman and wanted by the police in Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Gujarat, Udaipur (Rajasthan) and Odisha in many criminal cases,” a spokesperson of Haryana Police said.He said the accused, a resident of Shikarpur village in Nuh, had been dismissed from service by the Delhi Police.“The accused has been involved in about two dozen criminal cases pertaining to organized ATM loot, attempt to murder and hurt. He was absconding for a long time. Nuh police had announced a reward of Rs 50,000 to anyone giving information leading to his arrest,” he said in a statement.The spokesperson said Haryana Police's Crime Investigation Agency got a tip-off about the presence of a wanted criminal near KMP road on the Delhi-Alwar Highway.The police party swung into action and managed to arrest Aslup following a raid, he said.“The accused was sacked by the Delhi Police and had been absconding for a long time. A case under relevant sections of IPC has been registered against Aslup. The matter is being investigated thoroughly,” the spokesperson added. PTI
19-06-2020||---||Haryana announces a price cap at Rs 2,400 for COVID-19 RT-PCR test||Chandigarh June 19A day after Delhi government announced a cap on COVID-19 test rates, Haryana, too, has decided to cap the rates for COVID-19 RT-PCR test at Rs 2,400.  Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said that revised rates would come into force with immediate effect.The state government has issued directions that no private laboratory should charge any amount more than Rs 2,400 for RT-PCR test for COVID-19, inclusive of GST/Taxes and cost involved in pick up, packing and transportation of samples, documentation and reporting in Haryana. Till now, adhering to the ICMR guidelines, the COVID-19 Rt-PCR testing was made available through private laboratories and upper limit of single test charges was capped at Rs 4,500. Further, the laboratories have also been directed to display the rates in a visible manner. The private laboratories should share data pertaining to the results of these tests for COVID- l9 with the state government and the ICMR on a real-time basis through the ICMR portal and https://covidsample.haryana.gov.in.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said at the time of sampling, the identification, address and verified mobile number of the person, who is being tested, must be noted for the record, as per sample referral form (SRF). The data should be uploaded on the RT-PCR app at the time of taking the sample. The test report should be communicated to the patient immediately after the testing is complete.The Chief Minister also said a positive test report should be immediately communicated to the Civil Surgeon of the concerned district through e-mail.He added that all Deputy Commissioners and Civil Surgeons in the state would monitor the above laboratories closely, enforce the rates strictly by giving wide publicity on the issue of COVID- l9 tests by the private NABL and the ICMR-approved labs in the state.
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 10 more COVID-19 deaths, 525 new cases||Ten more coronavirus deaths were reported from Haryana on Friday with eight of the fatalities from the worst-hit Faridabad and Gurgaon districts, while the total number of cases in the state rose to 9,743 with 525 fresh cases.While Faridabad reported five deaths, three fatalities were from Gurgaon district, according to the state health department’s bulletin.Gurgaon and Faridabad districts, which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), now have 55 and 51 fatalities, respectively, as per the bulletin.One death was reported from Sonepat, which has ten fatalities in total while another fatality was in Bhiwani district, which now has three COVID-19 related deaths.The total fatalities in the state rose to 144, of which 97 are men and 47 women.The total number of active cases in the state currently is 4,710 while 4,889 people have been discharged.Faridabad and Gurgaon together reported 58 per cent on Friday’s cases.Besides, Faridabad (161) and Gurgaon (145), Sonipat (36), Mahendragarh (32), Ambala (26), Rohtak (20), Bhiwani (18), Palwal (17), Panchkula (13), Nuh  (12), Jhajjar (7), Panipat(7), Charkhi Dadri (7), Hisar (6), Karnal (6), Kurukshetra (3) Fatehabad (2), Rewari (2), Kaithal (2), Sirsa (2), and Jind (1) all reported new cases.Meanwhile, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said the state government has decided to cap the rates for COVID-19 RT-PCR tests at Rs 2,400. New revised rates will come into force with immediate effect, an official spokesman said.“The state government has issued directions that no private laboratory should charge any amount more than Rs 2,400 for RT-PCR test for COVID-19, inclusive of GST and other taxes, if any, cost involved in pick-up, packing and transportation of samples, documentation and reporting,” he said.Till now, adhering to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines,  the COVID-19 RT-PCR testing was made available through private laboratories and the upper limit of single test charges was capped at Rs 4,500.He said the private laboratories should share data regarding the results of these tests for COVID- l9 with the state government and ICMR on a real-time basis through ICMR and state government portals.He said a positive test report should be immediately communicated to the civil surgeon of the district concerned through e-mail. PTI
19-06-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Don’t prescribe ‘unjustified’ test, private doctors told||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, June 18Amid mounting cases and collapsing management, the district health authorities have “directed” local private practitioners to abstain from prescribing “unjustified” Covid tests.Over 85 per cent of the samples being tested every day in the city are reported to be of asymptomatic patients with no travel history or contact with Covid patient. These people are lining up for tests in both private and government labs on the basis of prescriptions by local practitioners, many bearing reasons ranging from “precautionary measure before joining work” and “reassurance before resuming beauty regime”. Ironically, many have managed to get themselves tested on prescription from their dieticians. “The ICMR has given clear guidelines that have recently been updated. The doctors have been asked to follow the protocols,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav.Over 85% tested daily are asymptomatic
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||New norms issued on inter-state travel||The state government has decided to regulate inter-state movement of persons coming to Haryana from other states for a stay of more than three days (72 hours), based on health-related reasons due to increasing Covid cases in the past few days. An official spokesman said self-registration was a must on  on www.saralharyana.gov.in. He said travellers had to share details, including name, address and mobile number (use of the same mobile number for multiple registrations not allowed except in the case of a family). — TNS
19-06-2020||Karnal||Minor’s body found in drain, 2 friends held||A boy aged 14 was found dead under mysterious circumstances in a drain near Nissing on Wednesday night.Family members alleged murder by two friends of the victim. They parked the vehicle carrying the victim’s body in front of the police station and demanded their arrest in the afternoon.Following this, the police arrested the duo and produced them in a court, which sent them to the juvenile jail in Ambala.Nissing SHO Ramphal said that the deceased had been identified as Mohit of Baras village. He said around 12 am, he received information about the drowning of a minor boy in a drain near Nissing. He with the help of some locals fished out the body. Both the minor accused have been arrested and sent to the Ambala juvenile jail, he added.Rawal, alias Kala, uncle of the deceased, alleged that his nephew was killed by two of his friends who took him along with them on Wednesday afternoon for bath. — TNS
19-06-2020||---||Karnal private schools’ body warns of indefinite strike||Karnal, June 18Members of private schools under the banner of the Karnal Independent Schools’ Association (KISA) on Thursday handed over a memorandum to local MP Sanjay Bhatia, demanding the revocation of the decision of no requirement of school leaving/transfer certificate for students joining government institutions.They warned of an indefinite ‘lockdown’ if their demands are not met. MP Bhatia assured them to raise their issues with the government.Leading the delegation, KISA president RS Virk said private schools had been suffering losses due to Covid pandemic as a majority of parents had not deposited the fee. As per the government directions, they have been charging only tuition fee, but despite that very few parents have deposited the fee.Virk along with KISA vice-president Avinash Bansal and spokespersons KMS Bath and Rajan Lamba criticised the new guideline of the state government of no requirement for school leaving certificate to get admission in government schools.They said the new guideline would result in financial losses to the schools as they would not be able to recover the previous dues from the parents. They demanded a financial package from the government as the schools have no other option of income. They said under such circumstances, they had been facing trouble to pay to the teachers who are devoting their time in online classes as well as non-teaching staff.They said if their demands were not met they would go for an indefinite strike in shape of the lockdown of schools.
19-06-2020||Mukesh Tandon
||All bleaching units in Panipat unregistered, reveals RTI report||Tribune News Service Panipat, June 18 An RTI query has brought out that all 150 to 200 bleaching units in the district are not registered with the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB). The HSPCB’s reply came on the query by Vaibhav Deswal, an RTI activist, who sought information about the number of legal and illegal industries and bleaching units operational in the textile city. The malaise of illegal units is not limited to just bleaching units. A majority of the industrial units in the district are unregistered.  The HSPCB, in its reply, has said only 523 industries have the consent to operate. To put this figure into perspective, there are about 20,000 units in the district, said industrialist Bhim Singh Rana. So, only 2.6 per cent of units are registered. Bhim Singh Rana, who is also the chairman of the Federation of All-industrial Associations, said his outfit did not support the illegal bleaching units. Environmentalist Amit Kumar said, “It is shocking that all bleaching units in the district are illegal. These units cause air and water pollution, but the authorities are simply not bothered.” Shailender Arora, regional officer, HSPCB, said, “We sealed 13 illegal units this year. This is a continuous process,” he added.
19-06-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||State aims water supply to 7L households this fiscal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 18With exhaustive and aggressive micro and macro planning to install taps in every rural household under the Jal Jeevan Mission, Haryana has set a target of taking drinking water to seven lakh households during this financial year and has planned to complete the entire exercise by 2022, two years ahead of the national target date.The Public Health Department has divided the state into three categories to kickstart its work in a phased manner. “We have divided all villages into slots based on water availability and network. In the first category, we plan to target areas where water is available, but distribution pipelines need to be laid. In the second category, we will tackle areas where supply needs to be augmented. The third category has villages where water sources need to be changed. This is the toughest category and we will tackle it last so that water can at least start to flow in houses where it is available,” explains Devender Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, Public Health.Out of 30 lakh rural households in the state, it was found that water supply to only 11 lakh households was being billed as per the BISWAS portal at the time of the launch of the programme in December last. Since then, about 11 lakh households had been added to the portal, including four lakh in 2020-21. Since the target for this year is seven lakh households, work is in progress to take water to the remaining households. While ensuring quality, the department has to meet a supply target of 55 litres per capita per day.The department has created a system whereby it has set deadlines for every habitation. The timeline lays down six critical dates — that of submission of tender, technical sanction, floating of tender, its award, start of work and its finishing. “We have mapped every single habitation. This will help us identify where we are lagging in case there is a delay. We have been approached by Punjab and Maharashtra for counselling them about our work plan,” Devender Singh said.The last one lakh households, primarily in villages of Nuh, set for the last year, will be the most difficult since water is in short supply, underground water is brackish and no canal network carrying requisite quality of drinking water is available. Those households will be tackled last and the state has worked out a plan by which all households in the state will have a tap connection supplying water by the end of 2022.“We have created a web-enabled dashboard which can give data and provide dynamic real-time progress of each habitation. This not only ensures transparency in the work being carried out on the ground, but also allows us to monitor the progress in every habitation of each village in each district,” Devender Singh explained. At the end of this financial year, one district and 2,898 villages would have tap connections in all rural households, he added.Division into three slots
19-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Social distancing enforced in Haryana jails, High Court told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 18The concept of social distancing has found its way into jails in Haryana. Prisoners in the Sirsa jail are maintaining a distance of between one metre and two metres among themselves and the staff following the Covid outbreak.Information to this effect was furnished in the Punjab and Haryana High Court during the hearing of a second regular bail plea filed by a jail inmate behind bars in a drugs case.In his petition before Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri’s Bench, Swaran Singh submitted that he deserved the concession of bail as Covid was prevailing in the state.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that precautionary steps had already been taken by the prison authorities at the Sirsa district jail in view of the health crisis arising out of Covid.Among other things, it was stated that even during the use of prison inmates’ calling system and canteen facility, a distance of at least one metre was maintained between the prisoners.It was stated that gathering of prisoners had been stopped and intermixing of prisoners between barracks reduced to the bare minimum.The Bench was told that places around the jail which could be used as a temporary prison in case of an outbreak had been identified.It was stated that sports, games, cultural activities and other group activities involving physical contact had been stopped till further orders.It was stated that physical appearance had been stopped and the accused were being produced only through video-conferencing in courts concerned as and when required.The Bench was told that sanitisers had been placed at strategic locations across prisons and masks provided to all prisoners and prison staff, which were being disinfected on a daily basis.It was stated that sanitisation of doors, railings, floors, beds, clothing, washrooms and other contact points was being ensured on a daily basis and duty staff being screened.It was stated that an isolation ward had been set up in each prison for any kind of emergency and the jail hospital was being properly sanitised twice a day.Turning down the petition, Justice Puri asserted: “I do not deem it fit and appropriate to interfere in the present (case) and, therefore, the present petition for the grant of bail to the petitioner is dismissed.”
19-06-2020||---||Couple murdered, honour killing suspected||Rohtak, June 18In yet another gruesome case of honour killing, a 19-year-old woman, Pooja, and her husband Surender of Farmana village in Rohtak district were stabbed to death on Thursday. The police have rounded up girl’s brother Ajay and relatives Sahil, Bablu and Sonu in connection with the murder.As per police sources, the honour killing was plotted several months ago. They said Pooja got married to Surender last year. He was an extended family member, due to which her parents were enraged. They had also lodged an abduction complaint with the police.“On June 17 evening, Ajay came to Rohtak and took Pooja and Surender on his motorcycle to Badesara village in Bhiwani district, where he along with Sahil and Bablu stabbed them on Wednesday night,” the sources said.Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma told The Tribune that after being stabbed, Pooja somehow managed to reach the General Hospital in Meham town of the district, from where she was referred to the PGIMS. However, she could not be saved.
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Regularised employees to get increments, LTC||Thousands of regularised Haryana employees, continuing in service following a 2018 order of the SC, will be entitled to certain fiscal benefits, including increments, LTC and childcare leave.The state government has asked heads of various departments to grant these fiscal benefits to employees if these are otherwise admissible. Sources said they would be denied promotion as it would clearly be in contempt of the SC order. While their promotions would be withheld, their juniors would be promoted, subject to the final decision of the SC, the sources asserted. — TNS
19-06-2020||Sushil Manav||Covid-19: 113 deaths in 18 days; 57 had no co-morbidity||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 18With a spike in Covid cases in the past couple of days, the most worrying fact for the authorities as well as the people is the increasing number of deaths. Of the 134 people who died of Covid in the state so far, 113 have lost their lives this month.Further, the trend of fatalities shows that while people with co-morbidities are at a greater risk, healthy people who do not have any underlying health conditions are also vulnerable to the virus.Of the 134 deaths due to Covid in Haryana till this afternoon, 77 had co-morbidities while 57 did not have any underlying disease, as per the government bulletin. Of the 134 people who lost their lives, 52 died in Gurugram district alone, with 48 succumbing to the virus this month.“The way the Covid graph is recording a spike is worrisome. In Gurugram in particular, the healthcare system seems to have collapsed. People are getting infected and dying every day, but the authorities are not concerned,” said Ranbir Rathee, a municipal councillor.He said he, as a public representative, and others like him kept trying to connect to senior officials of the Health Department, municipal corporation and district administration because they wanted to contribute in the fight against Covid, but no one bothered to respond to their calls.Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General, Health Services, Haryana, said there was nothing unusual in the increase in number of deaths as this was expected with a spike in Covid cases.“Our fatality rate is 1.45 per cent, which is much lower than the national average of 3.36 per cent. Many of those who died in the state had serious underlying conditions,” he said.On the large number of people dying without any underlying disease, Dr Kamboj said immunity to the virus varied from person to person.Sources said in many cases, people with symptoms were approaching the Health Department at a late stage, when they had already developed severe respiratory syndrome. In some other cases, people had been brought dead to hospital.Sources in the Health Department in Gurugram said at least five of those who died of Covid in the district were brought dead to hospital and doctors took samples from the bodies.
19-06-2020||---||4 deaths, 386 fresh cases||Chandigarh, June 18Four deaths took Haryana’s Covid toll to 134 today. With 386 fresh cases, the state’s tally reached 9,218. A total of 604 patients, the highest in a day so far, got cured, taking the figure to 4,556, with a recovery rate of 49.43 per cent.Three deaths were reported from Faridabad and one from Gurugram. Of the 134 fatalities, 77 had co-morbidities. Sixteen patients are on ventilator and 39 on oxygen support. In Faridabad, a 43-year-old man and a 55-year-old man from Ballabgarh and a 50-year-old man from Anangpur village succumbed to the virus. In Hisar, a 42-year-old resident of Satrod village, who had returned from Noida, and a 69-year-old from Hisar were among the casualties. These deaths are yet to be added to the state tally.Fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (129), Sonepat (51), Faridabad (35), Rohtak (32), Ambala (25), Bhiwani (24), Rewari (23), Palwal and Karnal (12 each), Jhajjar and Yamunanagar (9 each), Kurukshetra (8), Fatehabad and Hisar (6 each), Panchkula (3) and Panipat (2).A 48-year-old woman from Shahabad, who had returned from Delhi, a 28-year-old woman and her three-year-old son from Pehowa, who were in contact with a Covid patient, and a 52-year-old man from Pehowa, who had returned from Delhi, were among those who tested positive in Kurukshetra.In Karnal, three members of the family of a Covid casualty, two teenagers from Kachwa village and an 80-year-old woman were among those who tested positive. A Junior Engineer with the municipal corporation tested positive in Panipat.
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||In two days, Haryana sees  3 ‘Covid-linked’ suicides||Three suicides in the last two days have been committed in the state by people who learnt about their own or their family member’s Covid positive status. Sonu, a 22-year-old youth from Shahjahanpur village of Faridabad, today committed suicide in the district jail after he was informed about his Covid positive status. The police had arrested him in connection with a clash between two groups on June 10. He was in judicial custody when he was informed he was Covid positive.In another incident, a Covid positive patient of Jagadhri town in Yamunanagar allegedly committed suicide at the Covid specialised hospital of MM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research in Mullana, Ambala, on Thursday.Only yesterday, a private company manager (45) in Gurugram had jumped to death from his 4th floor apartment after his wife tested positive for Covid and he feared that he and his son too could be infected. — TNS
19-06-2020||Rohtak||Honour-killings in Rohtak: 19-year-old girl, husband stabbed to death||In yet another gruesome case of honour-killing in Haryana, Pooja, a 19-year-old girl of Farmana village in Rohtak district, and her husband Surender of the same village were allegedly stabbed to death on Thursday.The police have rounded up the girl’s brother Ajay and relatives Sahil, Bablu and Sonu in connection with the matter.Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma told The Tribune that after being stabbed, Pooja somehow managed to reach the General Hospital in Meham town of the district, from where she was referred to the Rohtak PGIMS.However, she could not be saved.“Later, the body of Surender was also found at Badhesara village in Bhiwani district. He has also been stabbed to death,” the SP maintained.As per police sources and local residents, Pooja had married a youth of her neighbourhood/extended family last year, due to which her parents were enraged. They had also lodged a complaint of abduction with the police.However, the couple sought protection and stayed at a protection home for some time, after which they started living in Rohtak.The police rounded up the girl’s brother and some other persons, including her family members, in connection with the double murder.A case had not been registered, although police investigation and action continued till the time of filing of this report.
19-06-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||ED traces money trail in Manesar land scam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 18The Enforcement Directorate (ED) in its supplementary chargesheet against 13 accused, including firms, has claimed to have traced the money trail in Manesar land scam.The supplementary chargesheet was submitted before Special Judge at Panchkula, designated to try cases for money laundering, on June 5.The main accused, who earned maximum profit in the scam, Atul Bansal and his wife Sona, are absconding in the case. A Lookout Circular was also issued for Bansal on February 22, 2019.Money trailThe notification under Section 4 of Land Acquisition Act, 1894 in respect of villages Manesar, Lakhnaula and Naurangpur in Gurugram for 912 acre was made on August 27, 2004, for Industrial Model Township. But 224 acre was released after hearing objections under Section 5 A. Then, notification under Section 6 was issued.The scam pertains to purchasing land from farmers at meagre rates and then earning huge profits by getting it released in connivance with bureaucracy and politicians.The ED says that Atul Bansal was well aware about the acquisition proceedings but despite that he started and continued to purchase the notified land, in the name of his companies namely Aditya Buildwell Pvt Ltd (now known as ABWIL), Jassum Estates Pvt Ltd, Jassum Towers Pvt Ltd and Jassum Infrastructure Pvt Ltd, as he knew he would get the land released. He also purchased 12 land owning companies having the notified land. In total, he got 239 acres.Middlemen also made moneyAccording to ED, Shashikant Chaurasia, Dilip Lalwani, Raj Kumar Arora and Lalit Modi purchased 87.82 acre land at meagre rates from farmers and sold it to Bansal at a profit of Rs 6.04 crore. Varinder Uppal, Vijay Uppal and Viney Uppal took over the company Mount Valley Pvt Ltd of Virender Dhingra having 16.57 acre, and further sold to Bansal and earned a profit of Rs 7.87 crore.Ravinder Kumar Taneja who was then MD TDI Infrastructure Ltd, along with others created or purchased companies namely Indo Asian Construction Co Ltd, Divya Jyoti Enterprises Pvt Ltd and NCR Properties Pvt Ltd solely for the purchase of notified land and sold them to Bansal at a profit of Rs 3.12 crore.Bansal applied for licences for 190 acre on December 28, 2006 on behalf of 15 firms though he had no authorisation on behalf of 11 firms, but the fact was overlooked by Director Town and Country Planning (DTCP).In conspiracy with “bureaucrats” and “government machinery”, he procured six licences and further sold three of them, earning Rs 169.25 crore as proceeds of crime, says ED.Multiple deposits of crores of rupees had been deposited in the various accounts of Bansal’s firms on the “same dates”.   The two licences were sold to DLF Home Developers Limited for Rs 150.95 crore and one to Kalinga Realtors Private Limited for Rs 37.96 crore, for land measuring 45.986 acre, though land cost and licences incurred only Rs 19.66 crore.Fake ‘agreements to sell’In order to hide the “Proceeds of Crime”, ABWIL and its group companies, entered into fabricated “Agreements To Sell” with 21 entities in respect of the different land portions; procured negligible advances from them in cash and took cheques as advances in view of the land to be sold, says ED.But the cheques were never presented to respective banks for clearing purposes. Later, the said “Agreements To Sell” were cancelled and new “Cancellation-Cum-Settlement Agreements” were got prepared to score off the previous deals. A whooping compensation to the extent of six to seven times of the amount as per “Agreements To Sell” was paid.The compensation was paid through RTGS/ NEFT/ cheques. But these entities paid back the amount in cash which facilitated integration of the “Proceeds of Crime”. Most of these entities were traders of iron and steel products.The ED claims that then DTCP SS Dhillon didn’t reject Bansal applications despite the fact that there was recommendation to do the same by Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) and Industries department. After the lapse of acquisition proceedings on August 24, 2007, the applications for licences were processed.The ED conducted raids on premises of seven people on May 25, 2017, including Bansal and a senior Haryana IAS officer, and documents; cash; mobile phones; laptop; jewellery; digital record and locker keys were seized. Also, four properties worth Rs 42.19 crore belonging to Bansal and his wife Sona, including a farm house in Delhi, land in Brahama City Pvt Ltd in Gurugram, and Bengaluru were attached on December 24, 2018.  Properties, cash in banks and sale deeds worth Rs 66.58 crore were attached on July 25, 2019, belonging to the Bansals, Shashikant Chaurasia, Dilip Lalwani, Vijay Uppal, Vinay Uppal and Virendar Uppal and TDI Infrastructure Ltd. Except in case of TDI Infrastructure, the adjudicating authority confirmed the attachment orders.The CBI is also pursuing Manesar land scam separately where former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda is an accused along with 33 others, including firms.
