19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Dushyant Chautala comes across potholes on KMP expressway, orders repair by Sept 30||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday held an unscheduled inspection of the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway and ordered its expeditious repairs after finding it potholed at some stretches and broken at others.He ordered officials to get the expressway not only repaired by September 30 but also asked them to ensure that the quality of the work is not compromised.According to a statement issued by the deputy CM’s party JJP, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) is entrusted with the maintenance work of the expressway. Chautala also heads the Industry Ministry in the state.The statement said that Chautala undertook the unscheduled inspection of the expressway while travelling from Delhi to Chandigarh.He reached Gurgaon from Delhi and diverted his convoy to the expressway via Farukhnagar and inspected it till Kundli.“During his inspection, the Deputy CM found the expressway broken at some places and found potholes at others. Wherever he found the road broken, he noted it in his own diary,” the statement said.At some places, the deputy chief minister found some statues placed by the roadside while at others right in the middle of the road, distracting the diver’s attention and posing as traffic hazards, the statement said.“He also ordered the removal of those statues,” the statement added.After reaching Chandigarh, Chautala called HSIIDC officials to his office.“He gave strict directions to the HSIIDC officials to immediately start the repair work on the KMP Expressway so that the probability of accidents due to broken road and potholes can be completely eliminated.“He also ordered officials to look into the possibility of putting the statues at a place where the speed of vehicles is less,” the statement said.Chautala said it is the aim of the government to make the travel as comfortable as possible for commuters and safeguard the lives of people by reducing the probability of accidents. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dushyant-chautala-comes-across-potholes-on-kmp-expressway-orders-repair-by-sept-30-128467
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Four booked for hoisting flag with pro-Khalistan slogans in Sirsa village||Four people were arrested for allegedly having raised a flag with the words ‘Khalistan Zindabad’ in a village in Sirsa, a spokesperson for Haryana Police said on Wednesday.The incident occurred in Chaupal village. The spokesperson identified the people arrested as Rupinder Singh alias Rim, Yudhvir Singh alias Jony and Gurjeet---all three from Singhpura village---and Aman Sharma from Talwandi Sabo.He claimed two of the four were involved in hoisting the flag and the other two shot the video and posted it on social media. Police have registered a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, the spokesperson said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-booked-for-hoisting-flag-with-pro-khalistan-slogans-in-sirsa-village-128466
19-08-2020||Karnal||Karnal BJP leader Jagmohan Anand tests positive for Covid-19||Outgoing BJP district president Jagmohan Anand tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday and has been placed under home isolation. He appealed to people who came in his contact in the last 10-15 days to get tested for Covid-19.Anand was with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on his day-long tour to his constituency on Monday. During his stay, the CM attended three programmes where Anand was present.Several BJP leaders have gone under home quarantine."After having fever, I got myself tested in the morning and it came as positive. I appeal to people who came into my contacts to get themselves tested," he appealedA 40-year-old man of Indri died of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the toll to 19 in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-bjp-leader-jagmohan-anand-tests-positive-for-covid-19-128371
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Police seizes 1.4 kg smack, 270 kg cannabis, six held||The Haryana Police has seized 1.4 kg of smack and 270 kg of cannabis in separate incidents in Rohtak and Jind districts, with the arrest of six people, an official spokesperson said on Wednesday.A police team in Rohtak had got a tip-off that four persons were attempting to smuggle drugs in two cars, he said.After getting the information, police set up a barricade near Jail chowk and nabbed four accused, including a woman, with smack.In another incident, police in Jind seized 270 kg of 'ganja' which was being smuggled in a truck from Visakhapatnam, the spokesperson said, adding that two people were arrested.The vehicle was intercepted near Kila Zafargarh in Haryana.Initial investigation revealed that the two accused brought the contraband from Visakhapatnam for supply in Jind area.Cases under provisions of the NDPS Act were registered against them and further investigation was underway.Earlier, the Haryana Police had seized two quintals of cannabis in separate incidents in Hisar district and arrested three people for their alleged involvement in the illegal trade of the contraband. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-police-seizes-1-4-kg-smack-270-kg-cannabis-six-held-128369
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Devi Lal's grandson, MLA among those appointed district unit presidents by BJP||Former Deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal's grandson Aditya and sitting legislator Mohan Lal are among the new district presidents appointed by the ruling BJP in Haryana on Wednesday.The appointments were made by Haryana BJP president and former Minister Om Prakash Dhankar, exactly a month after he took over as the new state chief of the party.Among the 22 district presidents appointed by the party, three have been retained and they are Ajay Bansal (Rohtak), Gopal Sharma (Faridabad) and Ashok Kumar Dhand (Kaithal).BJP leader Aditya Devi Lal has been made Sirsa district president, while party legislator from Rai segment, Mohan Lal becomes the district chief from Sonipat, in which Baroda assembly constituency also falls.Baroda assembly segment fell vacant after demise of sitting Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda in April this year and bypolls in the constituency are due, though dates are yet to be announced by the Election Commission. The BJP is eyeing to wrest the seat from the main opposition Congress.Two women who have also been appointed district presidents are Gargi Kakkar (Gurugram) and Archana Gupta (Panipat).Among others to be appointed district presidents include State Secretary of party's Kisan Morcha, Raj Kumar Saini (Kurukshetra), party's state executive members Satyender Parmar (Dadri), Raju Moor (Jind), Vikram Kadian (Jhajjar).In the appointments for the district unit presidents, the party has attempted to balance the caste equations in the state, where politics revolves around Jats and non-Jats.While congratulating the newly appointed district unit chiefs, State president Dhankar exuded confidence that they will take the party to new heights.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also congratulated the newly appointed district unit chiefs.Ahead of appointment of district unit presidents, State General Secretary (Organisation) Suresh Bhatt, who was accompanied by Dhankar, had met BJP president J P Nadda in New Delhi on Tuesday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/devi-lals-grandson-mla-among-those-appointed-district-unit-presidents-by-bjp-128367
19-08-2020||Hisar||Hisar man kills wife, hangs self; suicide note alleges she was gang-raped||A man hacked his wife, who was allegedly gang-raped, to death and committed suicide in a village under Barwala police station in the Hisar district on Tuesday.The police have registered a case of murder, abetment to suicide and gangrape against two youths-both juveniles-and started an investigation.The police said the victim, 28, was attacked with a sharp-edged weapon which resulted in her death. Her husband, 32, who earned a living as a daily wager, was found hanging in the same room. Their seven-year-old child, who was asleep in the same room, woke up and found his parents dead after which he raised an alarm.Police sources said that a hand-written suicide note purportedly written by the husband mentioned that the couple decided to end their lives after two youths raped his wife.The police said that the suicide note mentioned that two youths had barged in their house on Saturday and raped his wife. He wrote in the suicide note that his wife disclosed the incident on his return and that they were ending their lives as they could not muster the courage to lodge a complaint against the alleged rapists.Barwala SHO Kuldeep Singh informed that the police have registered a case under sections 302, 306 and 376 D and started an investigation. He said that two persons named in the suicide note as accused are juveniles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-man-kills-wife-hangs-self-suicide-note-alleges-she-was-gang-raped-128339
19-08-2020||Rohtak||Clamour for solution to Rohtak flooded fields gains pace||The demand for permanent solution of chronicle issue of waterlogging in many villages in the district has gained momentum, with the Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha (ABKS) deciding to submit memorandums to Member of Parliament (MP) and all four MLAs of Rohtak district.“Problems such as waterlogging and salinity have rendered thousands of acres in more than 50 villages in the district unfit for cultivation. Due to apathy of the authorities towards these issues, the ABKS has decided to submit memorandum to MP and MLAs of Rohtak to strengthen the demand for a permanent solution,” said Preet Singh, district president, ABKS.Singh said a large number of farmers were struggling to earn their livelihood as they were unable to cultivate crops due to these issues. Many of them had to leave the fields uncultivated and switch over to other fields to make both ends meet. The farmers had been raising the issue for a long time but the successive governments had failed to resolve it, he claimed.“A delegation of the ABKS visited Mayna village on Saturday and found a large agricultural area inundated, causing damage to their paddy crops,” said Preet.Notably, the water table in 16 villages here has reached below 1.5 meter while its level is between 1.5 to 3 meters in around 100 villages.Rohtas, Deputy Director, Agriculture, said the rise in water table may be harmful for farming if it reaches below the level of one meter as every crop needs at least one meter space in the soil to flourish.“Ground water is not good for consumption and the farm yield here is not high. Horizontal surface drainage system which is used to drain excess water is the solution of the problem,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/clamour-for-solution-to-rohtak-flooded-fields-gains-pace-128010
19-08-2020||Faridabad||‘Mastermind’ of Faridabad couple’s murder held||In a twist related to the cracking of the recent murder case of a couple here, the police have arrested a fifth accused who is claimed to the real mastermind.This accused is the real brother of the woman Monika who was shot dead with her husband Sukhbir. The police have already arrested four persons who had shot dead the couple in their house on August 11 at Jasana village in the district.A spokesperson of the Police Department said on Tuesday that the fifth accused, identified as Brahmjit and a resident of Jasana, is a sibling of Monika.Brahmjit was arrested on basis of revelations made by the four accused during the police remand. A police official said that Brahmjit, who was arrested this morning, had admitted to his crime.He told the police that he carried out the double murder as Sukhbir had some objectionable photographs of his wife in his phone and had failed to resolve the matter amicably.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mastermind-of-faridabad-couples-murder-held-128011
19-08-2020||Karnal||Tree plantation organised||Professional developmentFaridabad: A five-day online professional development programme titled, "scholarly publications" was held recently by DAV Centenary College. Revealing that the purpose of the programme was to maximise the potentialities of researchers and to make them aware of the publication aspect, a spokesperson of the college said. More than 200 research scholars and professionals from India and abroad took part. The question-answer session at the end of every session was clarified by the resource persons. Uttama Pandey moderated the question-answer session.e-learning project launchedGurugram: Aide et Action launched a project,iWay, an e-learning platform to provide digital literacy training to disadvantaged community across the country. The launch was virtually graced by Manju Dashmana, CSR head, Microsoft India, Gaurav Sharma, Eicher Foundation, Anurag Pratap, CSR head, Capgemini, and Dr Payal Kanodia, Trustee - M3M foundation, along with Sharad Chandra Behar (IAS retd.), former Chief Secretary, Government of Madhya Pradesh and president, Aide et Action India Board, Ravi Pratap Singh, international programme director, Aide et Action International & regional director, AEAI South Asia, and Sajeev P Balan, director , Programme Development and Support, Aide et Action International South Asia. While speaking at the specially organised Facebook live, Dr Aishwarya Mahajan, director, Livelihood Education, Aide et Action International South Asia, said "Digital literacy is the need of the hour in India where technology is being used for a wide range of services, including education, health, communication, e-commerce etc,. Through iWay, individuals can learn to efficiently use a computer, send and receive emails over the Internet, navigate a website, use a smartphone, interact on social media, and have a deeper understanding of e-governance and e-security."Application invited for Class XIKarnal: Jasraj Singh, principal, Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Sagga, said the process for the entrance examinations for Class XI for the session of 2020-21 has been started. "We have invited applications and anyone can apply on www.navodaya.gov.in or www.nvsadmissionclasseleven.in between August 13 and 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tree-plantation-organised-128012
19-08-2020||Ambala||Channelisation of Tangri in Ambala Cantt on cards||The Irrigation Department will hire a consultancy agency to study the discharge of water and prepare a drawing for channelisation of the Tangri in Ambala Cantonment.The channelisation of the Tangri is an important project for Ambala Cantonment. Tangri is a seasonal river and it swells when there is heavy rainfall in the Shivalik region. Due to illegal colonies on the riverbed, the river has shrunk posing threat to the people residing there.Committee formed for desiltingResidents remain worried that in case the river floods, it could damage their homes as the houses have been built on the riverbed. A permanent solution to save the colonies has been a long pending demand. In a relief to over 1,800 families living on the riverbed, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij last year had directed the Irrigation Department to prepare a plan to channelise the river by constructing retaining walls so that the rainwater could flow smoothly and the houses built on the riverbed could be saved from floods. The government had given in-principle approval for the project then but due to the Covid pandemic the project got delayed. Speaking to The Tribune, XEN Irrigation Department in Ambala Praveen Gupta said, “On the directions Home Minister Anil Vij a project was prepared and a file has been sent to higher authorities on Friday for hiring a consultancy agency. It will study the discharge of water of nearly last 50 years and prepare the drawings and designs. After the channelisation work, the floodwater would flow without disturbing the colonies situated on the riverbed. The higher authorities will decide whether a government agency would be given the task or any tender will be floated.” “A committee has also been formed for the desilting of the river. For the protection of the embankment, stone pitching work has also been carried out in nearly 500-feet area in Babyal village. Several weak points in New Ajeet Nagar and Lucky Nagar have also been eliminated. Last year, the river had received 16,900 cusec water and it had flown smoothly, we are expecting that the river will be able to carry about 20,000 cusecs water smoothly this year.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/channelisation-of-tangri-in-ambala-cantt-on-cards-128013
19-08-2020||The issue of stray cattle remains unresolved in Panchkula. Stray cattle pose risk to commuters in Sectors 24 to 28 and are a hurdle in traffic movement. Due to the cattle||Stray cattle menace rampant in Panchkula||Follow Covid standard operating proceduresPanchkula witnessed four more fatalities due to Covid on Tuesday, taking the toll to eight here. Equally disturbing is the fact that its overall tally has now reached 1,224 owing to a big spurt in positive cases on a daily basis. However, the genesis there of could possibly be traced back to the lackadaisical and reckless attitude of the general masses. Residents are not following the standard operating procedures for Covid laid down by the government. The authorities concerned should not only urgently conduct surprise checks but suitably penalise those violating the rules. — SK Gupta, PanchkulaBovines inconvenience commuters in NarwanaOn Monday, I went to a factory on Patiala Road and I was surprised to see the large number of stray cattle sitting in the middle of the busy road. Despite honking, the bovines did not move, so out of desperation, some commuters reversed their vehicles and took another route. The administration should do something about it as they pose inconvenience to the commuters. — Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-cattle-menace-rampant-in-panchkula-128015
19-08-2020||Ambala||Drive on to catch pigs in Ambala||Civic bodies in Ambala have launched a special drive to catch stray pigs. Separate private firms have been hired to catch pigs in Ambala City and Ambala Sadar. While their number has increased manifold, the animals are being kept illegally in slums and villages. The contractors will be paid Rs 35 per kg for pigs caught. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drive-on-to-catch-pigs-in-ambala-128016
19-08-2020||Ambala||Three nabbed for snatching||The police have arrested Saurabh alias Pauva and Prince alias Gabbar of Ambala and Shubham alias Nannu of Mahesh Nagar in a case of snatching. Arjun of Ambala had reported that the accused had assaulted him and snatched cash. A local court remanded the accused in 14-day judicial custody. TNSOne caught with stolen bikeThe police have arrested Pinkesh Kumar of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh and recovered a stolen motorcycle from his possession. Yashin Mohammad of Shahabad had reported theft of his motorcycle. The accused was sent to 14-day judicial custody. TNSOne held on theft chargeThe police have arrested Akbar alias Singha of Raipur Rani and claimed to have recovered stolen articles from his possession. Sheel Kumar of Mullana had reported theft of a water booster pump. The accused was remanded in one-day police custody. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-nabbed-for-snatching-128045
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab should honour Supreme Court verdict on SYL, says Haryana CM Khattar||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday strongly advocated that the Supreme Court verdict on the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal should be implemented and that construction of the canal should be completed soon. He made these comments during a meeting with his Punjab counterpart Capt Amarinder Singh and Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.Read also: Punjab will burn if SYL built: Capt Amarinder SinghOn the Punjab’s claim about the less availability of water, Khattar said the construction of the SYL canal and the water availability were unconnected. “Water shall be allocated on the pro-rata basis depending on the availability of water as provided in the 1981 agreement. In fact, in its judgment of January, 15, 2002, the Supreme Court had clearly mentioned that the decision of the apex court is to complete the construction of the canal,” Khattar said.He also argued there was clear evidence that surplus, unchannelised waters of the Ravi, Sutlej and Beas rivers had been flowing to Pakistan for the past 10 years, resulting in a waste of the national resource. “The Central Water Commission (CWC) has quantified this flow from the Ravi at 0.58 MAF (million acre feet), advocating the construction of a second Ravi-Beas link at Dharamkot. Surplus water can be harnessed for starved areas of south Haryana and for recharge groundwater.”Khattar further said Haryana was open to dialogue on the matter, but with a clear condition that the construction of the SYL canal must be completed as per the SC verdict. Not doing so, he said, would be a gross injustice to the people of water-deprived areas of HaryanaUnion Jal Shakti Minister Shekhawat said infrastructure and carrier capacity in the shape of the SYL canal had to be created to harness allocated share of Haryana as per the availability of water and harness water flowing to Pakistan, especially during the monsoon. On the demand for the Yamuna waters made by the Punjab CM, Shekhawat said that matter was not relevant, as an agreement on the sharing of Yamuna waters had already been finalised in the 1994 agreement signed among Haryana, Himachal, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-should-honour-supreme-court-verdict-on-syl-says-haryana-cm-khattar-128046
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Selja: CM must strongly advocate state’s rights||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja has expressed hope that Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar would strongly advocate the state’s rights when it comes to getting its share of riverwaters.Punjab should consider Haryana as its younger brother and share its riverwaters. The Congress hopes that long wait of Haryana will soon end. — Kumari Selja, HPCC chief.“The SYL canal case has been pending in the Supreme Court for years. According to the SC order, the Chief Ministers of both states have to sit down and resolve the matter. The Congress expect from the Chief Ministers to find a solution that will benefit both states,” Selja said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/selja-cm-must-strongly-advocate-states-rights-128049
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Explain rulings, Punjab and Haryana High Court tells Additional District & Sessions Judge||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has called for an explanation from an Additional District and Sessions Judge, who granted anticipatory bail to a co-accused even after being told about his alleged doubtful antecedents.The Judge has also been asked to explain the reasons for refusing pre-arrest bail to another accused on a subsequent occasion.“The explanation be submitted through the District and Sessions Judge, Gurugram, to this court on or before the next date of hearing,” stated Justice GS Sandhawalia of the High Court. The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after Shehjad filed a petition against Haryana for anticipatory bail in a case of attempt to murder, assault or criminal force to deter a public servant and other offences registered at the Sohna police station in Gurugram on May 23.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, his counsel contended that similarly situated accused Sahun was granted interim protection on June 26.It was brought to the High Court’s notice that the person had three other criminal cases of similar nature pending against him, but his “interim protection was made absolute” on July 22 by rejecting the state’s stand that the accused had not cooperated with the investigating agency.Taking note of the arguments, Justice Sandhawalia observed that the petitioner was questioning why interim protection had been declined to him on the grounds that he was the principal accused and recovery of certain things was to be effected from him.Issuing notice of motion for September 2, Justice Sandhawalia directed the filing of a status report on the “number of cases of similar nature which are pending against the petitioner and his co-accused”.Before parting with the case, Justice Sandhawalia asserted, “The presiding officer concerned shall also give his explanation as to what weighed with him to grant the benefit of anticipatory bail to similarly situated co-accused on an earlier occasion though it had come to his notice that the antecedents of the accused were doubtful and the reasons for declining the benefit on a subsequent occasion.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/explain-rulings-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-tells-additional-district-sessions-judge-128052
19-08-2020||Karnal||Will get our share of water, says JP Dalal, Agricultural Minister||Agriculture Minister JP Dalal is hopeful that Haryana would get its share of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) waters.“The moot point of the discussion among the Centre, Punjab and Haryana is to finalise an agency to construct the remaining part of the SYL canal,” he told the media at the Central Soil Salinity Research Institute (CSSRI) here on Tuesday on the sideline of a state-level seminar of farmers and scientists on the effective management of stubble.To a query on the Baroda byelection, Dalal said the Congress was not in the fight as it did nothing to develop the segment. “I have visited the segment and people there have complained about the Congress not launching any development project,” he said.Later, addressing farmers and scientists, the Agriculture Minister said efforts were being made for the effective management of stubble and farmers were being made aware of the harmful effects of stubble-burning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-get-our-share-of-water-says-jp-dalal-agricultural-minister-128054
19-08-2020||Karnal||BJP failed to save farmers’ interests: Congress MP||Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda on Tuesday accused the Khattar government of failing to safeguard the interests of the state. “Since the Supreme Court verdict on the SYL canal pronounced three years ago, the state government has done nothing to advocate the rights of Haryana farmers,” he said. The Congress leader branded the BJP government as “anti-farmer”. “The three new agricultural ordinances are a proof of Centre’s anti-farmer stance,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-failed-to-save-farmers-interests-congress-mp-128056
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||Court asks Gurugram cops to protect whistleblower||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed Gurugram Commissioner of Police to protect the life and liberty of a whistleblower — an Air Force veteran. He is said to have complained about alleged corruption and irregularities in the construction of flyover and land deals.“Since the petitioner is stated to have been receiving threats, the Commissioner of Police, Gurugram, is directed to ensure that the petitioners’ life and liberty is duly protected...,” Justice Amol Rattan Singh of the High Court asserted. The Bench also directed the filing of “at least a short affidavit” on threat perception to the petitioner and his family by a Deputy Commissioner of Police.The direction came on a petition against the State of Haryana and other respondents by Ramesh Kumar through counsel PK Rapria. He contended the next date of hearing in the matter was September 7. But the petitioner and his family had been receiving threats and had also been attacked. He submitted that the petitioner, being a whistleblower, was required to be protected even in terms of the state government policy, but his representation in the matter had still not been decided, even though it was required is to be decided within a week. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-asks-gurugram-cops-to-protect-whistleblower-128062
19-08-2020||Faridabad||Gangster wanted for murder held in Faridabad||A gangster wanted for carrying out a reece of the house of Bollywood actor Salman Khan in Mumbai (Maharashtra) and murdering a youth here in June has been arrested, the police have said. Four of his accomplices have also been nabbed.The gangster, identified as Rahul (27), alias Sanga and Baba, did the reece of Salman’s house in January on the direction of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, who is behind the bars, the police have said.Bishnoi reportedly wanted to eliminate the actor for his acquittal in the black buck killing case.Rahul, a native of Bhiwani district, was arrested from Uttarakhand on Saturday last week. He was brought here as he is also wanted for the murder of a local resident, Pravin.His accomplices have been identified as Manish, Rohit, Ashish and Bharat. Rahul, Bharat and Ashish have been remanded in two-day police custody, while the two others have been sent to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gangster-wanted-for-murder-held-in-faridabad-128097
19-08-2020||Panipat||Two youths shot in Panipat village||Two youths were shot dead at Bandh village of the Israna area in the district on Monday night. Three others escaped from the spot after villagers opened fire.The youths reportedly went to the village to threaten Dharampal, a dhaba owner, and members of his family after the registration of a criminal case against them.Dharampal runs a dhaba near Kohand village of Gharaunda in Karnal district. He had lodged a complaint of armed loot of Rs 60,000 and two gold chains on August 14.The Gharaunda police had registered a case against Satish of Israna village, Vikas of Bandh village and their accomplices.Vikas and four others went to Dharampal’s house on Monday night and allegedly opened fire. Residents gathered on the spot and opened fire.Two youths were killed on the spot while Vikas and two of his accomplices fled. The deceased were identified as Satish and Manish of Israna village.The Israna police on Tuesday registered a case against Dharampal, his wife and at least 15 others on the basis of a complaint by Manish’s brother Praveen.The village panchayat met on Tuesday and decided to support Dharampal and his family members. Led by sarpanch Gulab Singh, they went to the Mini-Secretariat.A delegation met Superintendent of Police Manisha Chaudhary and demanded justice for those booked. She assured them of a fair inquiry into the matter.Gulab alleged that Vikas was a notorious criminal. A police team was deployed in the village to maintain law and order. The police barricaded streets in the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-youths-shot-in-panipat-village-128098
19-08-2020||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Engineering student shoots self in Gurugram||A 20-year-old engineering student allegedly committed suicide at his apartment in Sector 84 here last night.The deceased allegedly shot himself with an illegal gun while his family was away at a hospital to meet his ailing father.No suicide note was recovered from the spot and the family failed to pinpoint any reason behind the extreme step. The police are investigating the case.The deceased has been identified as Oshit Sharma, a first-year B.Tech student at Ocean Engineering, Chennai. He had come home during the lockdown period and was staying with his parents and brother at Antriksh Heights.Around 10 pm on Monday — when Oshit’s mother and brother had gone to the RN Hospital, where his father was admitted — he purportedly shot himself with a gun, said sources.His family members said they had no clue about the source of the weapon. The gunshot was heard by neighbours, who informed security guards. The police were also called. Since the cause behind the suicide had not been ascertained, the police were looking into his mobile phone call details.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/engineering-student-shoots-self-in-gurugram-128100
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||All Haryana govt departments to go paperless from November 1||Come November 1, the functioning of the state government is set to be “paperless” with the e-Office software set to be implemented across different departments of the state government.In fact, with 22 departments already switching over to electronic movement of files to the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), Chief Secretary (CS) Office and the Finance Department (FD), the e-Office project has got a major boost.The CMO, the CS Office and FD have already switched over to e-Office for processing official files.A senior officer said while another 20 departments would move to the e-Office software for disposal of official files on September 1, the state government has set the November 1 deadline for all other departments to follow suit.“The usage of e-Office will significantly speed up the file movement and improve the operational efficiency of the departments,” he hoped.Prominent among 22 departments opting for e-Office included Development and Panchayats, Employment, Higher Education, Housing, HSIIDC, Public Health Engineering, Labour, Rural Development, Social Justice and Empowerment and Science and Technology.Meanwhile, an elaborate standard operating procedure (SOP) has been put in place by the state government to guide officials in the functioning of new institutional mechanism.Sources said the e-Office would prove to be a boon in Covid times as the officials concerned could dispose of the files through electronic mode on desktops, laptops and smartphones, cutting unnecessary delays.Developed by the National Informatics Centre, e-Office provides a digital workplace solution that will pave the way for an efficient and open government by streamlining workflow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/all-haryana-govt-departments-to-go-paperless-from-november-1-128102
19-08-2020||Deepender Deswal||Award for Vinesh Phogat overjoys villagers||Tribune News ServiceHisar, August 18Elated over recommendation of Vinesh Phogat for Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna, residents of Balali village in Charkhi Dadri termed it a watershed moment in women’s wrestling.Read also: Vinesh to get Khel RatnaVinesh’s uncle Mahavir Phogat thanked the National Sports Awards Selection Committee and the Centre. “I am confident that she will win gold in the Tokyo Olympics,” he stated, adding that the award came as a big motivation for her.Prem Lata, Vinesh’s mother, expressed happiness and said Vinesh would leave no stone unturned to win gold in the Olympics.“She has proved that she is the best bet in women’s wrestling in Tokyo,” said sports writer Tejpal Dalal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/award-for-vinesh-phogat-overjoys-villagers-128107
19-08-2020||Chandigarh||7 die of virus, 896 new cases in Haryana||An employee in the CM Office and six employees of the first floor of police headquarters in Panchkula were among the 896 fresh cases in Haryana today.It is the highest-ever number of cases in 24 hours. The cumulative Covid tally in the state reached 48,936.The police staff who tested positive included a private secretary and telephone attendant in the DGP office. “The Haryana DGP’s office in the Police Headquarters, Panchkula, will remain closed on Wednesday and Thursday. This has been done following six police personnel working there testing positive out of 10 who took the test on Monday. So far, no officer has tested positive,” said a police PRO.After some employees tested positive in Siksha Sadan in Sector 5, Panchkula, Director Secondary Education J Ganesan issued an order today that all officials of his department would work from home till August 21 except Superintendent or Deputy Superintendent, along with a clerk or data entry operator.In Rohtak, Deputy Commissioner RS Verma tested positive for Covid.Seven deaths were also reported today, which included four from Karnal and one each from Panipat, Rohtak, Faridabad.In Karnal, a 67-year-old woman of Indri died in Mohali while a 55-year-old woman of Kachwa village, undergoing cancer treatment, and a 60-year-old liquor contractor of Baldi village were among the casualties. A 63-year-old male from Ahirwada in Faridabad succumbed to the viral disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-die-of-virus-896-new-cases-in-haryana-128154
19-08-2020||Gurugram||Get 10% staff tested, Gurugram industries told||Citing the “susceptibility” of industrial workers to Covid infection owing to their inter-district and inter-state travel, Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri has ordered mandatory testing of a minimum of 10 per cent of staff of each industrial unit. As per the plan, a pool of about 3 lakh workers will be reviewed for symptoms and over 30,000 will be tested.“Thankfully, we have managed to deal with the surge in cases (in the district). Now, a majority of the cases being reported are those with travel history to other districts or states. Industrial workers are more susceptible to catching the infection as of now, owing to their daily travel and exposure. So, we now need to test them. Extensive testing has been our biggest weapon and we will be implementing it in different pools now,” said the DC.CMO Dr Virender Yadav said they would initially test 10 per cent of the workers. Based on the infectivity rate in each industry, they would take a call on testing more workers, he said.The orders state that while industry owners are free to choose their mode of testing — be it Antigen or RTPCR — they will have to bear the cost and not force their employees to do so.“We will be the only district in the country to have conducted one lakh tests per million. After geographical seclusion and testing, we now plan to go community-wise, starting with the most vulnerable — industrial workers,” said Dr Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/get-10-staff-tested-gurugram-industries-told-128155
19-08-2020||Hisar||Haryana Board cuts syllabus by 30%||To ease the pressure on students amid the pandemic, the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) has decided to reduce by 30 per cent the syllabus for classes IX to XII this academic session.Easing pressureThe Board has decided to follow the CBSE pattern so that students don’t face any problem in class exams and other tests. — Jagbir Singh, BSEH ChiefBSEH (Bhiwani) Chairman Jagbir Singh said they had rationalised the syllabus on the pattern of the Central Board of School Education. He said the decision had been taken in view of the pandemic, which had adversely affected studies. The state government had suggested rationalisation of syllabus after which the BSEH discussed it with various stakeholders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-board-cuts-syllabus-by-30-128095
