19-09-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Caught on CCTV: Armed robbers strike at Gurugram jeweller’s shop||Gurugram, September 19Robbers struck again in Gurugram as a jeweller in the Sadar Bazaar area was attacked and robbed by armed men on Saturday evening. The robbers came in on the pretext of buying jewellery from Mussadi Lal Jewellers and fled with ornaments worth Rs 13 lakh.As seen in the CCTV footage, they came in two groups posing as customers. While two men came first, they asked jeweller Bhoop Singh to show engagement ring designs. He pulled out two trays. After few minutes other men came in and one of them pulled out a pistol. He jumped over the counter to overpower the shop owner, while others escaped with jewellery trays. The shop owner resisted, but they pinned him down.Bhoop Singh called police and filed a complaint.“We have formed a special team and are trying to nab the accused who are not identified yet. Our teams are on the job and hope to nab the accused soon,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.The local trader community is up in arms after the incident and has demanded security.“Post unlock we feel threatened and such daring acts by robbers in the busiest market that too on busy Saturday evening hints at the lack of police fear. We want security and safety so that we can trade without fear,” local traders said in a letter to the Commissioner.
19-09-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram lawyer shoots father, kills himself later; Cops suspect 'family dispute'||In a shocking incident, a lawyer killed himself after allegedly shooting his father dead at Dhanwapur village in Laxman Vihar area on Saturday evening.The police reached the spot, and found the lawyer's body lying near a wall of the room, while the body of his father was on the bed.The police took the bodies into custody.They said, that it was prima facie, and that it appeared to be the deed of the lawyer owing to the ongoing dispute, though all angles are being probed."Investigations, so far, hint that the lawyer first shot his father, who had two bullet wounds, and then himself with a single bullet. The father was a retired employee of Delhi police. The family has filed no complaint or hinted at any foul play, we are, however, investigating," said Assistant Commissioner of Police, Crime, Preet Pal Singh Sangwan.The deceased was identified as 35-year-old Ravinder and his 62-year-old father Rajbir, residents of Dhanwapur village.Ravinder, along with his entire family, lived at their village, while his father was residing at a PG, which is located in Laxman Vihar colony.On Saturday evening, Ravinder—who is practising in Gurgram court—reached the PG which are closed now. Only his father was living there.Cops said, that it seemed like they had a heated argument between them, and Ravinder ended up shooting his father and himself.Police have recovered a few bullets, and shells with the revolver from the spot."We have contacted family and Manjit, the other son of the deceased, Rajbir, reached on spot. We have kept the bodies in the mortuary, and a post-mortem will be conducted tomorrow. In preliminary investigations, it seems like the result of a family dispute, and an FIR will be registered after receiving the complaint," said SHO of Sector 9 police station, Ashok Dagar.
19-09-2020||Panchkula||5 COVID-19 deaths in 24 hours; Panchkula closing in on 5,000 cases||Panchkula reports five deaths and 162 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the district’s death toll to 62.The coronavirus tally stands at 4,927.COVID-19 deaths: A 55-year-old woman from Mankapur, a 56-year-old woman from Sector 4, a 60-year-old woman, from MDC, Sector 4, a 64-year-old woman from Sector 9, and a 70-year-old man from Tipra succumbed to the virus. All of them had comorbidities.  COVID-19 cases: Fresh cases include 12 from Sector 11, 11 from Raipur Rani, 10 each from Pinjore and Sector 20, 9 from Sector 19, 7 from Sector 9, 6 from Sector 26, 5 each from Amravati Enclave, Garhi Kotaha, Kalka, Sector 12, Sector 15 and Sector 7, 4 each from Indira Colony, Sector 10, Sector 21, Sector 4 and Sector 8, 3 each from Dandardoo, Morni, Sector 12A, Sector 25 and Toda, 2 each from Haripur, Police Line, Power Colony, Sector 16 and Sector 18, one each from Abheypur, Bhagwanpur, Bhainsa Tibba, Chandimandir, Buddanpur, Devi Nagar, Industrial Area, Kharak Mangoli, Kheri, Kutbewala, Kherawali, Nada Sahib, Rajiv Colony, Rattewali, Ramgarh, Sector 17, Sector 2, Sector 24, Sector 27, Shahpur, Tagra Hakimpur and Tipra.While 1,321 cases are still active, 3,544 people have been discharged or cured. So far, Panchkula has conducted 58,450 COVID-19 tests.
19-09-2020||Faridabad||Fire breaks out at electrical factory near Faridabad NIT; six workers injured||A fire broke out on Saturday afternoon leaving six workers with injured at an electrical factory located in NIT area, here.Out of six workers, two are seriously injured.The fire was doused within an hour by five fire tenders rushed by the Municipal Corporation. The injured have been shifted to two hospitals.Condition of the two injured workers is reported to be serious. They have been admitted to a private hospital.The fire broke out around 12:45 pm. Over 60-70 workers were out for their lunch break. About a dozen people, who were inside the factory at the time, were rushed out or rescued.Majority of them were victims of suffocation. Several blasts erupted in the container filed up with furnace oil kept inside, which engulfed soon all the containers having chemicals, they claimed.The factory is located on the peripheral road in G-Block of the NIT. It is engaged in manufacturing electrical items. A major tragedy was averted as the majority of the workers were out.The police arrived the spot soon, and soon launched a probe into the incident. They claimed, that the civic body was ill-equipped to deal with the fire incident.A former Municipal Corporation, Yogesh Dhingra, said, that the government ought to provide state-of-the-art fire fighting arrangements in an industrial city like Faridabad to deal with such tragedies.So far, no case been registered in this regard.
19-09-2020||Sushil Manav ||Haryana gears up for farmers’ road blockade; tells DCs, SPs to deal with protesters with ‘tact and patience’||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, September 19 Even as farmers across the state are gearing up for the proposed road blockade on Sunday on the call given by Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), the Haryana government on Saturday told the deputy commissioners and SPs to deal with the protesters with “tact and patience”. Vjai Vardhan, Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, has written to all divisional commissioners, IGs, DCs, Commissioners of Police and SPs to ensure, however, that the protesters are not allowed to take law into their hands and that prompt action be taken against those found indulging in loot, arson or damage to life, property or vehicles. “All DCs, SSPs may reach out to the organisers and ensure a peaceful protest. Organisers should be advised and prevailed upon to register their protest in a peaceful and lawful manner and desist from blocking highways and roads,” said the letter. The district officers have been told to divert traffic immediately in case any road or highway is blocked so that people don’t face inconvenience. Executive magistrates have been told to remain present in the district and be stationed with their police counterparts at all such places where congregation of protesters is anticipated. The government has also directed the civil surgeons to ensure that the doctors remain present in hospitals in full strength for prompt treatment in case there are injuries. Private hospitals are also being alerted to be prepared. Ambulances along with doctors and paramedical staff are being stationed on the highways with police force wherever the gathering of the protesters is anticipated. A control room at the Home Secretary’s office has been set up and a telephone number 0172-271 1925 released for any kind of assistance on Sunday.
19-09-2020||Rewari||Despite allotment, BPL families await plots in Rewari village||Despite getting the allotment letters for 100 sq yard plots under a government scheme, more than 250 BPL families of Manethi village belonging to SC/BC categories here have not got the plots even after eight years.AIIMS project a hurdle?A source said the surface of the land was to be levelled before granting possession to the allottees but in the meantime the AIIMS project was announced in the village“Thereafter, no one paid heed to the matter. Some presume that the land would be used for the AIIMS project. But neither it is being used for the project nor the possession of the plots is being given to the allottees,” the source added“We were issued allotment letters in February 2012 and were promised the possession soon but not even a single plot has been given to the allottees in the village so far. Now, we have approached the DC and also written to the CM in this regard,” said Amar Singh, one of the allottees.Babu Lal, another allottee, said the authorities gave them allotment letters in 2012 but did not ensure the possession over the plots. “We still don’t know where our plots are located,” he added.Sources said the plots allotted to the BPL families were located on the dunes in the village located in foothills of the Aravalli range.“The surface was to be levelled before granting possession to the allottees but in the meantime the AIIMS project was announced in the village. Thereafter, no one paid heed to the matter. Some presume that the land would be used for the AIIMS project. But neither it is being used for the project nor the possession of the plots is being given to the allottees,” a source said.Manethi sarpanch Sheotaz Singh said the actual site for the plots was shifted to the other side of the village following the AIIMS project. “Since the site is now not being used for the project, we have urged the district administration to provide the plots to over 250 beneficiaries at the actual site. The beneficiaries will get the plots soon,” he claimed.Kailash, social education and panchayat officer, said since plain land was not available in the village, the Manethi gram panchayat had been asked to prepare a case for getting adequate land acquired to give the plots to the BPL families.
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||e-Lok Adalat organised by HSLSA||An e-Lok Adalat was organised by the Haryana State Legal Services Authority (HSLSA) under the guidance of Justice Rajiv Sharma, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court, and Executive Chairman, HSLSA.All 22 district courts and 33 subdivisional courts of Haryana conducted e-Lok Adalat and connected with the litigants through video-conferencing.On the inaugural of e-Lok Adalat, Justice Rajiv Sharma addressed District and Sessions Judges, Chief Judicial Magistrates-cum-Secretaries, DLSA, presiding officers of Benches, members of Bar associations, panel advocates and para legal volunteers of Haryana.He said as the pandemic had restricted the functioning of courts, causing a delay in dealing with cases, the HSLSA had decided to hold e-Lok Adalat in the state virtually.In today’s e-Lok Adalat, 13,167 cases were taken up across the state, of which 8,538 were decided. A total amount of Rs 51,65,52,861 was settled during the e-Lok Adalat.
19-09-2020||Rohtak||Copies of  Bills burnt by AIKS and HSAAA||Activists of the Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha (AIKS) and Haryana State Anajmandi Arhtiyas’ Association (HSAAA) burnt the copies of the three Bills passed by the Lok Sabha last night.Earlier, the representatives of both organisations assembled in the grain market to express anguish over the Bills.AIKS acting state secretary Sumit and HSAAA vice-president Harsh Girdhar said Agriculture Produce Market Committee Act (APMCA) was the lifeline of farmers of Punjab, Haryana and other states and this would not be allowed to be abandoned at any cost. AIKS district president Preet Singh also decried the BJP government, stating that the Bills were anti-farmer and would push them on the path of devastation.
19-09-2020||Hisar||Farmers gear up to block roads on September 20||Dismissing the ruling BJP’s allegations that farmers’ agitation was sponsored by the Congress, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said farmers from various states had come together to take on the government ordinances, which he termed “death warrant” for the community.He said farmers across Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and other states had been raising voice against the Central ordinances. Chaduni, who visited the dharna sites in Jind and Hisar, urged farmers to block roads in the state on September 20 and also participate in the nationwide bandh on September 25.
19-09-2020||Karnal||Arhtiyas stage protest against farm Bills||Hundreds of arhtiyas of various grain markets in the district went on a strike and staged dharna in grain markets today.They threatened to continue protest till their demands were met. They want three farm-related Bills revoked and return of the money deducted by procurement agencies from their payment of wheat in the name of “luster loss”. Meanwhile, no procurement process was conducted and farmers and labourers had to wait.Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association, led the protest and said they were protesting against the three Bills against farmers and arhtiyas passed by the Centre.He said the procurement agencies had deducted huge amount from their payments in the name of luster loss, which should be refunded. — TNS
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||New Bar body office-bearers||Punjab and Haryana HC advocate Gaurav Arora has been elected as member of the executive committee (Chandigarh) of the Bar Association of India.Gurugram District Bar Association advocate Puneet Sharma has been elected as joint general secretary of the Bar Association of India. — TNS
19-09-2020||After rains||Weed growing alongside roads||Newly constructed street in bad stateThis street in Mandhan village of the Tosham Block was constructed two-years ago, but today it's in a pathetic condition as the work was not done properly. Peoples are finding it difficult to get across the road of the village. — Rahul Mahla, ToshamEncroachments in NarwanaShopkeepers boldly display their wares alongside the road and sometimes even two-wheelers find it difficult to negotiate. They charge illegal monthly rentals from rehriwalas to allow them to stand in front of their shops, which further usurp the traffic space. This trend is rampant on railway road, Sarafa Bazar, Apolo and Vishwakarma Chowks. The administration must take action.  Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
19-09-2020||Hisar||MoU signed for joint training||Webinar on academic leadershipFaridabad: A national webinar on ‘Academic leadership in the context of the National Education Policy-2020’ was organised by DAV Centenary College. Officiating principal Savita Bhagat shed light on the importance of the theme. Vikas Kumar, dean, academic affairs, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, highlighted the various aspects of the policy. Prof RS Bawa, Pro-Chancellor, Chandigarh University, Mohali, spoke on academic leadership and various dimensions and possibilities inherent in the policy. Chief guest Prof BK Kuthiala, chairperson, Haryana State Higher Education Council, shared his perspective on the four layers of leadership that were crucial in any organisational setting and equally pertinent for the success of the New Education Policy as well as for realising the vision inherent in it.Role of NIT in edu policy discussedKurukshetra: The National Institute of Technology (NIT), Kurukshetra, and Shiksha Sanskirti Utthan Nyas, New Delhi, organised a daylong national webinar on the ‘Role of National Institutes of Technology: Challenges and solutions’ in the implementation of the National Education Policy-2020. Atul Bhai Kothari, national secretary, Shiksha Sanskirti Utthan Nyas, New Delhi, was the keynote speaker. He said the New Education Policy-2020 would shape one’s life, defines their character, morality, ideology and everything that was required to live life apart from decorating career. He said the students would be given the opportunity to pursue their interests and passion along with culture since childhood. Emphasis has been laid on increasing the use of the national language, especially in higher education.
19-09-2020||Gurugram||HARERA: Can’t auction project before adjusting allottees’ dues||Pronouncing a landmark judgment, Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HARERA), Gurugram, has mandated that no bank or financing agency would auction or sell a loan-defaulting project to recover damages before adjustment of allottees’ dues. Chairman, HARERA Gurugram Dr KK Khandelwal said that there has been a big increase in complaints in the state where a peculiar trend has been noticed. Promoters mortgage their project land and structure thereupon as well as all receivables from the sold/unsold inventory to lending organisations/ financial institutions/ banks/creditors in order to attain bank loans to fund the construction costs for developing the projects.But when these promoters fail to repay the loans taken, the financial institutions /banks/ creditors directly auction residential or commercial properties that have been pledged with them to recover loans from borrowers by invoking the SARFAESI Act, 2002.“Such auctions invoke great anguish and distress to the allottees of the project as there is no acknowledgement of the huge investments made by the allottees into buying their dream home. The future of such allottees is in complete darkness and obscurity. Such aggrieved allottees are bound to languish for their own hard-earned money. The latest judgement in interest of the allottees of the project “Supertech Hues” is the first of its kind in the nation,” said Khandelwal.According to the HARERA judgment, promoter M/s Supertech Limited, who is neither the licensee nor a collaborator, approached PNB Housing Finance Limited for a construction loan for the project “Supertech Hues”. It was duly advanced to M/s Supertech Limited, with M/s Sarv Realtors Pvt Ltd as the confirming party, by way of equitable mortgage of the project land measuring 33.33 acres by deposit of the title deeds along with receivables from the mortgaged properties.It failed to repay the loans taken and hence became a defaulter. The said project was put for e-auction by the creditor company. So, the allottees moved HARERA.“This is happening across the country. The rights of the allottees are not subservient to those of the bank and therefore in case of failure of the banks to ensure that the funds were applied for the purpose they were granted, banks cannot be allowed to supersede the rights of the allottees.“The financial institutions/lending banks/creditors are duty bound to ensure that the loan payments are released to the promoters after due verification of the fact that the payment so released is actually utilised towards the construction of the project. The lending institutions/ individuals shall be held equally responsible if the amount, so released, is not put into construction purpose and is allowed to be diverted,” added Khandelwal.
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||File personal affidavit: High Court to Chief Secretary||More than a year after the Haryana Lokayukta, among other things, directed the carrying out of a survey on encroachment and illegal possession over panchayat land in the state, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the Chief Secretary to file a personal affidavit. The officer was asked to spell out “consequential steps” taken pursuant to the order dated June 7, 2019.The direction came after the Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu described inaction in the matter as “a serious lapse on the part of the competent authorities”. The Bench observed that the competent authorities were expected to take prompt action on the recommendations by the Lokayukta, “but the recommendations have not been implemented so far”.The case has its genesis in a petition filed by Dharambir Sharma against Haryana and other respondents. The matter pertains to alleged illegal encroachment on 170 acres of panchayat land in the state wrongly and illegally transferred in the name of “private persons” in collusion with then sarpanches and gram sachivs.Disposing of the matter initially raised before it, the Lokayukta had issued directions to challenge the decrees with regard to 35 acres and 14 marlas transferred in 1963. Directions were issued to take steps in accordance with the law to recover 46 acres. The Lokayukta had also directed the carrying out of a survey regarding encroachment and illegal possession over panchayat land in the state before taking steps for its removal in accordance with the law.
19-09-2020||---||Congress to hold protests on Sept 21||Chandigarh, September 18The Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) will organise demonstrations across the state over the three farm ordinances on September 21.Kumari Selja, HPCC president, said she would lead the protest near the PWD Rest House in Jind that day.She directed the party rank and file to organise demonstrations and dharnas at all district headquarters on September 21 to raise their voice against the three “black Acts”.After the demonstrations, memorandums addressed to the President, requesting him not to give his assent to these Acts, would be submitted to the Deputy Commissioners concerned.
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Hooda seeks special House session on ordinances||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, along with Congress MLAs, today submitted a memorandum to Haryana Governor requesting him to impress upon the state government to convene a special session to discuss the impact and ramifications of the three farm ordinances.Hooda said farmers were facing an existential crisis due to the three “anti-farmer” black laws which would take away the protection provided to farmers.He said the situation demanded political consensus and was important that all parties raised their voice in the interest of farmers.“A special session of the Assembly should be called and these three laws should be rejected outright on the lines of Punjab. These laws should be discussed in the House so that people also know which party and member stands with the farmer and those who stand against them,” he said.Answering a question on the resignation of Akali Dal’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Hooda said it was a case of too little, too late.Commenting on the JJP, the alliance partner in the Haryana Government, he said if the coalition partner was farmer-friendly, it would have parted ways with the government by now. He said it was now clear that they were more interested in staying in power than fighting for the rights of farmers.The former Chief Minister said the Congress had given adjournment and calling attention proposals to discuss many issues including these three “anti-farmer” ordinances in the monsoon session but the government had denied the discussion, saying the Chief Minister, Speaker and several MLAs had tested positive for Covid.
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers fear losing MSP, traders say will be ruined||Even as the Lok Sabha today passed three controversial farm Bills, farmers and commission agents across Haryana continued to protest, fearing that the Bills would spell doom for them.Farmers and traders held protests and burnt copies of the Bills at several places in the state today and expressed disapproval of the new laws.The Bills passed today are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill. The Lok Sabha had passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill.As per the government’s viewpoint, explained by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday and state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar from time to time, the Bills would accelerate agricultural growth through private sector investment in building agricultural infrastructure and supply chains.While the first Bill would promote barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade and commerce outside grain markets notified under the State Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Act, the second one provided for a national network on farming agreements that protected and empowered farmers to engage with farm business firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters and large retailers for farm services and sale of future farming produce at a mutually agreed upon remunerative price framework.Farmers’ apprehensionsThe major apprehension of farmers was the fear of losing the MSP for their crops in due course, if not immediately.Gurnam Singh Charuni, president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union in Haryana, said they wanted the government to give an undertaking that the procurement of crops would continue under the MSP regime, but the government was not willing to do so.Farmer leaders maintained that the new Bills would not benefit anyone in Haryana or Punjab, where the mandi system was quite robust.“Big corporates have the reputation of capturing the entire business by finishing competitors. They will initially offer good rates, which will lead to complete demolition of the present marketing set-up. Once they monopolise trade, they will buy farmers’ produce at the price of their choice,” farmer leaders said.Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said farmers were demanding fair prices, but the government wanted to get rid of the MSP.“We have been demanding that if the government is honest in its endeavour, it should have mentioned in the Bills that farmers will get the MSP, whether they sell crops inside or outside mandis,” he said.Arhtiyas’ apprehensionsAshok Gupta, president of the Haryana State Anaj Mandi Arhtiya Association, said they had no doubt that they would be ruined in four to five years of implementation of the Bills.“Procurement outside mandis means that the buyer does not have to pay 4 per cent market fee and 2.5 per cent commission of the arhtiya. In the first year, a commission agent selling 10 lakh quintals of paddy or wheat of farmers per year will lose between 20 per cent and 25 per cent of business. Some buyers will procure the crop from outside. Next year, more business will go and so, traders will lose almost the entire business in four to five years,” said Gupta.He said it would not be easy for big players to establish themselves in the system. He said the procurement system in Haryana was robust and procurement agencies had enough warehouses.“If big players like Ambani and Adani come, they will need to set up warehouses and other infrastructure, which will take years,” he added.
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Decide on maternity leave benefit in a month, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has set a month’s deadline for Haryana to take necessary action on the issue of granting maternity leave benefit and six months’ salary to guest faculty working on contractual basis in polytechnic institutions.The direction by Justice HS Madaan came on a petition filed by Deepika and 14 other petitioners against Haryana and 13 other respondents. Justice Madaan asserted that the court found it proper and appropriate to allow an opportunity to the state to consider the prayer in accordance with rules, regulations and settled law on the subject before taking necessary action.Justice Madaan stated that the order was being passed after taking into consideration facts and circumstances and to avoid unnecessary litigation. “Accordingly, the present writ petition is disposed of by directing the state and another respondent to consider the petitioners’ request and take necessary action within one month from the date of receiving the order’s certified copy,” Justice Madaan added.Before parting with the case, Justice Madaan noted that it would be open to the petitioners to seek legal remedy, including approaching the court again in accordance with the law, if they felt aggrieved after disposal of their claim as the petition was not being decided on merit.The petitioners, working as guest faculty on contractual basis in polytechnic institutions in the state, had approached the court for directions to the respondents to grant the benefit of maternity leave with salary for six months.
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims 23 lives in Haryana||With 23 deaths and 2,488 fresh cases of Covid, the cumulative number of cases reached 1.06 lakh today.While three deaths each were reported from Gurugram and Panchkula, two deaths each were recorded from Faridabad, Ambala, Hisar, Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Yamunanagar and one each from Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Karnal and Rohtak.Two males, aged 55 and 59 and hailing from Sector 9 and NIT respectively, died in Faridabad.The maximum fresh cases came from Gurugram at 339, followed by 287 in Faridabad, 167 in Hisar, 157 in Panchkula, 140 in Ambala, 139 in Rohtak, 131 in Kurukshetra, 129 in Karnal and 121 in Sirsa.
19-09-2020||Ambala||2 more  held in booze scam||The SIT constituted by the Ambala police has arrested two more persons in connection with the huge stock of IMLF brands from Mandour village in Ambala, last week.The suspects have been identified as Pradeep Mittal, and Avinash of Ambala. They were produced before a court, which sent them to one-day police custody. On Thursday, three men (Gaurav of Ambala City, Prince of Chandigarh, and Satpal of Ambala City) were arrested. So far five men have been arrested in the case.Sources said it was Gaurav and his accomplice who were behind the scam, some more names had surfaced during the probe and they would be arrested in the coming days. They were running illicit trade under the garb of selling aloe vera juice. The suspects used to smuggle the liquor in the boxes of aloe vera juice, to Gujarat and Rajasthan.
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Teams to visit home isolated on alternate days||For home isolation care of Covid patients, the Health Department has issued new guidelines wherein emphasis has been laid on in-person visits by “District Home Isolation Monitoring Team” on every alternate day.Main guidelinesThe “District Home Isolation Monitoring Team”, comprising one AMO, one ANM and one ASHA worker, will check if separate washrooms are being used and if patient is co-morbidIt will be checking the vitals such as pulse, temperature, BP and oxygen level of the patient and provide basic amenities like immunity boosters, AYUSH medicines, etcHealth Secretary Rajeev Arora said around 60 to 70 per cent of the Covid-infected persons were in home isolation and they needed to augment the home isolation policy so that the patients were provided appropriate care and treatment.He said the asymptomatic and symptomatic patients, who were in home isolation, were usually unable to follow the guidelines such as staying in separate room, a separate toilet, a caregiver to look after the needs of the patient.Ashok Kumar Meena, Chief Executive Officer, Ayushman Bharat, said the teams concerned could check the number of patients in home isolation from the ICMR portal and make visits on alternate days.A flex banner mentioning “District Home Isolation Monitoring Team” along with the name of the district would be displayed on the vehicle of each field team, which would consist of one AMO, one ANM and one ASHA worker.He said the teams would also check if separate washrooms were being used and if the patient was co-morbid other than the vital parameters.“The information regarding the condition of the patient has to be shared with the nodal officers concerned at block-level and district-level,” Meena said.The “District Home Isolation Monitoring Team” team will decide whether the patient is to be kept in home isolation or not. The home visit team will be wearing PPE kits, including the driver.The civil surgeons are directed to ensure the availability of pulse oxymeter, non-mercury thermometer, and stethoscope and BP apparatus with each field team to check the vitals.— TNS
19-09-2020||Panipat||UP youth’s sample taken for DNA test||The special investigation team (SIT) on Friday collected blood samples of the 28-year-old Uttar Pradesh youth for the DNA test. He was assaulted and his right hand was severed for alleged sexual assault on a seven-year-old boy.SIT head DSP (Headquarter) Satish Vats also recorded his statement for the third time on Friday. The youth was booked under Sections of the POCSO Act.Vats said we recovered a severed hand from the railway track near Krishanpura locality just at 8-10 m away from where the youth, Akhlaq, was spotted by the GRP in an injured condition on August 24 morning. The hand has been preserved for the DNA profiling, he added.Besides, with the help of the FSL team, we have collected some blood and tissue samples from the railway track and some stained stones, he added.As per Akhlaq, his hand was severed in a chain saw at a house in Krishanpura Colony, which had been inspected by the FSL teams, but no blood stains were found anywhere, he added.Other important fact was that Akhlaq’s statement had been recorded three times and all differ from each other, he added.Prima facie it was almost clear that his hand was severed by some train but it would be cleared after the DNA test, he said. We have collected Akhlaq’s DNA samples to be sent for examination to the FSL, Madhuban, he added. — TNS
19-09-2020||Panipat||Teen beaten to death||A 17-year-old youth of Shamli of UP was allegedly beaten to death by some persons in Khatik Basti here over the suspicion of him being a thief, while his friend sustained injuries in the incident.The deceased has been identified as Ajay of Jhinjhana town in Shamli of UP while his friend has been identified as Saurabh (18) of the same town. The police have booked 12 persons under various sections of the IPC.The incident took place on the night of September 14 but the FIR was registered late Thursday night after the deceased’s family members identified the body in the mortuary at the General Hospital.Deceased’s elder brother Rahul, in his statement to the police, said Ajay’s friend Saurabh told him that they were crossing through Khatik Basti in Panipat on September 14 night. Meanwhile, some people, including Bittu, Karan and 8-10 others, caught them and thrashed them badly on the suspicion of being thieves.Rahul said they came to Panipat in search of Ajay on Thursday, where Saurabh narrated the incident and they went to the mortuary and identified his body.Chandnibagh SHO Ankit Kumar said a case had been registered against Bittu, Karan and 8-10 others under Sections 148, 149, 323 and 302 IPC on the complaint of the deceased’s brother. — TNS
19-09-2020||Karnal||Another police station opens at Karnal village||With the inauguration of the new police station at Munak village by the IG, Karnal Range, Bharati Arora, the district has got another police station, taking the number of the police stations to 18, including one of the traffic police station.Earlier, it was a police post and only four villages were under it, but now 15 villages have been added (seven each from Assandh and Gharaunda police stations and 1 from Nissing) to this police station, informed Surinder Singh Bhoria, SP.Arora said 20 police personnel had been appointed at this police station. She said earlier, it was a police post, which came under the Gharaunda police station, but now it was itself a police station and people would not have to go to the Gharaunda police station for their work such as passport verification, police clearance certificate and others. It would save their time too, she added. “Our aim is to serve the people and it is our attempt to facilitate them.”Bhoria appealed to the people to help in getting the status of smart police station by ensuring peace in the villages falling under the police station. He exhorted them to shun drugs so that the society could be saved.He said Gagsina, Kutana, Begumpur, Ballah, Munak, Munakkhera, Balrangran, Raipur, Pabanahasanpur, Goli, Mor Majra, Padha, Kurlan, Bhambharehri, Manpura, and Ainchla villages had been kept under this police station. — TNS
