19-07-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Ray of hope for 1.4 lakh staff as Haryana mulls restoration of old pension scheme||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 19There is a ray of hope for the restoration of the old pension scheme for over 1.4 lakh state government employees, who joined government service after January 1, 2006.Apparently under pressure from the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), the BJP-JJP government has started seeking detailed reports from different departments over the financial implications of the old pension scheme.A quick recap* State government seeks comments from departments on restoration of old pension scheme.* Sarv Karamchari Sangh had earlier submitted a “draft proposal” to government over restoration of old pension scheme.* Over 1.4 lakh state government employees are likely to be benefited if proposal is implemented.A senior functionary of the state government told The Tribune that the Office of the Chief Secretary had sought reports from the departments on the “draft proposal” sent by the SKS to the state government in the wake of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s video-conferencing with trade unions recently.Subhash Lamba, SKS president, said the Sangh had sent the “draft proposal” on the old pension scheme to the state government last month following which the government had again started deliberating on the implementation of the old pension scheme.Lamba said the state government’s contribution of 10 per cent of the monthly salary of post-January 2006 employees, under the new pension scheme  amounted to Rs 680.40 crore per annum. Since this amount is ploughed into financial market, it was basically aimed at benefiting big corporates.On the other hand, the restoration of the old pension scheme is a win-win situation for both the state government and the employees, Lamba said, adding that it was heartening to note that its implementation was again back on the agenda of the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ray-of-hope-for-1-4-lakh-staff-as-haryana-mulls-restoration-of-old-pension-scheme-115104
19-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||Covid 19: ‘Asia’s biggest’ cloth market shut, traders call move ‘unjustified’||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 19Shouri Cloth Market, touted as Asia’s biggest market, has been closed till further orders in view of crowd and violations of guidelines issued by the district administration to contain the spread of Covid pandemic.Sources said the district authorities had directed the traders of the market to open their shops on left-right system, but many did not follow the directives and opened their shops against the turn leading to crowding in the market.Some Covid cases have also surfaced in the market. All this forced the authorities to issue closure orders, sources claimed.The closure orders were issued by District Magistrate RS Verma on Sunday while exercising his power under various sections of the Epidemic Disaster Act, 1857, Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.“The fear of Covid infection still remains in Shouri Cloth Market following the persistent crowd hence the issuance of closure orders is imperative to check spread of pandemic. The market will remain closed till further orders,” said the DM in his orders.He maintained the Covid pandemic had gripped the entire world and there was still no vaccine available for its treatment hence it posed a threat to human life. The situation will be reviewed after three days to take further decisions in this respect, he added.The Shouri Cloth market established in 1951 has over 1,200 shops of wholesale and retail. Cloth is supplied to Rajasthan, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and across Haryana from here.The Rohtak Wholesale Cloth Mercantile Association has described the closures orders as ‘unjustified’ stating that it would further cause financial loss to the distress traders.“It’s a festival season and people were coming to the market to buy clothes in view of ‘Teej’ and ‘Raksha Bandhan’ hence resentment prevails among the traders against the orders. The authorities should have issued challan and slapped penalty on the violators in place of closing the market,” said Rajeev Malhotra, President of the association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19%C2%A0asias-biggest-cloth-market-shut-traders-call-move-unjustified-115097
19-07-2020||Vibha Sharma||OP Dhankar is new Haryana BJP chief||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 19BJP president JP Nadda on Sunday appointed former Agriculture Minister Om Prakash Dhankar as the party president of the State. The appointment of Dhankar is with immediate effect, a BJP communication saidDhankar replaces former MLA Subhash Barala whose term has already ended. The party was looking for a suitable replacement and several names were doing the rounds. Sources say Dhankar’s name was finalised in a recent meeting between Nadda and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, in mind the caste and regional requirements of the BJP.  Notably, despite a clean sweep in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, a couple of months later in the Assembly elections, the BJP ended six short of the halfway mark in the 90-member Assembly with several senior leaders and ministers, including Dhankar and Barala, losing their seats.Though Barala also belongs to the community, Dhankar comes from the area considered as the main Jat heartland (Rohtak, Jhajjar Sonipat), which is also the stronghold of Congress’ Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Besides, by-polls to the Baroda Assembly, a part of the Sonepat Parliamentary seat, are also due shortly.Incidentally, Hooda has welcomed Dhankar’s appointment.“It was unlikely that a ‘non Jat’ would have been selected for the post,” the sources said in response to speculations about the names of some “non Jat” leaders doing the rounds in the context. With the CM being a “non-Jat” the party had to opt for a “Jat” president to keep its caste equations balanced, they say.Notably, names of three “Jat” leaders, former Finance Minister Capt Abhimanyu, Barala and Dhankar, were also considered for the Rajya Sabha earlier this year but none of them got the coveted ticket, causing much heartburn in the community.Dhankar held several key portfolios in the first term of CM Khattar. He has also held important positions in the organisation at the State and the national level, including that of chief of the BJP Kisan Morcha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/op-dhankar-is-new-haryana-bjp-chief-115063
19-07-2020||Hisar||Coronavirus cases double in 12 days in Hisar, tally rises to 627||COVID-19 cases have doubled in 12 days in Hisar, taking the total number of infected cases in the district to 627. The district had registered 300 cases till July 6.The police have registered an FIR for violation of COVID guidelines after more than 100 cases were reported in people who had attended a wedding.A total of eight persons have died due to COVID in the district so far.Health officials said that another 31 persons were found infected on Saturday night. The positive cases include eight members of a family in Surya Nagar locality and a medical store owner in front of the civil hospital. Now, there are 298 active cases as several people have been discharged after the completion of their isolation period in the COVID Care Centre.While the rising number of infections indicate an alarming situation, market places are witnessing a violation of social distancing norms. The district administration on Saturday closed the Talaki gate market after the detection of cases. But the traders are opposing the administration’s move.The residents feel that inadequate testing facilities are a major reason behind increasing infections as the civil hospital officials turn away persons who voluntary approach them for tests. Even the COVID patients are not being tested the second time before their discharge from the COVID Care Centre.The officials cited the government guidelines for testing, adding that they are adhering to the guidelines on self-quarantine of suspected cases until any person shows up symptoms of the disease.Meanwhile, the civil hospital authorities have issued fresh orders about contact tracing of positive cases. Civil Surgeon, Dr Ratna Bharti, said that  multi-purpose health workers (MPHW) will survey their designated areas in coordination with the local municipal corporation member for effective tracing and monitoring. Earlier, a team led by biologist Dr Ramesh Punia was contact tracing and had traced nearly 1,000 suspected cases.Dr Punia’s efforts led to tracing the outbreak of cases after the wedding in the family of a jeweller. The wedding function has reportedly become the source of over 100 infections. The police have registered an FIR of violation of the COVID guidelines. The function was held on June 29 at a marriage palace. Members of both families, visitors who attended the function, and workers who managed the affairs at the wedding have tested positive so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-cases-double-in-12-days-in-hisar-tally-rises-to-627-115037
19-07-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 8 Covid-19 cases; district tally stands at 251||Panchkula reported eight more COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, taking the district tally to 251.The infections include three men—24-year-old, 42-year-old and 55-year-old—from Ashiana Complex in Industrial Area Phase 1.A 50-year-old woman, from the same locality, also tested positive for the deadly disease.Meanwhile, to check the spread of Covid-19, Panchkula health officials will start using antibody kits for testing in containment zones and Haryana government offices.This comes in the wake of the sudden spike in cases in the district, mainly detected from clusters such as ITBP in Bhanu, CRPF in Pinjore, Ashiana Complex in Sector 19 and Department of Medical Education and Research in Sector 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-reports-8-covid-19-cases-district-tally-stands-at-251-115028
19-07-2020||Karnal||Karnal reports 12 COVID-19 cases; district's total climbs to 638||Karnal reported 12 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the district total to 638.Out of the 12 infections, seven people from Nigdhu village—including five cops of Nigdhu Police Station—a 25-year-old woman from Badagaon, 34-year-old man of New Vikas Colony, a 22-year-old man of Vakilpura, 33-year-old man of Sector 13, a 16-year-old man of Vijay Nagar tested positive for the deadly disease.Meanwhile, a 73-year-old man of Adarsh Nagar of Gohana (Sonepat) died on Saturday morning. He was a patient of chronic kidney problem and hypertension for the past five years.About 600 people got cured on Saturday, taking the tally to 19,318 with a recovery rate of 75.62 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-reports-12-covid-19-cases-districts-total-climbs-to-638-115026
19-07-2020||Karnal||Essential drugs’ shortage at Karnal hospital||The dispensary at the Civil Hospital is facing shortage of medicines. Patients are forced to purchase medicine from private medical stores.Sources in the Civil Hospital say as many as 560 medicines are listed in the essential drugs list (EDL). Of those, around 400 are available in the dispensary.Only 400 medicines out of 560 availableThe hospital is running short of essential medicines such as Vitamin C and iron, Diclofenac Gel, cough syrup, skin disease ointments like Clobet-G, Clotrimoxazole, diabetes medicine Metformin, BP medicine – Telmisartan, Omeprazole, heart disease medicine – Atorva -10, 20, Ecosprin-75, 150 mg, Cefixime 200, Lactulose and others, sources said.“I was asked to purchase medicines from outside the hospital as the dispensary does not have the supply of prescribed medicines,” said Neeraj Kumar, a patient.A pregnant woman, who came here for check-up and was recommended iron pills, said that when she went to the pharmacy of the hospital, she was told that iron tablets were out of stock.One of the employees, on the condition of anonymity, said that they have not received money under the Mukhyamantri Muft Ilaaj Yojana (MMIY), which is around Rs 25 lakh, and under the non-communicable disease (NCD) scheme, which is around Rs 1.5 lakh, for the past three months.Dr Piyush Sharma, Principal Medical Officer (PMO), said that the demand for the medicines has been sent and it is expected that all the essential medicines would be available in a couple of days. “Emergency medicines are being procured locally,” he added.The Principal Medical Officer admitted that complaints were being received that a couple of doctors were prescribing medicines available at private chemists and said that notice has been issued to these doctors. “Close vigil is being kept on such doctors,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/essential-drugs-shortage-at-karnal-hospital-115009
19-07-2020||Jhajjar||Man shot dead in Jhajjar village||A 45-year-old man, identified as Sunder, was shot dead by unidentified assailants in Goyala Kalan village here on Friday night. An old enmity is stated to be the reason behind the murder. The police have started investigation.The victim was attacked while he was roaming near the bus stand of the village. He reportedly died on the spot while the assailants fled.Badli police station SHO Jitender said the body of the victim bore two bullet injury marks. “Two brothers of the deceased are lodged in the jail in connection with a murder,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-shot-dead-in-jhajjar-village-115010
19-07-2020||AmbalaThe district police have arrested another person Ashok Kumar||Man held for murder||Snatcher lands in police netThe district police have arrested Deepak of Mahesh Nagar near here in a case of assault and snatching, said the officials. The arrested accused was produced before a local court, which remanded him to 14-day judicial custody, said the officials adding that another accused in the case had already been arrested. TNSOne arrested for assaultThe district police have arrested Ram Kumar, alias Ramla, of Naraingarh near here in a case of assault, said the officials. According to the police, Pardeep Kumar of Naraingarh had reported that Ramla along with his two other accomplices had assaulted and threatened him with dire consequences on July 9. The arrested accused will be produced before a local court on Sunday, said the officials. TNSMinor goes missingA 17-year-old girl had reportedly gone missing from her home, said the police. According to information, Karan Pal of Baldev Nagar near here had reported that his young sister had left home on July 16 but did not return as yet. The police have lodged a missing person’s report and launched a manhunt to trace the girl, added the officials. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-murder-115011
19-07-2020||Panipat||Norms go for a toss in containment zones in Panipat||Covid cases are on the rise in the district but the administration as well as people have failed to maintain the protocol of the pandemic even in the containment zones, especially in the city areas.People are throwing caution to the wind in these containment zones. Residents have also raised questions over the administration’s working in these zones.Residents raise questions over admn’s workingThe cases of infection in the district just doubled in the past 15 days. As many as 508 cases reported positive in the district till Friday evening. Of these, 216 cases are active, 282 have been discharged after treatment and 10 have lost their life in the district so far.The district administration has notified 158 areas as containment zones in the district on the recommendation of the committee. Of these, 43 have been de-notified while 115 containment zones were active in the district till Friday evening. As many as 70 positive cases were reported on Saturday.Pradeep Sharma of Sector 12 raised questions over enforcement in containment zones. He alleged that no norms are being followed in these zones. No one has come here for sanitisation and for screening, he alleged.Lalit Kumar of Model Town said that the administration declared their area as containment zone on Monday but it means only barricading the particular area. No sanitisation and thermal scanning of people in the area has been done in the past five days.Dr Sant Lal Verma, Civil Surgeon, admitted to the loopholes and said that we have also been receiving complaints from our own teams that norms are not been enforced in containment zones. We have told the Deputy Commissioner about it, he added. It is the responsibility of the Police Department to contain activity in the containment zones properly, he asserted.Dharmender Singh, Deputy Commissioner (DC), directed incident commanders to speed up the process to contain the areas after notification of these as containment zones during a meeting held on Friday.The DC also directed the officers of the departments concerned to follow the norms strictly as per the protocol and to lodge cases against the violators.Satish Vats, DSP, Headquarters, said police personnel have been deputed at containment zones as the incident commander has barricaded the area. Sanitisation is the responsibility of the Municipal Corporation, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/norms-go-for-a-toss-in-containment-zones-in-panipat-115006
19-07-2020||Palwal||Palwal youth held for killing nephew||The police have arrested a 28-year-old youth in connection with the murder of his 12-year-old nephew recently. According to the police, the accused identified as Yogesh of Ghogot village in the district allegedly abducted and murdered his nephew, Dinesh, on July 12.He had committed the crime to avenge his insult at a village panchayat called by his elder brother regarding a loan of Rs 2 lakh that he had taken from him a few months back. It is revealed that Yogesh had failed to return the money and his brother had convened the panchayat which ‘rebuked’ him.“In order to avenge this, the accused strangulated Dinesh,” said SP Deepak Gahlawat. The motorcycle used in the crime has been recovered. The accused was remanded in four-day police custody by the local court on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-youth-held-for-killing-nephew-115007
19-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Gurugram fake job racket busted, kingpin nabbed||Gurugram, July 18The Gurugram police on Saturday busted a fake job racket, wherein youths were being duped on the pretext of training them and getting them employed in the Agricultural Welfare Department.The police have arrested the kingpin identified as Chander Bhushan Pandey (39), a native of Ansal Sushant City, Lucknow. He used to charge Rs 27,000 per month to provide training.As per the complaint filed by PN Shukla, deputy secretary, Ministry Of Agriculture And Farmers Welfare Department, Krishi Bhawan, Delhi, a Central Agriculture Development Institute was being run in house No. 140 in Sector 31, where unemployed youths were duped on the pretext of providing them training and jobs. Following the complaint, an FIR was registered and on Saturday, a raid was conducted at house of the kingpin.The accused revealed that he used to run the same institute in Lucknow and started it in Gurugram in March this year. “The organisation attracts unemployed youth on the pretext of getting them jobs with good salary in the Agriculture Department and provided them training. A person was charged Rs 27,000 per month,” the accused added.The police have taken Chander on two-day remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-fake-job-racket-busted-kingpin-nabbed-115008
19-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Bulk of ‘dacoity plan’ cases fall flat in Haryana courts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 18While acquitting six persons of “making preparation to commit dacoity” under Sections 399 and 402 of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act, a trial court in Jind observed it was “next to impossible” for the accused to have been speaking so loudly in the open (canal bridge) that the police overheard their plan.Raising a question mark over the recovery of weapons from the accused, the court in its March 6 judgment wondered why the accused “armed with a country-made pistol, iron rods, etc” didn’t inflict any injury on policemen.Poor probe to blame for fewer convictionsWe try hard to get convictions. Poor investigation is to blame for the poor rate of conviction. —Narsher Singh, director prosecutionSimilarly, a Yamunanagar court acquitted four persons on February 27, describing the police claim of overhearing their “plans to commit dacoity” as “highly improbable”. Such plans are made in secret, commented the court.These are only a fraction of a growing number of similar cases in Haryana where the charges have failed to hold up in court. The National Crime Records Bureau report suggests while Haryana has been registering cases under the two sections, there is no such practice in Himachal Pradesh, J&K and some northeastern states.According to the State Crime Record Bureau (SCRB) data, the Haryana Police registered 89 cases and arrested 411 persons in 2016. The next year, while the number of cases fell to 40, the arrests were substantial at 200.In 2018, the cases further dropped to 29, but 118 arrests were made, while in 2019 (till October), 13 cases were registered and 76 persons arrested. So, while the number of cases has been gradually falling, the number of suspects facing trial remains substantial.Information collected under the RTI Act from the office of Director of Prosecution in 18 districts showed zero conviction rate in 14 districts — Jhajjar, Charkhi Dadri, Palwal, Rewari, Mahendragarh, Sirsa, Gurugram, Karnal, Ambala, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad, Kaithal, Bhiwani and Sonepat — from 2016 to 2019 (till November). In Hisar, convictions were reported in four of 16 cases, while there was just one conviction in nine cases in Rohtak. In Yamunanagar, just two of the five cases ended in conviction. The rate in Panchkula was 14 per cent in 2019, but it was nil between 2016 and 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bulk-of-dacoity-plan-cases-fall-flat-in-haryana-courts-114863
19-07-2020||Jind||Huge crowd at sacked PTIs’ protest in Jind||Thousands of former Physical Training Instructors (PTIs) gathered for a meeting here to protest their dismissal from service, a development that comes as Haryana grapples with the rising number of Covid cases.Sources estimated that some 7,000-8,000 people had gathered at the protest site three months after the Supreme Court upheld the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s order to cancel the appointment of 1,983 PTIs who were hired in 2010.‘No permission taken from District admn’The event organisers had not taken permission from the district administration. We are keeping a watch on it. — Manoj Ahlawat, Duty MagistrateThe protest got the support of khap panchayats as well as two Independent Members of the Legislative Assembly in the state — Mehram’s Balraj Kundu and Dadri’s Sombir Sangwan, who is also the ‘pradhan’ of Sangwan khap.Sarv khap’s national president Nafe Singh Nain said that khap panchayats would now spearhead the protest and warned that if the state government doesn’t reinstate the PTIs, khaps would launch a protest after July 25.Dadri MLA Sombir Sangwan said that he would meet Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar within a week to demand relief for the dismissed PTIs. “I will go by the decision of the sarv khap panchayats on the issue. If the situation demands, I shall even resign from the Assembly to get justice for the agitating PTIs,” he said.“This is injustice with these PTIs and the government is bent on ruining their families instead of providing relief to them. If the government fails to take note of their misery, the Baroda bypoll will push the government to the edge,” said Meham MLA Balraj Kundu.Meanwhile, such a large gathering meant that little regard was paid to the social distancing protocol, although many of those present were seen wearing masks.Manoj Ahlawat, Duty Magistrate at the spot, said the event organisers had not taken permission from the district administration. “We are keeping a watch on it,” he added.In April, the Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and Navin Sinha, in the judgment pronounced through video conferencing, upheld the verdicts passed by the single and division Benches of the High Court quashing the appointment process conducted during the Congress government led by BS Hooda in 2010. It also asked the state Staff Selection Commission to conduct the recruitment process afresh and said the process must be completed within five months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/huge-crowd-at-sacked-ptis-protest-in-jind-114787
19-07-2020||---||In 24 hours,17 more lose Covid battle in Haryana||Chandigarh, July 18With 750 fresh cases and 17 deaths, the Covid tally in the state jumped to 25,547 in the last 24 hours.Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala tested negative for Covid. He, along with 62 of his close associates, were tested after his Personal Secretary Rahul Gaur tested positive two days ago. Except for two of his close associates, all others who used to frequent his Sector 2 residence tested negative.The deaths were reported from Faridabad (5), Gurugram (2), Rohtak (2), Rewari (2), Ambala (2), Sonepat (1), Palwal (1), Nuh (1) and Fatehabad (1).In Faridabad, a 53-year-old man from Jawahar Colony, 63-year-old woman from Dabua Colony and 60-year-old man from Parwatiya Colony succumbed. A 60-year-old person of Hanuman Gate, Jagadhri, also died but his death is yet to be counted in the state health bulletin. He was rushed to the district Covid hospital on July 16 as he was suffering from sugar, hypertension and fever.A 73-year-old man of Adarsh Nagar of Gohana (Sonepat) also died on Saturday morning. He was a patient of chronic kidney problem and hypertension for the past five years.The fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (139), Gurugram (111), Ambala (96), Rohtak (56), Sonepat (46), Rewari (42), Hisar (40), Jhajjar (39), Panipat (35), Palwal (23), Karnal (21), Fatehabad (21), Panchkula (20), Nuh (15),Jind (14), Bhiwani (11), Mahendragarh (7), Kurukshetra (7), Sirsa (4), Yamunanagar (2) and Kaithal (1).Meanwhile, 600 people got cured on Saturday, taking the tally to 19,318 with a recovery rate of 75.62 per cent.10 traders challanedYamunanagar: A team of the Municipal Corporation on Saturday issued challans to 10 shopkeepers in Pyara Chowk, Model Town, bus stand and ITI Road markets for not wearing masks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-24-hours-17-more-lose-covid-battle-in-haryana-114788
19-07-2020||Ambala||BJP leader held for immigration fraud in Ambala||Local BJP leader Makhan Singh Lobana, who was arrested in connection with an immigration fraud case by Ambala police on Friday, was produced before a court which sent him to four-day police remand on Saturday. The BJP leader has been facing four immigration fraud cases in Ambala.On July 15, two cases were registered against him at the Naggal police station and the Ambala City police station. The complainants had accused the leader of sending youths to the US illegally.A complainant, Baldev Singh, an agriculturist and also the nambardar of Metlan village, alleged that, “My son, Rajiv, and nephew, Kanwaljit Singh, were sent illegally to the US in July 2017. My brother, Krishan Lal, who lives in the US since 2006, had asked the agents to send both the boys there through proper means in 2016 for which the agent had sought Rs 20 lakh and the money was given in three installments.”“They sent the youths illegally and sought Rs 20 lakh more. Meanwhile, we started getting threat calls that the boys would be killed there if the money was not paid. I didn’t have cash and give my land to them. My son and nephew were arrested in the US for entering the nation illegally and remained in jail for nearly two years. My nephew went into depression due to this and still undergoing treatment there,” he said.Naggal police station SHO Sub-inspector Dharambir said, “A case was registered under Sections 406,420,370, 120-B, and 506 of the IPC, and 24 of the Immigration Act against Makhan Singh and Surinder Singh, both residents of Ambala City. Makhan Singh was produced before a court which sent him to a four-day remand.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-leader-held-for-immigration-fraud-in-ambala-114789
19-07-2020||Gurugram||57 Jamaatis get back passports in Nuh||Following the orders of the sessions court, Nuh, the local police today returned 57 passports of foreign Tablighi Jamaatis to travel back to their homes.Hailing from Bangladesh, Indonesia, Thailand, Sri Lanka and South Africa, these Jamaatis were booked by the Haryana Police for alleged malignant acts likely to spread Covid during the lockdown in March. The trial court and the sessions court upheld that none of the Jamaatis knew they were infected or threatening others.“I am relieved that finally, we will be going back. The last three months were like hell where we were seen as culprits for a crime we never committed. It is shocking that while Covid was spread by many groups be it NRIs, Nanded returnees or inter-state travellers, we were treated the worst. Yes, they are sending us back but the humiliation and the defamation we faced here cannot be compensated,” said an Indonesian national on the condition of anonymity.The court of Additional Sessions judge, Mewat, Prashant Rana in its July 6 order said none of the accused knew that they had Covid infection.“Their tests were done after the registration of the FIR. Offences under Sections 269 and 270 of the IPC were added merely on the basis of apprehensions and imaginations of the investigating officer,” the court said.The judge held that all foreigners had valid passports and they should be returned to parent nations safely. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/57-jamaatis-get-back-passports-in-nuh-114790
19-07-2020||Panipat||Woman, daughter found murdered in Panipat||A 46-year-old woman and her 17-year-old daughter were found murdered in their house at Indira Colony of Model Town area here on Friday night.The deceased have been identified as Rani and her daughter Neetu alias Anjali.Their throats were slit and they were stabbed with a sharp-edged weapon.According to the information available, neighbours heard the TV being played at a high volume in the house. They thought something was fishy and sounded the police. The police found the two women lying on a bed in a pool of blood.SP Manisha Chaudhary along with DSP Sandeep Kumar; Inspector Sunil Kumar, SHO, Model Town; and a FSL team reached the spot in the night. The SP has constituted five teams, including one of the cyber cell, to investigate the double murder.A board of four medical officers conducted the post-mortem examination on Saturday. The police handed over the bodies to their kin after the autopsy. No clue has come in our hands so far, the SHO said. We had even revisited the crime spot on Saturday in the daylight to get some clues, he added.Besides, we are also collecting footage of CCTV cameras installed in nearby buildings. Prima facie, it seems that both the women had been murdered on Thursday night, but the actual timings would be made clear by the post-mortem examination report, the SHO added.Rani’s husband had committed suicide in 2017 while her elder son had died in an accident. Her younger son Ankush is lodged in jail in connection with a murder case, the SHO added. Notably, a 50-year-old man named Idris, was found murdered on the roof on July 7. He allegedly was in a relationship with Rani. The police had arrested Ankush, son of Rani, a week ago for allegedly killing Idris. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-daughter-found-murdered-in-panipat-114791
19-07-2020||Gurugram||After SOG leaves, Pilot’s men ‘make multiple hotel bookings’ in Manesar and Nuh||A day after the Rajasthan Police’s Special Operations Group (SOG) looking for Sachin Pilot’s supporters left empty handed after a face-off with the Haryana Police, the supporters have reportedly made multiple booking in luxurious resorts across Manesar and Nuh.Not in one bunchCaught in the line of fire due to leaked audios and videos, they have decided to now politically quarantine themselves in a staggered wayCaught in the line of fire due to leaked audios and videos from the resort, they have decided to now politically quarantine themselves in a staggered way.Various resorts near ITC Grand Bharat reportedly received bookings of 3-4 rooms each after the SOG left yesterday though none is in name of the MLAs.The staff, however, has been asked to ensure that no video or audio recording is done. The team of the Rajasthan Police that went to ITC Grand Bharat yesterday did not find any MLA even after 40 minutes of search.Despite reports of the MLAs camping just 5 km away in Best Western Country Inn and heavy deployment of Haryana Police there, the SOG left for Rajasthan without going there.The Congress alleged that the police in BJP-led Haryana had helped the rebel MLAs move out of the Manesar hotel through “a secret door” when the team of the Rajasthan Police came looking for them on Friday.Addressing a press conference, Govind Singh Dotasra, who replaced Sachin Pilot after he was removed as Rajasthan Congress chief, said, “The Haryana Police staged the standoff for one-and-a-half hours to aid the exit. They were moved out through secret exits while our policemen were held up. Sachin Pilot and Congress MLAs do not trust the police of their own state.”High drama had prevailed outside ITC Grand Bharat yesterday when the SOG team reached there to record a voice sample of suspended MLA Bhanwar Lal Sharma, who according to the Congress is heard on tape discussing bribes from the BJP for horse trading.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-sog-leaves-pilots-men-make-multiple-hotel-bookings-in-manesar-and-nuh-114792
19-07-2020||Rohtak||Panch arrested for murdering  sarpanch in Rohtak||The police have cracked the murder case of Chidi village sarpanch Balkishan, who was shot by two assailants at his home on Thursday night.SP Rahul Sharma told mediapersons here on Saturday that Kapil, a panch of Chidi village, who was accompanied by his friend Pawan, had murdered the sarpanch.“Kapil and Pawan have been arrested. The pistol used in the crime has been seized,” the SP said, adding that the role of certain other persons in plotting the murder was being probed.The probe indicates that Kapil and Pawan had taken some panchayati land of the village on contract, but they had not deposited the annual charges in the panchayat account. Sarpanch Balkishan was repeatedly asking Kapil and Pawan to deposit the dues. That annoyed them and they shot him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panch-arrested-for-murdering-sarpanch-in-rohtak-114821
19-07-2020||Gurugram||‘Upset with CBSE result’, two students end life in Gurugram||Unhappy with their performance in CBSE Class X and XII exams, two students committed suicide in separate incidents in the city.Both of them, however, had passed with good marks. Taking cognisance of the incidents, the district administration has appealed to all families to celebrate the achievements of their children. The CBSE has also issued a toll-free number 1800118004.The first incident was reported from Todapur village near Pataudi, where the student hung himself on Thursday night. The police said he had scored 76 per cent in Class X but was not satisfied with the marks. In a similar incident, a 17-year-old girl also committed suicide in the New Palam Vihar area. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/upset-with-cbse-result-two-students-end-life-in-gurugram-114830
