19-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Now, smartphone app for vegetable vendors||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 19With the threat of Covid infection looming large and social distancing norms being enforced at crowed places, like wholesale vegetable markets (mandis), people are coming up with novel ideas to run their businesses.Many vegetable growers as well as green-grocers have been reaching out to the doorsteps of their customers for home delivery of fruits and vegetables in order to remain financially afloat during the troubled times, while some are relying on technology to reach out to people.“I have been supplying vegetables grown by me to vendors as well as customers in the nearby villages and also Rohtak city,” says Jagmender Kundu, an organic farmer based in Bahu Akbarpur village of Rohtak district.A Bangalore-based fresh produce supply-chain company which procures fruits and vegetables directly from the farmers and supplies it to retail shopkeepers has expanded its base in Haryana during the lockdown.“We operate through a mobile app. Our representatives reach out to retail shopkeepers who sell fruits and vegetables and tell them to download our app. Following that we supply them fruits and vegetables as per their requirements on a daily basis through the app,” says Manish, a manager at a local micro-distribution centre of the company.The idea has begun to click among the retailers who have been facing multifarious problems in going to wholesale mandis amidst risk of contracting Covid infection as well as logistic issues.“I order fruits and vegetables through this mobile app, which gives the options of doorstep delivery as well as self-pickup as per our convenience,” said Ashok, a shopkeeper in Sector 1, Rohtak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-smartphone-app-for-vegetable-vendors-87005
19-05-2020||New Delhi/Sonepat||They boarded bus to UP, were dropped at shelter home in Sonepat instead||After waiting for 14 hours, hundreds of migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh boarded buses from Sonepat but the promised ride home never did happen and they were dropped off at a shelter home in the Haryana town itself.Kuldeep Kumar was one of those who got on to a Haryana Roadways Transport Corporation bus from Kundli Industrial area on the Delhi-Haryana border at 7.30 pm.On Monday, happy the daylong wait had finally ended and he and his family would be home the next morning.Instead, much to their shock – and disappointment—the bus stopped at Sonepat’s Shambhu Dayal College, a makeshift shelter home, just a few kilometres away.  And that’s where the 22-year-old, his wife Aarti and his 10-month-old daughter Divyanshi were on Tuesday.“We have no idea what is happening.  I thought I will be home by now. Nobody is telling us how long we have to be here,” Kuldeep told PTI over the phone.There are almost 600 others with Kuldeep, locked within the confines of the temporary shelter home at the college and other ‘homes’ nearby.Officials handling the massive rush of migrants returning home on Monday said they were left with no option.“Some buses did leave for Uttar Pradesh. The Uttar Pradesh Government had permitted the entry of only a certain number of buses. But more people reached than what had been permitted, so people (migrant labourers) were kept in a shelter home,” explained Ashutosh Rajan, sub-divisional magistrate, Sonipat.    An increasingly frantic Kuldeep, who lost his job as a loader at the Kundli Industrial Estate, said he can’t go back to his rented accommodation in Sersa village nearby because his landlord had ordered him not to return, fearing he would bring with him the coronavirus infection.The village headman had announced that the government had made arrangements for migrant labourers to go back to their home state Uttar Pradesh. And Kuldeep took them at their word.So, on Sunday, he settled his dues with his landlord. And at the crack of dawn on Monday, around 5 am, left Sersa village for the Kundli Industrial Area a short distance away with his wife and baby.There were hundreds of others like him. It was a long wait in the scorching heat. When he finally boarded the bus at 7.30, they were assured they will be taken to Rae Bareli.His woes have only aggravated since then. He said his family have been allocated a room in the college along with another family. There are no facilities and no arrangements for infants and children, not even milk for his daughter.“The temperature is soaring and we have to open the windows. But that brings in hot air. A small fan for one room with two families does not serve the purpose and my daughter keeps crying,” he said.Several others in the home said they face the same predicament.His friend and colleague Ajay Kumar, also stranded in the shelter home, complained of bad quality food.“We are being served tasteless’ khichdi’. If we can’t eat it, how can the children have it,” said Ajay, who is with his wife Vimlesh and seven-month old son Sushil.Like Kuldeep, Ajay has also been jobless since the lockdown and is desperate to return to his village in Rae Bareli.Sandeep Kumar Mishra (39), one of the migrant workers at the shelter home, said they had no clue that they will be brought to the shelter home.Officials at the shelter home, too, don’t have any idea on when they will be allowed to go back, he said.“They have locked the shelter home. There is no way out and officials here do not have any answer,” he alleged.                           Sanjay G, the CEO of the Zilla Parishad, Sonepat, who is coordinating the operation to send migrant labourers back to their home states, said only 30 buses were to go to Uttar Pradesh and each bus was to carry only 30 people.He said only those migrant workers who had registered on the state portal were to be ferried.Accordingly, calls were made to them, but those who had not registered also turned up.“As per the plan, only 30 buses carrying 900 people were to go to Uttar Pradesh. I am not aware who gave the permission to send buses other than those decided upon. I have raised the issue with the Haryana Roadways State Transport,” Sanjay said.He added that nearly 600-700 migrant workers and their family members have been sent to different shelter homes. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/they-boarded-bus-to-up-were-dropped-at-shelter-home-in-sonepat-instead-87000
19-05-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana offices can open with 100 per cent attendance||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 19As part of the relaxations during Lockdown 4.0, the Haryana Government has allowed its offices, both at the headquarters and the district levels, to open with 100 per cent attendance."If the Heads of the Departments (HoDs) and DCs can ensure sufficient space for 100 per attendance with complete social distancing norms for all employees, they may do so," the Chief Secretary has stated in an order.Otherwise, the government offices will function with 100 per cent attendance for Group A and B officers and 50 per cent attendance for Group C and D staff.However, social distancing norms and other standard operating procedures (SoPs) will have to be followed in all government offices.Earlier, on May 3, the state government had allowed 100 per cent attendance for Group A and B officers and 33 per attendance for Group C and D staff.Now, a weekly roster would be prepared under which the Group C and D staff would be made to attend office in alternate weeks. In the first week, the employees living in close proximity to office and using own conveyance would be called to office. The employees not coming to office would be enabled to work from home.Meanwhile, employees living in the containment zones would not be called for duty.The order also asked the departments to implement the e-Office software in their respective departments. "Any department achieving 100 per cent e-Office working may initiate work from home for any category of employees as per the assessment of the HoD," it said.The HoDs have been told to follow the SoPs for offices as per the directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs under which sanitisation of the offices, files, canteens and vehicles would be ensured.However, the order said the public dealing might be restricted till May 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-offices-can-open-with-100-per-cent-attendance-86971
19-05-2020||Hisar||Railway police sub-inspector shot dead in Haryana||A 36-year-old Railway Protection Force (RPF) sub-inspector was allegedly shot dead by a man when the officer was on patrol duty in Uklana here, police said on Tuesday.Munish Sharma, the in-charge of Uklana Railway Station Police post, which is located between Hisar and Jakhal railway stations, was shot dead Monday night near railway tracks at Uklana, about 45 km from here.Railway police personnel and locals rushed Sharma to a private hospital from where he was being taken to the Hisar Civil Hospital in a private car, but he died midway, they said.Sharma, who hailed from Jaipur's village Bassi, had joined the force's unit here about a year ago.The police have started investigations into the case based on the statements of eyewitnesses.Police said according to witnesses, Sharma noticed that three youths were sitting on the railway line and caught one of them, while the two others managed to run away.Suddenly, the youth Sharma had caught took out a pistol from his pocket and shot him in the stomach, they said, adding people nearby caught the accused who fired at the SI. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/railway-police-sub-inspector-shot-dead-in-haryana-86939
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 10 new cases, state tally rises to 938||Haryana on Tuesday reported 10 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state's case tally to 938. Faridabad reported nine new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 159. New cases include four Haryana police personnel posted in the Sector 55 and Saran police stations in Faridabad. A 33-year-old woman cop is among those infected. Two minor girls, aged three and 13, a 60-year-old woman, a 22-year-old man and a 49-year-old man have also tested positive for the contagion in the past 12 hours.Karnal reported a new case of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 20. The man, who tested positive on Tuesday, is a resident of Indira Colony, Karnal and works at Sanjay Nagar in Panipat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-haryana-reports-10-new-cases-state-tally-rises-to-938-86895
19-05-2020||Parveen Arora
||Just a loan package, no relief, say unhappy industrialists||Tribune News Service Karnal, May 18 The announcements made by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman last week for the industry as part of the Rs 20 lakh crore relief package to mitigate the damage caused by the Covid crisis and nationwide lockdown have not gone down well with industrialists in Karnal, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s home district. They do not consider it a relief package, but only a loan package. Industrialists believe that exemption in loan guarantee can be beneficial for industrialists in this crisis, but immediate relief is missing.   “We thought that the government would come out with a package for immediate relief to the industry. There is no relief to the industrial sector, which is already suffering heavy losses,” said Amit Gupta, senior vice-president of the Haryana Chamber of Commerce and Industries. He said they were expecting a waiver on fixed electricity charges for the industries which remained closed during the lockdown. “The government should have announced a waiver on fixed electricity charges for at least six months for the industries which remained closed during the lockdown,” he stated. Expressing disappointment, Manoj Arora, president of the HSIIDC Welfare Association, said their operations were shut, but there was no respite from fixed expenses, causing heavy losses to industrialists. The government should have extended support in the form of a waiver on interest on existing loans for at least the lockdown period so that industrialists could get time to re-establish the units, he maintained. Bhavuk Mehta, general secretary of the Karnal Agricultural Implement Manufacturers Association (KAIMA), said the government’s announcements were not relief to the industry, but a loan which would have to be repaid to banks. He said there were around 4,000 manufacturing units in the district, which provided jobs to 60,000 persons. Industrialists would have to pay their salaries and wages even for the lockdown period, he pointed out. “Salaries and wages to employees during the lockdown period are among fixed expenses of industrialists. We were expecting the government to come out with relief in terms of providing salaries and wages for the lockdown period, but the government did nothing in this direction,” he said. Som Sachdeva, patron of KAIMA, said the announcements could be of some benefit in the long term, but there was no immediate relief except bank loan without guarantee. “I have reviewed the announcements, but have found no immediate relief for the industry. Loans without bank guarantee can be beneficial,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/just-a-loan-package-no-relief-say-unhappy-industrialists-86711
19-05-2020||Ravinder Saini
||Wholesale prices crash, veggie growers struggle||Tribune News Service Rohtak, May 18 Vegetable growers are in a crisis as they are unable to recover even production cost due to low demand and drastic fall in wholesale prices by a whopping 50 per cent in the lockdown period.  “The lockdown has broken the backbone of vegetable growers. Last year, I sold tomatoes for Rs 300 to Rs 350 per crate but this time I am getting Rs 100 to 150 per crate, which is not sufficient to recover cost,” said Joginder Balhara of Bahu Akbarpur village. Jeewan of Bahu Jamalpur village said he had been growing tomatoes for many years, but had seen such low prices for the first time. He said before the lockdown, tomatoes were selling for Rs 14 to Rs 16 per kg in wholesale, but now farmers are selling it at Rs 4 to Rs 5 per kg. “Restrictions on movement have confined people to their homes and retailers are getting few hours to sell their produce in markets. People have curtailed requirements fearing infection through vegetables. Closure of hotels and restaurants, ban on gathering in marriages and other functions are also responsible for low demand,” he said. Dayaram, a farmer of cucumber and spinach, said low prices forced him not to hire labourers for harvesting. “Five members of my family are working in the farm. Still, we are unable to recover production costs due to low demand,” he said, adding vegetables were also not being supplied to various villages due to ‘thikri pehra’. Rambhaj and Manoj, who grow bottle gourd and zucchini at Samargopalpur village, are also passing through a similar crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wholesale-prices-crash-veggie-growers-struggle-86712
19-05-2020||Karnal||Day later, canal breach in Karnal village plugged||More than 38 hours after the breach in an augmentation canal in Ramwar village, normalcy is yet to be restored. Residential areas and fields are still submerged in water and pumps have been installed to drain out water from residential areas. Damaged home appliances and furniture outside houses are proof of the havoc caused by the breach. People are worried about the losses they have incurred and the health hazard posed by stagnant water. Their houses are badly damaged, some beyond repairs. “I have lost everything in the augmentation canal breach. When I woke up on Sunday morning, my home appliances were floating in water. A day later, I have collected the appliances, which have been damaged,” said Shakuntala, a housewife. Rajpal, a 75-year-old resident, said people had to spend the night on their rooftops and some of them moved to the houses of others for temporary shelter.  Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan and Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, along with other officials, remained in the village till around Sunday midnight and reviewed the situation. Officials of the Irrigation Department and residents had to struggle to plug the breach. The canal was repaired by Monday evening. Kalyan assured residents that the damage was being assessed by the district authorities and compensation would be given by the government. He visited houses and took stock of the losses. Yadav said 10 families were evacuated and shifted to safer places. He said pumps were installed to drain out the water. He said a health team and a veterinary surgeon were deputed for 24-hour healthcare. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/day-later-canal-breach-in-karnal-village-plugged-86713
19-05-2020||
||Offices of govt school to open for admn work||Chandigarh, May 18 After private schools, the Haryana Government has allowed government schools to open administrative offices to carry out urgent and unavoidable administrative functions, while ensuring strict compliance of Covid norms and protocol.  A spokesman said on Monday that Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had approved the proposal. The principal/head of the government school, one clerk, one computer operator and peon/gardener would be allowed to be present in the school. Ailing or pregnant staff will not be called to work. The spokesman said decision to open administrative offices in schools has been taken to carry out preparation of salary bills, ensure delivery of library books to students, distribution of textbooks in buffer stock and maintenance and cleanliness of premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/offices-of-govt-school-to-open-for-admn-work-86714
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Promotion of teachers hangs fire||Nearly a year after notifying the new promotion policy, promotion of hundreds of trained graduate teachers (TGTs) to postgraduate teachers (PGTs) in the state is hanging fire. The Education Department has invited applications according to the 2012 promotion policy by May 22, which will put hundreds of  TGTs at a disadvantage. “The decision to invite applications for promotion as per the 2012 policy, though the amended policy has been notified, is unconstitutional and illegal,” said Dayanand Dalal, president of the Haryana School Lecturers Association. He demanded that fresh applications be invited as per the amended policy. He said the association had already sent representations to the Chief Minister, Education Minister and Director General (Education) to intervene in the matter. The Cabinet, at its meeting on June 4, 2019, cleared the Haryana State Education School Cadre (Group B) Service (Amendment) Rules, with a view to putting on the fast track promotion of TGTs in mathematics and science (physics and chemistry) to PGTs. The rules were notified on July 9, 2019. Sources said the representations of teachers were under consideration of the government and a decision on these would be taken soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/promotion-of-teachers-hangs-fire-86715
19-05-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat
||Production crawls as units face hurdles||Tribune News Service Faridabad, May 18 Allowing Industrial activity by easing lockdown conditions has failed to help manufacturing units, facing shortage of raw material and orders. A majority of units granted approval for resumption of work are yet to reach one-fourth of their production level. Ishwar Singh Yadav, deputy general manager, District Industries Centre, said while 16,000 units had been accorded approval, half of these had started operations. He said there were around 25,000 units here, over 1,000 of which were ancillaries supplying parts to the automobile sector. Narender Aggarwal, MD of a readymade garment manufacturing unit, said three of the six units had hit only 25 per cent of capacity as fresh orders were awaited. “I do not expect normal production before a year. Chances are that one-third of the units may close down by end of the year,” he said. Decline in purchasing power and consumption had brought about a very long bad patch, he stated. Rajan Ghai, running a casting unit, said production had reached only 10 per cent. He said all export orders stood cancelled and there was no demand from the domestic market as there was hardly any production at the units which bought his products. Vishal Lalani, MD of a unit manufacturing speedometers for heavy vehicles, said up to 25 per cent production had been revived. He said the markets where the products were sold were yet to open. He said shortage of labour and raw material were major hurdles and industry needed a year to come back on track.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/production-crawls-as-units-face-hurdles-86716
19-05-2020||
||Kingpin smuggled liquor from Rajpura||Panipat, May 18 Illicit liquor kingpin Bhupender Singh, who is in police custody in connection with the theft of liquor from a sealed godown in Kharkhoda area of Sonepat, used to smuggle liquor from a distillery in Rajpura town of Punjab’s Patiala district. Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said the inter-state movement pass recovered from Bhupender was fake. “The pass, which was supposed to have been issued by the Dera Bassi Sub Divisional Magistrate’s office during the lockdown period, was found to be fake. There was no record of it in the SDM’s office and no vehicle number was mentioned on it. The pass was issued for essential goods category, but they used it to smuggle liquor during the lockdown,” he said. The police said 15 cases were registered against Bhupender and most of the liquor seized by the police was from the Rajpura distillery. Investigation revealed Bhupender brought the liquor from the Rajpura distillery without giving excise fee to the governments of Punjab and Haryana on a fake permit. He had a tacit arrangement with the distillery’s officials and who helped him get the liquor, it is learnt.  After bringing the liquor at lower prices from the distillery, Bhupender allegedly stored it in godowns at Kharkhoda, replaced its labels with branded ones and sold it at higher prices, a source said. The SP said a hardcore criminal of a Jharoth village in Kharkhoda tehsil and his gang members were also associated with Bhupender. “They provided him muscle power in any untoward situation and managed his liquor supply locally,” the SP said. The two pistols recovered from Bhupender’s Chandigarh residence were also found illegal, he said. The Excise Department has also submitted a complaint to the police stating 7,000 excess liquor boxes were found in their godown, while 2,400 of their boxes were found short, the SP said. “We are waiting for the report of the call records of Bhupender’s mobile phones, which would throw light on the connivance of Excise Department officials as well,” the SP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kingpin-smuggled-liquor-from-rajpura-86717
19-05-2020||Panipat||No bail for former MLA, six others||A court on Monday rejected the bail plea of seven persons, including former MLA Satvinder Singh Rana, in connection with liquor theft from a sealed godown in Panipat’s Samalkha.  Five officials of the Excise and Taxation Department joined the investigation and recorded their statement. The police has given them 48 hours to provide documents related to the matter. Inspector Deepak, in charge of CIA-2, said all seven accused – Rana, his partner Ishwar, Rajneesh, Sombeer, Sudhir, Ajmer, a Haryana Police constable and Deepak had sought bail. He said five more accused – Mohit, Deepak, Subhash, Vinay and Bittu – had also been arrested. They stole liquor from the godown and sold around 500 boxes, he said. All accused are in judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-bail-for-former-mla-six-others-86718
19-05-2020||Gurugram||Village bids adieu to Doda martyr||Damdama village in Sohna today bade adieu to Lance Naik Raj Singh Khatana, who died during an encounter in Doda district yesterday. His body was brought from Udhampur this afternoon. The entire village, local administration and political leaders gathered to pay homage to Khatana. He is survived by his wife, three children and mother. His inconsolable wife Ravita said though she was shattered, she was sure that her two sons would grow up to be soldiers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/village-bids-adieu-to-doda-martyr-86719
19-05-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana’s cure rate 4th best among states with 50+ cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 18As Haryana is entering Lockdown 4.0, it’s Covid recovery rate as of now is the fourth best among states having over 50 positive cases. While Kerala is at the top while Punjab is a close second.According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s website, Kerala has 78.89 per cent of recovery rate. Here, 630 cases have been recorded so far, of them 497 have been discharged. Punjab is a close second with a recovery rate of 78.13 per cent. Here, 1,980 cases have been recorded and 1,547 have cured so far.They are followed by Chhattisgarh, which has a recovery rate of 68.60 per cent and where 59 patients have cured of total 69. Meanwhile, the national recovery rate is over 38.29 per cent.Health Minister Anil Vij said, initially, there was a shortage of ventilators but now the state had 1,047 machines and Maruti Suzuki recently donated 50 more sets, which had been installed in government hospitals. On the complaint of the state chapter of the IMA about authentic PPE kits and N-95 masks, Vij offered them to buy it from government hospitals.Meanwhile, a few states and UTs, including Andaman and Nicobar Islands (100 per cent), Arunachal Pradesh (100 per cent), Mizoram (100 per cent) and Meghalaya (84.62 per cent), have better recovery rate but the number of patients there are less than 50.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-cure-rate-4th-best-among-states-with-50-cases-86720
19-05-2020||Deepender Deswal
||Stranded in Hisar, Assamese family longing to go home||Tribune News Service Hisar, May 18 An Assamese family that came to meet their daughter married in Sulkhani village of the district has been stuck here for the past two months amid lockdown. Seven members of the family hailing from Gohpur district in Assam applied online and sought permission to return home but to no avail. The members said they came to attend a ceremony in the family of their daughter, Annu, who is married to Ramesh Kumar of the village. Purna Kanta, Annu’s father, said they came to meet their daughter and her in-laws and were scheduled to return in a week. “We reached the village on March 20 but lockdown was announced on March 24. We stayed here after the public transport was suspended,” he said. “I am a small farmer and also earn a living while working in tea gardens. We came to know that the work has resumed back home,” Kanta said, adding that they would be facing a tough time when they reach home.  Meanwhile, Ramesh Kumar said they had been enjoying the company of their in-laws. “But they were not prepared to stay for so and have not brought clothes and other requisite items with them. Though we are taking care of their needs, but they wantto return due to their agriculture work,” he added.  He said they applied on the web portal for transportation on May 5 and were informed by the helpdesk that an arrangement would be made for them by Wednesday. “But there has been no intimation so far,” Ramesh added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stranded-in-hisar-assamese-family-longing-to-go-home-86721
19-05-2020||Ambala||Cong rolls out 2 ‘sewa raths’ to help migrants||The state Congress flagged off two “sewa raths” to help the distressed migrants, their families and students by providing them free food and water in Ambala on Monday. Flagging off the “Service on wheels” initiative, state Congress treasurer Rohit Jain said as lockdown had been enforced due to Covid since March 25, migrants and students were forced to go to their homes on foot as the BJP-JJP government in the state had turned a blind eye towards their suffering. Jain said with the help of “sewa raths”, the Congress activists would provide food, water bottles, glucose, biscuits, chana and jaggery round-the-clock to the migrant labourers stuck in transit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-rolls-out-2-sewa-raths-to-help-migrants-86722
19-05-2020||Rohtak||Woman tests +ve at PGIMS, 15 doctors, 4 nurses quarantined||The PGIMS authorities have put 15 doctors and four staff nurses under quarantine after a woman admitted to ward No. 2 of the gynaecology department was found Covid-positive on Sunday.  They also sanitised the ward and labour room. The patient was immediately referred to the ICU of the Covid ward.  Nine doctors are from the gynaecology department, who were taking care of the patient referred from Gurugram, while three each are from the anaesthesia and  medicine departments.   OnSunday, four persons, including two sanitary workers deputed at Covid ward, an ambulance driver and wife of a PGIMS doctor living on the campus, had tested positive. Swinging into action, the health authorities have sent 19 primary contacts of Covid-positive sanitary workers to a quarantine centre set up in Brahmanvaas village here.  Similarly, the PGIMS was declared as containment zone and samples of 52 persons collected. All these were primary contacts of the doctor’s wife.  Sources said a team of the PGIMS community medicine department carried out door-to-door campaign on the campus to find those having cough, cold and fever. The entry-exit gates of the doctors’ residential colony have been shut for the public. Dr OP Kalra, Vice Chancellor, University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, said the doctors and nurses had been quarantined as a precautionary measure. “They are under quarantine at a hotel near the Delhi bypass but the faculty house of MDU will also be used in the coming days,” said Kalra, adding that 40 rooms were available there. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-tests-ve-at-pgims-15-doctors-4-nurses-quarantined-86723
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Private  doctors to get protective equipment at govt rates||The state government has decided to provide superior quality PPE kits, N-95 masks and hand sanitisers to private doctors as per their requirement at government rates. A decision in this regard was taken in a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and attended by district representatives of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and civil surgeons through video conferencing here on Monday. In the meeting, it was also decided that the state’s private health and dental clinics and nursing homes would also be included in thespecial economic package announced by the Government of India for Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSMEs). Apart from this, if a private doctor is infected with Covid, his treatment would also be carried out at the government’s expense. Investment in health services, public health, disease research, etc. would also be increased in the state. While addressing the meeting, the CM said, “We have to face many challenges while dealing with the Covid pandemic, but with the support of all the sections of the society, we shall soon overcome the crisis.” The CM said the Arogya Setu App could prove to be an effective tool in dealing with the pandemic. So far, more than 50 lakh people in the state have downloaded the app. He directed the doctors that while asking the history of a patient, they should also be asked whether they had downloaded the app or not. Health Minister Anij Vij expressed confidence that with the help of private sector doctors, the state will soon become Covid-free. He said the Covid warriors had done a remarkable job in providing security cover to 2.5 crore people of the state. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-doctors-to-get-protective-equipment-at-govt-rates-86724
19-05-2020||---||Fire breaks out in cotton godown||Hisar, May 18Cotton stock of the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) lying at godown in a mill in Barwala town was gutted in fire on Monday.According to information, the fire broke out at the CCI godown about 1 pm. Fire tenders were called from Barwala town and Hisar to douse the flames.The police said on getting information, the police and the fire brigade rushed to the site. Eight fire tenders were pressed into service which took over two hours to control the blaze. The sources said the CCI godown has about 60,000 quintal of produce. The losses could not be assessed right now.Vinay Singh, CCI in chage, while talking to mediapersons at the spot said about 10 to 15 per cent of the cotton stock at the godown seem to have gutted in the fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fire-breaks-out-in-cotton-godown-86726
19-05-2020||---||Flames engulf paint factory in Karnal||Karnal, May 18A fire broke out at a paint factory near industrial area on National Highway-44 on Monday evening.Around 15 fire tenders and foam machines were pressed into service to douse the flame, but till the filing of the report the fire was uncontrolled, leading to a huge loss to the factory owner.However, no casualty has been reported and loss due to fire is not ascertained. Reasons behind the fire are yet to be determined.As per information, the fire broke out at around 5.30 pm in the Karna Paint Pvt. Ltd.The district authorities used drone camera to assess the intensity of fire inside the factory.Further investigation is underway to ascertain the cause of fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/flames-engulf-paint-factory-in-karnal-86727
19-05-2020||Saurabh Malik
||HC demands explanation from Addl Sessions Judge||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 18 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked for an explanation from a senior judicial officer in a case where the main accused was granted anticipatory bail, while the concession was denied to another person accused of conspiracy. “The Registrar-General of this court is directed to seek an explanation from the Additional Sessions Judge, who has granted anticipatory bail to the main accused and has dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of the petitioner against whom the charges are of conspiracy with the main accused,” Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan ordered. The direction came on a petition filed by Mohan Singh, seeking pre-arrest bail in an cheating and forgery case where mortgaged property was sold after obtaining a no-objection certificate (NOC). Justice Sangwan’s Bench was told during the course of hearing that the FIR was registered in August last year by a finance company with the allegation that the accused — brothers Sahil Kokcha and Laxmi Kokcha — obtained a loan of Rs 10 lakh in May 2015 by mortgaging their house. Its original sale deed was kept as security with the company and entry of mortgage was made in municipal corporation record. Thereafter, the brothers started delaying payment of the monthly instalment of Rs 28,767. It later came to the complainant’s knowledge that the brothers had sold the house to Kirti, another accused. The mortgage endorsement was removed from municipal corporation record by way of preparing a fake NOC. Taking up the matter, Justice Sangwan asserted that surprisingly, the Additional Sessions Judge granted anticipatory bail to the two brothers, who were the principal loanees of the amount and were admittedly the defaulters on the date when the alleged NOC was issued. The allegation in the FIR was that the NOC was a forged document. Subsequently, the act of the three accused persons named in the FIR in disposing of the property within three days of issuance of the NOC and removing endorsement from municipal corporation record was nothing but an act of calculated conspiracy. This was completely ignored while granting anticipatory bail to the two accused. “Though it is the discretion of the court to grant anticipatory bail, it is a well-settled principle of law, as held by the Supreme Court, that where the offence is committed against the state or a financial institution like the complainant, even in case of compromise, the FIR may not be quashed. The order granting anticipatory bail to the two brothers does not meet the basic requirement of granting anticipatory bail,” Justice Sangwan pointed out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-demands-explanation-from-addl-sessions-judge-86728
19-05-2020||
||Four DCs among 11 IAS officers shifted||Chandigarh, May 18 The government today transferred 11 IAS officers, including four DCs, with immediate effect. Vikas Gupta, Director General, Swaran Jayanti Haryana Institute of Fiscal Management (SJHIFM), has been posted as Director General, Micro, Smart and Medium Enterprises. Sanjeev Verma, Managing Director, Haryana SC Finance Development Corporation, will be Managing Director, Haryana Seeds Development Corporation (HSDC). Ravi Prakash Gupta, DC, Fatehabad, will be Director General, SJHIFM. Anshaj Singh, DC, Sonepat, will be Director of Housing for All Department. RS Dhillon, Director, Haryana Governance Reforms Authority, will hold additional charge of MD, Confed. Shiv Parshad, MD, Confed, has been posted as DC, Charkhi Dadri. Hema Sharma, DC, Panipat, will be Special Secretary (Finance). Shyam Lal Poonia, DC, Charkhi Dadri, will be DC, Sonepat. Narhari Singh Bangar, MD, HSDC, will be DC, Fatehabad. Sharleen, Chief Administrator, Housing Board, has been posted as MD, SC Corporation. Dharmender Singh, Additional Commissioner, MC, Faridabad, has been posted as DC, Panipat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-dcs-among-11-ias-officers-shifted-86729
19-05-2020||---||18 fresh cases, 36 walk out of hospital||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 18Eighteen more persons tested positive for Covid in the state, taking the tally to 928 on Monday, even as 36 patients were discharged from hospital in the last 24 hours.Of the fresh cases, seven were reported from Gurugram, three each from Faridabad, Sonepat and Hisar and one each from Karnal and Mahendragarh. Of the patients discharged in the last 24 hours, 18 were from Sonepat, 10 from Gurugram, two each from Nuh and Rohtak and four from Mahendragarh.In Gurugram, one case each was reported from Ravi Nagar, Vikas Nagar, Sirhol, Devi Lal Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Sector 18 and Bhawani Enclave, taking the district tally to 211.Faridabad’s three new cases in include a 46-year-old chartered accountant of Sector 7, a 65-year-old resident of Mawai village and a 65-year-old retired factory worker from Jawahar Colony. The district tally now stands at 150.Among Sonepat’s three cases is an 11-year-old boy of Shanti Vihar Colony, the son of a Covid patient. A 36-year-old man living in Delhi since April 27 who came to Sonepat on May 15 also tested positive. He is a data assistant in the Chief Minister’s Office in Delhi. A 30-year-old youth of Mohana village, posted in the Delhi Health Department, also tested positive. The district tally has reached 137.In Karnal, a 22-year-old girl of Chaugama village in Indri block tested positive. She is the daughter of a 40-year-old man who tested positive on Sunday. The district tally reached 19. A youth who returned from Delhi on May 15 tested positive in Mahendragarh, taking the district tally to eight.xxxState trackerTotal persons under surveillance-39,440Currently under surveillance-11,822Persons completing surveillance-27,618Samples taken for testing-80,698Negative samples-75,045Results awaited-4,725Positive Cases-928Deaths-14Cured-598xxxxxDistrict-wise trackerDistrict Positive cases DeathsGurugram 211Faridabad 150 6Sonepat 137 1Jhajjar 90Nuh 65Ambala 42 2Palwal 39Panipat 38 3Panchkula 25Jind 20Karnal 19 1Rohtak 12 1Yamunanagar 8Fatehabad 8Sirsa 8Mahendragarh 8Rewari 9Hisar 7Bhiwani 6Charkhi Dadri 4Kaithal 5Kurukshetra 3Italian 14Total 928 14||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/18-fresh-cases-36-walk-out-of-hospital-86739
19-05-2020||  Our Correspondent||2 die in mishap||Sonepat, May 18  Two bike-borne persons were killed were killed after their vehicle collided with a parked truck near Mohana Mandi in Sonepat-Gohana national highway late Sunday night.  The victims, Khushi Ram (42) of Kheri Manajat village in the district and his nephew Jai Pal Singh, were returning to their village on a motorcycle after attending a wedding at Pinana village. SHO Mahipal Singh said after receiving information from passersby, a team from the Mohana police station reached at the spot and brought the victims to the Civil Hospital, where doctors declared Khushi Ram brought dead. After preliminary treatment, seriously injured Jaipal was referred to the PGIMS, Rohtak, where he succumbed to his injuries later.  A case has been registered against an unidentified truck driver, the SHO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-die-in-mishap-86742
19-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Migrant beaten to death in Gurugram||Gurugram, May 18A 45-year-old migrant labourer, hailing from West Bengal, was beaten to death last night, reportedly by a clerk of the contractor he worked for.He  died on way to hospital due to excessive bleeding. The police registered an FIR and arrested the accused.The victim, identified as Mangal Das, worked at a construction site and stayed at a labour camp. He allegedly created a ruckus in an inebriated state last night.Other labourers informed clerk Shaukat, who reached the spot. He reportedly hit Das on the leg with an iron rod.  Das started bleeding profusely and was taken to hospital, but he died on the way."We are questioning the accused, who claims that was an accident. A probe is on and we have informed the family of the deceased," said Sanjay Yadav, Sector 10-A SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/migrant-beaten-to-death-in-gurugram-86743
19-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Harassed for rent, migrant ends life||Gurugram, May 18A 40-year-old migrant worker committed suicide in his room in Gandhi Nagar. A suicide recovered from his room said he was ending his life as his landlord was continuously harassing him to pay rent and he had no money to do so.The police said Madhusudan of Odisha consumed a poisonous substance to end his life and his landlord has been booked for abetment to suicide under Section 306 on the basis of a note found in his room.“I continue to suffer without work and do not have money even for food, but my landlord is demanding room rent. He is harassing me every day and I cannot take it anymore and am taking this extreme step,” read Madhusudan’s suicide note.Investigating officer sub inspector Subhash Yadav said Madhusudan’s family had been informed in Odisha about his death. “They told us that he was not in touch with them for 20 years. A probe is on and his body has been kept in the mortuary.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/harassed-for-rent-migrant-ends-life-86762
19-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana buses to ply on 10 internal routes||Haryana Roadways will resume services on 10 intra-state routes beginning tomorrow. After suspension for two months, intra-state bus service was resumed on several routes last week. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the go-ahead had been given in accordance with MHA guidelines.Read also: Haryana’s cure rate 4th best among states with 50+ casesHaryana Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma said the consent of neighbouring states was awaited to restart inter-state bus service. Principal Secretary (Transport) Anurag Rastogi said, “We will ply buses on all intra-state routes. For inter-state buses, requests have been sent to adjoining states. We have asked them to list routes that they may want to be included.”Sources said Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi and Jammu were likely to give their consent in a couple of days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-buses-to-ply-on-10-internal-routes-86611
