19-04-2020||Gurugram||Coronavirus: Warden in Bhondsi jail tests positive; sparks fear of spread in premises||A warden in Bhondsi jail has tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Sunday---a development that has sparked fears of a spread of the contagion within the jail.The jail currently has 2,000 inmates. The warden who tested positive is a resident of Gurugram’s Sector 10 and had travelled back home to Bhiwani on Saturday, where he began to show symptoms of the virus. Jail authorities will now screen everybody in the jail, officials said.Gurugram sessions judge MM Dhonchak said jail staff should not be allowed to travel routinely to their homes in other districts. Those returning to the prison should undergo coronovairus test before they are allowed to resume their duties, he said.
19-04-2020||Faridabad||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 12 new cases, state tally rises to 237||Haryana on Sunday reported 12 new coronavirus cases from Faridabad, Ambala and Gurugram districts, taking the state's tally to 237.Faridabad reported nine more coronavirus cases, taking the total in the district to 42.Six of those who tested positive are not from Haryana and had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi last month. One patient is from Indonesia, while another is from Nepal.Three others are Faridabad residents.A total of 18 patients have been discharged after they recovered in the district.The samples of six persons had earlier tested negative for the deadly disease.All of them have been isolated and admitted in the hospital, according to a health department.Warden in Bhondsi jail tests positive; sparks fear of spread in premisesA warden in Bhondsi jail has tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Sunday—a development that has sparked fears of a spread of the contagion within the jail.The jail currently has 2,000 inmates. The warden who tested positive is a resident of Gurugram’s Sector 10.Jail authorities will now screen everybody in the jail, officials said.Three of a family test positive in AmbalaThree of a family, belonging to the Shahzadpur block of Ambala, tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. The family was among the people who were in contact with a Panchkula-based doctor, who had treated a COVID patient. The families swab samples were taken for testing on Friday. Chief Medical Officer Dr Kuldeep Singh said: “Three of a family have tested positive and they have been shifted to MM Hospital."Meanwhile, in Panipat, the district administration contained the Jeewan Nagar and Rasoi village after two residents tested positive for COVID on Saturday.
19-04-2020||Gurugram||Man beats up wife to death in Gurugram||A man working as a cook in a local PG fled after brutally murdering his wife on Friday.The woman with her hands and legs tied was thrashed to death with a cricket bat. Her body was dumped in a bed box and was recovered on Saturday.Preliminary probe hints at increased domestic quarrel amid lockdown. An FIR has been registered at Sector 14 police station but the accused, Raj, is still absconding.The victim has been identified as Shahnaz Biwi Khatun (23) of West Bengal, who was living in Chahal PG in Rajiv Nagar with her husband Raj. Both were working as cooks in the PG since February.On Friday morning, when a fight broke out between the couple Raj allegedly thrashed Shahnaz brutally with a cricket bat. He dumped her body in a bed box and fled away. It was late Friday night when other PG mates noticed that the couple was missing and called the owner.The police reached the PG on Saturday morning and found their room locked. When opened, the police found blood on the floor. Soon, the police recovered the body from the bed box.Meanwhile, the CCTV footage showed Raj fleeing the spot on Friday.“We have kept the body in a mortuary and a murder case has been registered against Raj. Two special teams have been formed and raids are being conducted to nab the accused,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime. — OC
19-04-2020||---||11 fresh cases push Haryana tally to 225||Chandigarh, April 18With 11 fresh cases, Haryana’s Covid tally jumped to 225 on Saturday. There was a rise of 5.1 per cent over Friday’s count of 214. Fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (4), Sonepat (3), Palwal (2), Nuh (1) and Ambala (1).Four residents of Sohna in Gurugram tested positive. There were among the 70 contacts of an Alwar resident who had tested positive earlier this month. They worked together in a Mewat-based firm.In Sonepat, three persons, including a 25-year-old Delhi Police Constable posted at the Nizamuddin Markaz, tested positive.A 50-year-old vegetable vendor also tested positive. Running an e-rickshaw earlier, he had started selling vegetables three or four days ago.The third patient, a 21-year-old youth of Sirsi village in Karnal district, had come to Kakroi village to harvest the wheat crop using combine harvester.After this case surfaced,the Karnal administration declared Sirsi village a containment zone with three surrounding villages comprising the buffer zone. Samples of the patient’s family members were being collected.In Palwal, two persons, one aged 45 years and the other 35 years, tested positive today. One was a Tablighi Jamaat member and the other a milkman who had attended a Jamaat congregation.In Ambala, an ANM tested positive. The district reported a positive case after a week. She was on Covid duty in the containment zone.In Nuh, a case was reported from Barota village, who was a contact of a patient. With this, Nuh’s tally reached 57, the highest among all districts. It was followed by Palwal (34), Faridabad (33), Gurugram (36) and Panchkula (17).In view of the pandemic, the Haryana Government today decided to immediately issue joining letters to 23 newly selected professors, associate professors and assistant professors at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College in Karnal and Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College at Nalhar in Nuh by giving relaxation in character verification.The state government decided that Group A and B employees would have to report in all district-level offices of all departments, boards and corporations, but only 33 per cent Group C and D employees would be called to office on rotation.Social distancing would have to be maintained in the offices. However, any employee from the containment zone need not join office.It was also stated that the Deputy Commissioner “shall have discretion in respect of attendance of number of staff and staffing pattern as per Covid situation, requirement and necessity”.In case of mustard procurement, 9,303 farmers reported at 163 procurement centres, where about 25,263.31 MT mustard was purchased. A total of 82,886.87 MT had been procured from 32,779 farmers in the first four days of procurement.
19-04-2020||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Lockdown succeeds without hitting agricultural activity||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, April 18Yamunanagar remained unaffected by Covid until two people of Mamidi village with travel history to Tablighi Jamaat in Gujarat tested positive for Covid on April 11.The very next day, another man of Shadipur village of the district also tested positive, forcing the administration to seal these villages and begin screening of 1,181 houses in both villages.The Health Department soon established containment zones along with buffer zones in these villages and DC Mukul Kumar, SP Himanshu Garg along with Civil Surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya made regular rounds to keep a close watch on the situation.“No patient has yet shown symptoms of influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory illness at Mamidi and Shadipur villages,” said Dr Vijay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon.He said the second consecutive report of all three Covid-positive patients had been negative in Yamunanagar district. So now, there is no active Covid patient in the district.So far, 391 samples have been sent from the district. Of these, 339 are negative, three positive (which later turned negative) and the report of 49 samples is awaited.DC Mukul Kuma said to provide healthcare services to all needy persons, 10 mobile health teams had been deputed — four in urban and six in rural areas of the district.“Bed strength of 450 beds in nine hospitals both in government and private sector has been kept reserved for isolation facilities of Covid-suspected patients,” the DC said.The proactive approach of DC Mukul Kumar and SP Himanshu Garg has made the lockdown successful without hampering agriculture activities in the district.Farmers have been able to supply about 25 lakh quintals of sugarcane to Saraswati Sugar Mills (SSM) during the lockdown period (from March 24 to April 17).“The mill management has been able to provide uninterrupted services to the farmers of about 672 villages of Yamunanagar, Ambala and Kurukshetra with the support and timely help of the local administration,” said DP Singh, senior vice-president of SSM.The DC said, “Besides making the lockdown successful, there were several other challenges before us, including making proper arrangements for stay and food for about 2,300 migrant labourers and to give food items to the needy. Our teams worked tirelessly to achieve these targets.”Most people are staying in their houses, but a few of them are violating the lockdown. Chamkaur Singh, spokesperson of Yamunanagar police, said the district police had issued 1,947 challans and impounded 407 vehicles from March 24 to April 16.Decisive steps to fight pandemic
19-04-2020||Parveen Arora||Lost his father, Karnal man wins Covid battle||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 18After battling with Covid for 12 days, Ravinder Kumar of Rasin village walked out from the hospital on Saturday, but with a heavy heart as he managed to recover, but his father couldn’t.His face showed a sigh of relief, but his heart was in grief. “I have lost my father to Covid and I cannot forget him. I had spent my days in the isolation ward in grief, which can’t even be expressed,” said Ravinder after being discharged from the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) after his two consecutive reports tested negative.Praising the KCGMC staff, Ravinder said it was the efforts of the doctors, paramedical staff and others due to which he won the fight against Covid. “I thank the doctors, paramedical staff and others, who supported me during this traumatic time,” he said, appealing to people not to panic, but to take precautions.Meanwhile, Meenu, a staff nurse who also got the infection from Ravinder’s father, was discharged from the KCGMC hospital on Saturday. She received a floral welcome when she arrived in Ashoka Colony.Meenu had no symptoms when she tested positive. Her spirit was high and she appealed to people not to panic, but to fight with a positive energy. “I got infected while serving a patient here, but never lost hope. With the support of doctors and staff members, I recovered and will join my duty once my home quarantine period is over,” she said.Meenu and Ravinder were the only two active cases in the district, said Dr Ashwani Ahuja, Civil Surgeon. He said both of them would remain in home quarantine for 14 days.
19-04-2020||---||Minister visits Hisar mandis, takes stock of procurement||Hisar, April 18Agriculture Minister JP Dalal on Saturday visited several grain markets to take stock of the procurement process in Hisar, Bhiwani and Fatehabad districts of the region.Dalal assured the farmers that every grain would be purchased by the government and urged them not to hurry and told them to stick to the guidelines in wake of Covid outbreak. He said the farmers should ensure that the mustard yield don’t have above 8% moisture when it is brought to the purchase centre.‘Poor facilities’Showers lashed the Bhiwani region on Saturday, thus exposing the poor arrangements. Rainwater soaked the mustard yield as there are no sheds or tarpaulin to protect it. In case of more rains, farmers can suffer heavy losses. Dayanand Punia, Kisan Sabha PresidentHe directed the officials to make necessary arrangements and redress farmers’ issues for smooth procurement. He warned them of strict action if found being lax in performance of their duties.Dalal said the government expects the arrival of about 8-9 lakh MT of mustard in the grain markets. “The farmers have done registration of 12 lakh MT of mustard this rabi season on the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal. Last year, the government had purchased 6 lakh MT. This year too, we will procure 3 lakh MT for the Centre while the remaining mustard will be procured by the state agencies,” he added.Farmers, however, said the arrangements were far from satisfactory at the purchase centres. Dayanand Punia, president, Kisan Sabha, said farmers had registered the crops in the names of their family members. “They have to visit the mandis turn wise. There should be arrangements that the produce of one family is purchased in one go. The list of farmers being asked to bring produce to mandisshould be uploaded on the web portal for transparent functioning,” he added.
19-04-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Demand shrinks, Panipat exporters lose orders worth Rs2,000 cr||Tribune News ServicePanipat, April 18Exporters in the textile hub have been hit hard by Covid-19 as foreign buyers have started cancelling orders. While orders worth over Rs 2,000 crore have already been cancelled, the industry stands to lose another Rs 1,800 crore to Rs 2,000 crore in business if things do not improve soon. The annual export turnover of the city is around Rs 10,000 crore.‘Unlock’ industryVinod Dhamija, an exporter in Old Industrial Area, says the outbreak has hit city exporters hard. “The peak season starts in January and ends in April. But this year, the outbreak has impacted the entire season. Around 80 per cent of the total export is associated with Europe and the US and both have been badly hit by the virus,” says Dhamija.Buyers have started cancelling orders and payment and shipments have been withheld, he adds.Ramesh Verma, president, Handloom Exports Manufacturer Association, says: “We had hoped for good business this year as our products are in great demand abroad. However, the lockdown has forced huge order cancellations.”“Industries have been shut since March 22 and most workers have moved out. Even those who can pay wages to workers have limited resources,” he adds.The Panipat units, which fall in the micro small & medium enterprises (MSME) category, are inter-dependent and need to run simultaneously. It may take three to four months to get back in business, says Verma.“The global spread of the virus has shrunk demand for Panipat goods,” says Vibhu Paliwal, secretary, Panipat Exporters’ Association.The orders taken during January’s Heimtextil Fair in Frankfurt, Germany, have been withheld by foreign buyers and there is little hope for demand in the next six months as all orders are seasonal and these products have no demand in the domestic market, says Paliwal.
