19-12-2020||Sushil Manav ||Not afraid of anything, says Birender Singh after his pro-farmer dharna||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 19 The BJP’s former Union Minister Birender Singh who sat on dharna on Friday said on Saturday that he was not afraid of anything and would never shy away from supporting farmers’ cause. “I am inheritor of the legacy of the great farmers’ messiah Chhottu Ram. Today, when farmers of the country are in great distress and they feel their concerns were not being addressed, he considered it his moral duty and responsibility to stand with them,” Birender Singh said in an exclusive interaction with The Tribune today. Singh, a maternal grandson of late Sir Chhottu Ram, was a cabinet minister in Narendra Modi’s first term as PM and now, his son Brijendra Singh, a former bureaucrat, is BJP MP from Hisar. Asked how he considered his dharna in support of the farmers opposing the three farm bills on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi enumerated the benefits of these laws and indirectly ruled out their repeal, Birender Singh said farmers have strong apprehensions from these laws and the government must do something to allay their fears. “It is for the first time that farmers have assembled on the outskirts of the national capital in such a huge numbers. They have several doubts about the farm laws. They feel that they will suffer huge losses if these laws are allowed to be implemented,” Singh said. Asked does he stand for total repeal of the laws as the farmers are demanding or does he think amendments could serve the purpose, Birender Singh said the farmers have doubts and these apprehensions must be cleared by the government. He said stalemate will not work and dialogue was must to end the impasse. “If six rounds have not worked, the seventh round of talks must be held immediately without delay and this time the government must ensure that the talks should be conclusive,” the former minister said. “Do you think 8-page letter to the farmers will work? No. The government needs to show seriousness towards resolving the issue,” Singh said alluding to the letter written by Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. He said he has also sought an appointment with Tomar to discuss the issue with him and he would try to impress upon him the need for urgency on this issue. He said he has never shied away from playing a role whenever there is a need. “There was a time during peak of Jat agitation when 10-15 lakh Jats were to gather in Delhi. But I intervened and diffused the situation,” he added. The BJP leader said that the trust of farmers has been badly shaken due to the farm laws and hence there was a need to restore their confidence by whatever means. Asked whether he also felt that the new farm laws were contrary to the interests of farmers, Birender Singh said somehow an apprehension has grown very strong among farmers that these laws were to help bring monopoly of corporate. He said farmers already felt cheated when they saw a value added product like Maida made from there wheat bought for Rs 20 per kg selling for Rs 60 per kg, so it was time to ensure farmers get the benefit of value addition to their crops. He said farmers producers organisations (FPOs) could be encouraged so that the benefits of value additions remained with farmers only rather than going to corporate.
19-12-2020||New Delhi||There can be a way out for talks in a day or two: Khattar on farmers’ stir||There can be a way out for the next round of talks between the government and farmer unions protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws in a day or two, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said after meeting Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday.This is the second time the Haryana chief minister met Tomar at his residence since the protests broke out over three weeks ago, a state government official told PTI, adding that he had met the Union minister earlier on December 8.“In a day or two, there can be a way out for talks. The government is ready for discussion if farmer union leaders come forward beyond yes or no,” Khattar was quoted as saying in a Haryana government statement.The chief minister said he discussed with Tomar about the ongoing farmer protests. “Effort is to find solutions through dialogue,” he said.The government can think of changes to the farm laws more than what it has done, he added.On the Sutlej Yamuna Link Canal dispute, Khattar urged Punjab’s farmers to take the issue seriously. He said crops in Punjab get damaged due to excess water and therefore this issue needs to be resolved.The meeting comes a day after BJP leader and former Union minister Chaudhary Birender Singh joined a protest in support of the farmers at Haryana’s Rohtak.The dharna was organised by the members of the Sir Chhotu Ram Manch. Singh is the grandson of Sir Chhotu Ram, a prominent Jat leader of the pre-independence era who championed the interests of farmers.Farmers from different parts of the country, including Haryana and Punjab, have been camping at various border points of Delhi for three weeks to demand a repeal of three recent farm laws.They worry that these laws will eliminate the safety net of the minimum support price (MSP), do away with the “mandi” (wholesale market) system and leave them at the “mercy of big corporates”, apprehensions the government has been insisting are misplaced. PTI
19-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Farmer outfits announce special campaign against Haryana govt from Dec 23||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 19Leaders of farmers’ organisations on Saturday announced to launch a special campaign across the state against the BJP-JJP coalition government from December 23 to mount pressure on its MLAs to withdraw their support from the government. They also announced to boycott and to oppose all programmes to be held by the state government or its ministers. “It will be a jan aandolan and we will exert pressure on every MLA of the JJP and the BJP through public groups for withdrawing his/her support from the government. The campaign aims to topple the state government which is anti-farmer and anti-people,” said Vikas Sisar, president, Bhariya Kisan Sangharsh Samiti while addressing a news conference at Tikri border.Prahlad Singh Bharukhera, state president, Haryana Kisan Manch, said the state government was making all efforts to fail the agitation by adopting oppressive policy under which farmers coming from other states to strengthen the ongoing agitation were being stopped in mid-way.Joginder Nain, state president of the BKU, was also present on the occasion.
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 13 more COVID-19 deaths, 590 new cases||The COVID-19 death toll in Haryana rose to 2,816 on Saturday with 13 more fatalities, while 590 new cases pushed the infection tally to 2,57,067, a state health department bulletin said.The new fatalities include three from Yamunanagar and two each from Sonipat, Ambala and Jhajjar.Among the districts which reported a big spike in new cases include Gurgaon (151) and Faridabad (98).The number of active cases in the state currently stands at 6,079 while the recovery rate is 96.54 per cent. PTI
19-12-2020||Sushil Manav||Koshy Koshy whose book on police rules guided cops across British Punjab passes away||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 19Koshy Koshy, a retired IPS officer of Haryana cadre who passed away after a brief illness in a Faridabad hospital on Friday, was a multidimensional personality – an author, an ornithologist, a photographer, an erudite and an articulate speaker besides being a thoroughly professional police officer.An IPS of 1973 batch, Koshy Koshy (71), who hailed from Kerala, had settled in Faridabad with his family after his retirement as Director General in Haryana Police in 2009.He contracted Covid-19 last month and was admitted to a private hospital in Faridabad.However, despite recovery from the virus, Koshy Koshy was again shifted to hospital for difficulty in breathing where he passed away on Friday.His mortal remains were brought to St Mary’s Orthodox Church in Faridabad and after prayer service and guard of honour by Haryana Police, the final burial service was carried out at Christian Cemetery, Tughlakabad in Delhi.His colleagues and those who worked under him remember Koshy Koshy as an upright officer who never hesitated to call a spade a spade.Perhaps this was the reason he did not get a chance to head a police force and was superseded by his juniors ignoring his seniority when it came to selecting the Director General of Police (DGP).During his service, Koshy Koshy worked with the Intelligence Bureau (IB) and also for Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD).“He always took keen interest in police training. Though not many police officers are interested in assignments like this, But Koshy Koshy headed the Haryana Police Academy (HPA) and also worked IG (Training) for long. He believed that police training was very important for inculcating right kind of behaviour practices among cops,” said Manoj Yadava, Director General of Police, Haryana, who has worked with Koshy Koshy for long.Yadava remembers how immaculately Koshy Koshy managed a mega event as DIG of Gurugram range of AICC session at Surajkund when the then PM PV Narasimha Rao and a plethora of dignitaries were to camp there for three days.He loved watching birds and taking their pictures.Koshy Koshy will also be remembered for authoring Punjab Police Rules 1934 with explanations and annotation.The book is referred to by all police officers in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi.Hanif Qureshi, a senior IPS officer of Haryana who is now posted as Director General of New and Renewable Energy Department, Haryana, remembers that when happened to visit Lahore (Pakistan) as an advance party for then Haryana CM Om Prakash Chautala’s visit, he was surprised to find Koshy Koshy’s book on Punjab Police Rules 1934 lying on the table of DIG, Lahore.“When I asked him do you refer to Koshy Koshy’s book, the officer asked me with pleasant surprise whether I knew the author personally. He told me that all police officers in Pakistan’s Punjab referred to this book only for referring to any police rules,” said Qureshi.
19-12-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Two Amazon employees arrested for stealing high-end mobiles amid pandemic||Two former employees of e-commerce giant Amazon have been arrested on charges of having stolen high-end mobile phones worth Rs 1 crore from a company warehouse in Bilaspur, police said on Saturday.Ansar-ul-haq and Nawab Singh, both from Nuh, were arrested on Friday. Police said they found 38 mobile phones from the suspects’ possession, leading to more raids.On November 7, an Amazon representative, Aaditya Singh, reported mobile phones worth Rs 1 crore missing from the company warehouse in Jamalpur village. He said in his complaint to the police that the company had found 78 empty phone boxes in the warehouse.  Police claim the two had stolen the phones when COVID was peaking in July and August, when they knew they could escape frisking because of social distancing rules. They left their jobs in September, and kept the phones hidden in their houses to sell them.“Employees were not physically checked when they left the warehouse for the day because of a fear of the infection. The suspects took advantage of that to take the phones out of their boxes and carry them out of the warehouse without any impediment,” Assistant Commissioner of Police (Crime) Preet Pal Singh Sangwan.Sangwan said police were on the lookout for two other people they suspect were also involved.
19-12-2020||New Delhi||Punjab and Haryana to face cold to severe cold wave conditions||A gradual rise in the minimum temperature of 2-3 °C is expected over northwest India during the next 48 hours, according to the India Meteorological Department.A fall of 2-4 °C is also expected over the central parts of India, and remain below normal by 2-4 °C over east India during the same period.Despite this, there would also be a slight fall in minimum temperatures by 1-2 °C over Maharashtra during the next 48 hours, and a gradual rise by 2-3 °C thereafter.Under the current scenario, cold to severe cold wave conditions are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh, and at isolated places over Rajasthan.Cold wave conditions at isolated places over Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Gangetic West Bengal over the next three days.Thereafter, a decrease would be expected over Uttar Pradesh.Meanwhile, a cold day to severe cold day condition would be expected at a few places like Uttarakhand and east Uttar Pradesh, and isolated places over west Uttar Pradesh during the next 48 hours.Cold Day conditions at isolated places over Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours.Day temperatures are expected to rise by 2-4 °C during the next two days, the cold day conditions are expected to abate from these regions from December 21.Ground Frost at isolated places expected over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan is expected during next 48 hours and over Madhya Pradesh during next 24 hours, the weather office said.Dense to very dense fog in isolated pockets expected over northwest India from December 21.Fog in isolated pockets over Punjab and Uttar Pradesh during the next two days. Strong surface wind speed reaching 10-20 kmph expected to prevail over parts of Northwest India during the next two days.
19-12-2020||Panchkula||No question of repealing farm laws: Ratan Lal Kataria||Defending the Haryana Government on its attempts to stop farmers from marching towards Delhi, Union Minister of State Rattan Lal Kataria compared farmers to a raging bull.On the Supreme Court’s observation that farmers had the right to protest, Kataria said: “It’s the government’s responsibility to maintain the law and order. If a bull goes mad, it is obvious that you will do everything to protect yourself.”“Farmers are our annadata (food provider), like a god to us. There is no question of confronting them,” he added.Kataria said former Congress president Rahul Gandhi was incapable of politics.Kataria said there was a deadlock between the government and farmers as their protests had been hijacked by anti-social elements.“The government has already laid down proposals before the farmers’ unions to end the impasse. There is no question of repealing the farm laws as they will benefit the farmers and double their income,” the minister added. — TNS
19-12-2020||Ambala||Six killed in accident||Six persons were killed when a truck hit an auto-rickshaw near Barsumajra village in Naraingarh on Friday. The deceased were identified as Mehar Singh (82) of Andheri village, Salamati (60) of Firozpur Kath village, Gafoordeen (60) of Aukhal village, auto driver Sunil (23) of Kanjala village and two sisters Komal (22) and Priyanka (21) of Hadbon village. TNSChandigarhRetd IPS officer passes awayRetd IPS officer Koshy Koshy of the 1973 batch (Haryana cadre) passed away after a brief illness in a Faridabad hospital on Friday. He retired as Haryana Police DG. His mortal remains will be kept in St Mary’s Church on Saturday at 10.30 am. The burial will be held in Tuglaqabad Christian cemetery at 2.30 pm. TNSGurugramMan robbed of car, Rs15KA Faridabad man, Yajuvinder Sharma has been robbed of his XUV by armed robbers in the Surajkund area. He was dumped near Chaysa village while the accused fled with the XUV. He is a manager with a private firm and is residing in Ashoka Enclave, Sector 35 here. An FIR has been registered. OCFaridabad34 illegal structures razedA team of the DTP on Friday razed 34 illegal constructions spread over two acres in Durga Builder Colony here. As per DTP (Enforcement) Rajender Sharma, an industrial unit, a residential structure and two shops were razed. Legal action has been initiated against the property dealers for flouting rules. TNS
19-12-2020||Rohtak||MDU prof felicitated||Webinar on machine learningHisar: The department of alumni relations, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised a webinar on "Basic theory and implementation of machine learning approaches in various domains" on Friday. Vice Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar was the chief guest. He suggested the basics of machine learning, including python, Keras and SK image, should be an optional subject like languages i.e. Hindi and English, etc in all branches of the universities. A lecture through the online mode was delivered by Prof RP Singh from the department of computer science and engineering, Delhi University, and a fellow of European Commission 2009.Students make posters, slogansYamunanagar: The NCC cadets of Guru Nanak Khalsa College made posters and slogans. The event was held under the supervision of Col Ajay Pal Kaushish, Commanding Officer, and Col Suresh Chaudhary, administrative officer of 14 Haryana Batallion, so that people could be informed about the cleanliness drive. Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said the cadets maintaining social distancing sent posters and slogan articles to the college and put them on their social media accounts. He said by doing this, the people were made aware of hygiene. He said various institutions of the district participated in activities in this voluntary fortnight cleanliness drive.Rohtak Professor awardedRohtak: Prof Anil K Chillar, director, Centre for Biotechnology of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), has been awarded the prestigious research project of the Department of Bio-technology (DBT), Ministry of Science and Technology of Government of India. Prof AK Chillar’s proposed project on the topic “Plant microbe interaction for anti-microbial and sustainable agriculture” has been selected for research resources service facilities platforms (RRSFR)-BUILDER (Boost for University Inter-Disciplinary Life Science Departments For Education And Research Programme).KU to organise int’l seminarKurukshetra: The department of English of Kurukshetra University will be organising the 5th international seminar through the online mode on sustainable existence and Bhagavad Gita philosophy. The department will hold a technical session on December 23. A galaxy of scholars will deliberate on the influences of Bhagvad Gita on English literature. The keynote address will be delivered by Prof SD Sharma, former Vice Chancellor, HP University, Shimla, and former Dean, faculty of arts and languages. Prof Sharma will highlight how Gita has been used creatively by writers belonging to different cultures and ages. Prof Shrawan K Sharma, director, Centre for Canadian Studies, Gurukul Kangri Vishwavidyalaya, Haridwar, will share his views on the centripetal vision in Bhagvad Gita and Indian aesthetics.
19-12-2020||THE farmers’ stir stems from the callous attitude of the central/state governments in passing the highly controversial farm laws without consulting the stakeholders||Callous attitude of govt behind farmers’ stir||Covid Impact on various aspects of lifeOUR planet is undergoing an unusual experience these days due the Covid pandemic. Be it lifestyle, business, thoughts, eating habits and behaviour etc it has put an impact on all aspects of a person's life. Wearing a mask and practising social distancing has become the new normal. Fortunately, the discovery of Covid vaccine has made us hopeful that everything will return back to normal as in post-Covid era. To check the spread of the virus among school students, the parents must ensure that their wards must go for rapid or RT-PCR test before joining back the schools. It is a welcome step that the government has given a nod to offline exams for Classes IX to XII. We must keep guard up and make our children follow the preventive-guidelines. The Central Board of Secondary Education should also change its board examination system and make the centre of examination in the same school that the student is studying in so that students are not forced to travel to reach other examination centres. The invigilators can be from different school and student strength in a room should be restricted to 12 students per classroom. Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaAction of High Court WelcomeTHE action taken by the Punjab and Haryana High Court against its judicial officers on such a large scale has given a strong message that there will be zero tolerance against indiscipline, decency and other factors in the subordinate judiciary. The judiciary is not just a torch-bearer of justice, but also the custodian of the Constitution, the last resort that people take to in the face of executive and legislative apathy. Advocates and general public from Punjab and Haryana are thankful to the court for the decision, which includes the Chief Justice and other judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. People of the nation have faith in the judiciary and approach the court to seek justice. This decision has strengthened the trust of the people on the judiciary and the belief of the people should never be broken. Shakti Singh, KarnalNeed for trauma centre in NarwanaNARWANA has a population of around 1 lakh and if the population of surrounding villages is added, then it might also cross 2 lakh, which depends on Narwana for the health services. But unfortunately, there's no trauma centre at the Narwana Civil Hospital so far. Three to four major national highways cross through Narwana with heavy traffic. Due to various reasons, a large number of road mishaps are reported in the region and all victims are referred to Rohtak-PGIMS. Majority of them succumb on the way because of delay in treatment. Looking at the gravity of the situation, a well-equipped trauma centre with trained staff should be set up at Narwana Civil Hospital at the earliest. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
19-12-2020||Punjabi singers Harbhajan Mann and Babbu Mann and others reached the Singhu border on Friday to extend support to farmers. Scores of NRIs also reached the border. Harbhajan appealed to farmers to keep on protesting peacefully and victory would be theirs. “The Centre has to listen the voice of farmers||Punjabi singers Harbhajan Mann and Babbu Mann reach  Singhu border||Vijender threatens to return award, againBoxer Vijender Singh on Friday reached the Tikri border and expressed his solidarity with the demands of protesting farmers. He reiterated that he would the nation's highest sporting honour, Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award, if the Centre failed to withdraw the farm laws. He raised the slogans of ‘Kisan Ekta’ from the dais. “I have come here to strengthen the voice of farmers protesting in this bone-chilling cold,” he said.Youths teach deprived kids at protest siteA group of farmers protesting at the Singhu border has started teaching labourers’ children. Satnam Singh, a member of the NGO ‘Sanjhi Chhat’, said around 15 volunteers had come to participate in the protest initially. “Now, 150 volunteers are part of the protest,” he said. Paramjeet Singh, a member of the municipal council of Mehatpur in Jalandhar district, said scores of trolleys of wood had reached the Singhu border.
19-12-2020||Nitish Sharma
||Over 6K paddy growers demand incentive for shunning farm fires||Tribune News Service Kurukshetra, December 18 Nearly 5,000 farmers in the district have sought incentive for not burning the paddy residue on over 47,340 acres in Kurukshetra this season. The Haryana Government had announced an incentive of Rs 1,000 per acre for ex-situ measures, which will be released on furnishing the proof of sales of bales to the industry.  As per information, the claims of the farmers will be verified through the village-level committee and then these will be given an approval at the district-level executive committee. Deputy Director, Agriculture, Kurukshetra, Pradeep Meel said: “We have received claims from nearly 5,000 farmers, who said they had not burnt paddy residue on 47,342 acres in the district. There has been a good response from Pehowa, Ismailabad, Shahabad and Thanesar areas.” Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Sharandeep Kaur said: “Paddy stubble burning is a big issue, but the response has been good from farmers and the Agriculture Department has also done a good job. The department officials have been asked to get the claims settled at the earliest and keep motivating the farmers so that more area can be covered next year.”  Similarly, in Ambala, nearly 1,500 farmers have sought incentive for not burning the paddy residue on over 10,000 acres. An official said: “The farmers have raised claims but they need to provide the proof of sale to get their claims settled, which is likely to become a big issue as the majority of the farmers don’t have any proof.” Deputy Director, Agriculture, Ambala, Girish Nagpal said: “The incentive will be released on furnishing the proof of sale of bales to the industry. There has been a good response from the Naraingarh and Shahzadpur blocks.”
19-12-2020||Karnal||4 arrested for murder over land dispute||The police have arrested four persons in the triple murder in Gagsina village on December 16 over a land dispute. The accused have been identified as Yudhveer Singh, Randhul, Vishal and Vikas, all residents of Gagsina village. They will be produced in a court on Saturday, from where the police will try to take them on remand as they are yetto determine the whereabouts of the other accused, who are still absconding, said Ganga Ram Punia, SP. The police have registered a case under Sections 149, 302, 307 and 323 of the IPC and  the Arms Act against 38 persons. A SIT has already been formed headed by DSP Rajesh Phogat, the SP added. Notably, a property dispute turned violent on December 16, when a clash took place between two groups, which resulted in the death of three persons — Parveen, Dilbag and Balraj — of the same village and injuries to 11 others. — TNS
19-12-2020||---||No arrest in Karnal youth’s murder case, kin protest||Karnal, December 18A woman along with her daughter and son staged a dharna at the Mini-Secretariat against the alleged police inaction in the death of her elder son, whose body was found in a canal on August 15.Suman, a resident of Agoundh village, alleged that her son Mohit (20) was murdered and the accused were yet to be arrested. They took him from the house and murdered him, she said, adding that she had been running from pillar to post for the arrest of the accused, but to no avail.On Friday, she met the SP Gang Ram Punia, who assured her action in two days, but she started a dharna and said she would not go back till the accused was arrested. Police personnel were trying to pacify her.Jatinder Kumar, in-charge, Sector-13 police post, said they were trying to pacify her.
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||21 more succumb, 749 fresh cases in Haryana||The Covid tally in the state reached 2,56,477 on Friday with 749 more cases. The death toll went up to 2,803 with 21 more deaths. Gurugram reported a maximum of 152 cases, followed by Faridabad (130), Ambala (45), Jind (40), Hisar (39) and Panchkula (38).Vij stable, says docThe clinical condition of Home and Health Minister Anil Vij, who is admitted to Medanta hospital in Gurugram, continues to be stable.According to a health bulletin issued by Dr AK Dubey, Medical Superintendent, the minister had a restful sleep on Thursday night.“His appetite has improved. He is admitted to the ICU and is under continuous monitoring with physiotherapy. A team of doctors examined him on Friday morning and were satisfied with his progress,” said Dr Dubey.The health bulletin said Vij’s blood pressure and liver and kidney functions were normal. His oxygen requirement and respiratory rate had reduced and his blood investigation results were better. — TNS
19-12-2020||Hisar||Disabled veterans given modified scooters||The Dot on Target Division, Hisar Cantonment, handed over modified scooters to nine battle casualties and disabled veterans in Rohtak. An Army spokesperson said seven soldiers from Rohtak and one each from Jind and Sirsa had benefited by the measures of the Army. — TNS
19-12-2020||Pradeep Sharma||College students to adopt abandoned kids, elderly||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh December 18The Haryana Government has rolled out an innovative first-of-its-kind scheme under which college students will be asked to “adopt” the inmates of old age homes and orphanages as part of their social responsibility.Under the scheme, which would be coordinated by the National Service Scheme (NSS) Programme Officer as the Nodal Officer, the college students will be tasked to “adopt” inmates of old age homes, orphanages, open shelter homes and observation homes near their educational institutions for looking after their basic needs, including medical care.A team of dedicated students, which will be drawn from the Youth Red Cross (YRC), the National Cadet Corps (NCC) besides the NSS, will be selected by a committee headed by the principal of the college concerned.A senior officer said the Nodal Officers would draw the list of such institutions and allot the inmates to the students. Keeping in view the Covid pandemic, the students will visit the allotted inmates twice a week while maintaining constant touch through telephone daily, the officer added.The officer highlighted that the decision would go a long way in inculcating a sense of social responsibility among the volunteers. Currently, the NCC/NSS volunteers also undertake the projects of community development but the project will be organised on a permanent and sustained basis, the officer claimed.A special mobile application is being created for this purpose, through which the daily report will be sent to the Higher Education Department.Meanwhile, the teams of the volunteers will also be formed to maintain libraries in villages, blocks and subdivisions besides these institutions.TEAM OF STUDENTS FROM NCC WILL BE FORMED
19-12-2020||Our Correspondent
||2 Iraqi nationals duped in Gurugram||Gurugram, December 18 Two Iraqi nationals were duped of $13,500 and €2,000 by fraudsters posing as policemen and checking their passports and visa. An FIR has been registered at the DLF Phase 1 police station but the police have no major leads so far. According to the complaint filed by Abduj Jabbar, translator of Iraqi nationals, Mehandi Hasan came to Gurugram a few days ago with his unwell relative Ahemad Jakki (48) for treatment at the Medanta Hospital. On late Wednesday evening, both went to the MG Road for shopping. It was when they were returning and two men in a car intercepted them in front of Hotel Bristol. They were dressed as civilians but said they were cops. “They first asked to show passports and visa. They took their handbag and wallet for checking and returned them later. In the meantime, they ran away with $13,500 and €2,000. Hasan and his relative could not note the car number and informed me,” Jabbar told the police.  On the basis of a complaint, an FIR was registered against the two unidentified accused under Sections 379A and 34 of the IPC at DLF Phase 1 police station. The police said they were trying to identify the accused with the help of the CCTV footage of nearby area.
19-12-2020||Gurugram||Man charred to death as house catches fire||A 45-year-old cab driver hailing from Uttar Pradesh was charred to death in Sehajwas village near Bhondsi after his house caught fire from a heater. According to the police, the deceased, identified as Sunil Pal, was a native of Bareilly and lived with his family in Dev Nagar Colony near Sehjawas village. On Tuesday night, Sunil was sleeping in a room with his son Rahul Pal (20) and they were using a room heater. At night, fire broke out in the room. Their neighbours saw the flames and reached the spot. They broke the window and took Rahul Pal out of the room, but Sunil could not be saved. Sub-Inspector Ram Prakash said a was on. — OC
19-12-2020||
||Forms of 12 candidates rejected||Ambala, December 18 The forms of 12 candidates, including one mayoral candidate, have been rejected during scrutiny. Nominations of Haryana Jan Chena Party (V) candidate Madhu Sharma, Congress candidate Parminder Kaur and independent candidate Neeru Bala from ward 20, Congress candidates Tejender Singh and Manjeet Barar from ward 19 and 14, respectively, JJP candidate Gita Rani from ward 11 and independent mayoral candidate Shubhangi Malik have been rejected.
19-12-2020||---||IIM, PU to shortlist nominees for good governance award||Chandigarh, December 18In a bid to instil transparency in the selection process for the first-ever “Haryana Good Governance Awards” for state employees, the BJP-JJP government has roped in Panjab University (PU), Chandigarh, and the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Rohtak.Sources said all applications from the employees would be forwarded to the IIM and the PU for shortlisting, scrutiny and evaluation. While entries relating to economic and infrastructure sectors will be evaluated by the IIM, the PU will evaluate those relating to the social sector, including flagship schemes.“The external agencies have been associated in the selection process with a view to make it transparent and reduce government officers’ discretion. The IIM and the PU have been mandated to ask for more details from applicants, including presentation through videoconferencing,” a senior officer said.The recommendations of the IIM and PU will be sent to an empowered committee headed by the Chief Secretary for the final selection.Meanwhile, the state government has invited applications for 10 state-level and two district-level awards for each district. The main objective of the award is to ensure that the message of good governance is delivered effectively to all stakeholders, including the Haryana Government, industry and the general public.The administrative secretaries have been asked to recommend the names by December 21.The winners are likely to be announced on December 25, which is observed as Good Governance Day as part of the birth anniversary celebrations of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.
19-12-2020||Gurugram||Bhondsi jail inmate commits suicide||A 20-year-old under trial inmate lodged at Bhondsi jail allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in the early hours on Friday. He hanged himself in the barrack. A magisterial probe has been ordered, while the body was handed over to the kin after post-mortem examination. The deceased, Mohammad Kaif of Ghasera village in Nuh, was arrested by the police in September in a case of raping a minor girl and was booked under the POCSO Act at Rozka Meo police station in Nuh district.  The police said he was in barrack no. 12 of Bhondsi jail. It was around 5 am when another inmate of the same barrack raised alarm after seeing his body hanging from an iron grill in the barrack.  The jail officials and wardens reached the spot and called doctors who declared him dead. The Jail Superintendent said the local police and a police team along with forensic team reached the spot and collected the evidences. The police said a probe was on into the case. — OC
19-12-2020||---||5 overloaded trucks challaned, drivers to lose licence, RCs||Yamunanagar, December 18Days after the Transport Department directed Regional Transport Authorities (RTAs) to get tough against owners and drivers of overloaded vehicles plying in the state, the local RTA on Thursday challaned five such vehicles and wrote to RTAs concerned for suspending the licences of drivers and registration certificates (RCs).Before the December 10 order by the Transport Department, overloaded were only challaned. Now, drivers risk suspension of their licences while owners may lose RCs and permits.Bharat Bhushan Kaushik, Secretary, RTA, Yamunanagar, said: “During routine checking, we impounded five trucks carrying weight more than the permissible limit. We imposed fine and wrote to the Registration Authorities-cum-Secretaries of Jaipur (Rajasthan), Muzaffarnagar (Uttar Pradesh), Jhunjhunu (Rajasthan), Karnal and Ambala to suspend the licences of the drivers and registration certificates of owners.”On Friday, the RTA impounded a private bus for violating Section 3 (the vehicle registered in other state is found to be used in the Haryana without paying the due tax) of Haryana Motor Vehicle Taxation Act, 2016.“The RTA has written to the Assistant Regional Transport Officer, Hardoi (Uttar Pradesh), to suspend the RC of the private bus,” Kaushik said.
19-12-2020||Gurugram||Selja: Centre insensitive||“Due to the dictatorial attitude of the Central Government, more than 20 farmers have so far sacrificed their lives in the farmers’ movement for which the Centre and state governments are responsible,” said Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja.Selja was in city on Friday to attend a function orgsnised to pay tributes to Baba Ram Singh and other farmers who sacrificed their lives in the farmers’ movement.“Farmers of the country have been forced to protest on the borders of the Capital for the last about three weeks in view of their legitimate demands, but the government is insensitive towards the plight of the farmers. Stakeholders and the Opposition were not consulted before the inaction of the three farm laws, which shows that the government has no faith in democracy,” said Selja. — TNS
19-12-2020||Parveen Arora||Thousands bid farewell to Karnal gurdwara head Sant Baba Ram Singh||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 18Thousands of followers bid a tearful adieu to Baba Ram Singh, spiritual preacher and head sewadar of Nanaksar gurdwara, at Singhra village on Friday.The last rites were performed on the gurdwara premises and the mortal remains consigned to flames with the chanting of prayers. Live-streaming was arranged for those who could not visit the gurdwara.Cops recover pistol, ‘belongs to follower’A note by Baba Ram Singh in his diary, written after his first visit to the Singhu border on December 9, was read by a preacher.In his diary, Baba Ram Singh had written that he was pained to see the problems being faced by farmers at the protest site amid the cold wave.The 68-year-old preacher had reportedly shot himself at the Singhu border on Wednesday evening. According to a handwritten note in Punjabi, purportedly left behind by him, he was unable to bear the pain of farmers.Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the government should learn a lesson and accept the demands of agitating farmers.“The government should learn from the sacrifice and accept the demands of farmers, which will be the true tribute to Baba Ram Singh and all farmers who had died during the stir,” he said.“Farmers are sitting peacefully and braving the cold under the open sky, but the government is not bothered. A democratically elected government should not take a stubborn attitude as there is no place for stubbornness in a democracy,” he said.Bibi Jagir Kaur, SGPC president, said Baba Ram Singh’s death was a big loss to humanity. “Babaji sacrificed his life to wake up the government as he could not bear the pain of farmers. If the government still does not accept their demands, it is a cruel government,” she said.Sanyukt Kisan Morcha members Manjeet Singh Rai, Baldev Singh Sirsa and others appealed to the farming community and others not to take the extreme step as they could not afford more sacrifices.“It is a big loss for society. We appeal to people not to take such a step. We will not go back till the laws are repealed,” said Rai.Sirsa said it was a wake-up call for the government and it should act immediately to avoid such incidents in the future.Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda, BKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni, Bhartiya Kisan Mazdoor Naujawan Union president Rajinder Dadupur and several MLAs paid their last respects to the preacher.
19-12-2020||---||Cops recover pistol, ‘belongs to follower’||Sonepat, December 18The police on Friday recovered a pistol, with which Nanaksar gurdwara head Baba Ram Singh reportedly shot himself at the Singhu border on Wednesday. The pistol belongs to one of his followers, the police have said.The cops also recovered another letter reportedly written by the gurdwara head. The letter’s content was no different from the one found in two letters recovered earlier from the gurdwara. In all three letters, he expressed anguish at the plight of farmers who, he said, were forced to protest in the cold because of Centre’s three farm laws.The first letter, 10 pages long, was written on December 14, two days before Baba Ram Singh reportedly committing suicide. The second letter, which went viral on social media after the incident, was written on December 16, Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said.“The handwriting in all three letters appeared to be that of Baba Ram Singh’s,” he said.Prima facie evidence recovered from the spot and the postmortem report indicated that Baba Ram Singh had committed suicide, the SP said, adding “as per the postmortem report, the bullet injury was found in his head and the shot was fired at point-blank range”.“The probe is underway. The police are probing the matter from all possible angles,” the Randhawa added.
19-12-2020||Ambala||Ajay Chautala bats for dialogue||JJP chief Ajay Chautala on Friday said the farmers’ issue should be resolved. He said instead of sitting on the road, farmers should find a solution through dialogue.He added the JJP had been in farmers’ support from the beginning. — TNS
19-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Former BJP minister Birender Singh supports agitation||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 18Describing the farmers’ demands as justified, former minister and senior BJP leader, Birender Singh on Friday not only expressed solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ agitation, but also announced to hold a symbolic hunger strike at state villages located on the Delhi border.Besides, he said an ‘Awareness Yatra’ under the banner of Chhotu Ram Vichar Manch (CRVM) would be taken out in support of the farmers’ stir.“Being peasant leader Ch Chhotu Ram’s grandson, it is my moral responsibility and duty to stand with the protesting farmers hence I along with my friends associated with the CRVM have decided not only to support the agitation but also to fight their battle,” said Singh while interacting with the media here on Friday.He said raising the farmers’ issues was not an anti-party activity and he would support the farmers’ while remaining in the party.To a question, the former minister said it was a decisive battle and the farmers were fighting it in a disciplined manner. “If leaders of the farmer unions let us speak, I along with my supporters will go to Tikri and Singhu borders to support the farmers. Dialogue is the only way to find a solution to the situation but it should be conclusive and will happen only after restoration of trust between leaders and the Centre,” he said.On being questioned that farmers and the Opposition were demanding the resignation of his son Brijendra Singh, who is a BJP MP from Hisar, he said Brijendra could reply to this question as per his political line over the issue.
19-12-2020||Gurugram||7-yr-old  abducted for Rs 50 lakh ransom rescued from Palwal||The Gurugram police have rescued a 7-year-old boy from kidnappers within 24 hours from Palwal.The police have arrested two of the accused, who had allegedly kidnapped the boy from Sector 65 area here in the hope of extracting a ransom of Rs50 lakh from his father to make quick money.The arrested accused have been identified as Vishnu (27) and Dharmbir (32) both of village Chaata in Mathura district in UP. The mastermind, identified as Jagdish, is still on large. The accused were living in a rented room near the boy’s house.“It was a planned abduction for ransom by the accused that came to Gurugram in the search of job around 13 days ago. They kidnapped the boy on Wednesday afternoon when he was playing outside his house. They took him to Palwal where they stayed in an old clinic building and contacted the victim’s father for ransom. Our crime branch teams conducted raids and nabbed two of the accused and rescued the child,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.According to the complaint filed by Balraj, resident of Ullahwas village, his son Jatin was kidnapped by unknown persons while playing outside his house. He told the police that the abductor contacted him for ransom. An FIR was registered at Sector 65 police station and the police swung into action.Six teams of crime unit were formed and raids were conducted. With the help of CCTV footage in which the accused were seen kidnapping the boy the police identified the accused and traced them.“The probe is on and raids are being conducted to nab the mastermind,” said ACP Sangwan. — OC
19-12-2020||Chandigarh||Protesting farmers launch bilingual paper ‘Trolley Times’||Recently, sitting in a trailer, a group of four youngsters discussed a Facebook post at the Singhu border. An old farmer, sitting next to them, quipped: “Oye mundiyo tusi parhe likhe lagde ho, saanu vi dass do ki ho reha”. Thus the idea of Trolley Times was born. Farmers’ own newspaper.Reporters were aplenty; an army of amateur photographers was ready with the feed, a trailer became their editing desk, and soon came out the first edition of 2,000 copies of four-page bilingual paper. It was an instant hit on Friday.“Looking at the response, we are going to print 10,000 copies of the next issue,” says Ajaypal Natt from Mansa, a physiotherapy teacher. He along with Surmeet Mavi, Gurdeep Singh and Narinder Bhinder conceived the idea. The name, Natt says, was floated by one of us just out of fun. “But we instantly picked that,” he says.The style of the paper, he says, will be conversational. “We want it to read like the discussions taking place in village sath (common place),” he says, adding “we have a platform now to counter all kind of trash being dished out by some sections of media.”The first issue of the paper carried Bhagat Singh’s quote on struggle; photographs from the centre of the struggle; story of a woman farmer, Gurmail Kaur, who died during the protest; some works of art and the lead article gave the message of unity, struggle and victory. The paperwas simultaneously launched digitally on all social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, etc.
