19-10-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  ||Manesar land scam: CBI court calls for expeditious hearing||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, October 19  The CBI Special Court, Haryana, has called for expeditious hearing in Manesar land scam involving former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, as no effective hearing could be carried out in the last 14 dates due to Covid pandemic. On the last hearing on October 15, neither the accused were present nor their lawyers. There are 34 accused parties in the case, including Hooda, former IAS officers and private firms. The court is located in Panchkula.  In the last hearing, CBI Special Judge Jagdeep Singh said that “since the matter pertains to case involving legislators and proceedings in such cases are to be conducted expeditiously, so notices be issued to the accused as well as their counsel to explore the possibility of conducting further proceedings through video conferencing, if physical hearing of the matters does not get fully functional”.  He added that in case physical hearing of the matters is made mandatory till the next date of hearing on November 16, then all the accused “shall positively” be present on the adjourned date. “It is made clear that effective hearing is to be started in such matters and accordingly parties to the list are directed to ensure participation in the proceedings of the matter either through physical mode or through virtual mode,” he said.  Recently, the apex court had also called for expeditious trial of sitting MLAs and MPs who are facing criminal cases.  In the Rs 1,500-crore Manesar land scam, besides Hooda, the CBI had filed chargesheet against former Principal Secretaries to CM ML Tayal and Chhattar Singh and then Director, Town and Country Planning, SS Dhillon under cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and the Prevention of Corruption Act.   A notification to acquire 912-acre and seven marlas land was issued under section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, on August 27, 2004 in Manesar, Lakhnaula and Naurangpur villages. Landowners in haste sold land at throwaway rates of Rs 20-25 lakh per acre.According to the CBI, when all the land had been grabbed from the land owners by land mafia under the threat of acquisition at meagre rates, an order was passed by the Director of Industries on August 24, 2007 for releasing the land in violation of government policy, in favour of the builders, their companies and agents, instead of the original land owners.  The CBI claims that the landowners suffered collective loss of Rs 1,500 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/manesar-land-scam-cbi-court-calls-for-expeditious-hearing-158080
19-10-2020||New Delhi||Kejriwal seeks monthly meetings with CMs of Haryana, UP, Punjab to curb air pollution||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal requested Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday to hold monthly meetings with the chief ministers of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh to curb air pollution, saying there was a lack of political will at the level of the states to address the issue.In a virtual press briefing, he said the affected states have been unable to reach an agreement to stop stubble burning and prevent air pollution. “I believe the pollution due to stubble burning can be controlled in a short span of time. But a lack of political will is visible in doing that,” he said.Kejriwal said the crop residue can be biodegraded or converted into biogas, coal and even cardboard. The paddy straw can be converted into compressed biogas or cooking coal which some factories are doing in Karnal in Haryana, he said, adding crop residue can be “converted into an opportunity” within a year, provided there are sharp timelines to move away from stubble burning.Kejriwal requested the Union environment minister to hold monthly meetings with the chief ministers of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, and Uttar Pradesh to find a solution to the deteriorating air in the National Capital Region. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kejriwal-seeks-monthly-meetings-with-cms-of-haryana-up-punjab-to-curb-air-pollution-158051
19-10-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana goes Punjab way, appoints ex-bureaucrat as chief principal secy to CM||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19Following in the footsteps of neighbouring Punjab, Haryana on Monday appointed retired bureaucrat DS Dhesi as the Chief Principal Secretary to the Haryana Chief Minister, a development that will change power equations within the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO).Dhesi, who remained state’s chief secretary for over four years having retired on June 30, 2019, yesterday resigned as the Chairman of the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) to take up the new assignment.Though terms of appointment of Dhesi are yet to be made public, it is expected that like  his Punjab counterpart Suresh Kumar, Dhesi would be “super boss” in the CMO with all the files meant for CM Manohar Lal Khattar being routed through him.In March 2017, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amrinder Singh had appointed retired IAS officer Suresh Kumar as his Chief PS even though state has a regular PS to Chief Minister (PSCM), a cadre post held by an IAS officer. Suresh Kumar is considered to be the power centre in the Punjab CMO.However, in Haryana the incumbent PSCM Rajesh Khullar is on his way out following his appointment as the Executive Director, World Bank, Washington. It would be interesting to see who succeeds Khullar and his role and powers in the wake of Dhesi’s appointment as Chief PS.Even though Dhesi joined today, a petition against Suresh Kumar’s appointment is still pending in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-goes-punjab-way-appoints-ex-bureaucrat-as-chief-principal-secy-to-cm-158041
19-10-2020||Panipat||Panipat admn forms panel to implement action plan||Following the directions of the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) to implement the graded response action plan (GRAP) in the NCR districts of the state, the district administration has constituted a team of the officers of various departments for proper implementation of GRAP here.EPCA chairman Bhure Lal has also sought day to day reports from the agencies concerned including the district administration and HSPCB.In the past 10 days, the air quality index (AQI) of the Textile City was recorded as very poor (above 300 on an average).According to sources, EPCA chairman Bhure Lal had visited ‘Textile City’ last month to inspect the sources of environment pollution and also held a meeting with the district administrative officers here and directed them to control the menace.The EPCA chairman had directed the state to implement the measures to check air pollution. The EPCA and CPCB-led task force will review the situation regularly, sources added.Following the EPCA direction, Deputy Commissioner Dharmender Singh has constituted a joint team of 18 departments to implement GRAP.The DC directed the MCP to increase the frequency of mechanised cleaning of roads, sprinkling of water on roads, to identify the points of dust generation and to penalise the violators.The DC directed the officers to check and stop the burning of illegal fuels in industries and directed the Agriculture Department and Development and Panchayat Department to ensure monitoring of crop residue burning. Kamaljeet Singh, RO, HSPCB, said that as per the direction of the EPCA, the DC has fixed the duties of various departments for proper implementation of GRAP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-admn-forms-panel-to-implement-action-plan-157881
19-10-2020||Karnal||Farm laws will give economic freedom to farmers: Dhankar||BJP state president and former Agriculture Minister OP Dhankar on Sunday referred to the three new agri-related laws as “economic freedom for the farmers”.He said that these three laws would prove beneficial to the farming community.“The laws will ensure the economic freedom of farmers. No farmers’ unit has been able to find out any flaw in these laws,” he said after a programme at Dr Mangal Sen Auditorium to mark the birth anniversary of Maharishi Valmiki here.The state president told mediapersons that the market committees would continue to function and the farmers would get MSP. He said that the government has been purchasing the produce of the farmers at MSP and farmers should not be afraid of these laws.About the Baroda byelections, he said that all the candidates have filed their nominations and they have started campaigning. “Earlier, the seat was with the Congress, but this time, the BJP-JJP candidate will secure victory from the seat,” he said.Earlier, while addressing the gathering, he said, “The Ramayana written by Maharishi Valmiki teaches us about the bonding among brothers. While Bharat was a true brother, Hanuman was a true ‘sewak’.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-laws-will-give-economic-freedom-to-farmers-dhankar-157883
19-10-2020|| ||'Saakshar' launched for needy pupils||Gurugram: The M3M foundation has launched 'Saakshar' to support students from marginalised sections of society by providing them with scholarships. Under the initiative, 4,000 pupils in a year will be awarded scholarships, which will enable them to build their careers. Launched via a online platform, the programme covers students from primary to higher education level. They will be imparted elementary digital literacy skills under the programme. Abha Singh, a social activist and former civil servant, was the guest of honour on the occasion. Roop Bansal, director, M3M, awarded scholarships to 45 students in the presence of Dr Payal Kanodia, trustee, M3M foundation; Aishwarya Bansal, trustee, M3M; Mohit Chadha, managing trustee, M3M; Dr Aishwarya Mahajan, director, Livelihood Education at Aide et Action International; Radhika Anand, founder of Plantology; Seema Kaushik, Deputy Director, Department of Employment, Haryana; KC Pant, CEO, Raasta NGO; and Prof Sudhir Sinha, IRMA, Founder Director - CSR Inc, & Founder Trustee - CSR Foundation.Webinar to mark World Food DayHisar: The department of food technology, the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar, organised a series of events, including a webinar, on the occasion of World Food Day. The theme this year was 'Grow, nourish, sustain together'. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice Chancellor was the chief guest and emphasised on minimising food waste, uniform utilisation of food and healthy food habits. Dr Avnesh Verma, Registrar, also elucidated on the importance of food habits. Seven events, including recipe rally, foodography, extempore, slogan writing, best out of waste, food quiz and short video competition, were organised. Students from different universities like UPES, Dehradun, Pondicherry University, University of Agriculture, Dharwad, and Kurukshetra University participated in the events.GJUST organises online GDHisar: The Training and Placement Cell of the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST), Hisar, organised an online group discussion (GD) under its fortnightly virtual speakathon programme. Over 27 students from various departments participated in it. Topics for group discussion included "vocal for local: How effective is this slogan?", "farm bills 2020: Will it break the glass ceiling?", "Should celebrities be allowed to join politics?" and "India needs a uniform civil code- For or against?" The parameters on which students were judged included their knowledge on the subject, communications skills, body language, inter-personal skills and their ability to take initiatives. Nishith Shubhankar and Sangeeta secured first position, Muskan (second), Shayna (third), Dhruv Grover and Manisha (fourth) and Parshant (fifth). Unnati did the anchoring and Nitya was the student co-ordinator. Prof Shabnam Saxena, Dean, the Haryana School of Business, was the chief guest and said these types of events enhanced communication skills, confidence and contributed to the overall development of an individual. She said it also reflected one's personality and one's presence of mind. Dr Taruna added it helped gauge the knowledge base of the candidate, besides confidence and communication skills. Vivek Kumar said one must be sure of the point he or she was trying to put forward, adding that group discussion was not a debate. Aditya Vir Singh, Assistant Director, Training & Placement Cell, said the programme was part of the Udhbhavna' s module, which started three years ago. It was started to groom the skills of students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/saakshar-launched-for-needy-pupils-157884
19-10-2020||Faridabad||Tune in to ‘Radio Maharani’ in Faridabad||Workshop to teach girls to fight backAmbala: A self-defence programme for girls, ‘Meri Bhawna’, was launched in Tangail village, Mullana Assembly constituency, on Saturday. The programme has been launched in association with the Haryana Sports Karate Association. Workshops will be held at various villages of the Mullana constituency to teach self-defence techniques to girls till the year-end. Mullana MLA Varun Chaudhry, who has taken the initiative, said: “With the changing times, safety of women and girls has become a concern. It is important for girls to learn techniques of self-defence. Training will be imparted from October 17 to December 31.” Varun said he would bear the expenses of the programme. Any girl aged above six could participate in the programme. The decision had been taken keeping in view the alleged Hathras incident. As many as 54 girls got registered on the Day 1 of the programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tune-in-to-radio-maharani-in-faridabad-157885
19-10-2020||AT a time when farmers have been unable to sell their produce||Stray cattle destroy paddy||Chandi Mandir must get dueThe old Chandi Mandir, ahead of Old Panchkula on Kalka road, continues to be nestled in oblivion, except a plaque commemorating the city beautiful, which has been taken after its name. It deserves to be accorded its lost glory by developing the surroundings as a tourist and picnic destination. Proper boarding, lodging and recreational facilities must be set up at the earliest.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaBroken road has elderly in despairIwould like to highlight the miserable condition of road from Amaravati to DLF valley, Panchkula. Along the road are the residences of senior retired army officers, bureaucrats and a number of senior citizens. For the last many months, the residents have been facing inconveniences travelling through this potholed, broken road. This small stretch of road, of less than 1 km, is the main and only link to the DLF valley complex from main Kalka highway. We have approached the authorities concerned, but it seems all we have been meted out with is false promises. I want to request the authorities concerned to take urgent action for re-carpeting the road.Col KJ Singh (Retd), PanchkulaKaithal city square project hangs fireThe city square project at old bus stand site worth Rs 14 crore is hanging fire seven years after its inauguration. The project was started by then Kaithal Congress MLA Randeep Singh Surjewala. The MLA had planned to shift all banks operating in various parts of the town to city square after its completion. It has been marred with obstacles at many stages of its execution, as residents and some councillors had pointed out grave irregularities and blamed contractor and municipal council officials of conniving with one another for monetary gains. Following that, the CM flying squad lodged an FIR against some council officials and the contractor in March 2018. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced to restart the construction of this project, but nothing has been done on the ground. The government should restart and complete this project at the earliest. Satish Seth, KaithalPotholed road causing traffic jamsThe busy road, on which there is an entry gate welcoming visitors to Panchkula, is dotted with potholes, resulting in road mishaps and traffic jams. The said gate was inaugurated with much fanfare about a year back. The authorities concerned should immediately take corrective action, as the road has become a blot on the city's face. Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-cattle-destroy-paddy-157934
19-10-2020||---||750 youth have got jobs: MP||Panipat, October 18Ramesh Kaushik, Member of Parliament, on Sunday said the byelection was very important for the Baroda constituency and people had made up their mind to vote for development.He said previous governments had ignored the constituency and even potable water was not available for people, but the BJP government had started development works in the segment.Kaushik was interacting with mediapersons at the BJP election office in Gohana. Former Transport Minister Krishan Lal Panwar and Lalit Batra were also present during the media briefing.Kaushik said the BJP government had started work on providing basic amenities. He said the government had announced upgrade of Janta College in Butana to a university and approved two girls’ colleges in the area.He said the government had decided to establish an IMT and a rice mill in the area, construct roads and provide drinking water at the doorstep in the constituency.Taking a dig at previous governments, Kaushik said they had only remained busy in providing jobs and transferring employees.He said the BJP government had given government jobs to capable youth in a transparent manner and had been transferring employees through its online transfer policy without any discrimination. He pointed out that 750 youth had got jobs ahead of the Baroda bypoll.Kaushik said the byelection would affect neither any party nor the government, but the main motive of the electoral exercise was development of the constituency.He said people of the Baroda constituency understood that if they voted for an opposition party, their constituency would contine to lag in development.Appealing to people to elect BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt, Kaushik said all communities had adopted him. He said two national highways would pass through the constituency, which would play an important role in its development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/750-youth-have-got-jobs-mp-157737
19-10-2020||---||Om Prakash Chautala among star campaigners for INLD||Chandigarh, October 18The Congress and INLD have released lists of 30 star campaigners each for the November 3 Baroda byelection.While Haryana Congress in charge Vivek Bansal leads the Congress list, which comprises Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Kumari Selja, among others; former Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala leads the INLD list.The prominent names in the Congress list include Randeep Surjewala, Kuldeep Bishnoi, Deepender Hooda, Kiran Choudhry, Ajay Yadav, Govind Singh Dotasara, Harinder Malik, Ashish Dua, Virender Rathore, Dharampal Malik, Phool Chand Mullana, Raghubir Singh Kadian, Kuldeep Sharma and Geeta Bhukkal.Jagbir Malik, Shakuntla Khatak, Jaiveer Balmiki, BB Batra, Rajender Joon, Dharam Singh Chhokar, Kuldeep Vats, Shamsher Singh Gogi, Surinder Panwar, Subhash Deswal Gangoli, Ashok Arora, Chakravarti Sharma and Anil Saini have also been included in the Congress list.Besides Chautala, four other members of his family — Abhay Chautala, Sunaina Chautala, Arjun Chautala and Karan Chautala — also figure in the INLD list.Nafe Singh Rathi, Prakash Bharati, MS Malik, RS Chaudhry, Naresh Saran, Om Prakash Barwa, Sumitra Devi, Naresh Sharma, Inder Singh and Raj Kumar Balmiki are other prominent campaigners in INLD list.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/om-prakash-chautala-among-star-campaigners-for-inld-157738
19-10-2020||---||BJP getting UP leaders to counter Hooda: Congress||New Delhi, October 18Senior Congress leader from Haryana and former national president of National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) Subhash Chaudhary on Sunday said the Baroda byelection would be a test of the popularity of the Khattar government in the state.“Going by the army of leaders the BJP has drafted to campaign for the bypoll, the BJP has compelled the people to believe that it is going all out at Baroda,” Chaudhary claimed. “The BJP has gone to the extent of roping in leaders from Uttar Pradesh to counter the popularity and hold of former CM BS Hooda in the area,” Chaudhary added.The Congress would win the byelection under the leadership of Hooda, Chaudhary added.He said that the BJP should have learnt from its “humbling experience” in Delhi Assembly elections where its campaign came a cropper.All sections of society, especially the farmers, working class and youth, in Haryana are reeling under the “misrule” of the BJP-JJP government, he alleged.The three farm laws are the latest provocation. The government should repeal them, Chaudhary added. He said the Congress is also capable of unleashing a large number of workers for the campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-getting-up-leaders-to-counter-hooda-congress-157739
19-10-2020||rveen Arora
||Karnal farmers make money from crop residue||Tribune News Service Karnal, October 18 Amid the rising number of stubble burning cases in the district, a number of farmers are utilising crop residue to make money instead of setting it on fire. They are selling the crop leftovers at the crop residue collection centres set up at various villages by groups of farmers, who further sell the paddy straw and fodder to various states like Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi and also to various gaushalas after making their bundles and crushing the straw into dry fodder. This fodder is used for livestock feed as well as in various industries like cardboard, brick kiln and others. The farmers are getting Rs 2,500-3,000 per acre for paddy straw which is being sold further to other states. “I have sold paddy straw I got from 10 acres at the centre developed by group of farmers. Earlier, I used to set it on fire,” said Sahil, a farmer. Farmers are adopting the manual method of harvesting instead of getting their crop harvested with the help of combine to get better price for their produce.  The farmers say it would help in meeting the demand of dry fodder in the summer. “I used to get my crop harvested with the help of combine. But the paddy harvested with combine get less price in mandi due to breakage of grains. The paddy harvested manually fetches a good price. So, I started manual harvesting. Manually, the straw of paddy is cut from almost the bottom of the straw, leaving no residue to be burnt,” said Vikram Rana, a farmer and owner of a crop residue management centre at Nigdhu village. He said that this season, a large number of farmers have shifted to manual harvesting, instead of getting the crop harvested with the help of combines. Jatinder Kumar, another farmer, said that there are 10 centres between Nilokheri and Nigdhu which procure paddy straw and further sell it to other states. Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director Agriculture (DDA), said that the manual practice was environment friendly and farmers should earn profit from the straw instead of burning it. He said that as many as 25 ex-situ bailer implements for crop residue management have been given to farmers on subsidy this season. They are using those to make bundles of crop residue. Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav appreciated the farmers who have been using the eco-friendly method for managing crop residue as well as earning profit. “Panchayats have been roped in to check stubble burning cases. Sarpanch and secretary will be suspended if five or more fire incidents are reported from the village,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-farmers-make-money-from-crop-residue-157740
19-10-2020||---||Don’t use banned fuels, industrialists warned||Karnal, October 18Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), Karnal region, has warned industrialists not to use illegal or banned fuel in industries.It has issued directions to all the industrial units having boiler/furnace telling them not to use any illegal or banned fuel like rubber, polythene, solid waste garbage, leather shoes, slippers, plastic bottles etc. Otherwise, the industry would be sealed and a fine would be imposed.Besides, the HSPCB has also asked them to make sure their pollution control devices are in running mode.Around 300 out of the total of 400 units have submitted their undertaking, assuring the HSPCB that they would adhere to all the guidelines of the board to contribute in reducing pollution.“We have issued directions to all the industrial units to use only legal fuels like bio-mass, diesel, coal, wood, gas etc. They have also been directed not to use banned fuel which contributes in environmental pollution,” said SK Arora, Regional Officer, HSPCB, Karnal region.Most of the industrial associations have given their consent to follow the directions and the remaining will submit it a day or two.These industrial units have also announced a reward for information about violating industrialists using illegal fuel. He said that due to wind velocity and less humidity in the past two days, the air quality index (AQI) has improved in the district. While it was 259 on Friday, it reached 125 on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-use-banned-fuels-industrialists-warned-157741
19-10-2020||Nitish Sharma||12 years on, Patvi waste plant to restart operations||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 18The work for the bio-remediation of legacy waste (old waste), which is estimated to be over 5.5 lakh tonnes, at Patvi plant in Ambala is likely to start within a month.The plant was started in 2008 at a cost of Rs 12 crore to treat 70 metric tonnes of solid waste daily. It was shut down shortly after its inauguration as the Union Ministry of Environment did not give clearance to the project.About bio-remediationBesides treating the waste, the plant was set up to generate 5 MW power and produce organic fertiliser from the waste for which the Municipal Corporation had signed an Operation and Management agreement with a Delhi-based company.As the plant failed to produce good quality organic fertiliser, it turned out be a loss-making entity. A series of objections and litigation cropped up between the company and the corporation. The legal battle was won by the corporation in 2017 and the government decided to transform the plant into an integrated waste-to-energy plant, but the project never took off.The municipal corporation had floated the tenders in 2017, 2018 and then in 2019, but got poor response. In the absence of adequate bids, the tenders were cancelled.Since the plant is lying defunct, waste in the past 12 years has got piled up and there are over 5.5 lakh tonnes of legacy waste.On the condition of anonymity, an official said, “There are instructions from the National Green Tribunal that the legacy waste needs to be disposed of by April 2021. A tender was floated for bio-remediation of the legacy waste which has been allotted.”Patvi plant is an important project for the district as it will help the district in managing nearly 300 tonnes of waste that is being collected and dumped daily at the plant spread on 17 acres.Commissioner, Ambala Municipal Corporation, Parth Gupta said, “As the plant is defunct, waste over the past 12 years has piled up there. For the bio-remediation of the legacy waste, a Rs 30 crore tender has been allotted recently. The firm has said that it will start work within a month, but we have asked it to get it started at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-years-on-patvi-waste-plant-to-restart-operations-157742
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||Cases cross 1.5L mark in Haryana||With 952 fresh cases, the Covid tally crossed the 1.5 lakh mark on Sunday. No death was reported in the last 24 hours. Gurugram reported a maximum of 249 cases, followed by Faridabad (177), Hisar (133) and Mahendragarh (53). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cases-cross-1-5l-mark-in-haryana-157743
19-10-2020||---||Haryana launches mobile testing lab to ensure potable water||New Delhi, October 18Haryana has emerged as the Union Jal Shakti Ministry’s pin-up state for its “innovative” approach for water testing which furthers the Centre’s mission to provide every household with regular and safe potable water under its Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM).State-of-the-art facilityHaryana has launched a state-of-the-art “Mobile Water Testing Laboratory Van” which is fully equipped with multi-parameter system having an ensemble of high-definition analysers, sensors and probes and instruments.Regular water testing in Haryana is imperative as diachronic hydrological studies point to various parts of the state being affected mainly by constituents like total dissolved solids (TDS), fluoride, nitrate, iron and alkalinity. The JJM aims to provide tap water connection to every rural household by 2024.“Taking cognisance of the pressing need for water testing, the Haryana Government has come up with a novel approach for water testing,” the Jal Shakti Ministry said while referring to the mobile laboratory van and singling the state as an exemplar.“It will be stationed at the State Water Testing Laboratory, Karnal, and its area of operation will be throughout the state, Rajiv Batish, Director of Water and Sanitations Organisation, Public Health Engineering Department, Haryana, said.The salience of the laboratory include its deployment onsite for effective management and quick access to water test reports in the exigency of outbreak of water-borne disease. Besides, they can also be used for counter checking of quality of testing from all laboratories.The laboratory van is GPS enabled for location tracking and the analysed sample data can be transmitted to a centralised PHED server via GPRS or 3G connectivity with power backup.Its feature include ability to provides on-site recording and reporting of results through a smart phone or a similar device with the ability to send results directly to a web-based secure central server.It has a fully automated sensor-based analysis controlled by centrally commanded software. The LED display unit in the mobile lab gives an instant display of the results immediately after analysis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-launches-mobile-testing-lab-to-ensure-potable-water-157746
19-10-2020||Hisar||Former HSSC member in Congress fold||Harsh Mohan Bhardwaj, a former member of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) who had hit the headlines on being threatened of beheading by CM Manohar Lal Khattar during a ‘Jan Aashirwad Yatra’ in September 2019, joined the Congress at a public meeting of Rajya Sabha member Deepender Singh Hooda here today. As Khattar was wielding a ‘farsa’ presented to him during the yatra, Bhardwaj, who was considered close to the CM, tried to place a silver crown on his head. Khattar got annoyed and threatened to behead Bhardwaj.  Khattar later clarified that the BJP regime had ended the practice of silver and gold crowns and he was annoyed as their supporter was still trying to do that. Bhardwaj, who went into oblivion after that episode, resurfaced at a function in Barwala on Saturday, where he tied a silver crown to Deepender’s head. He claimed that he had extended support to the Congress MP on being invited by him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-hssc-member-in-congress-fold-157747
19-10-2020||---||Karnal MC issues notice to construction agency||Karnal, October 18The Municipal Corporation (MC) has served a notice to a construction agency allegedly for delay in laying storm water drain lines and installing rainwater harvesting systems in the city. The authorities have asked the agency to submit a reply within a week, otherwise a penalty of 10 per cent of the total project would be imposed on it. The project is worth Rs 84 crore.Under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), three agencies were assigned the work of water supply, storm water drain lines, water harvesting systems, intermediate pumping stations and construction of various sewerage treatment plants. A Delhi-based agency was assigned the work of laying storm water drain lines, four rainwater harvesting systems and three intermediate pumping stations worth around Rs 84 crore, said Municipal Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav.The deadline of the project was September 2019, but it had been extended to March 2020 and later due to lockdown it was extended to September, but even after missing two deadlines, the company had laid 31,963 metres of storm water drain lines out of total 37,634 metres, while the work on all four rainwater harvesting systems in Jhanjhari, Uchana, Dholgarh and Saidpura and that on intermediate pumping stations at Meri Ghati, Saidpura, and at Sector 4 were yet to be completed.The Municipal Commissioner said to provide potable drinking water to villages falling under the MC, a project costing around Rs 13.05 crore was initiated, under which a water supply line of around 49 km was to be laid, of which around 45 km line had been laid. Five pumps have also been installed at Uchana, Daha, Jagir, Phoosgarh and Jarifa Viran and around 6,340 water connection has been given.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-mc-issues-notice-to-construction-agency-157748
19-10-2020||Panipat||Former Sonepat MLA Devraj Diwan dies||Devraj Diwan, former two-time MLA and senior Congress leader from Sonepat, died on Sunday afternoon after a prolonged illness. He was 78.Diwan was admitted to a private hospital this morning due to some throat infection. His condition deteriorated and he breathed his last at 3 pm. He had been elected as Independent MLA in 1996 and 2000. He had contested the election on Congress ticket in 2014. He had contested the parliamentary election in 2009 as well. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-sonepat-mla-devraj-diwan-dies-157749
19-10-2020||Palwal||Half-burnt body of unidentified man found in Palwal||The police have found a half-burnt body from Katcha Raasta in Panduvan Colony here this morning.The cops alleged that the deceased, aged around 40, was suspected to have been murdered before he was burnt adjacent to fields near Panduvan colony early this morning. The police officials reached the spot around 8 am when some locals informed them about the incident.“The deceased had suffered more than 60 per cent burn injuried. The body has been kept in a mortuary after autopsy. A probe is underway to identify the deceased and the culprits,” said Mohammed Ilyas SHO, Hodal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/half-burnt-body-of-unidentified-man-found-in-palwal-157750
19-10-2020||
||MC in line of fire over waste dumping site||Faridabad, October 18 Lalit Nagar, a former MLA from Tigaon Assembly segment here, has extended support to the ongoing agitation against the setting up of a waste dumping site in Sector 74. The site is close to various residential sectors and villages located in the Greater Faridabad area. Nagar, who reached the spot today, where a sit-in (dharna) has been on for the past week, said that the proposal of the municipal corporation (MC) to set up a garbage dumping yard close to residential areas was wrong. It would not be allowed at any cost, he said.  Charging the authorities concerned of taking a unilateral decision, he asked how a waste dump site could be set up in a residential pocket. It is against all norms, he said. Alleging gross failure of the state and district administration to address the issue of garbage disposal in the industrial city, he said while several crores spent by the civic body over the past six years have gone waste, the civic body was still struggling to resolve the waste disposal crisis.  Claiming that Faridabad had emerged as one of the most polluted cities, he said the Smart City project was just an eyewash.  Charging the ruling BJP leaders and MLAs of ignoring public interest issues, Nagar said that it had led to severe resentment among the people. The dharna was launched soon after a mahapanchayat was held here on October 11. A committee representing the residents of the villages of Sihi, Mirjapur, Mujheri and Neemka and the Residents Welfare Associations of sectors 75, 76, 77 and Neharpar Vikas Morcha had said that the waste site would result in acute air and water pollution. The residents had not been consulted by the MC before taking this move, the committee said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mc-in-line-of-fire-over-waste-dumping-site-157751
19-10-2020||---||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar promises CBI probe into banker’s murder||Chandigarh, October 18Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday announced that Yes Bank official Dheeraj Ahlawat’s murder case would be handed over to the CBI. He said no one would be allowed to take the law into their own hand.He interacted with the representatives of Ahlawat Khap of Dighal village, Jhajjar district, regarding the murder case of Dheeraj Ahlawat in Gurugram. On the demand of the Khap, the Chief Minister assured to get the investigation done by the CBI.A case was registered on August 6, 2020, at the police station of Sector 50, Gurugram, in the Dheeraj Ahlawat murder case and the SIT is currently investigating the matter. The representatives of the Khap thanked the Chief Minister for his assurance of a CBI inquiry, said the government spokesperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-promises-cbi-probe-into-bankers-murder-157753
19-10-2020||---||2 die in road mishap in Yamunanagar dist||Yamunanagar, October 18Two persons were killed when the motorcycle they were riding was hit by an unidentified vehicle near Damla village in Yamunanagar district on Saturday.The deceased were identified as Mohit Kumar of Banukheri village in Saharanpur district of Uttar Pradesh and Mintu of Dabkauli village in Saharanpur district.On the complaint of Rohit of Banukheri village, a case was registered against the unidentified driver under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC at the Yamunanagar Sadar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-die-in-road-mishap-in-yamunanagar-dist-157754
19-10-2020||Hisar||Two of family die in accident||A 50-year-old man and his 18-year-old son were killed while the man’s 48-year-old wife was injured in a road accident near Sisai village in the district on Sunday.Surajmal, his wife Bala Devi and their son Ankush were returning to their village on a motorcycle which was hit by a truck. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-of-family-die-in-accident-157755
19-10-2020||Ravinder Saini
||Arhtiyas from across state to protest in Rohtak today||Tribune News Service Rohtak, October 18 Commission agents at vegetable markets across the state are up in arms against the state government for doubling the market fee on sale of fruit and vegetables from 1 per cent to 2 per cent. They have decided to organise a state-level protest in Rohtak on October 19 over the market fee hike. “The  state government levied 1 per cent market fee on May 1 when the state was under  lockdown. Though we were passing through a difficult phase due to the pandemic, we  started depositing the fee,” said Sonu Chhabra, vice-president of the Haryana  Sabji Mandi Arhtiyas Association. “After four months, the government doubled the market  fee  without giving any valid reason, causing acute resentment among commission   agents across the state,” he said. He said arhtiyas had called upon Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, Agriculture Minister JP  Dalal and state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar, demanding removal of the market fee hike, but nothing had been done in this regard so far. “The BJP is in power in Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. The Madhya Pradesh Government has reduced the market fee from 1.75 per cent to 0.5 per cent in view of the pandemic,” Chhabra pointed out. “Instead of giving us any relief, the Haryana  Government has doubled the market fee. We are against  this discrimination and demand 0.5 per cent market fee on the lines of Madhya Pradesh,” he said. He stated that the protest would be attended by commission agents from Sirsa, Hisar, Fatehabad, Jind, Rewari, Gurugram, Mahendragarh, Sonepat and Rohtak districts. “We will submit a memorandum against the market fee hike to former Cooperative Minister Manish Grover and the Deputy Commissioner,” he added. Chhabra said they organised meetings at vegetable markets in Sampla and Jhajjar on Sunday and commission agents assured them of participation in the demonstration. “The hike in market fee should be rolled back as it is promoting tax evasion and putting an extra burden on customers,” said a commission agent in Rohtak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arhtiyas-from-across-state-to-protest-in-rohtak-today-157756
19-10-2020||Baldev Singh Dhillon & VS Sohu||Farmers need to be convinced, incentivised||PADDY residue management (PRM) technology is being adopted by farmers at a rate slower than that expected by policy planners. The incidence of farm fires after paddy harvesting in 2019 did not decrease significantly in spite of an appreciable support by the government for popularising farm machinery for the management of paddy residue. These included machines for retention on surface in the field (Happy Seeder and Super SMS-fitted combine), incorporation in the field (chopper, mould board plough and rotavator), and removal from the field (straw baler) of paddy residue. Punjab’s farmers, though known for their keenness to adopt new technologies, neither showed the expected positive response to the advocacy and incentives, nor yielded to other measures adopted by the government.There is no denying the fact that the alternative technology offered to farmers is disruptive in the sense of being contrary to what they have been practising, but the same farming community had rapidly adopted the technology offered to them in the late 1960s that helped the nation in increasing foodgrain production — the unparalleled feat of the Green Revolution (GR). It would be a learning experience to compare these technologies.Productivity advantageGR: The semi-dwarf varieties of wheat and paddy had a distinct (at least 30%) grain yield advantage over the existing varieties. This made it easier to convince the farmers to adopt these varieties, even though their grain type and appearance were not acceptable.PRM: Paddy residue management technology has more of ‘ecological’ benefit with no crop productivity/monetary advantage. Rather, it may have a little productivity penalty in some initial years. Farmers are very well aware and do understand the environmental and health consequences of residue burning as well as the long-term benefit of residue retention/incorporation on soil health and productivity. However, their immediate concern is to achieve higher productivity and livelihood.Investment issuesGR: A farmer could start with a few kilos of seed of the high-yielding variety (HYV); once satisfied, he could scale it up. There were practically no risks once the technology was refined and adapted. The HYVs were able to achieve higher productivity in almost all farmers’ fields due to wider adaptability. Further, the farmer did not have to invest much to shift from one to a better HYV. The higher grain yield potential of GR varieties led to higher productivity and profitability, and tempted the farmers to invest more in farm development and inputs like farm machinery, irrigation facilities, application of fertilisers, etc.PRM: Over the years, farmers have got used to a convenient method of disposal of paddy residue through burning without any cost. On the other hand, the PRM machines are costly. Further, most of the machines are large and for their operation, high-powered tractors are needed, the purchase of which will render the already available tractors useless. Landholdings of farmers have become smaller over time and they cannot afford costly machines. Though custom-hiring is being promoted, there is no surety of getting enough customers, as it happened during 2019. The purchase of costly machines and the use of high-powered tractors will add to the input costs and lower the profit margins of the farmer. Further, most of the machines do not have universal application. With evolving technology, better machines will become available but it is costly to shift from one machine to the other. Thus, in spite of subsidies, the new technology did not embolden the farmer to make heavy investment.Supporting roleGR: The adoption of semi-dwarf varieties of wheat and rice was facilitated by the availability of matching crop production technology (e.g. herbicide Machete for weed control in rice) and farm machinery (e.g. drummy threshers for wheat threshing).PRM: Though several farm machines for residue management are available, the supporting technology to facilitate the operation of these machines (e.g. microbes for rapid biodegradation) is not yet available.Government assistanceGR: The GR technology was cheaper, yet the government provided very strong policy support and incentives driven by the concern for national food security. These included remunerative support price, assured procurement, development of irrigation facilities, supply of fertilisers at subsidised rates, road and marketing infrastructure, electrification, input credit, etc.PRM: Subsidy is being provided to purchase machines. But multi-pronged policy support and government interventions are earnestly needed. One should not expect that only the development of machines will solve residue management issues.Technology refinementGR: The PAU developed and released the first semi-dwarf wheat variety PV 18 in 1966. Farmers were convinced of its yielding ability but being red-grained, they reluctantly adopted it, envisaging problems in the consumption and disposal of produce. The real breakthrough came when PAU released the first amber-grained semi-dwarf wheat variety Kalyan in 1967, later named Kalyansona. This variety was adopted swiftly by farmers due to its amber grain and it continued to rule for the next more than 10 years.The bottlenecks in the cultivation of these varieties were addressed by the simultaneous refinements in the production technologies. To address poor germination due to shorter coleoptiles, shallower sowing depth was advocated. The dates of sowing and scheduling of the first irrigation (coinciding with the crown root initiation stage) were also modified.In the case of paddy, after the initial failure of IR 8, farmers were advised to sow the nursery one month earlier, in about mid-May, and a system was developed to provide electricity for early sowing of the nursery since there used to be power shortage at that time. The results were wonderful: early sown crop yielded up to 7-8 tonnes/hectare compared to about 3 tonnes/hectare of the indigenous varieties. Thus began Punjab’s march towards become an important paddy-growing state.PRM: Refinements are being made in various machines to take care of the limitations and drawbacks noticed in their adoption under different situations. As several stakeholders are involved in this exercise, there has been a multiplicity of machines and terminology (Happy Seeder, Turbo Seeder, Super Seeder, King Seeder, mulcher/chopper/ shredder, etc.). This has added to the confusion and made it difficult for the farmers to decide which machine to buy. Consequently, farmers have adopted a wait-and-watch approach till a refined machine becomes available.An overview of the trends in the adoption of GR technology gives us a cue that the adoption of residue management technology is likely to pick up with their fine-tuning/refinement but more importantly with increased and consistent government support to financially enable farmers to adopt the technology. Farmers need to be convinced, motivated and incentivised.The authors are, respectively, Vice Chancellor and Principal Wheat Breeder, Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, PAU, LudhianaTech choices matterPaddy residue management warrants different technologies for different situations, e.g. different machines are needed for baling, mulching etc. The choice of the machine is also influenced by other factors, such as the succeeding crop, soil type (heavy or light), residual soil moisture after paddy harvest, residue load, etc. In contrast, the Green Revolution technology was a sort of one-size-fits-all that was relevant to one and all. It could be adopted irrespective of the farm size, soil type, etc., thereby benefiting all kinds of farmers — small, medium or large.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-need-to-be-convinced-incentivised-157850
19-10-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana mulls quota for sarpanches||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18After announcing 50 per cent reservation for women in panchayat elections, Haryana is now mulling reservation for one category of the backward classes among the sarpanches.The Backward Classes (A) category could be given reservation in proportion to their population, sources said. While the Backward Classes category has 27 per cent reservation, the BC (A) category has 16 per cent reservation and the BC (B) category has 11 per cent reservation. The BC (A) category is more backward than the BC (B).The sources said 16 per cent seats among the sarpanches will be reserved for BC (A).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-mulls-quota-for-sarpanches-157796
