19-11-2020||Chandigarh||2,212 fresh COVID-19 cases, 20 more deaths in Haryana||Haryana on Thursday reported 2,212 fresh COVID-19 cases, pushing the caseload to 2,09,251, while 20 more fatalities took the death toll to 2,113.Of the fresh deaths, four were from Hisar, three each from hardest-hit Gurugram and Faridabad, two each from Rewari, Sirsa and Bhiwani, while one death each was reported from Jind, Kurukshetra, Panchkula and Ambala, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Among the districts which reported the biggest spike in cases included Gurugram (645), Faridabad (489), Hisar (162), Sonepat (130) and Rewari (106).The number of active cases in the state currently stands at 19,579 while the recovery rate was 89.63 per cent. PTI
19-11-2020||Sanjay Yadav||As Delhi caps guest list to 50, function organisers make beeline to Gurugram venues||Gurugram, November 19With the Delhi government again limiting number of attendees in social gatherings, including weddings, to 50, party hosts are making a beeline to Gurugram venues which are allowed to have 200 guests.The declaration by Delhi government came as blessing in disguise for the city venue owners who had been struggling with Covid-induced economic woes and many had even shut their premises.The venues are now getting booking requests for wedding functions starting November 25. Majority of these requests have come in from those who had planned functions in aero city hotels and Chattarpur resorts and farm houses.“I had virtually shut my marriage lawn which is meant for over 300 people. We had no booking even this season but suddenly we are flooded with calls from Delhi residents who are ready to pay double for plate price. We now have back-to-back five big bookings,” said Alok Yadav, owner of a wedding garden on CRPF Road, Sector 12.“Majority of Gurugram residents too had gone ahead booking in aero city owing to competitive prices but now everybody is back. We have booked all available venues in hotel in last two days,” revealed banquet manager of a high-end hotel in Udyog vihar.Majority of people are seeking bookings for November 25, 27 and 30, December 9, 10 and 11. With many venues already booked, people have now gone as far as Manesar to seek substitutes. While venue owners have rejoiced, the function organisers are a harried lot.“My daughter was to be married on November 30. Nearly 150 guests are coming in and now this has happened at the last moment. I had booked premium venue in Chattarpur and paid minimum price of 100 plates. Now I am changing venue to Gurugram Sector 29 hotel. Paying double for plate and not getting refund here,” said Suresh Aggarwal, a Sector 14 resident.
19-11-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Three robbers who gunned down MNC executive in Gurugram arrested||Almost two weeks after the brutal gunning down of a 26-year-old techie while on a drive with her fiancée, Gurugram police have nabbed the three robbers.They have also confessed to the murder of a 28-year-old export house employee, Gaurav, who was shot dead by them in a drunken brawl on Diwali night in Gandhi Nagar area.The accused are involved in at least three murders and over 100 cases of robbery and snatching in the city, police said.A stolen Swift car which was used in the crime has been recovered from their possession. Police are questioning them and hope many other cases will be solved.The arrested accused are identified as Irshad alias Golu, native of Ranika village in Nuh district, Hariom alias Kuldeep, native of Madhya Pradesh, and Jitender alias Jeetu, resident of God Balaha village in Mahendergarh district.Sector 40 crime branch nabbed the trio from their rented accommodation in Bhondsi today.The accused had shot dead MNC executive Pooja Sharma while she was on a drive with her fiancée Sagar Manchanda. They had intercepted the car and asked her to lower the windowpane but she did not and was shot while trying to escape.The trio according to police are seasoned criminals who used to rob the public in Gurugram after dark.The accused largely targeted people at isolated stretches and conducted recce of that area to ensure no CCTV, no PCRs and no police were present.Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime, said the suspects were involved in over 100 robbery and snatching cases and at least three murders in the millennium city.“They confessed they had intercepted a car to rob the occupants, but the woman who was driving tried to escape. They say they didn’t want to kill but the bullet hit the woman and she collapsed. They used a motorbike with a fake number plate and they own a car as well. They had revisited the spot as they thought she had survived. They kept a tab on news and read newspapers to keep a tab on police investigations. They also confessed that they had eliminated Gaurav on the night of Diwali after a brawl between them,” added ACP Sangwan.Police Commissioner KK Rao had lauded the teams for the success saying it was a blind case with no CCTV footage, no evidence and over 500 people were questioned to crack the case.
19-11-2020||Ravi S Singh||Got a toilet in house after becoming MLA: Union minister Kataria||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, November 19Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria on Thursday said his house got a toilet two years after 1987 when he became MLA and minister in Haryana.Kataria, who is a native of Ladwa in Kurukshetra district, stated this while addressing a virtual function to mark “World Toilet Day”, which was presided over by Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.His reference was to his parental house in Ladwa. Kataria was elected MLA from Radaur in Yamunanagar district in 1987.The World Toilet Day function was organised by the Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation of the Jal Shakti Ministry.Kataria referred to his household not having a toilet in the context of the changed situation now when the country has become ODF (open-defecation free) under Prime Minister Narendra Modi led government.“I will tell you about my personal experience. I became MLA and Minister in Haryana in 1987. My house had first toilet two years after that,” Kataria said, while showering accolades on Modi’s political leadership in making “Swachhta Abhiyan” (cleanliness drive) a by-word, and a people’s movement.Modi had given a call for ODF campaign from the ramparts of the Red Fort in 2014 in his Independence Day speech.On October 2, the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi last year, Modi announced that country had achieved ODF status.“We will not stop here. The country will achieve the target of ODF Plus as visualised by the Prime Minister,” Kataria said.The ODF Plus include treatment of all kinds of solid and liquid waste, and their recycling for productive purposes, including bio-gas and fertiliser. He said inspired by the call of Modi, the people are hooked to the idea of “total cleanliness”.Kataria said about 60 crore toilets constructed under “Swachh Bharat Mission” must be sustained.He underlined that the Centre’s twin drives of cleanliness, and piped water connection to every rural household under Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) are instrumental for overall progress, security and a sense of dignity to an individual.
19-11-2020||New Delhi||Centre rushes high-level teams to Haryana, 3 other states to strengthen surveillance, testing||The Centre has rushed high-level teams to Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Manipur, where they will visit districts reporting a high number of COVID-19 cases and support the state’s efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of positive cases.With a spike in daily new COVID-19 cases and fatalities in Delhi, the spill-over effect was being observed in the NCR regions within Haryana and Rajasthan, where the number of COVID positive patients was on the rise, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.Dr Randeep Guleria, Director, AIIMS, New Delhi, is leading the three-member team to Haryana, and Dr VK Paul, Member (Health), Niti Aayog, is heading the Rajasthan team.Also read: India’s active caseload 4.95 pc of total cases; recovery rate improves to 93.58 pcActive Covid cases remain below 5 lakh for ninth consecutive dayHealth care workers, people above 65 will be given priority for Covid vaccine: Harsh VardhanDelhi accounts for 22.39 pc of India's corona deaths in 24 hoursHC raps Delhi govt on Covid situation, asks why it didn't 'wake up' when numbers were spirallingThe Health Ministry has said Dr SK Singh, Director (NCDC), will be leading the team to Gujarat while Dr L Swasticharan, Additional DDG, DHGS, is heading the Manipur team.The teams will visit the districts reporting a high number of COVID cases and support the state’s efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing, infection prevention and control measures, and efficient clinical management of positive cases.The central teams would also guide in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow up, the Ministry said. PTI
19-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon||BJP leader and former Panipat councillor jumps into canal||Tribune News ServicePanipat, November 19Senior BJP leader and former councillor Harish Sharma jumped into the Delhi parallel canal, near Binjhol village, on Thursday morning under suspicious circumstances.His friend jumped into the canal to save him but he, too, drowned. The family claimed that Harish was mentally upset for past few days after the Panipat police had registered a case against him and his councillor daughter, among 10 people, for allegedly selling crackers openly and misbehaving with police on Diwali night.The family alleged that the police was pressed for his arrest on Wednesday night.According to information, Harish of Tehsil Camp area slept at friend Rajesh Sharma’s house due to pressure from police.According to information, he had made a call to brother, Satish Sharma, and family that he was going to end his life.He, along with friend Rajesh Sharma, reached the Delhi parallel canal on Gohana road on Thursday morning and jumped into it after removing his clothes and jewellery.Rajesh Sharma also jumped into the canal to save him but he drowned.Meanwhile, Harish's brother Satish Sharma, along with Sonu Saluja—an eyewitness— reached the spot and jumped into the canal to save them but failed.Saluja said he saved Satish with the help of a stick but he wasn’t able to save Harish and Rajesh and the two drowned.As the word spread, people reached the spot.Anjali Sharma, councillor, Ward 3, and Harish’s daughter, told the media that her father went out on Wednesday night but did not return home till Thursday morning. They heard the news and reached the canal, she added.BJP MLA Pramod Vij, former transport minister Krishan Panwar, councillors Lokesh Nagroo, Dushyant Bhatt, and senior Congress leader Virender Shah also reached the spot. “Harish’s brother had called him at around 7 am on Thursday and Harish told him that he was in depression and had asked his brother to take him home,” Vij said.DSP (Headquarters) Satish Vats said the incident occurred at around 9.30 am. The water level in the canal was reduced and the divers were searching for the two, he added.
19-11-2020||Karnal||Technology replaces blackboards in Karnal govt schools||Interactive LEDs have taken the place of blackboards in government schools of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s city to make teaching more interactive and to improve the quality of education. As many as 50 classrooms of seven government schools have been equipped with e-learning technology, while in three classrooms of two schools the process to install such equipment is underway.To make learning fun, effectiveNishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner and CEO, Smart City, visited the schools on Tuesday. After the visit he said the step was taken by Karnal Smart City Ltd, a special purpose vehicle looking after the Smart City Project. Under this, the schools have been provided all modern facilities, including interactive LEDs, robotic lab, STEM lab and other equipment with digital content, to make teaching and learning more attractive and effective. All classrooms have been connected with cloud for storage, so that teachers and students can access the study material in real time for future use.Government Senior Secondary School, Model Town, Government Senior Secondary School, Sector 13, Government Primary School, Sector 13, Government Senior Secondary School, Railway road, two schools in Sector 6 and primary school number 4 are among the schools where the step has been initiated.Yadav said students can take a hard copy of the study material anytime with the help of cloud. The authorities claimed that a sum of Rs 3.4 crore had been spent on the initiative. They are hopeful that the technology would help in attracting students towards government schools.
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana government moots policy for planned student rental housing||With an aim to check the mushrooming of illegal paying guest (PG) accommodations across the state, the state government has mooted a new policy for planned student rental housing.DC TO HEAD MONITORING PANELThere is a huge student population in the cities. They are currently being forced to opt for unregulated PG accommodations due to lack of formal housing facilities.Underscoring the need for regulated student housing, K Makrand Pandurang, Special Secretary, Town and Country Planning Department, said developing planned student housing in the proximity of educational hubs would go a long way in discouraging sporadic development of paying guest accommodations in the urban areas.These projects would help those students who are unable to get hostel accommodations being provided by various educational institutions in the urban areas, he added.The developers having tie-ups with the educational, coaching and training institutes to cater to the accommodation requirements of their students will get permission for grant of Change of Land Use (CLU) for such student rental housing projects.While the pre-dominant use will be student rental housing, the developers will have to provide other facilities, including common dining common room, laundry, gymnasium and indoor games room. Parks, medical room and wardens’ living quarters will also be provided.The management will have to submit a mandatory annual report containing the list of occupants, duration of occupancy, facilities provided and rent deeds to the monitoring committee headed by the Deputy Commissioner.
19-11-2020||Rohtak||Cervical cancer awareness session||Date for examination forms extendedFaridabad: In a relief to the students of Echelon Institute of Technology by JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA here, another chance is being provided to them to submit their examination forms in the university. The last date of submission of form for the semester examination to be held in December is November 22. The chance is being provided in the interest of students on a request by Abhibhawak Ekta Manch, Haryana, received through Deputy Commissioner, Faridabad, recently, said a spokesperson of the university. He said EIT had been lying disaffiliated since October 2019 due to technical issues. He said the assessment of semesters and progression of students in next semesters of EIT Faridabad are held up due to non-submission of examination forms by EIT Faridabad which were issued by the university in March. In its request, Abhibhawak Ekta Manch, Haryana, had mentioned that the university had recently issued the schedule for filling up the examination forms for next semester examination, but EIT students could not fill the said forms because of non-filling of forms previously. The Manch had requested that the forms of students be accepted by the university.Online brainstorming sessionKarnal: The National Academy of Agricultural Sciences (NAAS) organised a brainstorming session on “Utilisation of wastewaters in urban and peri-urban agriculture” in virtual mode under the chairmanship of Dr T Mohapatra, NAAS president and DARE & DG ICAR secretary. Dr AK Singh, NAAS secretary and ex-VC Rajmata Scindia Agricultural University, Gwalior, welcomed the participants and briefed the objectives of the session. Dr Mohapatra emphasised the importance of subject on agriculture when most of the people are rushing towards cities for their livelihood and better life-expectations. “We are facing scarcity of water at one hand and generating about 61,754 million liter of sewage water per day, which is not utilised economically,” he added. Dr JC Dagar, former ADG, ICAR, and convener of the session who hails from Karnal, emphasised that instead of facing problems of disposal causing serious land, water, air and food pollution, water can be judiciously used in innovative horticulture, agro-forestry, development of lawns/gardens/green-belts/landscapes, vertical farming, dairy and poultry units in peri-urban areas, rooftop cultivation, growing avenue trees and ornamental plants in open spaces, cultivation of aromatic and ornamental plants and aqua-culture by developing low-cost technologies.
19-11-2020||Yamunanagar||Grandson held for murder in Yamunanagar||The Yamunanagar police have apprehended a juvenile for allegedly murdering his grandfather and the latter’s second wife in Bakala village, falling under the Sadhaura block of the district.The child-in-conflict with law (17 years and 8 month old) was produced before Amit Gautam, Principal Magistrate of Juvenile Justice Board, Yamunanagar, today who sent him to place of safety in Karnal.Roshan Lal (72), a retired baildar from Public Works Department, and his second wife Paramjeet Kaur (55) were murdered by an unknown person at their village yesterday.SP Kamal Deep Goyal said the first wife of the deceased had died several years ago. Paramjeet Kaur was living with him for the past eight to nine months.The police took less than 24 hours to crack the case by apprehending the youth, who is the only child-in-conflict with law in the case.SHO Balbir Singh said the child told the police that his grandfather used to threaten to sell off his agriculture land and other property, depriving them of their right from inherited property. “A regular quarrel used to take place in the house regarding the same, leading to the murder of the elderly couple,” the SHO stated.The child used an axe to kill his grandparents.Meanwhile, the bodies of the elderly couple were handed over to their kin after postmortem examination.
19-11-2020||Faridabad||‘Abducted’ girl rescued, 1 held||The police have rescued a 13-year-old girl, who was allegedly abducted on Monday from the SGM Nagar in NIT here. One person has been arrested in this connection.The police said the girl was seduced by the accused to accompany him, but was recovered on the basis of mobile phone location from the NIT area here. “A case under Section 363 and 366 of the IPC has been booked. The accused, identified by the complainant, has been nabbed,” a police official said. — TNS
19-11-2020||Ambala||Four held for assault||5 inmates held with phonesFive inmates lodged at the Central Jail here were held with five mobile phones. According to information, the Central Jail Deputy Superintendent Vishal Chhibber had reported to the local police that the five mobile phones were recovered from the inmates. The arrested accused were remanded to 14-day judicial custody. TNSProclaimed offender heldThe police have arrested a proclaimed offender Neeraj Kumar of Kurukshetra who was wanted in a criminal case registered against him at Ambala City police station. He was produced before a local court, which ordered to release him on bail. TNS1 held with fake currencyThe police have arrested Naresh Kumar of Naraingarh near here with counterfeit currency notes amounting to Rs 4,500. The arrested accused was sent to two-day police remand by a local court. TNS
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||11 more arrested for plot scam||The State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) arrested 11 accused, who had been involved in grabbing of plots meant to be allotted to the poor, in collusion with an official of the Haryana Urban Development Authority (now Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran), in Faridabad.An official spokesperson said the matter was enquired by the SVB and a criminal case was registered. Fifteen accused had already been arrested, he said. Now, 11 more have been arrested. — TNS
19-11-2020||Faridabad||52 illegal structures razed||A team of the Department of District Town Planner DTP (enforcement and vigilance) pulled down 52 illegal constructions which had come up in three unauthorised residential colonies spread on eight acres in the revenue area of Bhupani village in the district today.DTP Rajender Sharma, who led the demolition drive, said the constructions razed today included three built-up houses, two under-construction houses, a dealer office and one commercial and 45 DPC (damp proof course) and boundary walls in the area. Legal action had been launched against those who had carved out the plots and had sold the property in contravention to the rules and regulations, he said. Road, paths and electric poles erected in the area were also pulled down.Over 600 residential, commercial and industrial illegal structures have been demolished in the drives carried out in various parts of the district since June this year. The DTP Office has also put up notices in various parts of the district asking residents not to buy plot or land without NOC from the department concerned.
19-11-2020||Yamunanagar||Demolition drive in Yamunanagar||A team of the District Town Planner (DTP), Yamunanagar, today carried out a demolition drive in a newly carved unauthorised colony at Chholi village of Yamunanagar district.Amit Madholia, DTP, Yamunanagar, said the drive was carried out on Chhachhrauli-Bilaspur link road in Chholi village (near Panchmukhi Hanuman Temple gate).The total area of the colony was about two acres, where demarcation stones with newly laid kachcha road network were demolished. — TNS
19-11-2020||RESIDENTS have been regularly highlighting in these columns||Road in deplorable state||Speed limit signs should be displayed properlyTHE speed limit signage should be properly displayed on all A and B roads of the city for two-wheelers, LMV and HCV respectively to make people aware of the maximum speed at which they can drive their respective vehicles thereby enhancing road safety and reducing road rage/accidents and pedestrian fatalities. People should also be advised to avoid horns to reduce noise pollution. — Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaDefunct bore wellUPON persistent requests of around 1,200 residents of Sunder Nagar about two years ago, a bore well was installed by the Public Health Department. But it was never made operational citing one or another reason. The water fittings and electricity connection has not been provided so far despite repeated requests by residents. This is a typical example of how much cruel could the administration be towards people. It must be made operational immediately. — Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaNon-functional streetlightsTHE streetlights on the dividing road of Sector 8 and 9 from Sector 10 Gurdwara Chowk to Railway lines remain switched off most of the times during dark. Out for walk in the early morning, one finds it inconvenient and unsafe. Authorities are requested to take a note and do the needful. — Ganesh Nagpal, Ambala CityDrop superficial charges, tax in power billTHE extant domestic electricity bills issued by the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) comprise of a host of ‘superficial charges’ on account of fuel surcharge adjustment, meter service charges, electricity duty and municipal tax apart from basic energy charges. Interestingly, the fuel surcharge adjustment also continues to be its regular feature with no end in sight. The UHBVN must review the system for the benefit of hapless domestic power consumers. — SK Gupta, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
19-11-2020||Hisar||Anti-encroachment drive stopped as MLA intervenes||The team of the district administration which went to Dhikara village of Charkhi Dadri district to remove encroachment on panchayat land had to return without taking action after the intervention of Dadri MLA Sombir Sangwan today.The team of the administration led by a Duty Magistrate and accompanied by the police went to the village to remove the encroachments on panchayat land.When the team reached the village, the Independent MLA from Dadri reached the spot and stopped the team from taking action.Charkhi Dadri Deputy Commissioner Rajesh Jogpal said the decision to do so was not influenced by any kind of pressure from any quarters.
19-11-2020||Yamunanagar||SDO, JE booked for ‘damaging’ road in Yamunanagar||A sub-divisional engineer and a junior engineer of the Public Health Engineering Department, Yamunanagar district, and a contractor (agency) were booked under Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.The SDE, Shyam Lal, and JE Gurpreet Singh allegedly got a road of the Public Works Department, Bridges and Roads (PWD B&R) dug to lay a water supply pipeline in Bambholi village without obtaining permission from the authorities of PWD.On the complaint of sub-divisional engineer of PWD B&R, Yamunanagar, Rajbir Singh Nehra, a case was registered against Shyam Lal, Gurpreet Singh and contractor/agency (without name) under Section 3 of Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act at Chhappar police station on November 16.In his police complaint lodged with the SHO on October 12, the complainant said that an agency of the Public Health Engineering Department was carrying out work of laying water supply pipeline in Bambholi village (on Jagadhri-Ambala road to Bambholi village) without taking prior permission from PWD (BR).He said that the said agency had damaged the road constructed using cement concrete blocks.He added that this work had been allotted by Public Heath Engineering Department to the contractor/agency.“It is therefore requested that an FIR may be lodged against concerned contractor/ agency, JE Gurpreet Singh and SDE Shyam Lal for causing damage to public property,” the complainant said.On the other hand, Junior Engineer Gurpreet Singh said that they wrote a letter to the PWD authorities seeking permission to dig roads in 20 villages including the roads in Bambholi village for laying water supply pipelines long ago. But they got no response from them.“Water supply pipelines are being laid in villages under Jal Jiwan Mission, a project of the Centre. The road which was dug to lay pipelines in Bambholi village was immediately repaired after laying of pipelines,” said JE Gurpreet Singh.
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||30 fatalities, 2,562 cases in Haryana||With 2,562 fresh cases, the Covid tally was pegged at 2,07,039 in Haryana on Wednesday. The death toll reached 2,093 with 30 more fatalities. Gurugram reported maximum 659 cases. — TNS
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||No plan to call off classes: Haryana Education Minister||A fortnight after government schools opened in Haryana, only 40 per cent students of Classes IX to XII are attending school. Cases of students and staff infected with Covid are on the rise in the state.The Education Department, however, has decided to adopt a “wait-and-watch” approach and will seek the opinion of experts before taking any call on the continuation of classes.Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said though the attendance in schools was poor and there was a recent spurt in cases, there was no plan yet to call off the classes even temporarily. “Schools have been open for senior classes since the beginning of the month. Colleges and universities have opened post Diwali though attendance is low. But there is no plan to suspend classes.”“We have already closed down some Rewari and Jind schools for two weeks where students and staff test positive. We might even need to close schools in that particular pocket. We will not go beyond that for now,” he said. — TNS
19-11-2020||Our CorrespondentGurugram||50 special control teams formed in Gurugram||Given the spurt in Covid cases in the past 15 days, the Gurugram police have formed 50 special Covid control teams. The teams will conduct random raids and penalise violators of social distancing and for not wearing masks at wedding venues, pubs, bars, malls and sector markets.Meanwhile, Gurugram Police Commissioner KK Rao said, “The crisis is worsening and people are getting lax over masks, physical distancing and non-crowding. We have asked the local units to start anti-Covid spread endeavours.”On Tuesday, the police issued challans to 1,172 people who were not wearing masks.
19-11-2020||Hisar||Covid norms go for a toss at Hisar college||The situation turned chaotic at Government Post Graduate College in Hisar as students turned up in large numbers for the admission counselling on Wednesday. The authorities were forced to call the police to maintain order and ensure adherence to the Covid guidelines.Meanwhile, most of the girls and college staff was wearing masks, however, boys seemed careless as almost 70 per cent of them were found violating the rules. Even the college staff deployed at the entrance gate to restrict the entry of students not wearing masks stopped taking measures around noon.As the strength of the students — those who came to attend the classes and for the physical counseling — went out of the control, the college authorities called the police.The students said the police pushed them around even when they were wearing masks and sitting in the lawn or standing near the parking lot.Meanwhile, pricipal PS Rohilla said: “We called the police as the turnout of students was more than our expectations. But we ensured thermal scanning, sanitisation and wearing of masks on the premises. Social distancing inside the classrooms was maintained too.”
19-11-2020||Faridabad||Faridabad to reserve 50 pc beds for serious patients||With a drastic increase in the number of positive cases, the district administration has announced to reserve 50 per cent of beds in all local hospitals for Covid patients. Earlier, it was 25 per cent.The district recorded three deaths and 756 new cases on Tuesday, which is perhaps the highest in 24 hours.No Chhath Puja this yearThe district administration has denied the permission for Chhath Puja and gatherings at public places till further orders. “Officials have been asked to issue challans for flouting Covid guidelines,” DC Yashpal Yadav said.DC Yashpal Yadav, who chaired a meeting of the district Covid crisis management committee, issued a notification on Wednesday and ordered the hospitals to reserve 50 per cent beds for serious Covid patients with immediate effect. He said the rest of the positive patients should be shifted to other Covid care centres and given oxygen facility immediately.The Civil Surgeon has been asked to review the bed capacity for the ICU and ventilators and provide additional capacity on an urgent basis. — TNS
19-11-2020||Panipat||Rs 12 cr stamp duty ‘scam’ in Panipat||An alleged scam of evasion of Rs 12 crore stamp duty in registration of properties in the district has come to fore. As many as 557 registration deeds were found, in which stamp duty was found less than the actual value of the registered land, during the special audit of financial years 2018-19 and 2019-20.The District Revenue Officer (DRO) denied the allegations and said there was no scam in stamp duty in the district.In reply to an RTI inquiry, 409 registration deeds were found in Panipat registrar office, 95 in Samalkha sub-registrar office, 24 each in Bapoli and Madlauda sub-registrar office and five in Israna sub-registrar office.Sandeep Rathi of Manana village in Samalkha on Wednesday filed a complaint at the CM window against the alleged corrupt practices in the registration of properties in all registration offices of the district.He said during the audit of the registered documents, stamp duty of Rs 10.22 crore was found less in 409 registered documents in Panipat registrar office in 2018-19, 2019-20. In Samalkha, stamp duty of Rs 92.83 lakh was found less in 95 registered documents. Stamp duty of Rs 22.55 lakh was found less in 24 registered documents in Bapoli sub-registrar office, Rs 43.53 lakh less in 24 registered documents in Madlauda sub-registrar office and Rs 2.91 lakh less in five registered documents in 2018-19, while the audit of 2019-2020 was not done so far.Rathi demanded that criminal cases should be registered against the officials involved in corruption.Chander Mohan, DRO, denied the allegations and said it was a routine process of the department.“There is no scam or corruption in registration of the land in the district. The property registration process is completely online. The software accepted the registration at the collector rate,” said the DRO.
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||BJP-JJP govt on shaky ground: Deepender||Congress MP Deepender Hooda today said the BJP-JJP government was on a shaky foundation after the Baroda bypoll result.Holding a press conference here today, the Rajya Sabha MP said, “It (Baroda bypoll result) will have an impact on Haryana politics. The countdown for the fall of the BJP-JJP government has started. The cracks of mistrust have appeared between the alliance partners. The Chief Minister has been saying that the JJP votes didn’t get transferred to the BJP candidate. In administrative parlance, it is said that when crack appears in the wall, it is declared unsafe. Same is the condition of the present dispensation.”Hooda pointed out that in the last four to five days of the campaigning in Baroda, the picture of Khattar was removed from the hoardings as there was an attempt to show that the candidate was separate from the government. — TNS
19-11-2020||Karnal||Karnal boy hurt in firing||
