20-09-2020||Chandigarh||2,305 new COVID-19 cases, record 29 deaths in one day in Haryana||Haryana on Sunday reported 29 more fatalities, its highest single-day toll linked to COVID-19, pushing the count to 1,149 while 2,305 fresh cases raised the infection tally to 1,11,257 in the state, according to a bulletin.Of the fresh fatalities, three each were reported from Sirsa, Kurukshetra, Karnal and Ambala; two each from Faridabad, Sonepat, Hisar, Panchkula and Yamunanagar while a death each was recorded in Rohtak, Gurugram, Mahendragarh, Kaithal, Fatehabad, Nuh and Bhiwani districts, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases included Gurugram (405), Hisar (257), Sonepat (234), Faridabad (203), Amala (180), Panipat (141), Panchkula (133) and Yamunanagar (110).The number of active cases in the state stands at 21,411 while a total of 88,697 people have been discharged after recovering from the infection.As of Sunday, the state has a recovery rate of 79.72 per cent, fatality rate of 1.03 per cent while the rate at which infections are doubling is 26 days and COVID-19 positivity rate is 6.64 per cent, according to the bulletin. — PTI
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Police use water cannon to stop Punjab Youth Cong workers from entering Haryana||The Haryana Police on Sunday used a water cannon to stop Punjab Youth Congress activists from entering the state through Ambala during a tractor rally against the Centre’s farm-related Bills.The Youth Congress activists were going to Delhi through the Chandigarh-Delhi highway when they were stopped at the heavily barricaded entrance to Haryana by police.The situation at the Haryana-Punjab border turned tense as the protesters remained adamant to continue their march towards the national capital.Some activists tried to set a tractor on fire after the march was stopped.The Haryana Police denied permission to the Youth Congress workers, saying they would not allow the traffic movement on the national highway to be disrupted and also cited the coronavirus restrictions.After being denied permission to enter Haryana, the Youth Congress activists terminated their protest at the site.Vehicular traffic was disrupted on the highway. However, there was no blockade on the highway.Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, who also joined the Youth Congress protesters, said all parties, except the Shiromani Akali Dal and the BJP, are standing with farmers for their cause.He slammed Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, accusing him of earlier supporting the “black laws”.Indian Youth Congress president Srinivas B V said his party stands shoulder-to-shoulder with farmers and dubbed the reforms as “anti-farmer”.Punjab Youth Congress chief Barinder Singh Dhillon told media in Mohali’s Dera Bassi that this is the “beginning of the fight for the rights of farmers”.Black balloons were also released earlier in the day by the protesters as a mark of protest against the Bills. — PTI
20-09-2020||Ravi S Singh||Punjab, Haryana feature prominently during discussion on agri Bills in Rajya Sabha||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 20Punjab and Haryana featured prominently during heated discussion on two farm reform related Bills in Rajya Sabha on Sunday.Ongoing agitation of farmers from the two states was the dominating references by the speakers, both from the BJP and the opposition parties.The stand out was the sharp exchanges by Congress’ MP from Punjab Partap Singh Bajwa, who initiated the discussion on the Bills from the Opposition and Bhupender Singh Yadav of the BJP, who is a native of Haryana but elected to the House from Rajasthan.Yadav was the first speaker from the BJP immediately after Bajwa’s turn.Flaunting his credentials as a speaker on agriculture related issues, Bajwa said he is a son of a farmer and hence, was conversant with grievances of farming community. He said farmers of Haryana, Punjab and western UP are agitated against the Bills and see them as an “attack on their conscience”.Yadav countered Bajwa through his opening salvo saying he has dyed-in-the-wool “kisan” parentage, and a native of Haryana.Referring to Bajwa’s reference to agitation of farmers of Punjab regarding the Bills, he said a similar bogey was raised in the seventies in the state against the iconic Bhakra Dam, which emerged as the life-line of the state.“Bogey was raised that electricity would be squeezed out of water from Punjab’s river from the dam to sap it of its power,” Yadav said.He said the Congress is in the habit of indulging doublespeak and spreading negativity, and in this context he referred to anti-CAA agitation.He further said a high-powered committee was constituted by the Manmohan Singh government with the then Haryana Chief Minister BS Hooda to recommend measures to enhance farmers’ income.The committee had also recommended measures to allow farmers to sell produce outside the mandis.BJP member from UP Surendra Nagar said the Bills will allow farmers to sell their produce at any place in the country.Due to the present restrictions the farmers of Haryana cannot sell their jaggery in the markets of Bihar where their produce will fetch a better price, Nagar said, pitching in with his hereditary association with agriculture.Naresh Gujral of the SAD said his party opposed the Bills as they were against the interest of farmers  of the state, who have contributed to the progress and food security of the country.SS Dhindsa, who floated a new Akali Dal after parting ways with Badals-led SAD, said jawans from Punjab who fought for the country’s security at the borders were sons of farmers.AAP member Sushil Gupta also pitched himself as a native of Haryana. He cautioned the government that the farmers of the state will not forgive it.
20-09-2020||Sunit Dhawan||State Vigilance Bureau begins probe into charges against former MDU V-C||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 20More than two years after the lodging of a complaint, the Haryana State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) has finally begun inquiry into allegations against B.K.Punia, a former vice-chancellor of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak.In July-2018, a social activist, Dr Anil Pannikker, sent a 237-page complaint in this regard to the Haryana Governor-cum-MDU Chancellor, state Chief Minister and Chief Secretary, demanding a thorough probe into the alleged irregularities.After contemplating on the matter for about a year, the Haryana Government ordered an inquiry by the SVB, which was initiated in July 2019. Meanwhile, certain other complaints were also lodged against Punia.Eventually, in a communiqué sent to the MDU Registrar on September 10, 2020, a copy of which is in possession of The Tribune, the SVB officer investigating the matter has sought the documents/information pertaining to as many as 28 specific charges of financial and other irregularities against Punia.The charges leveled against Punia include gross irregularities in appointments, nepotism, misappropriation of funds, misuse of emergency powers and harassment of those who opposed his wrongful acts.Punia has been accused of violating the rules and regulations in the appointments of MDU faculty members, financial and technical advisors, University Campus School teachers as well as other officials/non-teaching employees and regularization of certain guest teachers.The former vice-chancellor has also been charged with appointing nearly 20 non-teaching employees without any advertisement/interview/selection process on deputation merely on the basis of applications given by them.Large-scale financial irregularities misappropriation of funds in the construction of rooms and toilets at staff quarters on university campus, organisation of national youth festival, purchase of 140 computer systems, payment made to NBCC for civil works, fake appointments through outsourcing and non-imposition of fine on a firm engaged for the provision of security services on the university campus are also in the ambit of the vigilance probe.I acted as per rules: PuniaOn being contacted for his comments regarding the matter, Punia maintained that as vice-chancellor, he regarded the MDU Acts and Statutes like the holy Gita and the university made commendable progress in every sphere during his tenure.“As of now, the MDU authorities have been asked to furnish the relevant records/documents. I will reply to the specific charges point-wise as and when I am questioned about these,” he stated.
20-09-2020||Hisar||Farmers across Haryana protest agricultural ordinances, block roads||Farmers organisations across Haryana blocked roads to protest the contentious agricultural ordinances on Sunday.Police used water cannon as protesters resorted to stone pelting on the Chandigarh-Delhi road. The Haryana Police used a water cannon to stop Punjab Youth Congress activists from entering the state through Ambala during a tractor rally against the Centre’s farm-related Bills.The Youth Congress activists were going to Delhi through the Chandigarh-Delhi highway when they were stopped at the heavily barricaded entrance to Haryana by police.The situation at the Haryana-Punjab border turned tense as the protesters remained adamant to continue their march towards the national capital.Some activists tried to set a tractor on fire after the march was stopped.Police use water canons as protesters resort to stone pelting on Chandigarh- #Delhi road #FarmersProtest #Farmers #JaiKisan #FarmBills @mlkhattar @Dchautala @AbhaySChautala @BhupinderSHooda pic.twitter.com/5y7tdLGFrd  In Hisar, farmers blocked the toll plaza near Mayyar village on the National Highway. DC Priyanka Soni and SP Ganga Ram Punia reached the toll plaza to hold talks with the agitated farmers who are planning to block the highway in support of their demands.Farmers under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Haryana blockaded the National Highway (NH) 73 in Barwala in Panchkula district on Sunday. The farmers are resorting to dhanas and road blockades in various places in Jind. The Jind-Delhi road has been blocked in Julana. In Charkhi Dadri district, Dadri Kanina road has been blocked by the farmers.In Kaithal, hundreds of farmers blocked the road near Titram Mor to show their resentment against the three agriculture and farm Bills.In Rohtak, farmers and arhtiyas would take out a protest march in the city at the noon. They will also submit the memorandum to the DC in the noon, "The protest march will be organised peacefully and there is no plan of road blockade," says Preet Singh, District President, Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha (ABKS)In Sirsa, farmers' organisations have decided to block the road in Panjuana and Jamaal villages. Sirsa administration has deployed adequate forces and appointed 25 duty magistrates who are keeping a watch on the protest demonstration of the farmers.In Karnal, farmers have started assembling in Assandh grain market to protest. Hundreds of farmers and commission agents started their agitation in Karnal grain market.In Jind, the BKU has announced to block the road for three hours from 12 to 3 pm. Farmers blocked the road in Kandela village of Jind district to protest against the central ordinances. Kandela village has been the centre of farmers agitation in past especially during the regime of the Om Prakash Chautala.The Jind DSP Dharambir Singh has urged the farmers to hold the demonstration peacefully. The police will take action on any violation of the law, he warned the activists.
20-09-2020||---||Patwari suspended over anomalies in girdawari||Panipat, September 19 Dissatisfied with the special girdawari under the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ scheme, the Sonepat Deputy Commissioner on Saturday suspended patwari Naveen Kumar and affixed his headquarters at the district revenue officer’s (DRO) office.  The DC, along with his teams, personally verified the girdawari of the crops in the villages of Gohana subdivision area. The patwaris have conducted a ‘khasra’ girdawari of the crops in the fields under ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ scheme. The patwaris have submitted their girdawari reports. The district administration has begun an inquiry into the girdawaris conducted by the patwaris. DC Poonia constituted three teams and included himself in a team on Saturday. He chose three villages to re-check the girdawaris in Baroda Mor, Jasrana and Mahmoodpur villages of Gohana subdivision of the district. DC Poonia, along with DRO Rajkumar and the patwari, visited Baroda Mor village to verify the girdawari and moved around 5 km on foot to check the crops in the fields.  The DC matched the crops with the record at Meri Fasal Mera Byora, A-girdawari and HARSAC. He found several anomalies in the girdawari conducted by the patwari and pulled up the patwari. Dissatisfied with the patwari’s report, the DC ordered to suspend patwari Naveen Kumar with immediate effect.
20-09-2020||---||Food inspectors told not to charge interest from arhtiyas||Rohtak, September 19The Department of Food Civil Supply and Consumer Affairs has directed the District Food and Supply Controllers (DFSCs) across the state not to charge interest from arhtiyas after the date when they made payment to farmers for this season’s wheat procurement through RTGS/cheque in place of government e-kharid portal.Harsh Girdhar, Vice-president, Haryana Anaj Mandi Arhtiyas AssociationTo refund paymentA total of Rs42-crore interest has been charged from the arhtiyas in the name of delayed payment even when a majority of them paid in time. Now, the DFSCs will return the interest charged after the date of payment.In compliance with the state authorities’ directive, the DFSCs had slapped 15 per cent interest on arthiyas for making payment to farmers after a stipulated time of three days. The interest was deducted from their commission released in July. Since then the arhtiyas had been demanding the release of the deducted commission while terming the interest as ‘unjustified’.“A large number of arhtiyas paid the farmers through the RTGS/cheque in time but uploaded the consent form on the e-kharid portal after several days due to the lack of knowledge. Hence, 15 per cent interest was charged from them for delay as the portal was showing the amount as unpaid before uploading the form. The interest amount was deducted from the arhtiyas’ commission,” said Harsh Girdhar, vice-president, Haryana Anaj Mandi Arhtiyas Association.“Last year, the government delayed in making our payment for the wheat crop and assured us of giving interest for that period but the interest has not yet been paid even after one-and-half years,” Girdhar added.District Food and Supply Controller (DFSC) Virender, however, said the interest was slapped for delayed payment as per the portal’s reports.“A total of Rs 4.70 lakh interest was charged from the arthiyas in Rohtak district. The amount has been withheld following the directives of the state authorities,” he added.
20-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram lawyer shoots father, kills self||A lawyer of Dhanwapur village killed himself after allegedly shooting his father dead in Laxman Vihar area here today. When the police reached the spot, the body of the lawyer was lying near the wall of the room and his father’s body was on the bed.  The police took the bodies into custody and said that prima facie, it appeared to be the deed of the lawyer due to some ongoing dispute. “Investigations hint that the lawyer first shot his father who suffered two bullet wounds and then himself with a single bullet. The father was a retired employee of the Delhi Police. The family has neither filed a complaint nor hinted at any foul play. But we are investigating the matter,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime. According to the police, the deceased have been identified as Ravinder (35) and his father Rajbir (62), residents of Dhanwapur village.  Ravinder and his family lived in the village and his father stayed at Laxman Vihar colony.  Today evening, Ravinder, who was practising in Gurugram, visited his father. After some argument, Ravinder shot his father and himself, the police said, adding it seemed to be a result of a family dispute.  — OC
20-09-2020||Yamunanagar||Undertrial dies in hospital, family cries foul||An undertrial died at Mukand Lal District Civil Hospital, Yamunanagar, on Friday. The undertrial, Himanshu Panwar (24) of Saharanpur district, was arrested in a theft case. A case was registered against him under Section 379 (theft) of the IPCon November 15, 2019. He was arrested on September 12. Subsequently, he was sent to a Covid centre in Karnal district jail.  “After his report tested negative, he was shifted to a jail in Jagadhri on September 16. Late in the night, he complained of stomach ache and was rushed to Mukand Lal Civil Hospital where he died,” said Sanjeev Patter, Superintendent, District Jail, Jagadhri.  Meanwhile, Panwar’s uncle Ishwar Singh alleged Himanshu died of police torture.  Joginder Singh, in-charge of the Special Detective Unit of the police,  denied the charge.  — TNS
20-09-2020||---||Faridabad civic body halts drive to seal illegal tubewells||Faridabad, September 19The Faridabad Municipal Corporation has halted the drive to seal unauthorised tubewells used for illegally supplying water in the city after as many as 2,500 private tubewell and tanker operators resorted to strike in protest against the action.The drive was launched recently to curb the menace of the illegal water supply mafia in the city.Move triggered by protestRevealing that the recent drive resulted in the disconnection of about 60 unauthorised tubewells and hydrants, which had been supplying water in the city, Birender Kardam, superintending engineer, MC, said the registration of FIRs against nine led to unrest and private operators stopped the water supply, resulting in problems to residents in the past 48 hours.The city has around 250 illegal tubewells or hydrants at present. The price of a full tanker ranges between Rs 700 and Rs 1,000. Claiming that the drive to curb illegal boring of tubewells had not come to an end, he said it had only been halted temporarily keeping in view the problems being faced by residents, who were still dependent on the private supply network.Meanwhile, the Faridabad Industries Association has also expressed concern, claiming the factories were dependent on the private water supply and any strike could harm their production or work. “The price of a 20 litres jar of RO water jumped to Rs 20 from Rs 10 after the strike by private tubewell operators on Friday,” said Ajay Verma, a local.The city is getting a supply of 224 million litres per day (MLD) against a demand for 232 MLD. While 120 to 125 MLD was being supplied from Ranneywell project based on tubewells in the Yamuna bed, 85 MLD was being sourced from 1,485 tubewells operated by Faridabad MC. A fleet of 250 tankers maintained by the MC is functional besides the private tankers.
20-09-2020||ibune News Service---||Six injured in fire at Faridabad unit||Faridabad, September 19 As many as six workers suffered injuries, two of them seriously, in a fire incident that took place in a factory located in NIT area here this noon.  While the fire was doused in an hour by five fire tenders of the Municipal Corporation, the injured, who were rescued from the burning factory premises by the locals and Fire Department personnel, have been shifted to two hospitals.  The condition of two of the injured is reported to be serious and they have been admitted to a private hospital. The fire broke out at around 12.45 pm when the lunchtime was on and the majority of the 60-70 workers were out of the factory premises.  About a dozen persons who were inside at the time when the fire broke out rushed out or were rescued. The majority of them had become victims of suffocation, it is revealed.  Several blasts took place after the fire, which erupted in a furnace oil container, engulfed other containers having chemicals, it is claimed.  The police, which reached the spot soon, launched a probe into the incident. No case has been filed so far. Claiming that the civic body was ill-equipped to deal with fire incidents related to chemicals or oil, Yogesh Dhingra, former Municipal Corporator, said that the government ought to provide state-of-the-art fire-fighting arrangements in an industrial city like Faridabad to deal with such incidents.
20-09-2020||---||Haryana buckled under Centre’s pressure: BKU||Kurukshetra/Rohtak, September 19 In continuation with their protest against the three controversial farm Bills, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) activists will block roads across the state from noon to 3 pm on Sunday. Gurnam Singh Chaduni, BKU (Charuni) chief, at a meeting in Rohtak accused the BJP-JJP government buckling under the pressure of the Modi government. He appealed to people to observe September 20 as a black day and participate in the nationwide bandh on September 25.  Rakesh Bains, BKU (Charuni) spokesman, said: “The BKU is ready for discussions, but the Centre is adamant on not amending the Bills. Hence, we have no option, but to protest. The decision on which roads are to be blocked has been left to district units.” Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha (ABKS) leader Preet Singh said the BJP government was misleading the country by telling lies that the MSP regime would not be dismantled.  In Kurukshetra, five roads will be blocked. These are In Kurukshetra, farmers will block Kurukshetra-Yamunanagar road near Sura village, Kurukshetra-Pehowa road near Mukimpura village, Ambala-Hisar road near Ismailabad, Shahabad-Panchkula road near Rada Soami Satsang Bhawan, and Kurukshetra-Kirmich road near Kirmich Chowk.  Kurukshetra DC Sharandeep Kaur said, “Duty Magistrates have been appointed to maintain law and order.”
20-09-2020||---||Wary of Pipli repeat, govt asks officials to exercise restraint||Chandigarh, September 19Even as farmers across the state are gearing up for the statewide road blockade on Sunday on a call given by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) against the three controversial farm Bills, the state government on Saturday told Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police to deal with protesters with “tact and patience”.In view of the lathicharge by the police on protesting farmers in Pipli on September 11, the state government has decided to exercise “restrain” this time.Control room set up Vijai Vardhan, Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, has written to all Divisional Commissioners, IGs, DCs, Commissioners of Police and SPs to ensure that the protesters should not be allowed to take law into their hands and take prompt action against those found to be indulging in violence.“If required, Deputy Commissioners and Senior Superintendents of Police can reach out to organisers and ensure a peaceful protest,” Vardhan said in his letter to officials.The district officers have been told to divert traffic in case a road or highway is blocked.Executive magistrates have been told to stay put in their districts. The government has also directed Civil Surgeons to ensure that doctors remained present in hospitals in full strength for prompt treatment of injured protesters, if any.Ambulances, along with doctors, para medical staff and the police, will be stationed on highways where a large gathering is expected.A control room at the Home Secretary’s office has been set up. A telephone number 0172-2711925 has been released for any kind of assistance on Sunday.
20-09-2020||Tribune News Servie||28 more die of Covid in Haryana||Chandigarh, September 19In all, 28 people succumbed to Covid in the last 24 hours while the 2,691 fresh cases were reported in the state, taking the tally to over 1.08 lakh.Five deaths were reported from Panchkula, three each from Gurugram and Ambala, two each from Faridabad, Rohtak, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Sirsa, Yamunanangar and Jind, and one each from Panipat, Hisar and Bhiwani.In Faridabad, a 75-year-old woman and 39-year-old man hailing from Sector 19 and Jawahar Colony, respectively, died of Covid. Two deceased were from Ambala City, including a 72-year-old man, whose oxygen saturation level was low, and a 65-year-old woman suffering from diabetes and hypertension, while a 47-year-old woman of Ambala Cantonment was also diabetic.Maximum 360 cases came from Gurugram, followed by 290 in Faridabad, 220 in Ambala, 164 in Panipat, 161 in Panchkula, 151 in Hisar, 149 in Sonepat, 147 in Rohtak, 119 in Karnal, 119 in Kurukshera, 118 in Sirsa and 101 in Rewari.
20-09-2020||Gurugram||Robbers strike at jewellery shop in Gurugram||Robbers struck at a jewellery shop in Sadar Bazar area late in the evening today. The robbers came in on the pretext of buying jewellery from Mussadi Lal Jewellers and fled after robbing jewellery worth Rs 13 lakh. According to the CCTV footage available with The Tribune, they came in two groups posing as customers. Two men came first and asked jeweller Bhoop Singh to show some engagement ring designs.  After a few minutes, their accomplices entered and one of them pulled out a gun. He jumped over the counter and held the owner captive while the others took away the jewellery. Bhoop Singh called the police after the robbers fled.  After the incident, the trader community is demanding security. “Post Unlock, we feel threatened. Such daring acts by robbers in busy markets on a busy Saturday evening hint at the lack of police fear. We want security so that we can trade without fear,” said local traders in a letter to the Commissioner. — OC
20-09-2020||Saurabh Malik---||Accused’s custodial probe needed to unearth ‘human trafficking’ scam: High Court||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, September 19 When a youth seeking greener pastures abroad allegedly agreed to pay Rs 22.5 lakh to a travel agent for going to the US, little did he realise that it was the beginning of an ordeal. Arrested by the US police, he was confined in a jail for a year before being deported.  Taking up the matter, Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has now ruled that the custodial interrogation of the accused was required to unearth the racket of “human trafficking”. Justice Gill asserted it was not just a case of simply depriving the complainant or his family of huge amount of money but a case where his life had been put to peril by sending him to foreign countries illegally. It could have resulted in the complainant paying a heavy price, including prolonged detention or even death, Justice Gill asserted.  Justice Gill further said the complainant, in any case, was kept confined for good one year.  The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after the accused “agent” filed a petition seeking anticipatory bail in the case registered on June 26 at Ram Nagar police station in Karnal for cheating, criminal intimidation and criminal breach of trust under Sections 406, 420 and 506 of IPC and Section 24 of the Immigration Act. Justice Gill, during the course of hearing, took note of the allegations levelled by the complainant, who stated that he initially got a visa for Europe. On September 8, 2019, he was made to board a flight to Europe. Travelling through Moscow, Greece and Rome, he was sent to Mexico, where he met an agent of the accused. He took the complainant to his house, where he was threatened for not giving money. The complainant called up his home and told the family to pay Rs 22.50 lakh as settled.  After the amount was paid, the accused told the agent to send the complainant to America by making him cross the border. Although the complainant objected as it was agreed to send him to America legally, the accused did not pay heed. He was made to cross the border into America, but was caught by the police and lodged in a jail, where was confined for a year.
20-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Polio drive only in high-risk zones||Gurugram, September 19Owing to the rising Covid numbers, the Gurugram administration has restricted the pulse polio drive to high-risk zones only.The Health Department will start the pulse polio campaign for three days from Sunday. Polio vaccine will be given at booths on Sunday while home-to-home campaign will be on Monday and Tuesday.The Health Department has reduced its target by 70 per cent due to Covid. However, it might be difficultfor the department to complete the target of 30 per cent in three days.As per officials, this time the department will provide polio vaccine to only 80,000 children while it was administered to 3 lakh children earlier. The Health Department reduced the target because most of their employees were busy with Covid duty.Dr Virender Yadav, Chief Medical Officer, said: “All preparations for the polio drive have been completed and employees have also been deployed. However, this time the target has been reduced to 30 per cent due to Covid. Polio drops will be given only in the high-risk areas.”The Health Department identified 550 booths in the high-risk zones, where polio vaccine will be administered to children from 9 to 5 pm. Under this campaign, 2,000 health officials will be on duty to achieve 30 per cent target of polio vaccine.
20-09-2020||Jhajjar||Man axed to death in Jhajjar village||A 48-year-old man was axed to death by unidentified assailants at his house in Dubaldhan village on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday.  The deceased, identified as Om Prakash, was a clerk at Jhajjar depot of Haryana Roadways. The exact reason behind the murder is yet to be ascertained. The Beri police have registered a case of murder against an unidentified person.  The crime was perpetrated when Om Prakash and his wife were sleeping on the rooftop of the house. His wife got up on hearing the sound of her husband but she did not spot any assailant due to the darkness. Injured Om Prakash was rushed to the civil hospital in Jhajjar where he was declared brought dead. Jaibhagwan, SHO, Beri police station, said as per relatives, Om Prakash did not have enmity with anyone. “An axe used in the crime has been seized from the spot,” he added. — TNS
20-09-2020||Yamunanagar||Man uploads pics of woman on FB, booked||A jilted lover allegedly sent objectionable photographs of a newly married woman to her husband on WhatsApp and posted them on Facebook as well. The accused, Daljeet Singh of Ropar (Punjab), and the woman became friends on Facebook in 2017. “Daljeet forced me to marry him, but I was not interested in him. After my parents married me to a man from Yamunanagar district on August 21, he became furious. So to defame me, he sent my objectionable photographs to my husband on WhatsApp and posted them on Facebook. He also threw objectionable photographs of mine in the streets of my village and that of my in-laws,” the victim alleged. On her complaint, a case was registered against Daljeet Singh and her brother-in-law Gurdeep Singh under Sections 67A of the IT Act and Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at the women’s police station here on September 17. — TNS
20-09-2020||---||4 arrested for attack on ADC-led team||Ambala, September 19 A couple of days after a team of the local Regional Transport Authority (RTA) led by Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Preeti was attacked reportedly by henchmen of the mining mafia on the Haryana-Punjab border near Panjokhra village of the district, the police on Saturday arrested four men. The accused have been identified as Amrit Pal, Gurdev, Deepak of Ambala and Sachin of Mullana. Amrit and Sachin were taken on a two-day police remand, while the other two were not produced before a court, the police have said. The accused have been booked for attempt to murder, assault, rioting, obstructing government officials from discharging their duty and criminal conspiracy. While the ADC, who also holds the charge of the RTA Secretary, escaped unhurt, her official vehicle was damaged and one of her staff members sustained injuries. “On Thursday, my team and I were patrolling the area, challaning overloaded vehicles. In the evening, when we nabbed a few violators on the inter-state border, they attacked us and fled towards Punjab,” the ADC said. Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said the district administration had tightened the noose around the mining mafia and all those involved in the attack on the ADC would be brought to book. Recently, the ADC had lodged an FIR against the mining mafia for following her official vehicle and sharing the details of her location to those carrying out the illegal business.
20-09-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 183 cr for roads in 15 districts of Haryana||Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala said Rs 17.86 would be spent on five roads in Bhiwani and Rs 10.86 crore on three roads in Panchkula. Besides, seven roads in Fatehabad, six each in Rohtak and Karnal, five each in Jhajjar and Kaithal will be recarpeted. TNS
20-09-2020||---||Haryana gears up for farmers’ protest today||Chandigarh/ Moga, September 19On a call given by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Haryana farmers will on Sunday organise road blockades to protest the farm Bills. The Khattar government has instructed DCs and SPs to deal with the protesters with “tact and patience”.Matter of justiceI am proud that when the hour of reckoning arrived, my party, as always, has held aloft the flag of justice for farmers, other exploited sections —Parkash Singh Badal, SADFarm organisations led by BKU state president Gurnam Singh Charuni have given a call for a three-hour blockade from 12 noon to 3 pm. The government had faced flak over its handling of the kisan rally in Pipli on September 11. This time, it has asked its officials to exercise restraint.The Additional Chief Secretary, Home, has written to commissioners, IGs, DCs and SPs to ensure that nobody takes law into his/her own hands. “Organisers should be prevailed upon to register their protest in a peaceful and lawful manner and desist from blocking highways,” reads the letter.In Punjab’s Moga, 30 farm bodies met today. Joginder Singh Ugrahan, president, BKU (Ekta), said there would a “complete shutdown” in the state on September 25. “Trains will be stopped at specific locations”, he added.SANGH AFFILIATE UNHAPPYThe RSS farmers’ wing has sought a legal guarantee, making any purchase below the MSP punishable. TNS
