20-08-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Three shot dead in Gurugram ‘gangwar’||Gurugram, August 20Tension prevailed at Basai village and CRPF society in Gurugram’s Sector 9 on Thursday after a “gangwar” broke out between two groups, leaving three dead.Gangsters first shot dead a youth at Basai village and later entered the society where two others were shot dead during a shootout. One person was injured while others fled. Police reached the spot and took the bodies and the injured in their custody.According to police, the deceased have been identified as Sumeer, Sunny and Anmol, residents of Basai village.“Both groups are of same village and have enmity for years. The deceased were been accused of murdering a boy of the other group. We are investigating all angles and the accused will be arrested soon,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.At 5.30 pm, six armed men on a bike and Scooty intercepted Sumeer at Basai village and shot him dead. Sunny, one Angrez and Anmol who were near to Sumeer fled on a bike, but the armed men chased them to Sector 9. When they opened fire, the trio barged into New CRPF Society in Sector 9.The attackers followed them and shot dead Anmol and Sunny. Angrez was critically injured. The accused managed to flee. The society residents were in shock after the incident and called the police.DCP (west) Sumer Singh visited the spot. The police were waiting for the family members of the deceased and no an FIR was registered till filing the report.
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar goes into quarantine for 3 days after Shekhawat tests positive for corona virus||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has gone into quarantine for three days after Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat with whom he was in meeting on Tuesday tested positive for corona virus. “In the past couple of days, I have met certain people who have now tested positive for the virus. Though I have gone for test myself and the report is negative, I have decided to go into quarantine for three days as a precautionary measure,” Khattar tweeted today. Earlier, Shekhawat today tweeted saying that he underwent a coronavirus test after developing symptoms of the infection. The minister said he is getting admitted to a hospital on the advice of doctors. “I was tested for coronavirus after developing symptoms and the report has come positive. I am getting hospitalised on the advice of doctors. I request all who have come in my contact in the past days to isolate themselves and get tested,” Shekhawat tweeted in Hindi.The minister held two important meetings on Tuesday, of which one was on the Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL).Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh attended the meeting virtually while his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lala Khattar was physically present with Shekhawat, his deputy in the ministry Rattan Lal Kataria and senior officials.  Kataria, who represents Ambala parliamentary seat in Lok Sabha, was also present for another meeting alongside Shekhawat in a virtual conference with Tamil Nadu Chief Minister E K Palaniswami, said sources.
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to conduct written exam for physical training instructors on Aug 23||The Haryana Staff Selection Commission will conduct a written examination on August 23 to conclude the selection process that began in 2006 for recruiting physical training instructors (PTIs), in compliance with the apex court orders.The exam for the post of the instructors will be conducted in five districts—Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat, Kaithal and Hisar—in compliance with the orders of the Supreme Court, a state government statement said here on Thursday.This will be the first written exam in the state to be conducted at the centres amid the COVID-19 pandemic.According to the statement, the HSSC shall conclude the entire selection process initiated by an advertisement and the criterion notified on December 28, 2006, which is holding objective type written test of 200 marks and viva-voce of 25 marks.“As many as 9,273 candidates have been issued admit cards for which total 95 exam centres have been established across five districts,” it said.The District Magistrates shall impose Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) banning assembly of four or more people in the vicinity of the exam centres.The statement said the instructors who were terminated due to court orders can also participate in the examination process.In April this year, the SC had upheld the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashing appointment of 1,983 PTIs in schools of Haryana in 2010, and asked the HSSC to conduct the recruitment process afresh.The apex court had upheld the verdicts passed by the single and division benches of the high court quashing the appointment process conducted during the then Congress government.The single judge bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, on September 11, 2012, had set aside the selection of the 1,983 instructors made by the commission on April 10, 2010 in pursuance of the advertisement issued in 2006 on account of changes made in the selection process.The decision was upheld by the division bench of the HC.The sacked instructors, who teach physical education and related subjects in government schools, have demanded that they be reinstated.Senior leader of opposition Congress, Randeep Singh Surjewala, had recently urged the Haryana government to reinstate the sacked PTIs by issuing an ordinance and ratifying it through a Bill passed by the state legislature.According to the state government statement, Haryana Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora had held a video conference on Wednesday with Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police of all the five districts where the exams will be held.Arora directed the officials to maintain strict vigil and ensure foolproof arrangements for safety and security of candidates, maintaining the law and order and smooth conduct of the examination, the statement said.“The administration shall ensure proper frisking of candidates before allowing entry into examination centres. CCTV cameras shall be installed in each room with live streaming. The HSSC shall ensure proper scanning of QR Code/, facial biometric attendance, videography and mobile jammers should be installed,” the statement said.The chief secretary directed the district administrations to depute flying squads for safe carrying of exam material and to maintain the law and order.Superintendents of Police of the districts were advised to ensure adequate police force consisting of male and female personnel is deployed at each centre, as per the direction given by Arora.It was further directed that in view of the COVID-19 situation, all the exam centres will be thoroughly sanitised before the exam including classrooms, corridors and washrooms.To ensure social distancing, the number of candidates per room shall be reduced to half.Candidates will not be allowed entry if they do not have a face mask. The HSSC shall ensure thermal screening at entrance and proper hand sanitisation at entry points and in classrooms, according to the statement.“Any candidate with flu-like symptoms will be made to sit separately. A medical team/rapid response team will be deployed in all districts by district administration to deal with any case of medical emergency,” it said, while issuing other exam-related instructions. PTI
20-08-2020||Karnal||Swachh Survekshan: Karnal Haryana's cleanest city, followed by Rohtak, Panchkula||Karnal was ranked 17th in the central government's cleanliness survey announced on Thursday making it the cleanest city in Haryana.It was followed by Rohtak (35), Panchkula (56), Gurugram (62), Sonipat (103), Hisar(105), Rewari MC(118), Ambala (120), Yamunanagar MC (147), Panipat MC (160).Panchkula improved its ranking in for the fourth year in a row. The latest survey ranked the city 56th – an improvement of 15 positions from the 71st spot in the previous year. While the city stood at 142 in the 2018 survey, it was placed at 211th position in 2017. Indore was adjudged India's cleanest city for the fourth straight year.The second and third positions in the category were grabbed by Surat and Navi Mumbai respectively.The Swachh Survekshan awards 2020 were announced by Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri at a ceremony.
20-08-2020||NEHRU Park is the only place where people can go for morning and evening walk||Nehru Park in bad shape||Harassment of taxpayersHonest taxpayers are pillars of a strong economy, but the audacious act by some officials of the Central GST wing, who were booked on Friday for demanding bribe of Rs 12 lakh from Sonepat-based industrialists, seem to sabotage this dream. The Centre is spending lavishly on purchases of war weapons only on the strength and the anticipation of receipt of huge tax amounts, but such unscrupulous elements for their personal gains are dragging the taxpayers towards utter discouragement, which is detrimental to national interest. Thus, only the officials/officers of impeccable integrity should be put in the Central/state GST wing by respective governments. —Baljeet Singh, HisarGurugram health officials hailedIT is a matter of great satisfaction that the Gurugram administration has reduced the number of Covid containment zones from 15 to 7. In June, the number was increasing rapidly. The officials concerned deserve praise for bringing down the number of cases. —Subhash C Taneja, GurugramWhat Our Readers SayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
20-08-2020||Parveen Arora||Modi to interact with 12 ragpickers from Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 19The Karnal Municipal Corporation (MC) has roped in 298 ragpickers for ensuring 100 per cent segregation of waste generated in the city. Of them, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with a group of 12 through the virtual mode on Thursday.Special arrangements have been made by the MC for this virtual interaction at the Material Recovery Facility Centre on Meerut Road on the occasion of ‘Swachh Survekshan 2020’ award ceremony. “We have made all arrangements for the virtual meet of the ragpickers with the PM,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, MC Commissioner.He said they had registered 298 ragpickers for segregating recyclable materials from the garbage generated by the city on a daily basis. At present, around 50 per cent segregation is being done by the MC.Swachh Survekshan ranking“We have four material recovery facility centres in the city and MC employees are segregating the waste at present. However, in coming days, ragpickers will also help segregate the waste to achieve 100 per cent target,” he added.Yadav said it would help them in earning a livelihood along with making the city neat and clean. “It will also help in improving the Swachh Survekshan ranking.”“ID cards have also been issued to them,” he said.The ragpickers will segregate the waste at all four material recovery facility centres and later sell the garbage, which cannot be treated, at scrap shops. As per the authorities, the move will help in making good use of the recycle materials, besides providing better livelihood for the ragpickers.At present, ragpickers segregate the recyclable material from the heaps of garbage and sell it to various shops. After this initiative, they will not have to wander to look for garbage heaps to pick up recyclable materials.In 2019, the city had improved the Swachh Survekshan ranking to 24th from 41st in 2018. “We are hopeful that the city will get a good ranking this time,” he added.The MC Commissioner said the identified rackpickers would be entitled to Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, Aayushman Bharat, Ujjwala Yojana, BPL, Jan Dhan Yojana and other schemes.
20-08-2020||Faridabad||35 structures razed in Faridabad||A team of the District Town Planner (DTP) Enforcement on Wednesday demolished 35 structures that had come up illegally in two colonies in the revenue area of Seekri village.DTP Naresh Kumar said the constructions brought down included four residential structures, four shops, two industrial and 25 boundary walls or damp-proof courses that had come up illegally on six acres in the village. He said these constructions had been a part of the two residential colonies that had been carved out by private persons in the past couple of months.He said the drive against the illegal constructions had been on since June, over 120 constructions have been brought down by the department in the past three months.Demolition drive at YamunanagarYamunanagar: A demolition drive was carried out by a team of the DTP on Tuesday in an unauthorised colony in the revenue estate of Hundewala village.DTP Amit Madholia said the total area of the colony was four acres wherein 30 damp-proof courses, 10 boundary walls, one car garage and one shed were demolished.He said Jagadhri Tehsildar Chotu Ram was appointed as the duty magistrate. — TNS
20-08-2020||Hisar||HAU top Agricultural University||Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (HAU) here has topped among agricultural universities in the country in Atal Ranking of Institutions of Innovation Achievements.Vice Chancellor Samar Singh stated that it was a big boost to the university. Dr Seema Rani, nodal officer, said the HAU got the ranking based on six main parameters.“The HAU had contributed significantly to the Green Revolution and White Revolution during the 1960s and 1970s,” she said. — TNS
20-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram to get biodiversity park||In what has left environmentalists and conservationists elated, 100 acres in the Aravalis in Kasan village will be transformed into a biodiversity park. Forest Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar reviewed the area after the local panchayat gave its nod to the project.“Haryana has just 3 per cent forest cover and we wish to enhance it to 20. We’ve allowed plantation on around 1,000 acres, but the key is to replenish the Aravalis and such parks are the only way out.”As per a report, over 10,000 acres had been compromised in the last 15 years. The area under the national conservation zone had been reduced from 47,980 acres in 2005 to 37,270 acres in 2020. — TNS
20-08-2020||Ravinder Saini||Trial run on nation’s first elevated railway track in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 19First trial run of goods train on the country’s first 4.8-km-long elevated railway track in Rohtak was conducted on Wednesday.“It was a test run to examine the safety of the structure before the final trial. A goods train loaded with rail lines ran smoothly on the track with slow speed. The movement of the train was good and we can now expect its final trial soon,” said Pradeep Ranjan, technical adviser of the project.Former minister and Senior BJP leader Manish Grover, who was present on the occasion, said it was his dream project and he was eagerly waiting for the completion of its work for inauguration. He would try to get Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal’s time for the same, he added.“The track will not only do away with five-level crossings in the city and reduce traffic jams but also bring a major relief to several residential colonies located nearby as they had to cover a long distance while going to the other side due to the railway track,” said Grover.To examine safetyIt was a test run to examine its safety before the final trial. A goods train loaded with rail lines ran smoothly on the track with slow speed. The movement of the train was good and we can now expect its final trial soon. —Pradeep Ranjan, Technical adviser of projectHe said a 5-km-long road between Sector 6 and Railway Station would also be constructed on one side of the track. The state government had recently approved this project that would cost around Rs 17 crore. The work on the project would be initiated soon. The road would facilitate residents of several nearby colonies to reach the railway station within five to ten minutes, he said.The then Railway Minister, Suresh Prabhu, had electronically unveiled the foundation stone of this Rs 350 crore project in November, 2016, but it was formally launched by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in March 2018.
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Three from state  among top 50 MLAs||Fame India Asia Post, a Noida-based magazine, has named three state legislators — Mahipal Dhanda, Sombir Sangwan and Chiranjeevi Rao — among the top 50 best MLAs in the country in a survey.The survey included 3,958 MLAs as positions of 165 are vacant. There are 4,123 positions of legislators in the country across 31 Assemblies.The work done by the MLAs, the proposals submitted by them and their participation in debates was also included for evaluation. The chosen MLAs have been categorised in 50 categories.BJP MLA Mahipal Dhanda from Panipat Rural has been chosen in the ‘responsible’ category. Dhanda is a two-time MLA. Independent Dadri MLA Sombir Sangwan has been chosen in ‘personality’ category and Congress MLA Chiranjeevi Rao from Rewari in ‘progressive’ category. — TNS
20-08-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Devi Lal’s grandson among new district BJP chiefs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 19A month after taking over as the state BJP chief, Om Prakash Dhankar on Wednesday took the first step towards building his own core team by announcing the names of new district chiefs. He has tried to balance the caste equation and local aspirations in the list, which has been released after taking party “heavyweights” into confidence.Only two women — Archana Gupta (Panipat) and Gargi Kakkar (Gurugram) — have made it to the list of 22 names.The interesting appointment is of Rai legislator Mohan Lal Kaushik, who will be incharge of Sonepat district unit. His appointment assumes significance since the Baroda Assembly seat, which falls in Sonepat district, is due for bypoll. The seat fell vacant following the demise of Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda. The BJP is going all out to add the seat to its kitty.Young dynamic teamWe’ve formed a young dynamic team with an average age of 45 years. They are experienced and raring to go. I’ve tried to give representation to all sections of society. My next agenda is to form the state body.  —Om Prakash Dhankar, State BJP chiefOnly three of the outgoing district presidents have been retained in the new list. Ajay Bansal (Rohtak), Gopal Sharma (Faridabad) and Ashok Kumar Dhand (Kaithal) will serve as district presidents for the second term.To strengthen the party base in the home district of the Chautalas and develop its own leadership despite the BJP’s alliance with the Janayak Janta Party (JJP), the party has given the charge of Sirsa district to Aditya Devi Lal, grandson of late Deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal.Among others to be appointed are party’s Kisan Morcha state secretary Raj Kumar Saini (Kurukshetra), and state executive members Satyender Parmar (Dadri), Raju Mor (Jind) and Vikram Kadian (Jhajjar), son of former MLA Om Prakash Beri. Kadian had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly elections from Beri last year.Hisar district president Capt Bhupinder is a former Officer on Special Duty (OSD) to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, while the new Yamunanagar district chief Rajesh Sapra is the personal secretary to Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti, Rattan Lal Kataria, and has served the party in various capacities.Dhankar said, “My next agenda is to form the state body. Since this list came in a month of me taking over, the next one will also be out after a month.”Meanwhile, Khattar congratulated the newly appointed district unit chiefs.
20-08-2020||Parveen Arora||Karnal hospital sees surge in emergency surgeries||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 19The Karnal Civil Hospital witnessed a significant rise in emergency surgeries during the Covid-induced lockdown in comparison with last year.As per information, 816 emergency surgeries were performed from April to July, the period when the lockdown remained in force. In the corresponding period last year, the number of emergency surgeries stood at 393.Besides, 670 deliveries were performed through the Cesarean section in the Civil Hospital during this period in comparison with just 50 deliveries in the corresponding period last year.This April, 149 emergency surgeries were conducted against 97 last April. In May, 195 surgeries were performed against 109 last year. The number stood at 200 for June this year while, for last year, it was 76. As for July, 272 surgeries were performed against 111 last year.Civil Hospital officials attribute the surge to two things: one, most private hospitals had put off emergency surgeries during the lockdown and, two, the Civil Hospital was functioning as a non-Covid facility.Besides local patients, people from nearby districts and Western Uttar Pradesh got their surgeries performed in the Karnal Civil Hospital, officials said.The reason for the increase in deliveries at the Civil Hospital was that the gynaecology department at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) had “stopped” non-Covid activities. All pregnant women were referred to the Civil Hospital.Dr Ashwani Ahuja, Principal Medical Officer (PMO). “The Civil Hospital witnessed an increase in emergency surgeries as it was functional for non-Covid activities during the lockdown.”Meanwhile, the Director General, Health Services, has directed all Civil Surgeons and PMOs to reinstate routine surgical and medical procedure.
20-08-2020||Jhajjar||Gender test racket busted, tout held||A team of the district health authorities on Wednesday unearthed an inter-state sex determination racket with the arrest of a tout. Two staff nurses among eight persons have been booked in this connection.“On a tip-off, a decoy customer was sent to a local polyclinic. There, a nurse cracked a deal for Rs 70,000. As per the plan, a tout identified as Sumit of Wazirpur village met the decoy customer in Jhajjar on Tuesday and received Rs 70,000 from her,” said Dr Achal Tripathi, nodal officer, PNDT.Subsequently, the tout and the decoy customer proceeded towards Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh, in a taxi. In the meantime, Sumit called up another staff nurse posted at the Civil Hospital, Jhajjar, and informed her about receiving the money. He also talked to another tout Sonu of Bhindawas village over the phone.On reaching Ghaziabad, they halted at a dhaba for refreshments. From there, a man and a woman took the decoy customer to some house in a car, in which two pregnant women were already present.“After the ultrasound test, the decoy customer and Sumit returned to Beri and told her about the gender of her unborn child. As soon as they returned, Sumit was caught and Rs 15,500 was recovered from him,” the nodal officer said. Dr Tripathi further said Sumit worked as an ambulance operator at the Civil Hospital here three years ago. “The role of more than two nurses is suspected. Sumit’s call details will be analysed,” he added. — TNS
20-08-2020||---||8 attached with Chief Minister test positive||Chandigarh, August 19Eight security personnel attached with the Haryana CM, who were to join duty, were among the 994 fresh cases, highest so far, in the state today. Confirming the development, Civil Surgeon Panchkula Dr Jasjeet Kaur said that before joining duty, the security personnel were tested and found positive.BJP outgoing district president Jagmohan Anand is among the positive cases in Karnal. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also came into his contact on Monday when the CM was on day-long tour of the district. Anand attended three programmes with the CM.Ten deaths were also reported today with two each in Faridabad, Rewari and Ambala and one each in Gurugram, Hisar, Kurukshetra and Sirsa. A 69-year-old male from Chawla Colony and an 83-year-old woman from Dabua Colony in Faridabad succumbed to Covid while a 68-year-old co-morbid male patient of Ambala City, who was suffering from diabetes and cardiac ailments, died of brain stroke at PGI, Chandigarh. A 43-year-old ambulance driver of the Health Department from Sullar (Ambala) was among the casualties too.
20-08-2020||Tribune Reporters||Rain sinks Gurugram||Gurugram, August 19A three-hour rain spell today left many areas of the city submerged and threw life out of gear. Over 100 mm of rain led to flash floods, leaving streets, vehicles and furniture inside homes under water.Electricity supply was snapped in many areas and had not been restored till the filing of this report. The photograph of a car submerged in water on the Gold Course Road became the face of this monsoon.Waterlogging took a toll on vehicular movement, with waiting time in traffic jams on the Delhi-Jaipur expressway ranging from 20 minutes to an hour.Massive flooding and breakdown of vehicles were reported. At least 2,000 police personnel rose to the occasion by diverting traffic, aiding in vehicle repairs and helping people cross flooded roads.“The main reason behind waterlogging is structural lapses like encroachment on drains and laying of speed breakers. We have decanted water from many places and it is under way in the DLF underpass,” said Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri.Faridabad: Several residential areas and roads were waterlogged for several hours after a downpour. Traffic movement remained disrupted and snarls were witnessed at several places.Karnal: A short spell of heavy rain left the city waterlogged at many places. Commuters had to face problems in many parts of the city.Yamunanagar: Life was hit in parts of Yamunanagar district after seasonal rivulets Somb and Nakti swelled due to heavy rain.The overflowing rivulets submerged standing crops in several areas and damaged an embankment, roads and part of a bridge.
20-08-2020||---||Hop-on-hop-off bus for Kurukshetra tourists on anvil||Kurukshetra, August 19The Kurukshetra Development Board has come out with a proposal of starting ‘hop-on-hop-off’ bus service for tourists and devotees who visit the holy city.“Following the directions of the Chief Minister, the board has prepared a ‘hop-on-hop-off’ bus service. The board has planned to introduce 4-5 buses having automated guide system in English and Hindi languages and LED screens so that tourists can be informed about the sites. They will be provided literature as well. The buses will ply from 8 am to 8 pm. It will be a 27-km-long route on which the buses will ply covering all sites including Brahma Sarovar, Sannihit Sarovar, Srikrishna museum, Gurdwara Chhevin Patshahi, Tirupati Balaji temple, Mahabharata war formation, Jyotisar, Buddha Stupa, Harsh ka Tila, Panorama Museum, Kalpana Chawla planetarium and other major spots,” said Madan Mohan Chhabra, honorary secretary of the board.
20-08-2020||Panipat||SIT to probe murders||Superintendent of Police Manisha Chaudhary has constituted an SIT under DSP Om Prakash to investigate the killing of two youths in Bandh village. The police arrested Dharambeer, owner of a dhaba, for his involvement in the double murder. The police produced him in a local court, which sent him to two-day police remand. — TNS
20-08-2020||Panipat||Stone-crusher owner robbed of car, Rs 1.65L||Three armed miscreants took away a car, Rs 1.65 lakh, a licensed pistol and mobile phones from the owner of a stone-crusher and his driver near Lakhu Buana village in Panipat on Tuesday night. A case was registered.Krishan Kumar of Ganaur in Sonepat said a car bearing a Delhi number registration accosted them around 10 pm.He said three youths came out and opened fire at the driver. They robbed Kumar of Rs 1.4 lakh, a licensed revolver and an i-phone, and the driver of Rs 25,000 and a mobile phone. They fled in Kumar’s car. — TNS
20-08-2020||---||4 booked for hoisting Khalistan flag in Sirsa district||Chandigarh, August 19The Haryana Police have arrested four miscreants on the charges of trying to disrupt peace, brotherhood and communal harmony by hoisting a flag with 'Khalistan zindabad' written on it at a village chaupal under Kalanwali police station in Sirsa district.A Haryana Police spokesperson said that accused were identified as Rupinder Singh alias Rim, Yudhvir Singh alias Jony and Gurjeet, all residents of Singhpura village, and Aman Sharma of Ward Number 3, Talwandi Sabo.Two of them carried out the hoisting and while the other two shot a video and photographs and posted those on social media.A case under relevant Sections of the IPC has been registered at Kalawali police station and a probe is under way.
20-08-2020||Sushil Manav||Cases projected to rise to 72K by Sept 15, Haryana gets ready||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 19Haryana is preparing for its fight against Coronavirus with projections of 72,904 cases in the state by September 15.As per the GAP analysis by the Health Department in various districts of Haryana, the state is likely to have 18,226 active cases on September 15.As on Tuesday, the state had 48,936 positive cases and 7,081 active cases.As per the state government’s projections, Faridabad district, which had the maximum 11,236 positive cases and 776 active cases on Tuesday evening, could have 15,225 positive and 3,806 active cases by the middle of September, again the maximum for any district in the state.Arrangements in place With these projections, we will need 1,094 beds with oxygen support, 547 intensive care unit beds and 182 ventilators, but we have made arrangements for 5,952 beds with oxygen support, 2,245 ICU beds and 1,092 ventilators. —Ashok Meena, Nodal officer for covid data computationGurugram, which has 10,472 positive cases and 762 active cases, can have 12,745 positive cases and 3,186 active cases by September 15, according to the projections.Among other districts, the Health Department’s projections are 4,844 positive cases and 1,211 active cases for Ambala, 1,332 and 333 cases for Bhiwani, 373 and 94 cases for Charkhi Dadri, 908 and 227 cases for Fatehabad, 2,033 and 508 cases for Hisar, 1,345 and 336 cases for Jhajjar, 564 and 141 cases for Jind, 1,047 and 262 cases for Kaithal, 2,870 and 718 cases for Karnal, 2,139 and 535 cases for Kurukshetra, 2,016 and 504 cases for Mahendragarh, 799 and 200 cases for Nuh, 2,133 and 533 cases for Palwal, 2,574 and 644 cases for Panchkula, 4,728 and 1,182 cases for Panipat, 4,596 and 1,149 cases for Rewari, 2,816 and 704 cases from Rohtak, 1,779 and 445 cases from Sirsa, 4,685positive and 117 active cases from Sonepat and 1,348 positive and 337 active casesfrom Yamunanagar.Earlier, in the GAP analysis at the end of July, the Health Department had made projections of 59,209 cases by the end of August.Ashok Meena, Commissioner, Food and Drug Administration, who is the nodal officer for computation of data on Covid in Haryana, however, maintained that the department had kept the projections 50 per cent higher than they are actually expecting so that they are not caught unawares.He said that the department’s preparedness for the Covid situation is much ahead of the projected cases.“With these projected positive and active cases, we will need 1,094 beds with oxygen support, 547 intensive care unit beds and 182 ventilators, but we have made arrangements for 5,952 beds with oxygen support, 2,245 ICU beds and 1,092 ventilators,” said Meena.
20-08-2020||The police have arrested Banu Ram of Ambala and claimed to have recovered 185 gram 'charas' from his possession. A local court remanded the accused in two-day police custody. TNS||One arrested with ‘charas’||Army man laid to restHisar: The mortal remains of Army jawan Satpal Bhakar were consigned to flames with military and state honours at his native village Agroha in Hisar today. He was posted in Ladakh region and died in a road accident on August 15. His four-year-old daughter lit the pyre. Army personnel gave a salute by firing in the air. — TNSTwo held for robbery bidThe police have arrested two persons, including a minor, for armed robbery bid. Ramesh Chand of Naraingarh had reported that Ghansyam of Yamunanagar and the minor stabbed him, his wife and their son in a robbery bid. Ghanshyam was sent to 14-day judicial custody and the minor to a juvenile shelter home. TNS2 caught for scooter theftThe police have arrested Honey and Ram of Ambala and claimed to have recovered a stolen scooter from their possession. Prem Singh had reported theft of his Honda Activa scooter. The accused have been sent to 14-day judicial custody. TNS1 nabbed for raping minorA youth has been arrested for raping and threatening a minor since April. A local court remanded the accused, identified as Kunal alias Kunna, in 14-day judicial custody. TNS
20-08-2020||Yamunanagar||Role of education institutions discussed||Departmental presentation at CUHMahendragarh: A five-day departmental presentation based on teaching, research and ongoing efforts of the teachers at the university-level started at the Central University of Haryana (CUH). Organised by the internal quality assessment cell of the university, teachers of the various departments falling under the School of Interdisciplinary and Applied Sciences presented the particulars pertaining to their academic and social efforts on the first day of this online presentation. “The programme aims at deliberating on the work done by teachers at various levels and to proceed further optimistically along with better suggestions and mutual cooperation,” said Vice Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad.Hisar varsity among top 25 in IndiaHisar: Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology has been awarded with rank band 6th to 25th in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) released by the Ministry of Education. Vice Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar and Registrar Prof Harbhajan Bansal congratulated the internal quality assurance cell faculty members for this achievement. As per the university PRO, rank 1 to 5 were awarded individually and 6th onwards, the institutes were included in rank bands. The VC said: “This ranking is the recognition of research and innovation of the university, which have the region's best 86 H-index with more than 43,000 citations.” The university has established Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Innovation and Incubation Centre to promote start-ups and new innovation ideas, he added.
