20-07-2020||Chandigarh||694 fresh COVID-19 cases in Haryana; infection tally reaches 26,858||Haryana reported 694 fresh cases of coronavirus and six deaths due to the disease on Monday, taking the infection tally to 26,858, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.While Sonipat reported three fatalities, a death each was reported from Jhajjar, Hisar and Nuh districts.With this, the COVID-19 deaths in Haryana rose to 355, it said.Meanwhile, the districts which reported fresh coronavirus cases include Gurgaon (109), Faridabad (103), Sonipat (98), Rewari (75), Ambala (70), Palwal and Panipat 35 each, Fatehabad (14), Panchkula (13) and Hisar (23) and Mahendragarh (20), the bulletin said.The total number of active cases in the state is 6,277, while 20,226 people have been discharged after recovery.The state’s recovery rate as on Monday is 75.31 per cent, while the rate of doubling of infections is 22 days, the bulletin added. --- PTI
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s NCB will have units at 17 places in the state, HQ in Karnal: Anil Vij||Haryana’s Narcotics Control Bureau will have its units at 17 places in the state with the headquarters proposed to be set up at Madhuban in Karnal district, state Home Minister Anil Vij said here on Monday.He said the Bureau will work to completely eradicate the supply chain of narcotics in the state and bring drug menace under control.Vij, while presiding over the review meeting of the Narcotics Control Bureau here, said that its headquarters has been proposed to be set up in Madhuban, according to an official statement.Vij said that all the Bureau officials will be provided with equipment including vehicles, weapons, bulletproof jackets, night vision cameras, and other essentials to carry out their task in an effective manner.He said that 380 posts have been created for the smooth functioning of the Bureau.Till regular recruitment begins, the Bureau will include a DIG, 2 SPs, 5 DSPs, technical staff and other necessary staff, headed by an Additional Director General of Police rank officer. PTI
20-07-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Woman jumps to death after argument during party in Gurugram||The Gurugram police have booked a pilot for allegedly abetting the suicide of his former live-in partner, a former crew member of an airline.The accused had invited her to a party he hosted at a friend’s place.The duo had an argument there following which she allegedly jumped to death from the fifth floor. The police registered a case but is also probing foul play.According to the police, the deceased is identified as 26-year-old Peggyla Bhutia, a native of Sikkim. She lived with her elder sister Bebyla in S block of DLF phase 3 and both worked as crew members in airlines.It was on Sunday night when she went to attend a party, hosted by one of her friends Dzzel Thiksey Sharma at Bestech Parkview Spa next society, sector 67.Police said that Sharma is a pilot with Jet Airways and had 10 guests, including the deceased and four couples. “It was around 9:30 pm when others were busy at dinner, an argument started between the deceased and the pilot. They went outside in the balcony and soon Dzzel came back saying she had jumped. Soon residents gathered there and rushed her to Artemis hospital where doctors declared her brought dead. Police was called and took the body in custody,” revealed a senior investigator.Bebyla, sister of the victim, said in her complaint that she was fed up with Dzzel and he was responsible for her death.According to preliminary investigation, a fight had broken between the pilot and the deceased minutes before her death.On the complaint, an FIR has been registered against Sharma at sector 65 police station.“We are investigating all angles. The accused will be called to join the investigation,” said inspector Dinkar, SHO, sector 65 police station.
20-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Nine samples of hand sanitisers fail quality test in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20Nine of 59 samples of hand-sanitisers that Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) department sent for quality tests were found to be substandard, sources said---a development that poses serious questions over the quality of potentially life-saving goods like hand-santizers and facemasks at a time when a global pandemic continues to unleash chaos.   The FDA had sent some 158 samples for testing in early June after there were complaints of substandard products. Health Minister Anil Vij had ordered quality testing to be conducted on products across Haryana.Authorities have got back results of 59 of those samples.  Masks and hand sanitizers are recommended measures against COVID-19 pandemic, which has so far infected over 26,000 people in Haryana and claimed over 300 lives.“The samples of hand sanitisers that have failed quality test are found to have lower content of isopropyl alcohol or ethanol,” said Commissioner Food and Drugs Administration Ashok Kumar Meena.Central government guidelines say hand sanitisers should have 75 per cent content of isopropyl alcohol or should have 60-80 per cent ethanol.“We are soon going to launch prosecution under Drugs and Cosmetic Act against these nine brands,” said Meena. He added, “Some of these firms are based in the state and some outside.”No sample has been found containing the toxic methanol.Eight First Information Reports have so far been registered against companies as well as individuals for counterfeit and overly-priced products. This includes a factory in Ambala, where authorities who raided the factory in March found three types of hand-santizers, two filling machines and printed labels.   Also in March, a retailer in Hisar was found selling hand sanitisers without a drug licence and without carrying details such as batch number, manufacturing number and name of the manufacturer on the product.In April, a Gurugram company was found manufacturing and selling hand sanitisers without a licence. In June, a Kaithal retailer was caught manufacturing his own hand sanitisers by mixing ingredients in plastic drums. The building was unsanitary and followed no precaution to avoid contamination.Later the same month, a Daman-based firm was found selling hand-sanitisers even though their licence only allowed them to make disinfectant for medical devices.A Faridabad factory unit manufacturing products in the name of other firms under unsanitary conditions was busted in June.
20-07-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||In pictures: Massive water-logging and road cave-in at Gurugram||This has become an annual monsoon feature. Following heavy rains on Sunday night, Gurugram reported waterlogging and road caves across the city. One of the worst-hit was the key juncture, IIFFCo Chowk area, where police have issued a warning to motorists about the cave-in.  A similar, cave-in was reported at Sector 46, light point, near Sector 50 road. Cops have been deployed at both the areas, while MCG teams are yet to arrive. Meanwhile, a massive waterlogging has also been reported across the city, including the IIFFCo chowk and the majority of the old Gurugram."The cops are already in affected areas to manage the Monday morning traffic. Special advisories have been issued by on social media about the waterlogging and cave-ins. The situation is under control as if now," said CP KK Rao.
20-07-2020||Karnal||Haryana reports 66 coronavirus cases; tally rises to 26,230||Haryana on Monday reported 66 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s case tally to 26,230.Karnal reported 21 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 658. Those who tested positive are six persons from Vakilpura Sadar Bazar, three persons from Shiv Colony, two each from Sector-9, Police Lines, and Ashok Nagar, and one each from Ras Residency, Darad Farm, Dyal Singh College quarter, CIA-1, Gheer and one more person. At present, 162 cases are active, while 8 persons have died due to the deadly virus. So far, 488 patients have been discharged.Panipat reported 45 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 626. The cases were reported from BPS medical college for women at Khanpur Kalan.
20-07-2020||Ambala||Youth shot dead over old rivalry in Ambala||A 26-year-old youth was allegedly shot dead over a rivalry in Khanpur Brahmnana village here today.The deceased has been identified as Deepak. In his complaint, Deepak’s cousin Ramesh Kumar alleged, “Deepak was returning from his fields when I saw a youth approaching him and then I heard the sound of a gunshot. Within no time, the youth fled from the spot. Deepak was lying unconscious. I took him to the Civil Hospital, Ambala City, where he was declared brought dead.”He said Deepak had suffered a bullet injury on his chest. He had a dispute with Atul of Khanpur Brahmnana village. Darshan Lal, sarpanch of the village, said, “Deepak was the only son and he had done B-pharmacy. His father is a labourer and the family is in a state of deep shock.”A case has been registered against Atul, Vikas, Harneep, Manish, Krishan, and Rajesh and others under Sections 302 and 120b of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act.SP Abhishek Jorwal said, “There is an old dispute between two groups and there have been assault cases against both groups”. —TNS
20-07-2020||THE stray animal menace continues to haunt residents of Sector 9. The park facing House No. 1189 to 1196 is a common site where stray animals create a terror among children and people that visit the park. Sometimes they also cause a ruckus in the area||Stray animal menace continues unabated||HSSC must declare resultIT has been noticed that neither the government nor the Haryana Staff Selection Commission is interested in declaring the result of clerk exam which was taken around a year ago vide notification 05/2019. Though all the document verification process is already completed yet none of the government representative is sensitive to the inconvenience that the youth is facing due to this delay. The government should take a serious note of the issue and release the results as soon as possible. Pankaj Kamboj, Retd navy PO, PanchkulaNo end to frequent power outagesMANY a times, I dial 1912 to complain against the erratic power supply in the Friends Colony, Kaithal. It feels ecstatic that I am given a complaint number. The concerned officials of the electricity department remove the fault and an SMS intimating my complaint has been resolved is sent immediately. It feels good that we are progressing towards a better nation with a responsive system where the residents’ problems are addressed without any delay. But due to frequent power failure, residents now infuriate as it causes a discomfort especially during the night. The problem adds to the residents’ woes who have children and elderly at their homes which are more sensitive to heatwave during the summer season. The authorities must look into the issue immediately and get the needful done. Kapil Sharma, KaithalSewage leaks into waterTHE Birbal Nagar in Narwana is one of the thickly-populated high-end residential areas where since more than a month, sewage water mixed with potable water is being supplied to the houses. The blackish water with foul smell is unfit for consumption. A delegation of residents met the officials but there is none to listen to their problem. The administration must resolve this issue at the earliest. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
20-07-2020||Rohtak||Plantation drive at MDU campus||Online essay writing contestYamunanagar: A national-level online essay writing contest was organised by Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Club of Mukand Lal National College,Yamunanagar, on the topic “Battle with COVID-19: Promotion without Examination-Students’ Perspective”. Dr Rahul Khanna, officiating principal of the college, said students from Telangana, West Bengal, Punjab, Uttrakhand and Haryana participated in the contest. He said the purpose behind organising the contest was to understand the perspective of the students regarding the conduct of examinations in the times of pandemic and also to assess their sense of responsibility not only towards themselves but also towards their family, society and nation at large. The contest was organised under the guidance of the convener of the club Dr Anil Dhawan and the organising committee consisted of Dr Sumita Kanwar, Sunita Sikri and Gurmeet Singh.Group discussion heldHisar: The Training and Placement Cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology here organised an online group discussion (GD) contest under its fortnightly virtual speakathon programme. In all 27 students from various departments participated in the contest. Dr Dinesh Nagpal, Director, IMS, Hisar, was the chief judge of the event assisted by Dr Deepa Mangla, Prof HSB, and Bijender Kaushik, Assistant Prof, Department of Printing of the university. The programme began with an orientation on “How to participate effectively in GD” by all the three judges. Dr Nagpal through a presentation directed the students that a GD reflects one’s personality and one's presence of mind. “A good GD expects you to be a good listener along with being a good speaker,” he said. “Weightage of content is 50 per cent, 25 per cent for body language and the rest 25 per cent is for communication skills in a GD,” he said. He also highlighted the importance of dressing sense, postures, timings, understanding of topic and command over the language. He said a GD was meant to check the knowledge, team work ability and confidence of the candidate.Int’l conference concludesKurukshetra: The first international conference on “Mobile Radio Communications and 5G Networks” (MRCN-2020) concluded at the UIET, KU here. During the conference, various keynote address were delivered by experts from various parts of the world. Dr Manak Gupta, Tennessee Technological University, USA, gave a keynote address on secure smart communities, a keynote address on information and communication technologies for “Addressing societal and global challenges: Tools and Application” by Dr Utkarsh Shrivastava, Western Michigan University, USA, a keynote address on automatic modulation recognition for a secure and flexible transceiver for software defined radios by Dr Nikhil Marriwala, UIET, KU, keynote address on role of 5G in next generation internet enabled innovation by Prof Shivakumar Mathapathi adjunct faculty- Santa Clara University and UC San Diego Extension, and address by Dr Vishal from Sultanate of Oman on communication in AI were delivered to the participants during the three-day event. Prof CC Tripathi, Convener-MRCN-2020, Director, UIET, KU, said the publication of the proceedings of the conference in the form of a book titled “Mobile radio communications and 5G networks” would be published by Springer - one of the world renowned and leading publisher. Dr Nikhil Marriwala the organising secretary of MRCN-2020 said all the received papers were being reviewed with a panel of experts and 22.3 per cent were the acceptance rate.
20-07-2020||Rohtak||Cycle rally creates Covid awareness||Plantation via Miyawaki techniqueRewari: A team of the district administration led by Rewari SDM Ravinder Yadav sowed 1,200 saplings of 35 different varieties of plants at Meerpur village here under the Miyawaki technique. Division Forest Officer Sunder Sambharia said this Japanese technique was instrumental in growing more plants in smaller tracts of lands. “Moreover, plants grown using this technique don't die easily and can be maintained. It even ensures a sound environment by reducing the carbon in air,” Sambhari added.20 lakh saplings to be plantedKarnal: NIFAA will begin its 20th year of establishment with a pledge to plant 20 lakh saplings and donate 2 lakh units of blood in a year. At a press conference held on Sunday, NIFAA chairman Pritpal Singh Pannu said these were extremely proud moments for all members because the seed of the institution, sown on September 21, 2000, has become a banyan tree and was contributing to the progress of the nation and society. He said the NIFAA branches in 26 states and Union Territories were overwhelmed and excited by the institution's 20-year historic journey and want to do something memorable this year. For this, each state branch will create a 'Go Green Assistant Project Director’, who will be in touch with Project Director Rajiv Malhotra of Go Green Wing of NIFAA. People will be motivated to adopt and take care of plants. NIFAA will give a certificate of ‘environmental hero’ to every person adopting 10 plants and caring for them. Similarly, the person or organization donating 100 plants will also be given the honour. This year's Go Green campaign will be launched on Kargil Vijay Diwas on July 26.Withdrawal of market fee soughtHisar: Haryana Pardesh Veopar Mandal state president Bajrang Garg (in pic) has demanded the withdrawal of the market fee. Garg said the state government's decision to impose market fee on the arhtiyas was uncalled for and would spell doom for the trade activities in the mandis. The decision is anti-traders and anti-farmers. Extending support to the stir announced by the traders from Monday, Garg said Covid had ruined the business and trader activities. “Instead of helping out farmers and traders in this hour of crisis, the government is hell bent upon ruining them by imposing 2 per cent market fee,” he said, adding that the levy of the fee had led to rise in the prices of vegetables and fruits.government’s betrayal with the farming community,” said Joginder Singh Ugrahan, BKU (Ugrahan) president.LPG crematorium in Karnal soonKarnal: An LPG crematorium will be set up in Arju Gate Shivpuri in the city. The Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) has purchased a machine at the cost of Rs 67 lakh for the crematorium. It is expected that it will be functional in 10 days. DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said the state government had initiated the process to set up the LPG-run crematorium in the various parts of the state. The first machine of the district is being installed. “I have directed the contractor concerned to install it at the earliest. It will take around 50-60 minutes for cremating a body,” he added.
20-07-2020||Parveen Arora||Platform for farmers||With the aim of strengthening the agriculture sector and doubling farmers’ income, the Union Government plans to set up 10,000 new farmer producer organisations (FPOs) across the country with new guidelines.The FPO, a group of farmers dealing with business activities related to farm produce, works for the benefit of members, including small, marginal and women farmers. Presently, there are over 450 FPOs with more than 76,000 farmers in Haryana. Of them, around 30,000 got themselves registered on the IT portal of the Small Farmer Agri-business Consortium Haryana (SFACH), a nodal agency looking after the FPOs’ formation and management in the state.According to a survey conducted by The Tribune, most of the FPOs in the state are facing challenges such as a lengthy and costly process to avail certification for organic farming, difficulty in getting loan, no appropriate price of produce, low productivity in organic farming, and inadequate knowledge of the market.“We had started an FPO with 100 members. Now, we have 600 members, of which 150 are involved in chemical-free/organic farming of desi wheat and paddy. We applied for a certificate for organic farming around four years ago, but it is a cumbersome affair for a farmer. It should be cost-effective,” says SP Tomar, vice-chairman of Horticulture Farmer Producer Company Limited, Karnal.He say farmers have little awareness about the branding of their produce. “The members who cultivated organic wheat and paddy witnessed a downfall in production in the first three years as the soil takes time to gain fertility without fertilisers,” he adds.Vikas Chaudhary, director, Progrowers Producer Company Limited, Taraori, and other members of the FPO had to face hiccups. They could not get a loan from a bank as they do not have any property to mortgage. “We are 372 members. We have to fight hard for several months to get a bank loan,” he rues. He, however, says that now, with the support of the Horticulture Department and SFACH, they got a project of the crop cluster development programme, under which they will process and package tomato products.Dr Paras Ram, Agri-business Manager (FPO), SFACH, claims Haryana is witnessing a good response as farmers are showing interest in joining the FPOs. “The state government has mandated to form FPOs for agriculture-related activities. In 2018, while fixing the targets for Parivartan blocks, the state decided to form 10 FPOs in each of the 46 Parivartan blocks and assigned this work to SFACH with the objective of strengthening the farmers’ capacity and skills for bargaining in trade practices of agri-business, to provide marketing linkages, facilitating access to fair and remunerative markets, including linking of producer groups to marketing opportunities through market aggregators and employment generation,” he adds.He says SFACH had signed an MoU with NABCON (NABARD Consultancy Services) for management and providing incentives to 13 FPOs. As a result, these FPOs are engaged in various agri-business activities and have significant business turnover as start-ups.NABARD is also playing a vital role in this project. Abhimanyu Malik, District Development Manager, NABARD, Karnal, says since around 85 per cent of farmers are small and marginal and the average landholding size has shrunk to 1.08 hectare, farmers need to come together to reap the benefits of collectivisation.Battling roadblocksMany FPOs based in Haryana are facing issues such as lengthy, costly process to avail certification for organic farming, difficulty in getting bank loans, unremunerative price of produce, and inadequate knowledge of the market.
20-07-2020||Parveen Arora
||Karan Lake to be developed as tourist destination hub||Tribune News Service Karnal, July 19 Ending the years-long wait, Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL) will develop the Karan Lake as a tourist destination hub.  Project Management Consultancy (PMC) prepared the design for the upgradation project, which has been approved by the CEO of KSCL, and soon it will be sent to the state government for approval. At present, people stop over the lake for boating purpose. Once it is developed as a tourist hub, it will have around 6 m wide jogging track around it, landscaping, an open air gym, a cycling track, musical fountains at the boating area, a theme park, an amusement park and an anchor cafe, where one could read and enjoy other facilities. Besides, the existing infrastructure will be strengthened. The existing outer ring road, restaurant, bar and canteen will also be upgraded under the project. It will have a Wi-Fi zone.  “Developing the lake into a tourist destination will give a boost to the local economy as well as tourism. We have planned to upgrade the infrastructure. It will have a walking and a cycling track to encourage people to come for morning and evening walks, among other recreational activities,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO, KSCL. He said the access points to the lakefront would also be developed. The smart road between NDRI chowk and Baldi bypass would be extended to the lake for visitors’ convenience.
20-07-2020||---||Elite bulls cloned at CIRB||Hisar, July 19The Central Institute for Research on Buffalo (CIRB) has made a significant breakthrough in buffalo cloning by producing seven cloned copies of an elite breeding buffalo bull, M-29, besides re-cloning the calf of an earlier cloned bull, ‘Hisar Gaurav’. Officials said all eight cloned calves as well as offspring sired by cloned bulls had normal growth.Dr SS Dahiya, Director, CIRB, stated that it was a huge success and they aim to develop and propagate high-yielding elite buffalo germplasm across the country. “India holds 109 million buffaloes, which accounts for over 56 per cent of the world’s buffalo population. To increase milk productivity of buffalo, the CIRB has been exploiting advanced scientific methods and produced a record 10 cloned elite bulls,” he stated.Dr PS Yadav, head of the cloning project, maintained that they had aimed at producing genetic copies of elite stock. “We are working to make stakeholders aware of this technology before wider application. Bulls are selected on the basis of pedigree and progeny record. Cloned bulls can be used to upgrade population of nondescript buffaloes,” he said.
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Colleges to get access to varsities’ e-libraries||The state is planning to link government colleges with the e-libraries of universities so that students can get access to quality books free of cost. The Higher Education Department has started holding talks with several agencies. State Education Minister Kanwar Pal said the state government had a plan to link e-library of universities, including Kurukshetra University, Maharshi Dayanand University (Rohtak), Chaudhary Devi Lal University (Sirsa), Bhagat Phool Singh Women’s University (Sonepat), Chaudhary Ranbir Singh University (Jind), Chaudhary Bansi Lal University (Bhiwani), Indira Gandhi University (Rewari), National Law University (Sonepat), Gurugram University and Maharishi Valmiki Sanskrit University (Kaithal), with their respective colleges. The Education Minister said the students studying in the government universities and colleges of the state could download the books required by them from the e-library. They would not be required to purchase books. This will save thousands of rupees for each student. Besides, it would enable the students to study books of their favourite publishers from among the available options, he said. The state government also aims to ensure availability of journals of top universities from across the world in the e-libraries, he added. — TNS
20-07-2020||Shiv Kumar Sharma||4 depts get notice for failing to stop effluent flow into canal||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, July 19The Irrigation and Water Resources Department has put four departments, including Municipal Corporation of the Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, on final notice asking them to stop the flow of domestic effluents into Western Jamuna Canal (WJC). It has warned them of lodging FIRs in case they fail to take corrective measures.On July 17, the notices were served on the Executive Officer, MC, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri; Executive Officer, Municipal Committee, Radaur; Executive Engineer, Public Health Engineering Department; and Block Development and Panchayat Officers of Jagadhri, Chhachhrauli and Radaur blocks.Domestic waste dumped into WJCDomestic effluents, including sewage and water from sewage treatment plants (STPs), villages and urban areas in the district are dumped into the WJC at 21 places.As per a report by the department, in March 2019, about 100 cusecs of domestic effluents (more than 2,800 litres discharge per second) was flown into the WJC (in the area falling between Dadupur Head and Radaur town).Water from the WJC is supplied to Delhi and districts of southern Haryana for drinking and irrigation purposes.Haridev Kamboj, Executive Engineer of the Water Services Division, Dadupur, said the WJC fulfilled 60 per cent requirement of Haryana, besides supplying water to Delhi. “The supply of treated and untreated water from the WJC has been banned,” he said.“As per a notification by the Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation of October 7, 2016, no person shall discharge, directly or indirectly, any untreated sewage or sewage sludge into the Ganga river or its tributaries (Yamuna river is a tributary of the Ganga and the WJC is fed by the Yamuna) or its banks,” the official said.He said the department had issued notices to the four departments earlier as well, but it didn’t yield any result.“This time, we have served final notices on them. If the departments fail to stop the discharge of domestic effluents into the canal, we will soon lodge FIRs against them under Section 58 of the Haryana Canal and Drainage Act; Sections 7 and 15 of the Environment (Protection) Act; Sections 24, 25, 26, 43 and 44 of the Water Prevention and Control of Pollution Act; and Section 432 (mischief by causing obstruction to any public drainage attended with injury or damage) of the IPC,” Kamboj added.
20-07-2020||---||Dairies, gaushalas to follow pollution norms: HSPCB||Panipat, July 19Now, dairy farms and gaushalas will be categorised into orange and green industries, respectively, and they will have to follow pollution norms set by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).The CPCB has directed the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), along with other state bodies, to adopt and implement the categorisation of dairy farms and gaushalas as finalised by it.‘Orange, green’ industriesDairy farms and gaushalas will be categorised into orange and green industries, respectively, and they will have to follow pollution norms set by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)Following, the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) May 21 order, the CPCB has issued guidelines for the management of waste from dairy farms and gaushalas and also issued methods for disposal of solid and liquid waste besides focusing on air quality management.CPCB Chairman Shiv Das Meena stated in an order that the committee constituted for categorisation of the industries had finalised the dairy farms and gaushalas under orange and green categories, respectively.The chairman further directed the member secretaries of the pollution control boards of the states to submit action taken report within 15 days. S Narayanan, Member Secretary, HSPCB, said, “We will comply with it.”The dairy farms having 15 or more milch animals, or those located in colonies or clusters should obtain permission under the orange category. Gaushalalas which fall under green category house weak, sick, injured, handicapped and abandoned cattle.
20-07-2020||Hisar||Man kills wife, hangs self||A man killed his wife and committed suicide in Khairi village of Uklana Block of the district on Friday night. The couple was found dead in their house on Saturday morning. The police have registered a case and started investigation. — TNS
20-07-2020||Faridabad||Two killed in cylinder blast||Two siblings died on the spot after a gas cylinder exploded in a factory in Sector 6 here today. The deceased have been identified as Rahul (22) and Rohit (20). A police official said the duo was trying to move the cylinder elsewhere on the factory premises when it exploded suddenly, leading to their death. The incident happened around 1.10 pm.  A case has been registered against unknown persons for alleged negligence. — TNS
20-07-2020||---||Sales dip by 50%, ghevar sellers left high and dry||Rohtak, July 19Covid has cast its shadow on the seasonal business of ghevar, a dessert that is made in the month of sawan as per the Hindu calendar.The sale of ghevar has gone down to 50 per cent this season following the Covid scare.Rohtak district is popular for its ghevar and more than 300 confectioners here are engaged in the business. The dessert is supplied to Delhi, Gurugram, Faridabad and Chandigarh, especially on Teej and Raksha Bandhan.“We used five bhattis (hearth) daily to prepare ghevar to meet the demand, but the Covid crisis has adversely affected the business this time. Now, we are using merely two bhattis to make the sweet as no order has been received this time from Delhi, Gurugram, Faridabad and Chandigarh,” said Dharampal Kataria, owner of a 70-year-old sweets shop.“The ghevar season usually starts in the third week of June and reaches its peak in mid-July during monsoon but there was no sale during this period this time. Though the sale has increased during the past week, but it is not even half of the previous season,” said Ramesh, a confectioner.He said ghevar was made for wholesale in the Bara Bazar area and the confectioners there remained busy in July to meet the demand orders, but this time they too have merely 50 per cent work due to Covid.Pappu, another confectioner, said the negligible movement of people from surrounding districts was the major reason behind the fall in sales of ghevar this season.“Earlier, a large number of people from Delhi and Gurugram used to visit Rohtak to buy ghevar. But this time, they are not moving out in order to protect them from the deadly disease,” he added.
20-07-2020||Faridabad||Cop held, suspended for ‘stalking’||Assistant Sub-inspector (ASI) Ashok Kumar posted here has been arrested in connection with a stalking case. He has been suspended as well. The accused cop, posted at Sanjay Colony in NIT here, has been booked under Section 354-D (stalking) of the IPC and Section 67 of the Information Technology Act on the basis of a complaint lodged by a local woman. On June 30, she had accused the sons of her landlord of stealing her gold ornaments at the time of vacating the house.  She further accused ASI Kumar of failing to take prompt action against the landlord’s sons. “He misbehaved with me and stalked me by sending objectionable messages on WhatsApp,” the complainant alleged.  ACP Dharna Yadav, police spokesperson, said: “Commissioner of Police OP Singh ordered that the ASI should be booked and suspended. The ACP and the SHO of the area have been served notices.” The accused was produced in court on Sunday and remanded in judicial custody. — TNS
20-07-2020||vinder Saini
||Rohtak cloth market shut, traders cry foul||Tribune News Service Rohtak, July 19  Shouri Cloth Market, considered Asia’s biggest market, has been closed till further orders in view of crowding there and violations of guidelines issued by the district administration to contain the spread of Covid.  Sources said the district authorities had directed the traders of the market to open their shops on the basis of the left-right system but many traders did not follow the directive, leading to crowding in the market.  Some Covid cases have also surfaced in the market. All these reasons forced the authorities to issue closure orders, sources claimed. The closure orders were issued by District Magistrate RS Verma on Sunday.  “The fear of Covid infection still remains in Shouri Cloth Market following the persistent crowd. Hence, the issuance of closure orders is imperative to curb human loss. The market will remain closed till further orders,” said the DM. The situation would be reviewed after three days, he added. The Shouri Cloth Market, established in 1951, has over 1,200 shops. Clothes are supplied to Rajasthan, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and across Haryana. The Rohtak Wholesale Cloth Mercantile Association has described the closure orders as unjustified, stating that it would further cause financial loss to distressed traders. “It’s the festival season. People were visiting the market to buy clothes for ‘Teej’ and ‘Raksha Bandhan’. With the authorities ordering the closure of the market, traders are angry. They should have issued a challan and imposed a fine on violators instead of closing the market,” said Rajeev Malhotra, president of the association.
20-07-2020||
||Out of job, lensmen struggle to eke out living||Rohtak, July 19 Bharat, a photographer, bought two DSLR cameras for Rs 3.5 lakh in January. He wanted to expand his business and took a loan for the purpose. But his plan has gone down the drain in the wake of the Covid pandemic. He is now compelled not only to sell these cameras at much lower rates to repay the loan, but also to take up some other work to make ends meet. Not only Bharat, several other photographers and owner of photo studios are facing similar situation in the district following curbs on public gatherings such as weddings and social, political and religious functions. “Rohtak district has more than 250 photo studios and over 500 photographers work from home. Most of them are on the verge of starvation. Some of them have sold their cameras to make ends meet. Our business is largely dependent upon weddings and other functions, which have not been taking place due to the pandemic,” said Sanjeev Dhall, president, Rohtak Photography Sangh. Dhall said no one was paying heed to their plight. “We have written to the Chief Minister for monetary help several times, but to no avail,” he said. Vikas Chawla, owner of Standard Color Lab, said he had never thought that photographers would face such crisis. “I am worried about repaying my loan. I also have to pay my workers,” said Chawla, adding he had no hope that the prevailing situation would improve this year. Jitender, owner of JK Photo Studio, said he had no option but to take up some other work in order to earn his living. “Some of the photographers have vacated their shops as they are not able to pay rent,” he said.
20-07-2020||---||The Punjab and Haryana High Court denies bail in cheating case||Chandigarh, July 19The Punjab and Haryana High Court has denied bail to a man who allegedly received money for delivering face masks following the Covid outbreak, but did not supply the same. “If the petitioner is protected against his arrest at this stage, it would hamper the free and fair investigation by the police as well,” said Justice Rajbir Sehrawat.The order came on a petition by Vishal Rameshbhai Gandhi against the State of Haryana for grant of anticipatory bail in a case alleging cheating and another offence registered on May 15 under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC at Sector 37, Police Station in Gurugram.The Bench was told that the complainant in the case intended to procure good quality face masks for business purpose following the Covid outbreak. For the purpose, she came in to contact with the petitioner. He allegedly agreed to ensure the supply of face masks to the complainant and asked her to inspect the stock at Delhi. For instilling confidence in the complainant, a stock of face masks was shown to her.It was further alleged that the petitioner issued bill from his own firm M/s Rhythm Divine Healthcare. Out of the total payments, Rs 2 lakh was paid in the petitioner’s personal account, whereas Rs 42,60,000 was deposited in his firm’s account.As the goods were not supplied by the petitioner and his firm, the complainant’s money was not returned thus the FIR was lodged.Justice Sehrawat asserted the petitioner raised an invoice/bill for material to be supplied and received the payment. It was for him to supply the goods, but he started denying the transaction and claimed himself to be a middleman. “This lends credence to the allegation of the complainant that the petitioner had a fraudulent intention right from the beginning...,” said Justice Sehrawat.
20-07-2020||Deepender Deswal||Hisar wedding sets off 120 Covid infection, case registered||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 19A wedding attended by close to 200 guests in Hisar last month set off a chain of Covid infection, prompting the health authorities to register an FIR. In light of the global pandemic, not more than 50 people are allowed to attend wedding functions.The Heath Department’s contact tracing wing said that about 120 persons, who attended the wedding functions on July 28 and 29 here, contracted the virus. These include 18 members of the groom’s family, who owns a jewelley shop in Hisar, and 22 members of the bride’s family who are from Pilibanga town of Rajasthan. 120 contract virusThe district administration has formed a three-member committee to investigate the violation of social distancing norms during the wedding.On July 16, head constable Gursewak Singh had lodged a complaint, based on which a case under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act was registered against unidentified persons.The contact tracing wing has written to the higher authorities that after scanning the videos and photos of the wedding, it transpired that 150 to 200 guests were present.The health authorities began tracking down and isolating the contacts after a member of the groom’s family was admitted to a private hospital after he showed Covid symptoms. He tested positive for the virus on July 2.Of the 120 guests who have tested positive, 86 are from Hisar, 22 from Pilibanga and the rest from Fatehabad, Hansi and Sriganganagar.The district has reported 644 cases so far. Of them, 341 have recovered. The total active cases are 291. In all, seven persons have died of Covid in the district.Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Jaya Goel said, “The contact tracing of persons who attended the wedding is still to be concluded. On Saturday, the woman who applied mehndi and members of her family tested positive.”When contacted, the groom’s uncle said his family took care to restrict the number of guests at the wedding. “We did not invite our relatives and neighbours. It is unfortunate that my family and some guests have tested positive for the virus. We followed the guidelines and adhered to social distancing norms,” he claimed.
20-07-2020||---||5 more succumb, 617 fresh cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, July 19The Covid-positive tally in Haryana went up to 26,164 with 617 fresh cases today. The death tally was pegged at 349 with five new deaths.A maximum of 154 cases were reported in Gurugram followed by Faridabad (115), Panipat (72), Sonepat (42), and Ambala (40).Gurugram reported two deaths while one death each was reported from Faridabad, Ambala and Yamunanagar.The death tally Faridabad district rose to 110 today with one more patient dying due to the infection. The victim was a 71-year-old male from Surya Vihar. The tally of positive cases surged to 6,572 with the addition of 110 new cases today.The tally of recovered patients rose to 5,143 with 85 more patients discharged in the past 24 hours.In Sonepat, two more deaths were reported though these were not reported in the health bulletin. Shyam Lal Poonia, DC, said the deceased (73) from Adarsh Nagar of Gohana died on Saturday.Covid-19 Cases DISTRICT-WISE COUNT      District               +ve      deaths
20-07-2020||
||New BJP chief Dhankar vows to strengthen party||Jhajjar, July 19 On reaching his residence here today, newly appointed state BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar was accorded a warm welcome by party workers. His appointment was celebrated, with party workers dancing to the drumbeats, and raising slogans in his favour.  The workers started gathering outside the Dhankar’s residence as soon as the news of his appointment came this afternoon. Talking to mediapersons, Dhankar said he would work not only to strengthen the party, but also to ensure that the government schemes’ benefits reached every person.  “The BJP is the only party which believes in assigning major and unusual responsibility to its simple worker. I express gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP chief JP Nadda and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for entrusting me with this responsibility. I will leave no stone unturned to live up to their expectations,” said Dhankar.  “Naddaji had called me today, and I understood the meaning of his call without talking to him. Every BJP leader had been waiting for the call for the past several days. He told me that the party had given me the vital responsibility of the state chief. I expressed my gratitude to him, and assured him of performing well under his leadership,” said Dhankar.
20-07-2020||Parveen Arora||Broken covers of drains on NH threat to commuters||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 19Broken covers of drains on the National Highway-44 along with potholes during monsoon is posing a threat to the commuters.Even the safety railings are missing at several places on the 70-km stretch within district limits. Even after spending crores on the project, drains are lying open at various places. Residents fear that the choked storm water drains could lead to accidents during the monsoon.“We’ve brought the matter to the notice of the district administration and sent letters to the NHAI. The authorities should take action against the construction firm, as broken drains are causing mishaps,” said Sahil Kumar, a local. 6-lane project not completedNeeraj Sharma of Model Town blamed the construction company for not taking care of the NH even after charging exorbitant toll tax.To make the NH-44 (NH-1 earlier) congestion-free, the NHAI, in 2008, had awarded the project costing Rs 4,500 crore to convert the road into six lanes from Panipat to Jalandhar, a stretch of 291 km, comprising 116 km of Haryana and 175 km of Punjab.It was to be executed as tolled project on design-build-finance-operate (DBFO) basis for 15 years. The work was started in May 2009 by the Soma-Isolux company and it was to be completed by November 11, 2011. In April 2014, the SC had asked the company to complete the work by March 31, 2015.After several extensions, the work of constructing 3-ft overbridges in the district limits, one each near Taraori, Karneshwar temple near Sector 7 and Kambopura village, was not finished.Meanwhile, Sunny Sharma, engineer, highway maintenance wing of the Soma company, said:“Carpeting of the road is being done. Also, the process to install the overbridges has been started. The drains are being cleaned and repaired.”Karnal Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, however, said instructions had been issued to the construction company to rectify the flaws on the NH-44.
20-07-2020||Karnal||Travel agent arrested for Rs 56 lakh fraud||The police have arrested an immigration agent for allegedly duping a youth of Rs 56 lakh on the pretext of sending them to the US. Another accused is absconding. The police said Mandeep, a resident of Mundri village under Pundri police station, filed a complaint that Mahabir of Dheraru village and Gurmesh Singh of Sangroli village had taken Rs 56 lakh for sending him to the US in February 2019. They sent him to the nation illegally, where he was arrested by the police and sent to jail. Amid Covid, he was deported to India. “We have registered a case against both the agents and arrested Mahabir. Efforts are being made to nab the other accused,” said Shashank Kumar Sawan, SP. He said the accused was produced in the court on Sunday and was taken on police remand. — TNS
20-07-2020||---||Farmers’ protest against Centre’s policies today||Ambala, July 19Extending support to the farmers’ union for its tractor ‘andolan’ (protest) against the Centre’s recent ordinance on the agriculture sector on July 20, commission agents have decided to keep their shops closed for three hours and reach the protests sites.Ashok Gupta, state president, Haryana Grain Market Commission Agents Association, said, “The Centre has introduced three ordinances, including the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce Ordinance-2020 and the Ordinance to amend the Essential Commodities Act. These are not acceptable to us at any cost. The ordinance will disturb the grain market system badly. The present system in Haryana and Punjab is the best in the country and there was no need to break this chain. These ordinances will help the corporate sector only.”“The association has given its support to the farmers in their agitation. The commission agents will go to protest sites to show their support. We have been holding meetings across the state to discuss commission agents’ issues. We are yet to get the commission for the wheat procurement season for this year. If we don’t get our commission at the earliest, we will be forced to launch an agitation,” he said.Duni Chand, patron of the association, said, “The government has been taking anti-farmer and anti-commission agent decisions and it has been repeatedly testing the bond between farmers and commission agents. We will not let the government end the grain market system. The commission agents will keep shops closed from 10 am to 1 pm to show their support on July 20.”Gurnam Singh Charuni, president, Bhartiya Kisan Union Charuni, said, “Policies don’t become favourable by just keeping good titles. There is no protection for farmers. Commission agents and labourers have also extended support to our agitation. Farmers will install black flags and park their tractors along the roads in all blocks and near SDM offices across the state from 10 am to 1 pm, take out a protest march and hand over memorandums for the PM.”
20-07-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Feasibility report on old pension scheme sought||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 19The state has asked different departments to examine the feasibility of the restoration of the old pension scheme for over 1.4 lakh government employees, who joined the service after January 1, 2006.Apparently under pressure from the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), the BJP-JJP government has stated seeking detailed reports from different departments over the financial implications of the old pension scheme.A senior functionary of the state government informed The Tribune that the Chief Secretary’s Office had sought reports from the departments on the “draft proposal” sent by the SKS to the state government in the wake of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s videoconferencing with the trade unions recently.Subhash Lamba, SKS president, said the sangh had sent the “draft proposal” on the old pension scheme to the state last month following which the government had again started deliberating on its implementation.Lamba said the state government’s contribution of 10 per cent of the monthly salary of post-January 2006 employees, under thenew pension scheme amounted to Rs 680.40 crore per annum. Since this amount is ploughed into the financial market, it was basically aimed at benefitting big corporates.On the other hand, the restoration of the old pension scheme is a win-win situation for both the state government and the employees, Lamba said, adding that it was heartening to note that its implementation was again back on the agenda of the government.
20-07-2020||Faridabad||Industry wants incentives, not 75% job quota, for state youth||Opposing the move to enact a rule to provide 75 per cent job quota for the state youth in the private sector, the industrial associations have called for a provision of incentives for giving preference to local manpower in employment.Describing the recent Cabinet approval to reservation to the local youth as unjustified, a delegation of the Laghu Udyog Bharti (LUB), a body of small industries, submitted a memorandum to Haryana Transport, Mines and Skill Development Minister Mool Chand Sharma here.Ravi Bhushan Khatri, LUB district president, said the rule could have negative impact on the industry, which was already facing hurdles due to the ongoing slowdown.“The government ought to come with measures to give some incentives rather than any crude law at this point of time,” says Rajiv Chawla, chief, Integrated Association of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises of India.“A policy could have been announced by the government to share the PF contribution or other allowances of the employees. It will not only reduce the financial burden on the employers, but they will prefer local manpower automatically,” he said, adding that such a norm was already in practice in Rajasthan.Veer Bhan Sharma of the IMT Industries’ Association also said no law should be introduced without taking the industry into confidence. tns
20-07-2020||---||Haryana CM: Ordinances in peasants’ interest||Chandigarh, July 19On the eve of protests by farmers’ groups, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the Centre’s three ordinances were in the interest of the farming community and that vested interests were spreading misinformation.He was addressing a press meet to explain the ordinances and the government’s commitment to doubling the farmers’ income, here on Sunday. 2,000 multi-brand outlets in offing The government is also working on establishing soil labs in village schools and colleges to test samples and give certificates for every acre of land. “We have 70 lakh acres and this certification will be needed every three years. It can also give a push to the ‘earn while you learn’ slogan since the students can be involved in the entire exercise,” Khattar said.On the ordinances, he said the NDA government at the Centre was committed to experimenting and getting out-of-the-box ideas for the benefit of the public at large. The three ordinances were a step in the direction of empowering farmers by opening the market and allowing them to sell the produce anywhere over and above the minimum support price (MSP) announced by the government.The Centre had promulgated three ordinances — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance — which have not gone down well with certain sections of farmers.“Those maintaining that the farmer will have to sell his produce at lower rates are wrong. The agreement between the farmer and the buyer will be over and above the MSP. Further, once a farmer is not compelled to sell his produce in the mandis, he can explore other markets in the country for better pricing. Also, the farmer will now have the option to hold on to his produce till he gets the price he wants. The government will invest in infrastructure to hold on to the produce by creating more warehouses and cold storage chains,” the CM said.He attributed the protests against the ordinances to “farmer politics of vested interests” and said the BJP governments at the Centre and in the state were pushing for initiatives, which would help the farmer get increased incomes. “Though the agreements outside the mandis between the farmers and the buyers will lead to a loss of revenue, we want to empower the farmers,” he said.Emphasising the government’s scheme to appoint one “kisan mitra” for every 100 farmers to guide them, Khattar said the government’s “Mera Pani Meri Virasat” crop diversification scheme’s target of sowing alternative crops other than paddy on 1 lakh hectares had been achieved.
20-07-2020||Sushil Manav & Vibha Sharma||BJP picks Dhankar as Haryana chief to woo Jats||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/New Delhi, July 19Senior BJP leader Om Prakash Dhankar, who was Agriculture Minister in the ML Khattar government in 2014-2019, was today appointed BJP Haryana unit chief. A Jat, he replaces Subhash Barala, who too is from the community. BJP’s Jat leaders, including Dhankar and Barala, had lost their seats in the 2019 polls.Barala’s term had ended last year. Dhankar’s appointment is being viewed as an attempt by the saffron party to project its own Jat leader as influential as Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, who heads the JJP.Also, keeping a balance between Jats and non-Jats with the CM from one caste and the party president from the other has been a practice in Haryana politics for long. Significantly, not only Dhankar comes from Haryana’s Jat heartland, the stronghold of former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, but has also served as national president of BJP’s Kisan Morcha. With his appointment, the BJP hopes to make inroads into the Jat vote bank.The appointment comes at a time when the BJP is preparing for the byelection to the Baroda Assembly seat, a part of the Jat heartland, which fell vacant after the death of Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda.“My heartiest congratulations to OP Dhankar,” tweeted CM Khattar, describing him as a dedicated party worker whose vast political experience would help further strengthen the state unit. Dhankar has also served as the national secretary of the BJP and as in-charge of the party’s HP affairs. Speaking to The Tribune, he thanked the party high command for reposing faith in him.
