20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana takes back decision to ply inter-state buses, public transport within state only||Haryana Government on Wednesday took back its decision to ply inter-state buses but said its buses will continue to run within the state.The decision came after Home minister Anil Vij met Chief Minister M L Khattar and told him that it will be difficult to keep a check as there is high possibility of COVID-19 infection spreading once people freely travel from one state to the other.“I met the chief minister here and I also wrote to him on Tuesday stating that we are not prepared to run inter-state buses,” Vij, who is also the health minister, told the media here.Vij said he told the CM that it would not be possible to test so many people or quarantine them and also pointed out that the number of cases were high in some neighbouring states like Delhi.The minister told Khattar it would be quite difficult to keep a check and infection could spread.“I told the CM that we should not ply inter-state buses. I also told him that in Delhi alone, there are so many cases, how can we manage and prevent infection.“He (CM) agreed to my suggestion and now Haryana will not run inter-state buses. The chief minister also gave necessary instructions to the state’s transport department in this regard,” Vij said.However, Haryana Roadways buses will continue to run within the state, he said.            The move, to resume bus travel to various states, came after Khattar’s announcement on Monday that inter-state bus travel to and from Haryana will resume.After the announcement, the Haryana Government had written to the transport departments of at least six states and two Union territories, seeking their consent to start inter-state bus services on 12 select routes. PTI
20-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Kurukshetra, Faridabad each report 4 new cases, Haryana tally rises to 972||Haryana on Wednesday reported eight new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s case tally to 972.Kurukshetra reported four new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to seven.Faridabad reported four new cases of the contagion, taking the total in the district to 167. A health worker, two  residents of Auto Pin Slum Cluster and a resident of Bharat Colony tested positive for coronavirus. All of them had been in contact with others who tested positive recently.
20-05-2020||Mahendragarh||30 teachers at Haryana’s Central University issued notice, teacher’s body fumes||The Central University of Haryana (CUH) authorities have issued notices to over 30 assistant/ associate professors of various departments for not being ‘available’ in their departments when Vice-Chancellor (VC) Prof RC Kuhad paid a surprise visit on March 18.Interestingly, no explanation has been sought from the teachers in the notices while the action has come after 55 days of the surprise visit leaving the Teachers Association of CUH fuming. It has demanded immediate withdrawal of the notices.   “The association strongly condemns the act of serving notices on 30 faculty members and also describes it as unwarranted and insulting that tantamount to a disgraceful attack on the dignity of the teaching community. It’s a strange notice which contains a rather unusual single-sentence statement that is inexplicable silent on the purpose of any such visit,” said Rakesh Meena, Secretary of the association. Meena maintained that the notices didn’t say how long the visiting officials waited for the teachers to become available.“Neither was there any remark on whether any effort was made to contact the teachers found unavailable nor does it say how long visiting officials stayed at the department!” he added.VC Kuhad could not be contacted despite repeated attempts while Assistant Registrar (Establishment) Radheshyam refused to divulge further details, except admitting that the teachers had been served notices.The university, located at Jant-Pali village in the district, has become the hot topic for discussion among the teaching fraternity for some time.Five days ago, the university registrar, Ram Dutt, had suddenly resigned from the post. Though he cited health reason for tendering the registration, growing differences between him and the VC are believed to be the reason behind the development.
20-05-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||50 migrant workers booked after clashes  with Haryana Police near Delhi-Gurugram border||Gurugram Police booked over 50 people and detained three after some migrant workers clashed with police at Palam Vihar on Wednesday, officials said.Hundreds of workers employed at industrial units at Udyog Vihar swarmed Kapasera and Bjiwasan---two areas that are on the Haryana’s border with Delhi---in an attempt enter the city.Haryana Police, taken by surprise, tried to stop the crowd, leading to heated exchanges and later clashes. Police claimed some in their ranks were wounded in stone pelting from the mob at Salahpur.Haryana Police claimed that the migrants did not hold valid passes to enter the state and that they had no orders to let them through. They also accused their Delhi counterparts of doing nothing to stop the swarming mob despite putting up a check post.“All industrial workers have been issued passes and according to our Information the workers will be lodged in city by industries. They had no I-cards, no passes and were entering forcibly. We have no orders to let them in so we stopped them and they attacked," Inspector Devender Singh, Station Head Office of Udyog Vihar police station who was on spot, told The Tribune. At least 50 people have been booked for rioting (Section 147), unlawful assembly (section 148), obstructing a public servant (Section  186),  assaulting public servant (353), voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty (332), disobeying public servant (Section 188), negligent act that could spread infection (Section 269) and criminal intimidation (Section 506), as well as section of the Disaster Management Act.The development comes after Haryana's industries were allowed to resume operations after central government eased travel restrictions and allowed industries activities to resume in several places.Haryana sealed its borders with Delhi earlier this month and handed out passes to industrial workers in an attempt to stop the spread of COVID-19.Animesh Saxena, president of Udyog Vihar Industrial Association, said industries in Gurugram were finding it difficult to house industrial workers, most of who live in Delhi, on their premises. This restriction, he said, has hampered operation of industries.“The government allowed us to operate with full strength but most of the workers stay in Delhi near the border. Authorities gave them a one-time pass and asked us to lodge them. We have neither space not resources for that and so we cannot call them to work. Most of the units remain non-functional because of this,” Saxena said.Meanwhile, in a later development, Haryana took back its decision to allow inter-state buses and restricted public transport within the state.
20-05-2020||Sushil Manav||33% Haryana units resume operations with little demand||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 19With the lifting of almost all curbs on the industry during Lockdown 4.0, nearly one-third of the units in Haryana have started functioning while many others are in the process of starting operations, though poor demand is forcing them to go slow.Of nearly 1.5 lakh industrial units registered in Haryana, 49,239 started operating in the state after getting a formal approval from the government today, said a senior official of the government.“In these industrial units, 29,54,143 workers will be employed,” said the official.Rakesh Chhabra, president of the Rai Industrial Estate Association in Sonepat district, said that of the 1,200-odd units in HSIIDC Industrial Estate there, 800 to 900 units had started functioning. In the entire Sonepat district, nearly 4,850 of the 6,000 units had started functioning.“There is no bar from the government now, as we have been allowed to start operations with 100 per cent of the workforce. However, there is hardly any new manufacturing work at present,” he said, adding that new production would depend on the orders from the market.Rajiv Chawla, founder and chairman of Integrated Association of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises of India who has units manufacturing vehicle parts in Faridabad and Manesar, said: “We can produce goods only if the consumers go to the market to buy, which is not happening. We are not receiving any orders. I am running my Faridabad unit with 5 to 10 per cent of the capacity and have decided to shut the Manesar unit for the time being,” said Chawla.
20-05-2020||Kaithal||In sons’ brawl, man dies||A man sustained injuries and later died while trying to intervene in a fight between his sons over smuggling of liquor in Dera Garja Singh near here on Monday evening.  Ram Singh’s son Gurpreet was bringing liquor for sale but the other son Balihar Singh allegedly informed the liquor contractor about this. Fearing action by the liquor contractor, Gurpreet threw away the liquor on his way home. — OC
20-05-2020||---||Back from USA, 76 to be quarantined in Panchkula||Chandigarh, May 19 Of the 161 Indian nationals deported from the USA today, 76 from Haryana will be quarantined in hotels and dharamshalas in Panchkula for 14 days before they are allowed to return home. The Haryana Police will check whether they need to be tried for violation of any provision in India. A special flight carrying 161 Indian nationals landed in Amritsar this evening. Among the 76 men from Haryana, 28 are from Karnal, 15 each from Kaithal and Kurukshetra, 12 from Ambala, four from Jind and one each from Panipat and Yamunanagar. The eldest among them, born in 1974, and the youngest, born in 2001, are from Kaithal district. A majority of them are in their early 20s. “They were detained for various reasons like forged documents, illegal immigration and violation of laws. Some of them had been staying there for years,” said Dr Hanif Qureshi, IGP, Indian Reserve Battalion, Bhondsi, who was nodal officer of the state for this operation. He said the authorities had made arrangements for quarantining them in two hotels and five dharamshalas in Panchkula. He said those ready to pay for stay and food would be accommodated in hotels, while deportees would have to pay only for food in dharamshalas.
20-05-2020||ibune News Service---||‘CBI or HC Judge must look into liquor scam’||Karnal, May 19 Former Assembly Speaker Kuldeep Sharma today demanded an inquiry by the CBI or a HC Judge into the alleged liquor scam. “CM Manohar Lal Khattar is doing nothing on the issue. He has ignored the names of officials recommended by Home Minister Anil Vij for conducting an inquiry. The government should go in for an inquiry by the CBI or a sitting HC Judge,” Sharma told mediapersons. He alleged that the CM only wanted to save his coalition government and the SIT inquiry was just an eyewash. He accused BJP leaders of forcibly collecting funds citing Covid, saying an inquiry should be ordered.
20-05-2020||Gurugram||16-yr-old rape victim  attempts suicide; 1 held||The police have registered a case and arrested one person for the rape of a 16-year-old in Farukhnagar area today.  The police said the incident took place on May 14 after the girl went missing in the evening. She returned home late at night and told her family that she was raped. “My daughter told me Raj took her near the village pond where Ajay raped her and fled. We rushed to Raj’s home to question him, and in our absence my daughter hung herself. Fortunately, we came home in time and rushed her to the hospital,” the girl’s mother said. She is battling for life at SGT Hospital. “We have held Raj and raids are on to nab Ajay,” said ACP Shakuntla Yadav. — OC
20-05-2020||Hisar||One arrested for RPF official’s murder||The police today arrested a youth in connection with the murder of a Sub-Inspector (SI) of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) at Uklana in Hisar district.The accused, identified as Sandeep, had a criminal record and was involved in 14 criminal cases, said a police spokesperson.The GRP booked five persons, including Sandeep, in connection with the murder of SI Manish Sharma on Monday evening.The SI was shot at when he was on patrol near the railway tracks, where five youths were seated. When he enquired about their motive, the youths had a brawl with the RPF official and opened fire.GRP SHO Pradeep said Sandeep was arrested, while co-accused Pawan, Sheela and Fauji and an unidentified person were absconding. — TNS
20-05-2020||---||Stuck in Yamunanagar, Bihar workers block National Highway||Yamunanagar, May 19 Unable to get back to their hometowns, migrant labourers belonging to Bihar came on to roads, demanding facilities for return journey. They blocked the Jagadhri-Paonta Sahib national highway near a shelter home set up at Lakkar Mandi in Manakpur village of the district on Tuesday afternoon. After getting information, Jagadhri DSP Sudhir Taneja and Sadar police station SHO Abhay Ram reached on the spot and persuaded the agitators, following which the latter returned to the shelter home. “Some of the labourers came out of the shelter home and were demanding to send them to their homes in Bihar. We persuaded them that steps are being taken to solve their problem after which they went back to the shelter home,” the SHO said. The labourers, however, said nobody was trying to solve their problem of sending them to their hometowns. “We are living here in the shelter home for the past two days, but nobody is telling us when we will be sent to our homes,” said a labourer. According to information, the labourers stayed on the road for about 15 to 20 minutes. Rajbir Singh, naib tehsildar, Bilaspur-cum-duty magistrate of Manakpur shelter home, said at present 1,017 migrant labourers belonging to Bihar were living here. “We are regularly sending migrants belonging to Uttar Pradesh in a shelter home of Saharanpur district. On Tuesday, we sent 820 migrants on 22 buses to Saharanpur district. Seeing them leaving, migrants belonging to Bihar became upset and came on the road for some time, demanding to send them to their homes,” said Rajbir Singh.
20-05-2020||Sumedha Sharma---||Back from UP border, crowds throng Gurugram||Tribune News Service Gurugram, May 19 Hundreds of migrants on their way home are stuck on highways or on the Uttar Pradesh border. With Uttar Pradesh sealing its borders, hundreds of labourers have been stranded and asked to return to Gurugram. According to health officials, there has been a rush of migrants claiming to have been turned away from the Uttar Pradesh border though they have no documents to support their claims. “I and 20 others paid Rs 1 lakh to a bus driver to take us to Gorakhpur. We passed through Gurugram and Delhi, but were not allowed to enter Uttar Pradesh. The driver agreed to take us to Gurugram and to Uttar Pradesh for Rs 20,000 more. When we tried to enter Gurugram, we were turned away. The driver left us on the highway,” said Vishnu Chaube of Manesar. “We hired a taxi to enter Uttar Pradesh, but were turned away. We were told to come on official buses. We returned and were stopped on the border at the expressway for not having valid pass. The taxi driver was detained. We walked back and were now waiting under a flyover,” said Madhav Keshto of Udyog Vihar. “We have been appealing to migrants not to travel illegally, but they are not listening. We cannot let anybody in without pass and quarantine protocol. Only legal travel of migrants to and from Gurugram is allowed,” said a senior health official.
20-05-2020||ibune News Service---||1,296 leave for Bihar in special train||Ambala, May 19 Another Shramik Express took 1,296 stranded migrants from Ambala to Bhagalpur in Bihar on Tuesday. This was the fourth special train that chugged off from here to take migrants to their homes in Bihar. Earlier, three trains had ferried almost 3,700 migrants from here to Bihar. Those who took the train from here on Tuesday included 693 from Ambala district, 398 from Yamunanagar and 205 from Panchkula. Besides, 12 minor children were also among the travelers in the train, which departed from platform number 3 at Ambala Cantonment railway station. Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma, who led the district administration team to see off the migrants at the railway station, said all the passengers were given free food packets, water bottles, biscuits, sanitisers and face masks. Before being allowed to board the train, all the migrants were screened by the medical teams and proper social distancing was maintained inside the train during the journey. The migrants were brought in special buses from different locations at the railway stations. Upbeat over their going back home, migrants Abhay Kumar, Satinder, Dharminder and Chhotu said they had lost all hope of returning to their native places but the government and district administration arranged special train for them.
20-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||Nothing to prevent exodus: Migrants||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 19At a time when migrant labourers need food to survive, transport to go back home and monetary aid to come out of this crisis, the Centre is claiming to have provided affordable rental housing complexes and removed regional disparity in minimum wages.There is nothing significant in the stimulus package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to ensure immediate relief to migrant labourers, who are passing through the worst phase of their lives, says Kanhaiya Lal. A labourer from Bihar, he had lost his job during the lockdown and was waiting for a call to board a train to take him home.He said labourers were struggling for survival. He said they had run out of money and were expecting immediate monetary help from the Centre. He said the government had disappointed them by not announcing any relief package for labourers, compelled to cover long distances on foot to reach home.Sanjeev Singh, joint secretary of the Purvanchal Ekta Sewa Samiti, said affordable rental houses and guarantee of job under the MGNREGS after returning from home were appreciable, but the government should have tried to stop migration by providing food, job security and other monetary benefits.“Labourers are going back home as they have lost their source of income. They are fearing that they will not get employment and food in the coming days. The stimulus package has not paid heed to us. Lakhs of labourers have got themselves registered to travel back home, but inadequate transport facilities are adding to their woes,” he stated.Prakash from Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh termed the Centre’s announcement as a plan for the future. “Who knows what will happen in the future? When will affordable rental houses be constructed and who will buy these? There are many government welfare schemes for labourers, but a majority of them are unable to avail the benefits due to conditions laid down by the government. We would have been happy had the government announced wages for the lockdown period and provided food,” he said.“Instead of giving compensation to migrant labourers, the Centre and state government have left them on the mercy of God. They are neither being provided food nor transport to reach home. It is unfortunate that hungry labourers and their children are walking in this scorching heat. Several have died en route after being mowed down by heavy vehicles,” said Jai Karan Mandothi, member of the state executive of SUCI.He said it was ridiculous to describe the Centre’s announcement as a relief package. He said plying adequate trains and buses to ensure safe transportation, monetary aid to kin of deceased and wages for the lockdown period would be succour to migrant labourers.‘Majority of labourers unable to avail benefits’"Who knows what will happen in the future? When will affordable rental houses be constructed and who will buy these? There are many government welfare schemes for labourers, but a majority of them are unable to avail the benefits due to conditions laid down by the government. We would have been happy had the government announced wages for the lockdown period and provided food." — Prakash, Labourer
20-05-2020||---||Construction work resumes on major projects after 2 months||Karnal, May 19 After a lull of around two months, the construction work on major development projects has been started in the district. The work on these projects was halted due to the lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid.  The Karnal Municipal Corporation has started construction and re-carpeting work of roads in full swing in Sector-6, 9, 13, 14, Model Town and other parts of the city. Dozens of workers can be seen working on these roads daily. Mayor Renu Bala Gupta said their attempt was to complete these roads at the earliest. She said when the lockdown ends the residents would witness smooth roads in the city KMC Commissioner-cum-DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said the construction and re-carpeting work was started and was underway. The contractors have been directed to maintain the quality of the roads.
20-05-2020||Parveen Arora---||Livelihood worries haunt 7K Karnal street food vendors||Tribune News Service Karnal, May 19 The ongoing lockdown has thrown as many as 7,000 street food vendors out of work in the district in the last two months. They are worried about their livelihood as well as payment of rented accommodation and purchasing books for their wards. Keeping in view the current scenario, they are fearing a grim situation in coming days as well and feel that if they were allowed to operate, people would not come out to have street food from their rehris, which used to be crowded in urban and rural areas prior to the lockdown. Uday Sharma, a street food vendor aged 35, has been working in Nehru Palace market for the last nine years after coming to Karnal from Etawah in UP as he had no means to earn there. His younger brother, two children and wife are entirely dependent on him and they live in a rented accommodation in Sadar Bazar. “I have no work to sustain my livelihood. The government should think about us also as it is painful to borrow money from others regularly,” he added. Like Uday, there is Dheeraj Singh, a fast food vendor in the same market, who has no fallback option. He said the Covid lockdown had spoiled their meagre resources to sustain their livelihood. “I have a wife and two children to feed and no other option to run my livelihood. Ever since the lockdown has been enforced, I am sitting idle in the house,” he added. Most of them are looking for other business options to feed their families, but they have no financial support.  Naveen Kumar of Hanuman Gali is also dependent on daily earnings to feed his family of seven members, but the lockdown has had an adverse impact on their life. “I have borrowed money from my friends to run my livelihood, but now I have no courage to ask for more from anyone. My mother is a heart patient and due to the lack of money, I could not go to Chandigarh to get her check up done. I request the government to allow us to start our business again so that we can earn for our family. I even have no money to purchase books for my children,” he added.
20-05-2020||---||24 of 36 new cases in NCR districts||Chandigarh, May 19As many as 36 persons tested Covid-positive in Haryana on Tuesday, 24 of them from the NCR districts of Faridabad, Gurugram and Sonepat.Haryana’s Covid tally reached 964. Of the fresh cases, 13 were reported from Faridabad, nine from Gurugram, two each from Sonepat, Mahendragarh, Hisar, Charkhi Dadri and Panipat and one each from Jind, Karnal, Rohtak and Palwal.A total of 29 patients were discharged from hospitals in the state, taking the count of recovered cases to 627 and recovery rate to 65.04 per cent. Sirsa joined Ambala and Yamunanagar in districts with no active cases, as per the state health bulletin.Faridabad’s 13 new cases included four police personnel, a 21-year-old healthcare worker employed in a private hospital, a 25-year-old TV journalist from the local Sarpanch Colony working in Noida and a 62-year-old resident of NIT. Besides them, an 18-year-old youth from Deeg village, a 60-year-old housewife from Dabua Colony and two undertrials aged 22 and 49 lodged in Neemka Jail also tested positive. While one of the undertrials is a resident of Sector 16, the other is from Delhi. A three-year-old girl of Jain Colony, Ballabgarh, and a 13-year-old girl from Milhard Colony in NIT were among Tuesday’s cases. The cases in the district has now increased to 163.Of the nine Gurugram cases, three are contacts of people who tested positive earlier, three are from Sector 10-A and one each from Daultabad, Palam Vihar and Shivaji Park. The total cases in the district now stands at 220.Among the two cases in Panipat is a 31-year-old man of Samalkha vegetable mandi and 35-year-old of Hari Nagar in the city. The total cases in the district are now 40. In Sonepat, a 31-year-old woman on ward duty at BPS Government Women Medical College at Khanpur Kalan and a 43-year-old Delhi Police personnel of Fatehpur village tested positive. The district’s tally is now 139.In Hisar, a 38-year-old woman and her 14-year-old daughter tested positive, taking the district tally to nine. The woman’s husband had also tested positive after he returned from Noida in Uttar Pradesh.In Mahendragarh, a father-son duo from Nangal Dargu village tested positive, taking the district count to 10. They had returned from Maharashtra three days ago.A 40-year-old man of Indira Colony in Karnal city tested positive for Covid. He had returned from Delhi on May 18. A total of 20 persons have tested positive in the district so far.Palwal’s latest case is a 56-year-old man from Krishna Colony. He is the father-in-law of a 32-year-old who tested positive a few days ago. The district tally now stands at 40.In Jind, a 50-year-old man who recently returned from Mumbai tested positive, taking the district tally to 21. In Rohtak, a resident of Indira Colony tested positive taking the district count to 13.Covid-positive’s Newborn tests negativeRohtak: A six-day old girl born to a Covid-positive woman tested negative on Wednesday and later discharged from the neonatal ICU of the PGIMS after her mother expressed unwillingness to keep the child with her in the Covid ward, fearing infection. The doctors handed over the infant to her aunt. TNS
20-05-2020||---||Assamese family to be sent home by train: DGP||Hisar, May 19Taking cognisance of The Tribune news report on an Assamese family being stuck in Hisar village for two months, Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava assured the members that they would be sent home on the next Sharmik train.A spokesperson of the Haryana Police said the DGP talked to Hisar SP Ganga Ram Punia and asked him to make arrangements for the return travel of the family of seven members, who have been stranded for the past two months in Sulkhani village of the district due to the lockdown.Barwala SHO Kuldeep Singh visited the family on Tuesday morning and collected details about the members who need to travel back to Assam. The spokesperson said the family would be sent back on priority in the next special train to Assam. Till then the local administration will take care of their essential needs, if any, he added.The Assamese family came to Hisar to attend a ceremony in the family of their daughter Annu, who is married to Ramesh Kumar of Sulkhani village, on March 20 but was stranded since the nationwide lockdown was imposed due to Covid-19.Reportedly, DGP Yadava was once posted in the Intelligence Bureau in Assam.Meanwhile, Annu’s father Purna Kanta, hailing from Gohpur district of Assam, thanked the DGP for his help.
20-05-2020||---||Government offices can open with full staff||Chandigarh, May 19As part of relaxations during Lockdown 4.0, the Haryana Government has allowed its offices to open with 100 per cent attendance.“If heads of departments and DCs can ensure sufficient space for 100 per cent attendance with complete social distancing for all employees, they may do so,” read an order of the Chief Secretary.Otherwise, government offices will function with 100 per cent attendance for Group A and B officials and 50 per cent attendance for Group C and D staff. However, social-distancing norms and other standard operating procedures will have to be followed in all government offices.On May 3, the state government allowed 100 per cent attendance for Group A and B officials and 33 per cent attendance for Group C and D staff.Now, a weekly roster will be prepared, under which Group C and D staff will attend office on alternate weeks. In the first week, employees living in close proximity to office and using own conveyance will be called to office. The employees not coming to office will be enabled to work from home.Meanwhile, employees living in containment zones will not be called for duty.The order directed the departments to implement e-office software in their respective departments. “Any department achieving 100 per cent e-office working may initiate work from home for any category as per assessment of the HoD,” read the order.The order asked the HoDs to ensure sanitisation of offices, files, canteens and vehicles. However, the order said public dealing might be restricted till May 31.Conditions apply
20-05-2020||Ambala||Education Department seeks fee declaration by private schools||The Directorate of Secondary Education has asked private schools to submit a declaration form, stating that they have been taking only monthly tuition charges and haven’t hiked the fee from last year. “It has been made clear that the schools will not be allowed to increase the fee even if the school had submitted its form No. 6 by December 31. We have asked block education officers to get the declaration form filled and submitted at the earliest,” said Ambala Deputy District Education Officer Sudhir Kalra. “All private schools have to fill form No. 6 in which details of fee hike is to be mentioned. There is a fee and fund regulatory panel, which can raise an objection and seek justification.... Schools are not getting fee from parents and it has become hard to pay the staff,” said Federation of Private Schools’ Welfare Association chief Kulbhushan Sharma. tns
20-05-2020||Hisar||Youth kills man who comes to meet his mother||HAU extends last date for UG, PG admissionsHisar: The Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University has extended the last date for online application for admission in various undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the university. University Registrar BR Kamboj said students could apply for admission by June 15 on the web portal of the varsity. TNSTeen held on rape chargeGurugram: The police have arrested a boy for allegedly raping a Class XI student. The former classmate of the victim was sent to judicial custody. "My daughter was staying at home due to the lockdown. The accused took her out for a drive on Monday and raped her,” said the victim’s mother. OC
