20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 5 more COVID-19 deaths, case count surpasses 10K||Five coronavirus deaths were reported from Haryana on Saturday, all from the worst-affected Gurugram and Faridabad districts, while the virus count rose to 10,223 with 480 fresh cases, according to a state government bulletin.Gurugram reported four deaths of the five deaths, and Faridabad reported one, according to the state health department’s bulletin.Gurugram and Faridabad districts, which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR), now have 59 and 52 COVID-19 fatalities, respectively, according to it.The total fatalities in the state rose to 149. The state has 4,946 active novel coronavirus cases after 5,128 people recovered from the infection and were discharged from hospitals.Gurugram (171), Faridabad (97), Sonipat (71), Rohtak (23), Karnal (21), Bhiwani (20), Hisar (15), Panchkula (13), Yamunanagar (13), Palwal (10), Jhajjar (6), Ambala (6), Nuh (4), Jind (3), Kaithal (3) and Kurukshetra (3), and Fatehabad (1) all reported new cases. PTI
20-06-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Indo-China faceoff: Haryana cancels Chinese firms’ bids to install power plant equipment||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20Close on the heels of violent face-off between India and China in eastern Ladakh, the Haryana government has cancelled the international competitive bids for the installation of pollution control system at two of its power plants in which the Chinese companies were the lowest bidders.“Though the Chinese had quoted the most-competitive rates and would have bagged the tenders yet in view of tense relations between India and China, the state government has decided to cancel the tender. Now, fresh tenders on the pattern adopted by the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) which allowed firms registered in India only  to bid for domestic projects would be invited,” a senior functionary told The Tribune.The Haryana Power Generation Corporation Limited (HPGCL) had invited international competitive bids to install “flue gas desulphurization system”, an advanced system to control pollution at the Deen Bandhu Chhotu Ram Thermal Power Station, Yamunanagar, and the Rajiv Gandhi Thermal Power Plant, Hisar.The state government received five bids for the Yamunanagar plant, of which three were from the Chinese firms while two were Indian firms, the EPIL (in collaboration with a Chinese firm), and Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (in collaboration with a non-Chinese foreign firm). While for the Hisar plant, two Chinese firms and the BHEL (in collaboration with a non-Chinese foreign firm), had submitted the bid. However, the Chinese firms had submitted the lowest bid for both the plants.On December 7, 2015, the Union  Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change had come out with norms mandating installation of pollution control equipment by power plants.Subsequently, the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) was appointed as consultant which recommended international competitive bidding for the project.
20-06-2020||Shimla||Monsoon may hit HP, Punjab, Haryana on June 24||Monsoon may hit most parts of Himachal Pradesh and parts of neighbouring Punjab and Haryana on June 24, a weather official said here on Saturday."Conditions are becoming favourable for further advancement of monsoon over some more parts of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh during June 22-23," Manmohan Singh, director of the meteorological department told IANS here.He said it is likely to cover Uttarakhand, most parts of Himachal Pradesh and parts of Haryana and Punjab on June 24-25. --- IANS
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana lad bags ‘Sword of Honour’ at Air Force Academy||Another youngster from Haryana has done the state proud by winning the sword of honour for the passing out course at the Air Force Academy, Dundigal, on Saturday. Flying Officer Anurag Nain, who stood first in the order of merit in his batch, has been commissioned into the IAF’s Flying Branch.While the IAF officially declined to release state-wise details of the passing out cadets, a senior IAF officer told The Tribune that Fg Offr Nain belongs to Hisar, but has studied in Delhi. He has also been an NCC cadet. He also President’s Plaque for standing first in overall order of merit in the Pilots’ Course.Flying Officer Aanchal Gangwal was awarded President’s Plaque for being first in overall order of merit in the Ground Duty Branch.Nain is the second person from the region to have topped his respective pre-commission training course in a service academy. Last week Lt Akashdeep Singh Dhillon from Punjab and an alumnus of the Sainik School, Kapurthala was awarded the Sword of Honour while passing out from the Indian Military Academy, Dehrudun.There have been several instances in the past where cadets from Haryana have been awarded the Sword of Honour in various service academies, besides bagging other awards.Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria was the reviewing officer of the Combined Graduation Parade. He formally conferred the President’s Commission on 123 Flight Cadets as well as awarded ‘Wings’ to 11 officers from the Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard.Of the newly-commissioned officers, 61 joined the Flying Branch with 62 being inducted into various Ground Duty Branches of the IAF.This included 19 women officers. Two cadets from Vietnam Air Force also successfully completed their flying training at AFA and were presented their ‘Wings’ by the reviewing officer.According to protocols devised because of the COVID-19 pandemic the newly commissioned officers will not get the customary leave to go home, but proceed directly to their place of posting or for the next leg of their training to another IAF establishment. Parents and relatives of the officers could also not attend the passing out parade for the same reason.
20-06-2020||Deepender Deswal||Haryana women panel takes note of panchayat diktat banning entry of widow for 15 yrs||Tribune News ServiceHisar, June 20The panchayat of Dhani Bhojraj village in Fatehabad district has banned entry of a widow in the village for 15 years. The diktat was part of written decision pronounced by the panchayat while settling the dispute over share of land between the widow and her father-in-law.The state commission for Woman, however, took note of the diktat and visited the village today. SCW chairperson Pratibha Suman said that she has recommended suspension of the sarpanch and registration of a criminal case against the panchayat members who were present in the meeting which took the decision.The husband of woman Rajbala Devi, Shamsher, had died under mysterious circumstances in September last year. A mother of two, she got embroiled in a property dispute with her in-laws and demanded a share in the property. While she along with her son has gone back to her parental home in Chamar Khera village, her daughter, aged 12, is still residing with her grandfather.Rajbala’s father-in-law Gopal owned a total 10 acres agriculture land in the village. Gopal has three children, including Shamsher (Rajbala Devi’s husband) and two daughters (both married). However, after the death of Shamsher, Rajbala and her father-in-law had a strife over the land.Village sarpanch Sadhuram said as per wishes of the two parties, a panchayat was held in the village on May 25. The panchayat decided to divide equal share of the 10 acres of land among seven members of the family giving approximately 1.4 acres to each.An equal share of the land went to Gopal, his wife, Gopal’s daughter-in-law (Rajbala Devi), her son (10) and daughter (12), besides two daughters of Gopal.The panchayat decided that rent from land share of Rajbala Devi and her son will be given to them annually as the land was leased out to another person for cultivation. The panchayat said a total of 4.5 acres land (shares of Rajbala and her two children) will be mutated in the name of Rajbala’s son when he attains the legal age for landowning.In this written decision, the panchayat stated that Rajbala Devi will stay with her parents for 15 years and thereby will not come to her in-law’s house.Rajbala, however, stated that she has not accepted the decision of the panchayat about not visiting the ancestral village for 15 years. “How can they bar me from visiting village? I refuse to accept the diktat of the panchayat,” she said.The block development and panchayat officer Mahender Singh said that a panchayat cannot issue such diktat and the appropriate authority and police can take action against the sarpanch.
20-06-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||RWAs to take over management of containment zones in Gurugram||Resident Welfare Associations in the city will now take over management of containment zones from the city’s municipal corporation, officials said.RWAs have previously voiced their opposition to the way containment zones are being managed. In particular, they were unhappy with the inadequate restrictions on mobility and the santisation problems in containment zones, sources said.  RWAs will now take over regulating entry and exit in 98 containment zones containment zones. They will also be responsible for sticking up posters to mark people under home quarantine in the city and keeping a watch on those in home isolation to ensure quarantine rules are being strictly followed.An already understaffed and strained Gurugram Municipal Corporation appears to have been only too happy to oblige RWAs---according to a new arrangement drawn up with RWA, the civic body will appoint one official to oversee RWA’s containment management, officials said.   In fact, RWAs different various residential societies in both old and new parts of the city have already begun earmarking isolation centres and are now collating data of all coronavirus cases in their own areas.“The administration should have let us help earlier as we can help fight Covid better,” Dinesh Vashisth, president of Sector 5 RWA, said.“We welcome any effort for a better coordinated COVID battle. The RWAs have offered to chip in and such community effort will go long way,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, MCG commissioner.Gurugram’s coronavirus cases continue to rise steadily. A report by Haryana health department shows that, as things stood until Saturday morning, Gurugram accounted for over 42 per cent of Haryana’s 9,852 cases---the highest in the state.The district also accounts for 55 of the state’s 144 deaths.
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Maximum temperatures hover close to normal in Haryana, Punjab||The maximum temperatures hovered close to normal limits in most parts of Haryana and Punjab on Saturday.Narnaul in Haryana recorded a high of 39.5 degrees Celsius, two degrees below the normal, according to the Meteorological Department here.Hisar recorded a high of 40.5 degrees Celsius. Ambala recorded a maximum of 38 degrees Celsius, while Karnal recorded a high of 37.4 degrees Celsius.Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab recorded near normal maximum temperatures of 39, 38.1 and 38.7 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, registered a high of 36.8 degrees Celsius, which was one notch below normal limits. PTI
20-06-2020||Parveen Arora||Gangster Joginder claims responsibility of attack on liquor contractor||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 20Wanted gangster Joginder Geong, brother of gangster Surinder Geong, on Saturday claimed the responsibility of firing on liquor contractor Sanjay Rana alias Sanju.Geong also posted a message on his Facebook page in this regard on Friday.The two miscreants opened fire at Sanju when he, along with two other persons, was coming to Karnal from Assandh. Rana received three bullets and is undergoing treatment in a private hospital.Joginder Geong is wanted in several cases. His brother, Surinder Geong, was also a dreaded criminal and a wanted gangster and was reportedly involved in more than 30 cases, including murder, attempt to murder and demanding extortion.Surinder was shot dead in an encounter by Karnal police near Rahra village in the district on April 8, 2017. Karnal SP Surinder Singh Bhoria said they had constituted an SIT to inquire into this incident.“We are waiting for the statement of Sanju and the Facebook account of Joginder Geong is also being checked,” the SP said.The incident took place on Friday near Jaisinghpura village in the Assandh block.Sanju belongs to Muana village in Jind district and has liquor shops in Assandh block.A case was registered against Sanju in Jind a few years ago as well, an arrest in which regard was also made.As per the SP, Joginder Geong is wanted in various cases registered in various districts.The SP added that the police were verifying the Facebook account of Joginder to check the authenticity of this responsibility.  Assandh DSP Ramesh Chand is heading the SIT while three teams — two teams of the CIA and one of the Assandh police station are working on it.Sanju has a bulletproof SUV, but on Friday, he was in a standard SUV.
20-06-2020||Nitish Sharma||No customers, eatery business takes a hit||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, June 19A drastic fall in the number of passengers coupled with the Covid scare has hit the dhaba (eatery) and hotel business hard, especially for those who have been running their business near the railway station and the bus stand in Ambala Cantonment.Besides, labour shortage is another concern for hotel owners as waiters and cooks, hailing from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have left for their native places.‘Fear of Covid keeping people away’Though we are following all precautions and guidelines, the fear of Covid is keeping people away from eateries. It has left us with no option other than letting our workers go. We are hardly getting customers as majority of them used to be passengers. —Deepak Kumar, Dhaba ownerGorishankar (58), who runs a dhaba near the Cantonment railway station, said, “I have been into this business since 1978 in Ambala. Most of my customers are those who reach Ambala in trains and buses besides those travelling on the national highway. Due to Covid, very few trains and buses are in operation due to which we are not getting many customers.”According to him, he had 10 workers, including cooks and waiters, before the lockdown, but now only two cooks are there. The remaining workers have left for their native places in Bihar and they are unlikely to return soon, he said.Deepak Kumar (34), another dhaba owner, said, “Though we are following all precautions and guidelines, the fear of Covid is keeping people away from eateries. It has left us with no option other than letting our workers go. We are hardly getting customers as majority of them used to be passengers.”Usually, people travel during summer vacations, bringing a brisk business to eatery owners, but people are not travelling this time. “We are not expecting any revival of the business until the government resumes the full-fledged operations of trains and buses,” he added.Pradeep Batra, who runs a famous food joint in Ambala, said, “Though there is not much business, we can’t afford to let our cooks go as it would be a double setback. We are expecting some recovery around the festival season later this year. Till then, we have to manage and keep our workers.”Kushal Batra, who runs a refreshment store near the station, said, “The business is at its all-time low, but expenses are still the same. Earlier, we thought that the things would get better soon, but now the things are getting difficult and there is no respite in sight.”
20-06-2020||Nitin Jain||Delivery boys, dabbawalas face uncertain future||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, June 19Delivery boys and dabbawalas were among those sections of the society who had been hit hard by the Covid lockdown. For the past three months ever since the national lockdown was imposed in March, these food-on-the-wheels distributors were not getting enough orders to sustain their livelihood.While their business remained totally shut till the late last month, even the permission to start food delivery failed to bring back their business.In Ambala twin-towns, there were estimated over 1,000 delivery boys and more than 100 dabbawalas, who supplied homemade food in tiffins at nominal rates.Many of the delivery boys and tiffin makers had already shifted to other jobs, mainly selling fruits and vegetables or some even started working on daily wages with the local commercial establishments.Aman( 20), only earning hand in the family of six, including his widowed mother and five siblings, was one of the many Covid-hit delivery boys. “I used to earn between Rs 500 to Rs 700 daily before the lockdown, but after sitting idle for over two months, I have now started working as a farm labourer and at present I am engaged in paddy transplantation,” he said.Sheela, who used to sell almost 100 food tiffins daily before the pandemic, was now working as a maid to sustain her family of four, including an alcoholic husband and two minor children.“I’m still waiting the food delivery business to revive as after unlock-1, I have started getting up to 10 orders daily, which were over 100 till the lockdown was imposed,” said Sahu, a delivery boy.Another dabbawala, Geeta, said she has started getting five to seven orders daily for the past fortnight and she would still wait for some more time before winding up her 15-year-old business.Most of the local eateries and restaurants, who were offering take away and home delivery services, said over 90 per cent of the food orders that they were getting these days were of take away as the customers preferred to collect their food on their own instead of getting it through other hands.“The delivery boys are worst-hit as not only they lost their income but many of them even used to get free food from us,” said local restaurateur Mohan Singh.
20-06-2020||Gurugram||Nuh civic body acting president removed||The vice president and the acting president of the Nuh Municipal Committee were removed after a no-confidence motion was passed against him by the councillors on Friday. It may be noted that Chairman of the committee Seema Singla had already been removed from her post owing to the allegations of corruption.In the presence of SDM Pradeep Ahlawat, during the voting, all 12 councillors voted against acting president Saddam Hussain. The 12 councillors include Aadil Khan, Sarita, Krishna Kashyap, Hari Chand, Babu Ram, Barsina Begum, Anjum Yasmin, Kamal Goyal, Kurrat Mujib, Vikram, Sunita Sharma and Seema Singla.After Seema Singla, Hussain was under the scanner as the councillors submitted a memorandum of no-confidence motion to the DC against him on May 28.“The post of the acting president is vacated after the voting and the report has been sent to the DC.” said SDM Pradeep Ahlawat. — OC
20-06-2020||---||Work on Karnal-Jind highway gains pace||Karnal, June 19The widening work of the national highway (NH)709-A between Karnal and Jind has gained pace after virtually remaining at a standstill for the past several months.The much awaited project to decongest the 85.362km-long stretch of one of the busiest national highway connecting Karnal with Jind and further with Bhiwani had hit a roadblock due to several reasons, including encroachment, shifting of electric poles, axing of trees, and unfavourable weather condition.In view of the public demand, the government had planned to widen the road. The Rs 200-crore project had begun in mid September 2018 and the deadline was March 13, 2020, but it could not be completed in the stipulated time and the deadline was further extended to May 8, 2020. The enforcement of the lockdown has also forced the authorities to extend the deadline further to July 15, 2020.Before the commencement of the project, the width of the metal road was 7 meters and now it is being widened up to 10 meter. In Urban areas, the width will be up to 18 meter and 9 meters on each side. A central verge of 1.5 meter is being developed. More than 500 electric poles will be erected at the central verge for lighting.Arun Kataria, resident engineer of the project, said the stretch between ITI Chowk and NDRI in Karnal city and a stretch between Jind Subhash Chowk and Nagura village was already completed by the PWD (B&R) National Highway Wing, Haryana, while the remaining work was being done by the construction company.Confirming the development, Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC, said all hurdles in the project had been cleared and the widening work had been speeded up. Claiming that the work would be completed before the deadline, Yadav said, “I have visited the construction site and directed the construction company to finish the work before the deadline.”He maintained that of the total 85.362 km, the work on 79.820km had been completed, while the work on the remaining 5.542 km was being done on a war footing. The DC said the company would maintain the project for four years.
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Government staff protest privatisation||On the call given by the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), employees of the state government held district-level demonstrations in support of their demands today.SKS president Subhash Lamba said the main demands of the employees included putting an end to privatisation in roadways, public health, etc., and safeguarding jobs of physical training instructors, who were recently relieved following a Supreme Court verdict. Restoration of the old pension scheme, job security for all contractual staff, withdrawal of the freezing of DA and LTC and restoration of trade union rights for the working class. — TNS
20-06-2020||Sushil Manav||NCR’s low-intensity tremors worrisome||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 19A series of low-magnitude tremors witnessed in the NCR indicate that the fault line in the region has become unstable. However, low-magnitude tremors rocking the NCR twice in two days with Rohtak as the epicentre may not be enough to conclude that a bigger earthquake is in the offing in the near future.A low-intensity earthquake measuring 2.3 on the Richter scale hit an area 15 km east-southeast of Rohtak on Friday morning, according to the National Centre for Seismology.‘FAULT LINE UNSTABLE’ A number of tremors during the past few weeks indicate that the fault line in the NCR has become unstable. Although the Aravalli ridge, which covers quite a large area of the NCR in the south, is considered relatively stable, the increasing frequency of tremors is a cause of concern as it may be an indicator of moderate-intensity earthquakes in the future. —Dr Mahabir Jaglan, Professor, Kurukshetra UniversityThis was the second consecutive earthquake near Rohtak. An earthquake measuring 2.1 on the Richter scale occurred at 4.18 am on Thursday.Several low-intensity earthquakes have been hitting the Capital and surrounding region since April. On May 29, an earthquake measuring 4.6 on the Richter scale, with a depth of 3.3 km, had its epicentre 16 km east-southeast of Rohtak.Seismologists say a bigger earthquake is generally preceded by multiple earthquakes of lower magnitude. Prof Dinesh Kumar, noted seismologist and head of geophysics department at Kurukshetra University, said there were two theories the world over in this regard.He said according to one theory, major earthquakes were preceded by multiple tremors of low intensity. He said according to the other, there could be a quiet period, with no seismic activity for a considerable time, before a major earthquake.Professor Kumar had worked on earthquakes in the NCR and was credited with the study “Evaluating the seismic hazard to the National Capital (Delhi) Region, India, from moderate earthquakes using simulated accelerograms”.“The NCR lies in the geographical realm of peninsular India (PI) and is about 200 km from the Indian plate boundary (Himalayas). Traditionally, PI has been considered seismically stable. However, recent occurrences of several hazardous events within the PI, such as the 1967 Koyna, 1993 Killari, 1997 Jabalpur and 2001 Bhuj earthquakes, have prompted scientists and planners to reconsider the unrealistic assessment of seismic hazard and risk to the region,” he said.He said the NCR was exposed to earthquake hazards and risks in two scenarios — a great earthquake in the central seismic gap of the Himalayas or a moderate earthquake within the NCR.Dr Mahabir Jaglan, professor in geography at Kurukshetra University, said the NCR lied in Seismic Zone 4 and hence, was vulnerable to low to moderate earthquakes.“A number of tremors during the past few weeks indicate that the fault line in the NCR has become unstable. Although the Aravalli ridge, which covers quite a large area of the NCR in the south, is considered relatively stable, the increasing frequency of tremors is a cause of concern as it may be an indicator of moderate-intensity earthquakes in the future,” he said.He said the mushrooming of high-rise buildings in Noida, Gurugram and Delhi and construction of skyscrapers in violation of the building code and Bureau of Indian Standards norms had increased the vulnerability of the NCR to earthquakes.
20-06-2020||---||Panel set up to take action against illegal bleaching units in Panipat||Panipat, June 19The district administration on Friday constituted a four-member special committee to initiate action against illegal bleaching units in Panipat.Besides, Member Secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), directed the Regional Officer to begin a special drive against these illegal bleaching units here.The Tribune on Friday had published a news item about illegal bleaching houses in the district ‘All bleaching units in Panipat unregistered, reveals RTI report’.Following the news item, officers at the HSPCB headquarters sought a report about these bleaching units operational in the district.As per sources, HSPCB officials at the regional office here completed the report today and sent it to the higher authorities and also held a meeting under the chairmanship of Deputy Commissioner Dharmender Singh in the evening today.According to sources, the officials have compiled a record of 125 bleaching units in Panipat operational in the open fields here.DC Dharmender Singh said that a four-member committee comprising District Town Planner, Enforcement; Tehsildar/Naib Tehsildar concerned; and SDO UHBVN concerned for disconnection of electricity connection has been constituted today. The convener of the committee would be Regional Officer, HSPCB.
20-06-2020||Parveen Arora||Jewellery sales plunge to 20% in Karnal, traders worried||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 19The Covid outbreak and the lockdown have cast its shadow on the Sarafa Bazar here, which usually used to remain crowded with customers. It has become challenging for the jewellers to keep their financial wheels moving as the revenue has dropped due to reduce in sales to only 20 per cent.“With high hopes, we opened our shops, but are witnessing a drastic fall in sales. It has come down to around 20 per cent for majority of the jewellers, while some of us sit idle the whole day without customers,” said Anil Arora, a jeweller. He said the sudden jump in the rate amid the Covid scare jointly resulted in reduced footfall of the customers. “At the time of lockdown enforcement, the rate of gold was Rs 40,200 per gram and that of silver was Rs 44,000 per kg, but now it has reached up to Rs 47,000 per gram and Rs 50,000 per kg respectively,” he said.The jewellers said the relaxations hardly helped them in bringing back the sound of hammer in jewellery shops as majority of the artisans too had left for their native places. “Most of our artisans have left for their native place amid the Covid scare. We missed major business opportunity during the marriage season due to imposition of lockdown. Now, very few customers are turning up to the market as their preferences have changed. They prefer essential commodities, instead of purchasing jewellery,” said Anshul Bansal, another jeweller of the market. He demanded the government to extend help to the sector besides, waiving off their property tax and electricity charges. He said they had fixed expenditures such as electricity bill, salary of the staff, property tax and others.Some of the jewellers are hopeful of the revival of the sector in three months. “Due to the pandemic, several weddings were postponed and if some weddings were organised on the scheduled dates then those were allowed with a limited gathering. The expenditure on wedding events will be shifted to investment in jewellery in coming days,” said Navneet Singh Khurana, a jeweller.Kailash Gupta, another jeweller, said the restriction on weddings could boost the jewellery sector as they were hopeful that people would invest in gold for safer future.
20-06-2020||Rohtak||‘Honour’ killing suspects in 3-day police custody in Rohtak||A local court today remanded the brother and two cousins of Pooja (19), who was stabbed to death along with her husband Surender, in police custody for three days, said DSP (Meham) Shamsher Singh. The DSP addressed a press conference at Meham, Rohtak.The victims hailed from Farmana village in Rohtak district. Ajay and his cousins Sahil and Bablu were arrested yesterday. — TNS
20-06-2020||---||Spike worrisome, govt must act in time: Hooda||Rewari, June 19Expressing concern over the persistent spike in Covid cases, Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today demanded effective steps to contain the virus.“The government should wake up in time. If it does not react now, the situation can be similar to that in Delhi, Gujarat or Mumbai. The government needs to take more strict steps to prevent infection. The number of tests should be tripled and the rates halved,” he said.Hooda was here to express his condolences over the death of former minister Capt Ajay Singh Yadav’s motherComing down heavily on the government for daily increase in petrol and diesel prices, Hooda said people had suffered financially because of the pandemic and the government was putting an additional burden of inflation on them.Speaking about the 1,983 sacked physical training instructors, he urged the government to find an amicable way out immediately to ensure that they could retain their jobs.“When the Congress was in power, the Supreme Court and High Court ordered sacking of guest teachers. The then government had saved their jobs and they were still in service. The government should use its legislative powers to save the PTIs,” he added.
20-06-2020||Parveen Arora||For safety of cops, police station gates shut in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 19To prevent the spread of Covid among police personnel, the Police Department has taken steps to minimise the number of persons coming to police stations.While the main gate of all 16 police stations in the district will remain closed, only the small gate will be kept open.People have been advised to file their complaints either online or drop it in the ultraviolet rays-enabled complaint boxes at police stations. Besides, ‘Mitra Kaksh’ in all the police stations has been asked to accept the complaints.“We have taken some steps as precaution to curtail the spread of Covid among police personnel. The main gate will remained closed to avoid mass gathering at the police stations. Only the small gates will be kept open. Barring emergency cases, single persons will be allowed to drop the complaint in the ultraviolet rays-enabled complaint boxes,” said Surinder Singh Bhoria, Superintendent of Police (SP).He maintained that a policeman has been deployed at the entrance for thermal scanning along with ensuring the sanitisation of the person coming to the police station. The UV rays-enabled box works as a disinfectant, he added.“We want to encourage people to file online complaints instead of coming to police stations. As soon as the complaint is received, the police personnel concerned will interact with the complainant for further investigation and action,” said the SP. He appealed to the people to file complaints online to avoid gathering at police stations.
20-06-2020||---||10 more deaths, 525 fresh cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, June 19In yet another spike, Haryana today reported 10 deaths and 525 fresh cases, taking the state’s Covid toll to 144 and tally to 9,743.The deaths were reported from Faridabad (5), Gurugram (3) and Sonepat and Bhiwani (1 each). A total of 144 people had succumbed to the virus so far, with 62 having no comorbidity. The fatality rate is 1.48 per cent.In Faridabad, a 42-year-old woman from Ballabgarh, a 75-year-old woman from Dabua Colony, a 68-year-old man from Ballabgarh, a 70-year-old resident from Sector 50 and a 75-year-old man from Sector 37 succumbed to the virus. They were under treatment for various comorbidities.Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (161), Gurugram (145), Sonepat (36), Mahendragarh (32), Ambala (26), Rohtak (20), Bhiwani (18), Palwal (17), Panchkula (13), Nuh (12), Jhajjar, Charkhi Dadri and Panipat (7 each), Karnal and Hisar (6 each), Kurukshetra (3,) Sirsa, Fatehabad, Rewari and Kaithal (2 each) and Jind (1).Six of the cases in Jhajjar were reported from Bahadurgarh, including a couple working at a footwear factory and a computer operator working in Delhi.Of the fresh cases in Mahendragarh, three were reported from Nangal Choudhary and two from Nangal Kalia. In Kaithal, a private doctor and his mother tested positive. Six persons, including four of a family, tested positive in Karnal.
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||RT-PCR test rate Rs 2,400 in Haryana||A day after the Delhi Government, Haryana has decided to cap the rate for the Covid RT-PCR test at Rs 2,400, inclusive of other costs. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said today that the revised rates would come into force with immediate effect.Till now, adhering to ICMR guidelines, the RT-PCR test was made available through private laboratories and the upper limit was Rs 4,500. Laboratories were directed to display the rates.Private laboratories would have to share data pertaining to results of these tests with the state government and ICMR on a real-time basis through the ICMR portal and https://covidsample.haryana.gov.in.Khattar said at the time of sampling, the identification, address and verified mobile number of the person being tested must be noted for record.The data would have to be uploaded on the RT-PCR app at the time of taking the sample. The test report would have to be communicated to the patient immediately after testing was complete.He said a positive test report should be immediately communicated to the Civil Surgeon of the district concerned through e-mail.He said all Deputy Commissioners and Civil Surgeons should monitor the laboratories closely and enforce the rates strictly by giving wide publicity. — TNS
20-06-2020||Gurugram||Haryana for slashing private hospital treatment costs||Following repeated complaints of private hospitals fleecing patients, Haryana is out to rein them in. Besides capping the diagnostic test rates at Rs 2,400, the state is also ready to slash the hospital bed rates by almost 40 percent.Sources said a special committee, headed by Gurugram Divisional Commissioner Ashok Sangwan, has proposed to follow the Delhi model of bed rates.Currently, the private hospitals have been charging anything between Rs 50,000 and Rs 80,000 per day for ICU beds with ventilator support. As per the new proposal, the new bed cost will be between Rs 15,000 and Rs 18,000. Similarly, the ICU beds without ventilator which costs between Rs 30,000 and Rs 40,000 will now be between Rs 13,000 and Rs15, 000. The isolation beds which cost around Rs 25,000 per day will now cost Rs 8,000 to Rs10,000.“The state is fully equipped not just to fight but even defeat Covid. We are increasing our manpower, beds and medical infrastructure and aim to provide every single patient attention as per his needs. Capping the diagnostic rates will encourage more testing,” said Dr Veena Singh, Director, Health Services. Dr Singh further said the state had been focusing on NCR towns like Gurugram and Faridabad that had been registering surge in the number of cases.Five new testing centres have been started,” said Dr Virender Yadav, CMO, Gurugram. — TNS
20-06-2020||Gurugram||Man, 3 kids killed in mishap||A man and his three children were killed and his wife was critically injured when their bike was hit by a trailer near Silani chowk on Sohna-Palwal road. After the mishap, the trailer's driver and helper were thrashed by a mob.The victims have been identified as Hasan Mohammad (38) of Bhadga village in Nuh, his children Arma (10), Fez (7) and Irhaan (3). His wife is stable now.An FIR has been lodged. The accused are under treatment and they would be arrested soon, the police said. — TNS
20-06-2020||---||Waive power charges: Kumari Selja||Faridabad, June 19Seeking relief for the common man, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief Kumari Selja has asked the state government to waive power, water and house tax charges for the period of the Covid pandemic in the state.Speaking at a programme organised to distribute kits for the Covid warriors in the district on the occasion of the birthday of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi here today, Selja charged both the state and Union Government of utter failure in dealing with the Covid pandemic.“Had the governments in power taken adequate measures to provide tests and safety kits to the people on the ground, the number of affected persons could have been controlled easily,” she said, adding that no proper plan was executed on time.Claiming that the state’s unemployment rate, which was 28 per cent before the lockdown, has now increased to 43 per cent, she said MSMEs and small shopkeepers were faced with the challenge of survival.She said the state government should provide relief to 1,983 sacked teachers.Charging the Union Government of failure in tackling the border issue with China, she said the country has lost 20 brave soldiers.
20-06-2020||---||Miscreants open fire at liquor contractor in Karnal||Karnal, June 19Two miscreants opened fire at a liquor contractor in Jaisinghpura village when he was coming to Karnal from Assandh this afternoon. He received bullet injuries and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital.The victim, Sanjay, alias Sanju Rana, hails from Muana village in Jind. The police suspect old enmity to be the reason behind the attack.As per information, he, along with Heera and Babli, was coming to Karnal. Near Jaisinghpura, two bikers fired several bullets at them. Sanjay was shot at thrice and the others had a narrow escape.Ramesh Chand, DSP, Assandh, along with forensic experts reached the spot. “We have registered a case under Section 307 of the IPC and various sections of the Arms Act. We are investigating all angles, said Surinder Singh Bhoria, SP.
20-06-2020||Kaithal||Students shine in exams||Education min delivers lectureKurukshetra: Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar delivered a lecture on new possibilities in higher education after Covid, at an event organised by Kurukshetra University. "Keeping in view the present situation of the Covid pandemic, all the universities of the state should contribute in starting courses that can increase employment opportunities for the students of Haryana. Adjoining Delhi, Haryana sees immense potential in the field of tourism and startups. In such a situation, universities can play an important role in self-sufficiency during this time of Covid," he said. He further added that the basic mantra of self-reliance has been given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the people of the nation to deal with the pandemic. This mantra will develop the country and the nation will get a new identity at the international level. Vice Chancellor Dr Nita Khanna said under the efficient leadership of the state government, the state is continuously establishing new dimensions in the field of education, research and culture.Webinar on IoT concludesHisar: A webinar series on "Internet of Things (IoT)" jointly organised by the Department of ECE and Training & Placement Cell, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, concluded successfully. It was the third session of the series, in which students experienced live demonstration of device control through IoT Cloud. At the end, an online test was also conducted to assess the knowledge gained by the students and to examine the participants who participated actively throughout the webinar series. Sandeep Kumar, Managing Director of Preltex Solutions Pvt Ltd, Hisar, was the expert speaker for the entire series. In the concluding session, the concepts of machine to machine communication and practical demonstration of IoT technology using Cloud was presented by him. Prof Deepak Kedia, Chairperson, Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, motivated the students to make maximum use of IoT in providing solutions to problems of a common man.YMCA Admission schedule outFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, here has released its admission schedule for all undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses for the academic year 2020-21 and invited online application forms through university portal. Last date for the submission of online application form for UG courses will be July 31 and for PG courses, July 20. This year, the university has introduced more science and engineering courses at PG level. Admission to all BTech courses will be done only through online off-campus counselling conducted by the Haryana State Technical Education Society (HSTES) under the Haryana Technical Education Department. Besides, admission to all other UG and PG courses will be done at university level. The university has also launched admission helpline number 88263-50209 and an e-mail ID (helpdesk.acdjcbust@gmail.com) for inquiries related to admission. The admission brochure with all information related to eligibility criteria, number of seats and schedule for entrance test can be seen and downloaded from the university website www.jcboseust.ac.in.Webinar on art and mediaFaridabad: The Department of Liberal Arts and Media Studies of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, here organised a webinar on 'Art of digital media production' as a part of ongoing webinar series with the title 'Samvaad'. Dr Paramveer Potiala from Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, and Suresh Verma from Jamia Milia Islamia University, New Delhi, were the expert speakers in the webinar. The session was presided over by Chairperson of the Department Dr Atul Mishra, who welcomed the invited speakers. The session was moderated by Assistant Professor (JMC) Dr Sonia Hooda. Addressing the session, Verma shared his experience with the students and answered some common queries of the students on writing a compelling script in the digital age. Dr Paramveer talked about different phases of development of camera devices. He elaborated various camera shots and angles, besides, art and skills involved in it.Students apprised of pandemicYamunangar: Mukand Lal National (MLN) College, Radaur, organised a one-day national webinar on "COVID-19 pandemic focusing on environment and immunity". Dr Deepak Kaushik, Officiating Principal of the college, said as many as 108 scholars participated in the webinar. He said Dr Amarjeet Singh, Associate Professor of Botony, Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, Shiv Kumar, Nodal Officer, Haryana Yoga Parishad, Yamunanagar, and Vijay Kumar, Assistant Professor, Department Of Microbiology, Kurukshetra University, were the chief speakers. He said they enlightened the participants on the mechanism of coronavirus and its effect on environment and the methods to strengthen immune system to counter the deadly virus.
20-06-2020||THE administration has allowed a liquor vend near the raised platform carrying the statues of martyrs Bhagat Singh||Why liquor vend near Bhagat Singh's statue?||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaVacant land poses health riskTHE vacant pieces of land in Sector 16 and 17 in Hisar town have turned into a breeding ground for mosquitoes, posing health hazard to the local residents. Officials of the Municipal Corporation and the district administration must take a note of it as the country is already facing the menace of Covid-19. Pigs can be seen roaming there.Dr AK Chhabra, hisarUHBVN’s services commendableSTAFF of the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) are doing a commendable job in Panchkula. I dialed 18001801550 at around 4 am on June 18 to lodge a complaint about power fluctuation in Sector 8 of Panchkula. The fault was not only promptly rectified by the staff on duty, but also a confirmation call was made to me to ascertain the latest status. Well done, UHBVN! Keep it up. SK Gupta, panchkulaPoor sanitation in PanchkulaTHE sanitary condition is poor in Panchkula, which pompously presents itself as the mini capital of the state. In Sector 4, there is no garbage bin so people throw waste alongside roads or at the back of office buildings. Wild growth poses threat. The coming monsoon can trigger diseases, like dengue. The shanties, constructed illegally here, worsen the sanitary scenario. The authorities concerned should look into the problem. Vidya Sagar Garg, panchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
20-06-2020||Parveen Arora||Karnal industrialists woo migrants back with air tickets||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 19Facing shortage of skilled labour due to return of migrant workers to their home states, industrialists here have been pulling out all the stops to woo them back.With the resumption of industrial production following Unlock 1.0 by the Centre, some leading firms have been luring their trusted hands back with air tickets, higher wages and better accommodation.Around 17,000 workers had moved out to their native states, including UP, Bihar and West Bengal, post lockdown, creating a labour crisis.Gaurav Bhatia, director of DD International Pvt Ltd in Kutail, says his firm started operating partially last month with limited manpower. “I have to deliver an export consignment of rice and meeting the deadline will be impossible without more men. My workforce has returned to West Bengal and I have had to arrange air tickets to get them back,” he says. In some cases, even air tickets haven’t served the purpose. An industrialist dealing in rice exports had arranged 19 tickets, but only nine workers returned.A handloom owner justifies going all out to win back the labourers: “Instead of wasting time on looking for fresh talent or training newcomers, it’s better spending extra on the old workforce.”However, some have been able to get back labour by arranging buses. Six industrialists are learnt to have sent three buses and eight minicabs to UP and neighbouring Bihar to get back over 150 workers. A few of them even had to to revise wages of workers who stayed back, fearing they may switch job.17,000 moved out
