20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Probe ordered after four samples reported COVID positive by pvt lab test negative||The Haryana government on Monday ordered a probe after four samples reported positive for coronavirus by a private laboratory tested negative in confirmation tests done at the government centres.No samples will be given for testing to the private lab, pending outcome of the probe, Health Minister Anil Vij said.Vij said an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), who worked in a containment zone in Ambala, had tested positive for the infection on Saturday. Three other people too, all members of a family from Sahjadpur village near Ambala city, had also tested positive on Sunday. The samples of all the four were sent to the private laboratory for testing, he said.“However, subsequently two more samples of the ANM were sent for confirmation to Kalpana Chawla Medical College at Karnal and Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College at Khanpur in Sonipat and their report came negative on Monday,” said Vij. “Her sample had been tested by the private laboratory,” he said. “Likewise, in Shezadpur, three people had been declared positive by this laboratory. When we sent their samples to the medical college at Khanpur, they tested negative,” he said.Vij said he has asked the health department to bar sending any more samples for tests to the laboratory, even though it had earlier been given due permission by the government to conduct the tests, and get entire matter inquired into and if a case is made out against them, then that be registered too. “I have directed the Additional Chief Secretary-Health for the probe into the matter. I have also asked him that that tests of all the people conducted by the laboratory in the state so far should be got conducted again from government labs,” he said. “The manner in which tests are being conducted by this laboratory has raised suspicion. If you take the example of these four patients in Ambala district, based on the earlier test report from this private lab, we sealed particular area and quarantined their contacts as well,” he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/probe-ordered-after-four-samples-reported-covid-positive-by-pvt-lab-test-negative-73692
20-04-2020||Panchkula||Coronavirus: Man tests positive in Panchkula, district tally stands at 18||A 20-year-old man, who had attended a religious congregation in Sirmaur in Himachal Pradesh, tested positive for COVID-19 in Panchkula on Monday.With the latest case, the district's tally has risen to 18. Out of the total, seven patients were infected after they attended religious congregations in different states.The district has 16 active cases. The first two persons who were infected with COVID-19 were cured and discharged from the Civil Hospital here on April 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-man-tests-positive-in-panchkula-district-tally-stands-at-18-73676
20-04-2020||---||This three-time Dabwali MLA a Devi Lal loyalist||Chandigarh, April 19Mani Ram, a three-time MLA from Dabwali, passed away at Fortis Hospital in Mohali on Sunday after a protracted illness. He was 87.He is survived by eight daughters and a son, Dr Sita Ram, who represented the Dabwali Assembly constituency on two occasions.Mani Ram was born in Chautala village of Sirsa on April 10, 1933. Mani Ram was Assistant Food and Supplies Officer in Haryana when he resigned and Devi Lal fielded him from Dabwali in 1977. He won the election and emerged victorious twice again -- in 1987 and 1996.His son Dr Sita Ram, a dental surgeon, won from this seat in 2000 and 2005. Throughout his political career, Mani Ram remained loyal to Devi Lal and his son, former Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala.He served as chairman of Primary Land Development Bank, Haryana, and Haryana State Co-operative Supply and Marketing Federation Limited. Old-timers described him as a soft-spoken leader who was very popular among the people.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar expressed grief and condolences on the death of former MLA and said his demise was great loss to the state.Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda offered his condolences and said the departed leader would always be remembered.Senior INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala described Mani Ram as a committed political leader who served his people wholeheartedly.“He always remained loyal to the policies of Chaudhary Devi Lal though efforts were made to win him over many times. He will always be remembered for his qualities of honesty and commitment,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/this-three-time-dabwali-mla-a-devi-lal-loyalist-73631
20-04-2020||An ANM on Covid duty||Ambala ANM, 44 contacts test negative||60 held for liquor smugglingMahendergarh: Sixty persons have been arrested during the lockdown period for smuggling and selling illegal liquor. The police have seized 12,692 bottles of liquor and registered 47 cases. SP Sulochna said 40 cartons of illegal liquor was seized from a pick-up vehicle in Narnaul city on Saturday. The Jhajjar police also seized 952 cartons hidden under onion sacks from a truck near Bahu village under Salhavaas police station. The truck was headed towards Mahendragarh. Driver Pramod of Machhari village in Sonepat district has been booked. TNS3 nabbed for posing as Army menPalwal: The police arrested three youths for posing as Army men to violate the lockdown order. A police spokesperson said the youths, Surender, Deepak and Surender Poswal, were nabbed after they were intercepted near Mandkola village on Saturday. The accused, hailing from Aurangabad and Phulwari villages of the district, had been travelling in Bolero and two of them had donned Army dress to fool the police and authorities. A sticker mentioning ‘On Indian Army Duty’ was found pasted on the windscreen of the vehicle. They were sent to one-day police remand by a local court on Saturday. TNSADC’s PA misuses official vehiclePanipat :The personal assistant (PA) of Panipat ADC allegedly misused the official vehicle by giving it to his relatives for use during the lockdown. The police at a naka near Bhainswal village chowk saw three persons sitting in the vehicle and took it the Sector 13/17 police station, where the SHO verified the facts. SP Manisha Chaudhary wrote a letter to DC Hema Sharma, following which the latter ordered a probe into the matter and sought a detailed report from the ADC. The police then called the official driver of the ADC and handed over the vehicle to him after registering the DDR and recording statements. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-anm-44-contacts-test-negative-73629
20-04-2020||Strap||Medical colleges to fill 197 vacancies||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 19The Haryana Government has granted permission to the directors of various Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) to fill up 197 vacant posts of faculty on contractual basis from retired doctors up to the age of 70 years for a year or till the regular incumbent joins, whichever is earlier to effectively manage the Covid pandemic.The institutions include Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC), Karnal, BPS Government Medical College (BPSGMC), Khanpur Kalan, Sonipat, and Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College (SHKMGMC), Nuh, Nalhar.While stating this here on Sunday, a spokesman of Medical Education and Research Department said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar approved a proposal in this regard. He said while 13 posts of professor, 29 posts of associate professor, and 54 posts of assistant professor would be filled up at the KCGMC, eight posts of professor super specialty, seven posts of associate professor super specialty, eight posts of assistant professor super specialty, nine posts of professor specialty, 15 posts of associate professor specialty, and 10 posts of assistant professor specialty would be filled up at the BPSGMC, Sonipat. Apart from this, 10 posts of professor, 19 posts of associate professor, and 15 posts of assistant professor would be filled up at the SHKMGMC, Nalhar, Nuh.The spokesman added that they would be paid remuneration equal to the last pay drawn minus pension. He said the director, PGIMS, Rohtak, has also been permitted to fill up posts on contractual basis as per the approval of the State Government.Earlier, keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the state, the Haryana Government decided to re-employ the retired government doctors below the age of 69 years on contractual basis for one year against vacant posts. Khattar approved a proposal in this regard and authorised the respective civil surgeons to engage these doctors at their level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/medical-colleges-to-fill-197-vacancies-73623
20-04-2020||Karnal||Violations galore, police to arrange additional space||Violators of lockdown restrictions have forced the Karnal police to arrange additional space to park the impounded vehicles as the space in the police stations, particularly in the city area, is already full.Now, the police will park the impounded vehicles on the premises of Dr Mangal Sen auditorium in the centre of the city, which has been taken by the police for parking vehicles. Police personnel have been deployed to guard the vehicles.The police have impounded as many as 920 vehicles since the enforcement of the lockdown on March 25. Among the impounded, around 90 per cent are two-wheelers.The action taken by the police at various ‘nakas’ has flooded the parking spaces at Civil Lines, City and Sadar police stations in the city. The situation is almost the same in Taraori, Nilokheri, Gharaunda and Assandh police stations.The police had registered 93 cases against the violators and arrested 130 persons. In the meanwhile, they have issued challan to 2,770 vehicles and impounded 920. They have imposed a fine of Rs 1.81 crore on the violators. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/violations-galore-police-to-arrange-additional-space-73622
20-04-2020||---||New account not a must for arhtiyas||Chandigarh, April 19 The Haryana Government has taken a U-turn on the opening of new bank accounts by commission agents for making payment to the farmers during the ongoing rabi procurement season under the e-Kharid portal. An order issued by the Chief Administrator, Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board, has informed the commission agents that there was no need to have a new bank account and the payments to the farmers could be routed through their existingbank accounts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-account-not-a-must-for-arhtiyas-73621
20-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||Pregnant teen moves High Court, wants to be with beloved||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 19April is turning out to be the cruellest month of all for a 19-year-old. Confined in her brother’s house during the days of Covid lockdown, the five-month pregnant teenager wants to be reunited with the man she has been going around with for the past two years.As the father of her unborn child being ‘a married person having a living spouse’, she has now moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court against her brother, his wife and two of their relatives for protection of life and liberty.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan of the High Court has issued notice of motion to Haryana and other respondents, before directing the SHO of a police station in Panchkula’s Sector 5 to gauge the threat perception.The SHO was directed to visit the house of her brother and sister-in-law, where she was stated to be residing. He was directed to go with a woman police official and record the statement of her relatives before submitting a report to the High Court about the threat perception. The Bench fixed the case for further hearing in the first week of May.Appearing before Justice Sangwan’s Bench through video-conferencing, her counsel stated that the teenager was born in October 2001, while the youth was 29 years old. His “first marriage” was solemnised in July 2011, but the two were not residing together as husband and wife.“There is no averment that the first marriage of the petitioner-youngster was annulled in a legal manner and, therefore, he is a married person having a living spouse,” Justice Sangwan observed. He took note of the contention that both petitioners were having an affair for the last two years and the teenager was five-month pregnant. As she was not able to go to his house, so she was presently residing with her brother and sister-in-law.“Without commenting on the relationship of the petitioners and especially in view of the fact that the petitioner-youngster is a married person having a living spouse, let a notice of motion be issued to the respondents, limited to the extent of providing protection to the petitioner-teenager,” Justice Sangwan concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pregnant-teen-moves-high-court-wants-to-be-with-beloved-73620
20-04-2020||---||Gurugram cop ends life at Rewari home||Rewari, April 19A Haryana Police inspector committed suicide at his house here on Sunday. The exact reason behind the extreme step is yet to be ascertained, even as the Model Town police has started its investigation.Satyendra Singh (38) was posted with the traffic police at Gururgam. It is learnt that he came to his Rewari home in the Excise and Taxation Society at Kaleka Chowk on Saturday night. He had dinner with his wife and kids and went to sleep in a separate room.On Sunday morning, his wife found his body hanging in the room and informed the police. The police rushed to the spot and sent Satyendra’s body to the civil hospital for postmortem examination. Model Town police station in charge Vijender said Satyendra’s body was later handed over to his kin.Satyendra belonged to Majra village in Mahendragarh and had taken a flat on rent when he was posted in Rewari before being moved to Gurugram. He had joined the police department in 2008.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-cop-ends-life-at-rewari-home-73619
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Three types of passes for industrial units||Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora today said in order to maintain a balance between the economy and Covid lockdown, necessary steps like opening of industries were being taken. She said some industries, which did not come under containment zones, would resume operations on Monday while following guidelines issued by the Centre. She said industrialists would have to apply through the SARAL portal and after getting permission, adequate passes would be given to labourers and other employees. She said three types of coloured passes would be issued, in which ‘ordinary’ green pass would be issued to industries and business organisations, ‘special’ red pass to those providing essential services in containment zones and blue pass to those involved in construction work. The Chief Secretary directed Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police to take a decision on shifts and timetable of industries in consultation with representatives of industries in their respective regions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-types-of-passes-for-industrial-units-73618
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Contractual staff not paid for three months||The Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), an apex organisation of the state government employees, on Tuesday alleged that certain contractual employees had not received salaries for the last three months. In a statement issued here, Subhash Lamba, SKS chief, said, among the departments whose employees had not got their dues included health, public health engineering, animal husbandry, ICDS, Haryana Roadways and the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran. It was unfortunate that the state government had failed to release the salaries to workers who had been working diligently amid the Covid crisis, he alleged. He alleged that the sangh workers were extending all possible help to the state government, yet the latter had failed to initiate a dialogue with the SKS. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/contractual-staff-not-paid-for-three-months-73617
20-04-2020||---||Jhajjar officer told to check quality of food at groceries||Jhajjar, April 19 The district health authorities have directed the Food Safety Officer (FSO) to take samples of food and other eatables kept in grocery and confectionery shops, godowns and cold stores for quality check. It has asked the FSO to check the quality of food being distributed by various social outfits and activists among slum-dwellers and migrant labourers staying in relief camps. “The possibility of food items in shops and cold stores getting spoilt cannot be ruled out. Check quality by taking samples so that one does not get infected by other diseases,” read the communique issued by Dr RS Punia, Civil Surgeon. Sources said the authorities had issued the directive to prevent the distribution of ration, food and other eatables of poor quality. The FSO was directed to submit his report regularly. “The FSO found one-litre refined oil and two other food items beyond expiry date at a departmental store, which were destroyed. He visited relief camps and places where meals were prepared and served, with quality of food at all these places being good,” Dr Punia said. Meanwhile, the district authorities allowed booksellers to open shops. The authorities allowed booksellers to transport study material to government and private schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-officer-told-to-check-quality-of-food-at-groceries-73616
20-04-2020||---||After massive losses, Panipat exporters keen to resume operations||Panipat, April 19With international orders to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore already cancelled, 40 per cent export houses in Haryana’s ‘Textile City’ were ready to reopen industries from May 20, while the rest have decided to wait till May 3.There are around 400 units of export houses in the city and some of the big houses have orders of approximately Rs 2,000 crore in hand. “As much as 20% of total export orders from Panipat worth 2,000 crores have already been cancelled by overseas customers and 15-20% orders are lying ready for dispatch in factories,” said Lalit Goyal, president of Panipat Exporters’ Association.Overseas customers were demanding immediate dispatch of their merchandise and if these ready goods were not immediately sent, these orders will also be cancelled, he said. “Some big chains are open in the USA and even in European countries and Australia and were demanding their merchandise,” he said.Goyal said guidelines issued by the Revenue and Disaster Management Department were received on Sunday evening and were being studied. “Approximately 40 per cent are ready to restart their industries. Any industrialist or exporter wanting to resume operations has to apply online on a state government portal, which would be functional in a day or two,” he said.Panipat Exporters’ Association secretary Vibhu Paliwal said the terms and condition set to run industries by the Revenue and Disaster Management Department were very tough to fulfill. “We are discussing the guidelines laid down and will take a decision after studying these,” he said.In a meeting on Saturday evening under the chairmanship of MLA Pramod Vij, majority of industrialists decided to keep their units shut till May 3.3 lakh labourers work||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-massive-losses-panipat-exporters-keen-to-resume-operations-73615
20-04-2020||Rohtak||Felicitation functions in Rohtak stir row||Two felicitation functions here in the past two days have stirred a controversy, with District Bar Association president Lokendra Singh Phougat demanding an FIR and disciplinary action against the government servants and BJP leaders present. He has lodged a complaint with the Home Secretary, Union Ministry of Home Affairs, Chief Secretary of the state and Additional Chief Secretary for Home of the state while describing the functions as violation of mandatory instructions issued by the Centre and state for controlling Covid. “As per media reports, Rohtak Municipal Commissioner Pradeep Godara, on instructions from Mayor Manmohal Goel and BJP leaders Manish Grover and Ajay Bansal, organised a function to felicitate sanitary workers here on Saturday, wherein 500 persons were present. A day before, 150 electricity wing employees were by SK Bansal, Superintending Engineer of the UHBVN, for a similar function,” said Phougat in the complaint. He maintained that all persons had deliberately violated lockdown instructions. “The Mayor and other BJP leaders are liable for action,” Phougat added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/felicitation-functions-in-rohtak-stir-row-73614
20-04-2020||---||Give partial pay from ESI fund, footwear industry urges Centre||Jhajjar, April 19 The footwear industry has been hit hard by the lockdown clamped to contain the spread of Covid. Factory owners say they are not in a position to pay wages to workers for the lockdown period and the Union Government should provide them succour to bail them out of the crisis. The Confederation of Indian Footwear Industries (CIFI), a national body of footwear manufacturers, has urged the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises to pay partial wages to their workers from the Employees’ State Insurance  (ESI) fund to assist them as well as workers. The CIFI office-bearers raised the issue before Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Minister Nitin Gadkari through video-conferencing on Saturday, urging him to accept their request to protect the footwear industry from more losses. “The lockdown has affected the footwear industry as money is lying stuck in the market or in stocks. We are unable to pay wages and the situation will take time to normalise. We have urged the Union minister to provide help by using the ESI fund,” said Narendra Chhikara, CIFI senior vice-president. “Every employer contributes 3.5 per cent of employees’ wages to the ESI fund, that is used to provide medical and other benefits to industrial workers. A total Rs 90,000 crore is available in the ESI fund, which can be used to pay partial wages. We are ready to compensate by contributing 1 per cent more as soon as the situation gets back to normal,” he stated. Chhikara said half of the total production nationwide was done in Haryana and around 8 lakh workers were engaged in 800 footwear factories in Jhajjar, Sonepat and Karnal districts. Over 5 crore pairs of shoes, sandals and slippers were manufactured in a day across the nation, he added. it demanded electricity bills as per unit consumption during the lockdown period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/give-partial-pay-from-esi-fund-footwear-industry-urges-centre-73613
20-04-2020||---||9 contacts of Karnal patient test negative||Karnal, April 19After a resident of Karnal’s Sirsi village tested positive in Sonepat on Saturday, the district authorities have intensified the screening activities in the village.Nine persons who came in contact of the infected person, who is admitted in Sonepat, were found to be negative. Another test of these persons will be conducted and till then they will remain in the isolation ward of the KCGMC.Meanwhile, a health team visited each and every household and screened as many as 1,050 persons in the containment zone, of them five have shown symptoms of fever in thermal scanning. The department will collect and send their samples for testing.The infected man went to Sonepat on April 16 for wheat harvesting and he tested positive there on April 18.“Since, a Covid-positive case has been reported in Sirsi village, so the entire area has been declared as a containment zone, while surrounding villages Daha and Kharkali are now buffer zones,” said DC Nishant Kumar Yadav.5 others have fever.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/9-contacts-of-karnal-patient-test-negative-73612
20-04-2020||Deepender Deswal---||Migrants get restless, keen to go home||Tribune News Service Hisar, April 19 Even as local authorities are taking care of migrants and workers in shelter homes, some are facing psychological issues and loneliness and are eager to return home.  The migrants, who hail from UP, Bihar, Rajasthan and other states, had started their journey home when district authorities intervened and put them up in dharamshalas. There are 220 migrants in four shelter homes in Hisar town. Temporary shelters have also been set up in other towns of the district, including Hansi, Uklana and Narnaund. The administration has been providing basic facilities and food to them and even counselling service, but they have their reasons for wanting to go home.  Akhilesh of Kannauj district in Uttar Pradesh walked to Hisar from Bathinda after the lockdown was announced, but he was held up in the town. “I have been staying in the shelter home since March 29 and was hopeful of reaching home after April 14. I need to harvest my wheat crop,” he said.  Virender, also from UP, too walked to Hisar from Bathinda and said a family member had fallen ill and he needed to be home. “I must go back to take care of my family, but there seems to be no possibility as of now,” he said. They both said they were getting adequate meals every day in the shelter homes.  A woman from Rajasthan living in a shelter home in Uklana too was stuck, away from her family. “The government should have given people like us some time to reach home.” According to reports, about 300 workers from Hisar district who went to Rajasthan for harvesting of gram are also stuck in the neighbouring state.  Psychologist Dr Narender Gupta, who is involved in telecounselling, said residents had realised the significance of the lockdown and had made adjustments, but some migrants were finding it difficult to cope. “Government-designated counsellers are providing services, but some migrants have problems back home and are worried to be away from families. They require special counselling and care.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/migrants-get-restless-keen-to-go-home-73611
20-04-2020||Hisar||G’gram jail warder tests positive||A Bhiwani resident, who is posted as jail warder in Gurugram, tested positive for Covid today. He was on leave and stayed in his native village in Bhiwani district from April 9 to 16.  The man (40) complained of fever soon after returning to duty in Gurugram. He was taken to the civil hospital in Gurugram on April 16.  Considering him a suspected case, the doctors took samples for Covid yesterday. His sample tested positive today and he was admitted in the civil hospital in Gurugram. According to the information available, he came home on April 9 and returned to Gurugram on April 16. His positive status alarmed the authorities in Bhiwani today. The district health authorities arrived in the village today and took four members of the jail warder’s family to the civil hospital where they are admitted in the isolation ward. The Health Department has turned the village into a containment zone and took measures to sanitise the village.  The four members, including mother, wife and two children of the jail warder, were taken to the civil hospital where they will be in the isolation ward for 14 days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ggram-jail-warder-tests-positive-73610
20-04-2020||---||12 more cases, state’s tally 237||Chandigarh, April 19With 12 more cases being reported from Faridabad and Ambala, the state’s tally touched 237 today.In Faridabad, nine people tested positive. Six out of the nine are linked to Tablighi Jamaat while the three others are local residents.Four Tablighi Jamaat workers are from other states and the remaining two hail from Indonesia and Nepal.Samples of all these persons had been found negative earlier. It was the repeat test which confirmed Covid.At Ambala, three of a family, belonging to the Shahzadpur block of Ambala, tested positive for Covid today. The family, including two women and one man, was among the people who were in contact with a Panchkula-based doctor, Dr Rishi Nagpal, who had treated a Covid patient. The family’s swab samples were taken for testing on Friday.In Gurugram, there is a scare as a jail warder of Bhondsi jail tested positive on April 18. The jail currently has over 2,000 inmates. As per the directives of a committee headed by Sessions Judge MM Dhonchak, he was immediately tested on return before joining duty and isolated in the staff quarters.“He was alone there and cooked for himself while we waited for the report which is positive now. There was no active contact with any jail official or inmate,” said a senior jail official.Nuh still leads among all districts with 57 cases, followed by 42 in Faridabad, 36 in Gurugram and 34 in Palwal. Panchkula has 17 cases while Ambala has 11 now.A total of 12,687 samples have been taken so far and 10,230 have come out negative. Results of 2,221 are awaited. The test positivity rate has come down to 1.9 per cent. As many as 104 patients have recovered.Meanwhile, the Health Department informed that more than 28 lakh persons have downloaded Aarogya Setu mobile application in Haryana. Also, more than 400 mobile health teams have already been formed to check health status regarding severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI).The Police Department informed that a total of 8,317 violations of lockdown have taken place and 3,758 FIRs have been registered while 5,298 people have been arrested. Also, 10,083 vehicles have been seized and a fine of Rs 17.53 crore has been imposed upon them under the MV Act.As wheat procurement is starting from April 20, the Food and Civil Supplies Department amended its order, dated April 13, which allowed arhtiyas to operate their existing bank accounts for online payment to farmers. Earlier, they were asked to open new accounts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-more-cases-states-tally-237-73609
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Buy every grain, extend last date: Hooda to govt||Leader of Opposition and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday appealed to the government to buy every grain produced by farmers. He said reports indicated that farmers were facing problems in selling mustard. “Money is being deducted citing moisture content and farmers are being denied rates fixed. The buying process is beyond the comprehension of most farmers. They are being called to mandis again and again. This forces them to break lockdown and social distancing rules and increases transportation costs,” Hooda said. “The government purchased about 5% of estimated produce in the last three days. Farmers fear that they may not be able to sell their crop as the process will end on April 20. It seems difficult that the government will buy the entire crop on schedule.” “Farmers have to stand for tokens  for hours. They get a message a day before the date of purchase, with  many getting it late at night. It becomes difficult for farmers to reach  the mandis at such a short notice,” Hooda said. “The government should buy the grain of farmers as promised. The last date for purchase should be extended. The government should stop harassing farmers citing moisture content. Instead of calling them over and over again, it should buy the entire crop in one go. The process to register farmers who fail to do so on the portal should be completed on the spot,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/buy-every-grain-extend-last-date-hooda-to-govt-73608
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||State to medically screen labourers, says Chief Secy||The state announced that labourers arriving after the reopening of industries would be screened and sub-camps would be set up in case they need to stay on site.  Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora, while presiding over a Crisis Coordination Committee meeting, said with the reopening of industries, the movement of people would increase making monitoring even more important and those providing essential services should be tested on priority to contain the infection.  She directed the  officers concerned to ensure that when the labourers are moving from one place to the another for work they should undergo medical screening and that the authorities should maintain data of such labourers so that sub-camps can be set up in case they need to stay on site. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-to-medically-screen-labourers-says-chief-secy-73607
20-04-2020||---||Toll to resume, containment zones exempt||Chandigarh, April 19The Haryana Government has clarified that toll collection will resume at plazas from midnight tonight but will remain suspended up to May 3 in containment zones, as per the consolidated revised guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs.A spokesman said social distancing, sanitisation, frequent washing of hands, using of masks, gloves and other preventive measures in accordance with set guidelines and instructions will be followed.Meanwhile, AICC communication incharge Randeep Surjewala demanded suspension of toll charges across the state for at least two months. He said the ongoing lockdown had thrown business and commerce out of gear, making it difficult for commuters to pay toll charges.He alleged that the Central and state governments not only intended to start toll plazas from midnight tonight, but had also increased rates on certain highways “exposing the anti-people face” of the BJP government.“Charging of toll should be put on hold for at least two months, preferably from May 3 when the second0 phase of lockdown ends,” he said.In Rohtak, Sadbhav Projects, which manages the Makdauli toll plaza on Rohtak-Panipat highway, said it will continue with its corporate social responsibility initiatives as they resume operations.“We have been providing water bottles, food, masks, hand sanitisers and emergency medical services to road users, workers and facilitating people in general while toll collection was suspended during the lockdown. We will continue our CSR activities as we resume toll collection,” said Col Virendra Singh Shekhawat, GM, Sadbhav Projects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/toll-to-resume-containment-zones-exempt-73605
20-04-2020||Deepender Deswal||Administration, residents & cops’ joint efforts help Hisar fight Covid||Tribune News ServiceHisar, April 19The coordinated efforts of the administration, police and people have been able to save Hisar district from the outbreak of Covid as only two cases have been reported in the district so far.The administration has sealed boundaries with neighbouring state Rajasthan and other Haryana districts.The health authorities had intensified surveillance immediately after a woman was found infected after her return from the US. While the woman has recovered fully and returned home, another aged person who tested positive in a hospital in Gurugram is still under treatment at the private hospital in Gurugram.The district authorities say that besides the tighter measures, local people too cooperated by maintaining social distancing.The supply of essential items to people and food packets to the needy has also been almost hassle-free in the district.Though the civil hospital in Hisar is located in a congested place and has space constraints, the administration had roped in private hospitals initially and later turned the medical college in Agroha town into a Covid hospital.DC Priyanka Soni gave credit to the frontline warriors and the residents whose collective efforts seem to have paid off.“Hisar is in the non-hotspot zone. Our mainstay was that we sealed the boundaries and enforced the lockdown. Along with the strictness at the inter-district borders, local people avoided travelling and cooperated with the authorities. They largely followed the guidelines,” she said.The DC said the supply of essential services has been uninterrupted in localities. The migrants who are residing in makeshift shelter homes are also being provided food.“Though the civil hospital in Hisar is housed in an old building, we roped in private hospitals and ensured that there was no shortage of beds or equipment like ventilators,” she said. The administration also acted against those spreading rumours about the disease as a YouTuber was booked.Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Jaya Goel and Dr Ratna Bharti have been leading the medical team who helped the woman who tested positive on March 30 recover from the disease. “I became alert when I fell ill and went to the civil hospital. After the sample came out positive, I got support from the doctors and recovered in four days,” she said.Just 2 cases reported from District so far||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/administration-residents-cops-joint-efforts-help-hisar-fight-covid-73604
20-04-2020||Parveen Arora||In Karnal, depot holders get ‘rotten’ wheat supply||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 19The Food and Civil Supplies Department has allegedly supplied rotten wheat to various depots in the district, brewing resentment among residents as well as depot holders.The wheat has to be provided to the beneficiaries of the BPL, AAY and OPH categories under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. Everyperson on the card will be given 5 kg of wheat.The depot holders raised their voices and rejected the supply while in some areas, the residents refused to take the wheat.Some of the depot holders alleged that it was the old stock of wheat, which was lying rotten in godowns. “Most of the depots have received wet and rotten wheat, which is not fit for supply. When we started the supply, people showed anger,” said a depot holder. Similarly, another depot holder said the supplied wheat was emitting foul smell, which was not good for the health of people.A woman from Raipur Rodan village said the wheat that was being given at the depot was not fit for consumption.“We will not take this wheat. The department has no right to play with the health of the people,” said another resident.Meanwhile, District Food and Supplies Controller Anil Kumar could not be contacted despite several attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-karnal-depot-holders-get-rotten-wheat-supply-73603
20-04-2020||Nitish Sharma ---||Crop harvested, but storage still a challenge for farmers||Tribune News Service Ambala, April 19 With harvesting picking up, wheat storage has become a challenge for farmers due to  shortage of labour.  Farmers said they used to take wheat directly to the grain market after harvesting, but not this year. Malkiyat Singh of Sahibpura village said, “Labour shortage has made things very difficult. Last year, a farmhand was taking Rs300 a day, but this year those available are seeking Rs500 a day. After harvesting, we loaded the wheat in tractors and took it to my house. Now we will have to load it again and take it to the purchase centre. I am waiting for a call from my commission agent. Handling the crop is the biggest challenge right now due to uncertain weather.”  Rajiv Sharma from Hasanpur village of Naraingarh, also spokesman of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni), said, “Local labourers who earlier used to work at factories in Kala Amb and some others have entered the field. Farmers who don’t have ample storage space have opted for manual harvesting. Some farmers have engaged their family members to harvest the crop.” In Ambala 106 purchase centres have been set up. Deputy Director, Agriculture, Girish Nagpal, said, “Around 87,000 hectare is under wheat crop in Ambala this season and around 35% of it has been harvested. Harvesting is likely to be over by May first week. Less than 10% farmers are opting for manual harvesting. Around 478 combine-harvesters are at work. Farm machines from other states are issued a permit after sanitisation and compulsory health checkup of staff.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crop-harvested-but-storage-still-a-challenge-for-farmers-73602
20-04-2020||---||Plywood exporters seek govt backing to take on China||Yamunanagar, April 19The plywood industry has sought the support from the government to beat China in the export of plywood and its products.Manufacturers say Chinese plywood and products made of it, including furniture, dominate the international market. They, however, feel that this international market can become a huge market for Indian wood-based industry in the changed circumstances as after the Covid outbreak people’s preference for Chinese products may see a decline.“India enjoys a good reputation internationally. Therefore, it is a better time to uplift the export of Indian plywood and its products,” said Devender Chawla, president, All India Plywood Manufacturers’ Association, in Jagadhri on Saturday.He held a meeting with the association members residing across the country through videoconferencing to discuss about the steps needed to be taken for survival of this industry. The association has decided to seek financial help from the Centre.He said so far, Indian plywood and its products were being supplied only in Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.“If the Central Government supports the plywood industry financially and provides latest infra, we can capture the markets of Europe and Middle East, where the Chinese dominated before Covid outbreak,” he added.Chawla said the annual turnover of the Indian plywood industry was Rs60 lakh crore, but it had tumbled due to limited resources and lockdown.“The Indian plywood industry provides employment to 16 lakh people, therefore, the Centre as well as state government should come forward with a relief package, so that the industry can survive the losses suffered due to the lockdown,” Chawla added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plywood-exporters-seek-govt-backing-to-take-on-china-73601
20-04-2020||Kurukshetra||Plight of small traders, shopkeepers raised||Senior Congress leader and ex-minister has Ashok Arora said the small shopkeepers and traders have faced a serious setback due to the lockdown and the government should pay some attention towards the plight of this section of the society too.  Expressing concern, Arora said, “The lockdown has affected the lives of lower and middle-class people and has also killed the business of small shopkeepers and traders. There are a large number of small shops that are run by one or two persons but on the call of the PM, they had shut their shops. Now, they are facing a financial crisis as they need to pay school fees and other expenses.” “The government has taken a beneficial decision by allowing production in the industries, but similar decisions should be taken for the small shopkeepers too. The government can decide the working timings as it has decided for essential shops. Since such shops do not employ labour in large numbers, there is no possibility of non-compliance with the social distancing norms. The small traders must be allowed to run their business so that they can also earn for their families.” Meanwhile, Arora expressed dissatisfaction over the purchase of mustard in the state. He said, “Nearly 9-lakh-MT mustard was estimated to reach the purchase centres this year but not even 25% of total produce has been bought yet. A sense of uncertainty has prevailed among the mustard growing farmers.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plight-of-small-traders-shopkeepers-raised-73600
20-04-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Attacks on Haryana officials, 282 booked||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 19The lockdown has been particularly harsh on Haryana’s public servants, especially policemen and medical staff, who have faced the wrath of the public while discharging duty, be it sample collection or implementing orders.Policemen and medics at the receiving endDistrict-wise count5 cases (attack on cops) each in Panchkula, Faridabad, Palwal, Sonepat, Hisar3 cases (attack on other public servants) each in Fatehabad, K’shetra0 case from Gurugram, Dadri, Bhiwani, Narnaul and RewariSo far, 71 cases have been filed against 282 persons for attacking public servants, leading to 153 arrests.Won’t spare violatorsAny attack on public servant while discharging duty will be dealt with strictly. Navdeep Virk, ADGP (law & order)According to data compiled by the Haryana Police, 53 FIRs are linked to attacks on policemen and 141 of the 245 accused have been arrested. Eighteen FIRs have been registered for attacks on other public servants, including medical officials. Twelve of the 37 accused have been arrested in this regard.Five cases each have been registered in Panchkula, Faridabad, Palwal, Sonepat and Hisar and 52 persons booked in Palwal and 31 in Sonepat. While two FIRs have been registered in Nuh, 25 persons have been booked for attacking policemen. The only districts where no such cases have been reported are Gurugram, Dadri, Bhiwani, Narnaul and Rewari.With regards attack on public servants other than the police, three cases each have been filed in Fatehabad and Kurukshetra. The data pertains to the lockdown period, which began on March 24.Policemen at times accompany medical teams to persuade suspected patients to give samples. Often, they face the wrath of patients and their families.Additional DGP (Law and Order) Navdeep Virk says the police are committed to maintaining law and order while adopting a humanitarian approach during this period of crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/attacks-on-haryana-officials-282-booked-73542
