20-11-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur ||Child Commission calls for registration of case, closure of shelter home over illegal confinement of 5-yr-old||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, November 20 Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) on Friday recommended for closure of an open shelter home run by Hari Mahila Vikas Samiti at Panipat after a 5-year-old girl was allegedly found illegally confined there. The Commission also called for registration of case against the shelter home manager.The girl with special needs was Covid positive, but as per the Commission no medical help was provided to her.For the last three or four days, the child was living alone at the shelter home, the Commission added. HSCPCR officials also learnt that the girl was continuously crying and calling for help as she was locked inside the shelter home and it were the neighbourers who were providing her food and medicines through a window. There was only one inmate in the shelter home since November 7. In its proceedings on Friday, under Chairperson Jyoti Bainda, the Commission noted that during their visit to the place of incident on November 19 the neighbours substantiated that the child was living alone for the last three or four days in the shelter home. As per the records, the child came to the shelter home last year in August. On inquiry, it was learnt that the child went missing either from open shelter home or personal home of manager Tejpal on November 14. The manager informed the police who told him to provide the picture of the child, which he didn't. The girl was found the next day.As the police circulated the picture on WhatsApp groups, the child was identified by someone who informed Tejpal. He then asked the police to drop the girl back.Tejpal told the Commission that as the girl was Covid positive so she was kept in isolation since then. Bainda requested Civil Surgeon, Panipat, to personally supervise the case and ensure that the child receives all medical care. For checking on any physical or sexual abuse, it was also recommended for a “comprehensive medical check-up” as soon as child is declared Covid negative. The Commission learnt that the child was routinely taken to the Tejpal’s home as admitted by the shelter home in-charge and staffer Pooja, which “is primarily illegal”. “This is a matter of continuing inquiry to assess whether enough action was taken by the Child Welfare Committee and District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) in the case,” said the Commission, in its proceedings.   It called for shifting of the child to a suitable home for special children. Bainda said that the role of Child Welfare Committees of Kaithal, Sonipat and Sirsa would be inquired as she continued “to languish in open shelter home for more than one year without any suitable plan for care and rehabilitation”.
20-11-2020||Panipat||SP Panipat suspends two cops for negligence; body of ex-councillor’s friend fished out||A day after the reported incident of jumping of former councillor Harish Sharma into a canal to commit suicide due to alleged police pressure, Superintendent of Police (SP), Panipat, Manisha Chaudhary on Friday suspended the Tehsil Camp police post in-charge SI Baljeet Singh and ASI Mahavir Singh for their negligence in the investigation of the case registered against the ex-councillor and his councillor daughter along with 10 people registered on November 15.Notably, former councillor Harish Sharma had jumped into the canal to commit suicide on Thursday morning due to alleged pressure of the police while his friend Rajesh Sharma had also jumped into the canal to save him.The search operation to trace the ex-councillor and his friend continued on the second day today.The divers’ team on Friday fished out the body of former councillor’s friend Rajesh Sharma, from the minor canal near Burshayam village in Samalkha area.The police sent the body to the mortuary at the general hospital for post-mortem examination.Besides, the SIT constituted by Home Minister Anil Vij, headed by ADGP Sandeep Khirwar began a probe into the matter. It recorded the statements of the ex-councillor’s family members in which they alleged police harassment behind the incident on Thursday night. SIT chief ADGP Khirwar along with SP Rohtak Rahul Sharma, ASP Gohana Udai Singh Meena and FSL team and dog squad visited the spot to inquire about the ex-councillor’s suicide incident.The SIT recreated the crime scene on the basis of the statement of eyewitnesses Satish Sharma, brother of the ex-councillor, and Sonu Saluja to get the incident in details and to know the actual sequence of the reported drowning incident at the canal.Earlier, the SIT visited the house of former councillor Harish Sharma in Ram Nagar of Tehsil Camp and met his family members.The sources said that councillor Anjali Sharma had given complaint to the SIT head in which they had alleged names of SP, Tehsil Camp police post in-charge SI Baljeet Singh and ASI Mahabir Singh and two so called Youtuber journalists. Besides, the SIT also questioned the whole incident from SP Panipat, DSP City, SHO City and Tehsil camp police post in-charge and ASI involved in the matter for around two hours in the office of DSP City.   SP Rohtak and SIT member Rahul Sharma told The Tribune that though the matter is under investigation but during the preliminary investigation the role of police post incharge SI Baljeet Singh was shown biased towards Harish Sharma.Besides, it is the matter of serious concern that why the ex-councillor had jumped into the canal to commit suicide while the Sections 379-A (snatching) and 511 of IPC were removed after the matter came to the knowledge of the DSP City and SP Panipat, he added.The case was simple that police can bail out the accused easily, he added.SIT chief Sandeep Khirwar told that inquiry is under way and we have visited the spot with the forensic team and the dog squad, where the reported drowning incident occurred.The victim’s family has given a complaint to us and we are verifying the facts, he added. The matter is under investigation and the facts couldn’t be revealed during the inquiry, he added.We have been making our best efforts in searching for the former councillor and also trying to get the facts at all possible angles into the matter, he added.Notably, the SIT had to submit its inquiry report to Home Minister Anil Vij till Saturday.
20-11-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Covaxin trials: Lukewarm response in Phase III||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 20Phase III of the clinical human trials of the country’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin commenced at Rohtak PGIMS today, though the initial response shown by the residents seems rather lukewarm.As per official sources, the vaccine is supposed to be administered on nearly 1,000 volunteers at Rohtak PGIMS in the third phase, while around 100 volunteers have got themselves registered for the trials so far.It may be pertinent to mention here that the number of volunteers for the human-trial project has also been increased manifold in the third phase. As many as 25,800 volunteers have to get the vaccine in Phase I of the trials across the country, while only 380 volunteers were given the vaccine in Phase II and 375 in Phase I.“We expect more volunteers to come forward in the coming days as awareness about the commencement of the third phase of trials spreads,” says Dr Ramesh Verma, a co-investigator of the project at Rohtak PGIMS.Dr Verma appealed to the residents to come forward and participate in the trials. The interested persons can contact the PGIMS Covid helpline no. 9416447071 to get themselves registered for the trials, he stated.Healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses and other paramedical staffers, will also be included as volunteers in the third phase of the trials, he said, adding that only adult volunteers (above the age of 18 years) will be involved in this phase.Patients who are suffering from chronic diseases but whose blood sugar, liver and kidney function test reports are normal can volunteer for the trials.  As per the project investigators, the clinical trials have been largely successful so far, though a few volunteers had mild reactions after the administration of the vaccine in the first two phases.
20-11-2020||Rohtak||Kisan Sangharsh Committee decide to intensify ‘Delhi Chalo’ campaign||The state chapter of All India Kisan Sangharsh Co-ordination Committee (AIKSCC), a joint platform of several farmers’ outfits, on Friday decided to intensify it's ongoing ‘Delhi Chalo’ campaign on November 26 and 27 against three recent farm laws with chalking out strategies to make the protest successful.At a meeting of the AIKSCC held here, the farmers’ leaders- Yogender Yadav, Satyawan, Prem Singh Gahlawat, Krishna Prasad, Inderjit Singh, Ram Pal Chahal, Sumit Singh, Sat Pal Beniwal, Ram Kumar Bahbalpuria, Pahlad Singh, Rajender Chahal, Jai Karan, Anoop Singh and Yudhvir Ahlawat and others- reviewed the preparations for the protest.They also strongly condemned the Modi government for not restoring the freight trains to Punjab and described it as anti-national.“It is tantamount to worst blackmail with the agitating farmers who were suffering from non--availability of the fertilizers when the sowing of Rabi crops was at its peak. We warn the state and Centre to refrain from obstructing the peaceful movement of lakhs of farmers to Delhi on 26 November,” said Inderjit Singh, state vice president, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS).Meanwhile, the district unit of the AIKS at a meeting presided over by Subedar Sundar Singh here today chalked out a detailed programme to mobilise the maximum number of tractor trollies to reach at Ch Chhotu Ram memorial in Sampla town here before proceeding in the form of a convoy to Delhi on 26 November.The AIKS has appealed to all sections of the people for their logistic support to the fighting farmers stating that the three black laws were bound to affect the vital interests of the nation and every citizen is allowed to become operational.
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Weathermen predict cold wave conditions in region during next week||Cold wave conditions are likely to occur over isolated pockets of northwest India during the next week with the overall temperature over most parts of the region very likely to be below normal by 2-6 degree Celsius, according to latest meteorological forecasts.A fresh Western Disturbance will very likely affect northwest India during 22-25 November and cause light isolated to scattered rainfall over Western Himalayan Region during this period, according to a statement issued today by the Ministry of Earth Science.Rain or snow activity is very likely to be near normal over the Western Himalayan Region, the statement added.While the preceding week had witnessed heavy precipitation in most parts of the region, rains are deficient for the overall season so far.As predicted earlier, due to an active Western Disturbance during the past few days, rainfall over northwest India was massively above the Long Period Average (LPA) with large excess rainfall over all the sub-divisions of northwest India except West Rajasthan.According to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) rains were surplus in Haryana and Punjab by 1,266 per cent and 1,078 per cent respectively for the week from November 12-18. In Himachal Pradesh, the surplus was 330 per cent.IMD data also shows that in the current autumn season beginning October 1, rains have been deficient by 53 per cent in Haryana and 41 per cent respectively in Himachal and by 12 per cent in Punjab.
20-11-2020||---||Rajesh Kumar Aghi elected senior dy mayor of Karnal, Naveen Kumar is dy mayor||Karnal, November 20Rajesh Kumar Aghi has been elected Senior Deputy Mayor and advocate Naveen Kumar is Deputy Mayor.Both are from the ruling BJP.In the presence of all 20 councillors and Mayor, both have been elected unanimouslyAghi is a councillor of ward-19 while Naveen is from ward-1Aghi’s father Bhagwan Dass Aghi was elected councillor for the sixth time. The Aghi family was a part of the Congress till the 2014 Assembly elections and had joined the BJP in the 2014 Assembly elections.State Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar was the observer for the elections.Aghi’s name was proposed by Ish Gulati while Naveen’s name was proposed by councillor Monu.
20-11-2020||New Delhi||On World Toilet Day, felicitation of districts from Haryana and Punjab||Two districts of Haryana and one from Punjab were among a total of 20 districts of the country which were felicitated by the Union Jal Shakti Ministry for their work towards cleanliness on the occasion of "World Toilet Day" on Thursday.The three districts are Bhiwani and Rewari (Haryana) and Moga (Punjab).The function was presided over by the Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat through video-conference and was attended by district officials across the country.Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria also addressed the function and hailed the districts and individuals who were selected for the felicitation.The authorities of the districts concerned received the felicitation from Shekhawat.Shekhawat interacted with the authorities, who pledged to work with greater determination in implementing the Swachh Bharat Mission-Rural.The Mission include the construction of toilets and kindred activities in villages regarding cleanliness.The programme to provide every rural household with tap water connection under Jal Jeevan Mission(JJM) through the agency of National Jal Jeevan Mission, Jal Shakti Ministry, was to substantiate the cleanliness drive.After having accomplished the Mission of ODF status( open defecation-free) in the country on October 2, last year, the Ministry has embarked on "ODF Plus" mission which includes treatment of liquid and solid wastes in villages.The ODF mission was launched on October 2, 2014, under which 60 crore toilets were constructed in the states with the financial help of the Centre.The construction of toilets under Seachh Bhararr Mission was visualised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.In his address, Shekhawat praised Haryana for treatment of cow dung in villages for producing bio-gas fuel which is a clean source of energy, and fertiliser.
20-11-2020||Ambala||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij administered trial dose of Covid vaccine||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij was on Friday administered a trial dose of potential coronavirus vaccine Covaxin here, becoming the first volunteer in the state for the third phase trial of the vaccine.The third phase trial of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin began in the state on Friday and the 67-year old senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader was administered the trial dose at the Civil Hospital at Ambala Cantt.         Vij is stated to be the first cabinet minister of any state government who has volunteered to take the trial dose of a potential vaccine against COVID-19.         Civil Surgeon, Ambala, Dr Kuldeep Singh told reporters that the Covaxin dose was administrated to Vij successfully.Earlier, the minister underwent some tests at the hospital, where he was kept under observation for some time after being administered the vaccine.Before reaching the civil hospital, Vij, while talking to media persons, said if all goes well, the vaccine against COVID-19 will be available to the people by the beginning of next year.   To a query, Vij, who has diabetes and had undergone a surgery, said he was not suffering from any such disease, which will affect him adversely after taking the vaccine.The MLA from Ambala Cantt, had on Wednesday said the third phase of trial of Covaxin will begin in the state on November 20 and had offered to get vaccinated.Covaxin is being developed indigenously by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Last month, the vaccine maker said it had successfully completed interim analysis of Phase 1 and 2 trials and is initiating Phase 3 trials.Bharat Biotech had on Monday said the Phase 3 trial of Covaxin will involve 26,000 volunteers across 25 centres in India and is being conducted in partnership with the ICMR.It is the largest clinical trial conducted for a COVID-19 vaccine in India.This is India's first Phase 3 efficacy study for a COVID-19 vaccine, and the largest Phase 3 efficacy trial ever conducted.Human trials of Covaxin had begun at Rohtak's Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in July, Vij had said earlier. PTI
20-11-2020||Gurugram||Delhi commuters made to undergo corona test at Gurugram toll plaza||After Uttar Pradesh health authorities, those in Gurugram adjoining Delhi too began to conduct random coronavirus tests on Friday on the inter-state border on people travelling from the national capital to the Haryana territory.A team of Haryana Health Department was deployed at Kherki Daula toll plaza for the COVID-19 rapid antigen tests.The health officials said that similar drive will be started in other Delhi-Gurugram border areas from Saturday.In view of the increasing cases of infections in Haryana as well as Delhi, the Health Department Director-General Dr VK Bansal had instructed district authorities for the test drive.District's Covid-19 Nodal Officer Dr Jai Prakash said that teams of health officials at the toll plaza were testing people coming from Delhi. "We are conducting rapid antigen tests on people randomly. We will ensure that the commuters don't face any inconvenience during tests," he said.The officer said health officials wearing personal protection equipment along with policemen were deployed at an ambulance for the tests, which gives results in 15 minutes."Further action is taken based on the test results. If we found anyone is infected, he or she is sent back to Delhi. Only those who test negative are allowed to go ahead," a health official said.The Covid-19 tally in Gurugram has now risen to 41,825, including 253 deaths and 5,554 active cases, an official health release said on Thursday.--IANS
20-11-2020||STREETLIGHTS are left switched on even when the sun arises in Sector 8||Streetlights on during day in sector 8||Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaEncroachment on road by shopkeepers in PanchkulaDUE to encroachment on road from Vishwakarma Chowk to Kaithal-Patiala by-pass by shopkeepers and rehriwalas in Kaithal town a number of mishaps have taken place on the stretch. Besides, pedestrians are also devoid of safe footpath putting their lives to risk. Repeated requests had been made by residents to the Public Works Department (PWD), municipal council authorities and traffic police to remove encroachments but no steps had been taken. The district administration should take strict action against encroachers.Satish Seth, KaithalWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
20-11-2020||Sonepat||NCC cadet selected for IMA camp||Online storytelling contestHisar: The Speakathon Club, constituted in the mentorship of the Training and Placement Cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised an online storytelling event on the lockdown period. The event was managed by students of the club. Students Nisith Shubhankar from Department of Economics, Sangeeta Boora from the Department of Psychology and Shalini Sharma from B.Tech (EE) were the judges. Pratap Singh Malik, Director of Training and Placement Cell, said storytelling induces in students a willingness to express themselves and communicate their thoughts and feelings. Students of various departments participated in the competition and shared their experiences of the lockdown period, mentioning how they utilised that time to learn new things, to help the needy, to spend quality time with family members, to regularise their daily routine and to start physical exercises etc. Aditya Vir Singh, Assistant Director, declared the results of the competition. Tanisha from MBA stood first while Vishwas from B Sc (Economics) stood second and the third position was bagged by Kavita of B Sc (Economics). The vote of thanks was presented by club coordinator Apurva Mann. Club co-coordinator Unnati anchored the programme.
20-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||Court stays transfer policy of Education Department||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19In a significant order with wide ramifications, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed Haryana Education Department’s transfer policy. The order will remain in force till the passing of final orders on representations submitted by a postgraduate teacher, alleging flaw in the system.The direction came after Justice Arun Monga’s Bench was told that the management information system (MIS) had been developed for effecting transfers of employees, with each district divided into different zones for the purpose, but the petitioner’s zone had been wrongly shown.Justice Monga’s Bench was also told by petitioner Kusum Lalta Punia’s counsel Sanchit Punia that the teacher was being deprived of her valuable right to exercise transfer option in the online transfer drive, commencing from November 18, due to the mistake.Giving details, counsel Punia stated that the petitioner’s present place of posting was Government High School, Rawat Khera, Hisar. It was wrongly shown as falling in zone 2 on the MIS, despite the fact that it was under zone 6.Elaborating on the consequences of the “mistake”, Punia contended that a sub-clause in the transfer policy specifically provided that an employee could not opt for transfer to zones 1, 2, 3 and 4 if he or she had completed five years in these zones. As such, she was being prevented from exercising her right to opt for transfer to zone 2.Without commenting on the merits of the case, Justice Monga disposed of the writ petition with a direction to the competent authority to pass a speaking order in accordance with the law after deciding her representations and taking into consideration her contentions by treating the same as a supplementary representation.“Let the needful be done as expeditiously as possible, but not later than one month from today. Till the passing of final orders on the representations of the petitioner, transfer policy shall not be given effect to,” Justice Monga ruled.
20-11-2020||---||20 Covid deaths, 2,212 new cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, November 19The Covid tally in the state reached 2,09,251 on Thursday with 2,212 fresh cases. With 20 more deaths, the death toll mounted to 2,113.A maximum of 645 cases were reported from Gurugram, followed by Faridabad (489), Hisar (162), Sonepat (130) and Rewari (106).Hisar reported a maximum of four deaths, followed by Gurugram and Faridabad (three each). Sirsa, Rewari and Bhiwani reported two deaths each and Ambala, Panchkula, Kurukshetra and Jind one death each.
20-11-2020||---||Will rethink continuing regular classes: Khattar||Karnal, November 19Amid the spike in Covid cases after reopening of schools for regular classes, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said the government would rethink continuing regular classes.“Schools were closed for the last seven or eight months. The increasing number of cases in schools is a serious issue and we will rethink continuing regular classes,” he said in response to a question.On the Baroda defeat, Khattar said the BJP had increased its vote bank in the Congress bastion with the efforts of party workers.On the proposed protest by farmers in Delhi, he said they would make a strategy and nobody would be allowed to take the law into their hands.Asked about the hike in MBBS fees and Congress protest on the issue, he said it was not a hike, but a bond for students. “It is just a bond and the amount will be refunded to those who work for the government,” he said.Khattar was here to lay the foundation stone of the BJP’s district office. Addressing workers, he said the party office would be completed in six months. He inaugurated Ambedkar Sabha Bhawan, where skill development training would be given to the youth.
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Officer for probe into Gurugram Rapid Metro Rail||Senior IAS officer Ashok Khemka has sought a probe by the CBI or the Enforcement Directorate into the Rapid Metro Rail line project of Gurugram. In a letter to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, he termed the project a “public loss, private gain” business model and alleged it was a case of “corporate corruption aided by the government machinery”. Khemka said running the Rapid Metro was causing a loss of about Rs 1 crore every month. He named a real estate developer as the main beneficiary of the gain. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation took over the operation of Rapid Metro Rail Gurgaon Limited (RMGL) and Rapid Metro Rail Gurgaon South Limited (RMGSL), which were special purpose vehicles of IL&FS Infrastructure, on October 23, 2019. Khemka maintained that the cost of Rapid Metro was inflated by 30 per cent. “The high capital cost of the project will fall either on banks or the state government.” The officer said average daily ridership from October 23, 2019, to March 21, 2020, was 50,000, but detailed project reports prepared for obtaining bank credit projected it to be 10 to 12 times the actual figure, flagging inflated ridership. — TNS
20-11-2020||---||Facing assault charge, Panipat ex-councillor jumps into canal||Panipat, November 19Senior BJP leader and former councillor Harish Sharma jumped into the Delhi parallel canal near Binjhol village here on Thursday morning under suspicious circumstances.His friend Rajesh Sharma, president of the Depot Holder Association, too jumped into the canal to save him. Both are feared drowned.Meanwhile, Home Minister Anil Vij has formed a three-member committee headed by ADGP Sandeep Khirwar comprising SP Rohtak Rahul Sharma and Uday Singh Meena, IPS, to probe the alleged suicide attempt by Harish due to the alleged police harassment. The committee has been directed itto submit the report within two days. The committee members and Karnal range IG Bharti Arora reached Panipat in the evening to probe the incident.As per information, Harish slept at his friend Rajesh’s house due to the police pressure. He called his brother Satish Sharma and told him about his decision to commit suicide. Following which he took the extreme step the next morning.As soon as Satish reached the spot, he along with an eyewitness, Sonu Saluja, jumped into the canal to save the duo but failed.Talking to the media, Anjali said his father on Wednesday gave a statement that he would disclose the names of the two persons behind the earlier incident, but now she would name those who forced him to take the extreme step.
20-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Three arrested for MNC executive’s murder||Gurugram, November 19The police have arrested three men in connection with the murder of a 26-year-old MNC executive while she was travelling with her fiancée, who escaped unhurt, here on November 3.The accused — identified as Irshad of Nuh district, Hariom of Madhya Pradesh and Jitender of Mahendergarh district — were nabbed from their rented accommodation in Bhondsi on Thursday.The police said MNC executive, identified as Pooja Sharma, was shot on the night of November 3 while she was out on a drive with her fiancée Sagar Manchanda. The two had gone out for dinner and were returning home when the incident took place.Three masked men on a motorcycle intercepted the car and asked Pooja to lower the windowpane, but she didn’t comply with their demand. As she tried to drive away, one of the men shot at her. The bullet hit her and she collapsed.Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP (Crime), said the accused were wanted in cases of three murders, and more than 100 robberies and snatchings in the city.“The accused have confessed to have intercepted Pooja’s car to rob her. As she tried to escape, they shot at her. They said they didn’t want to kill her, but only threaten her. The motorcycle they were riding had a a fake registration number. They had revisited the crime spot later as they thought Pooja had survived. They kept tabs on the news related to the investigation,” the ACP said.The accused targeted people at isolated places, where CCTV cameras were not installed and the PCRs were not present, the police have said.The ACP said the accused also admitted to having murdered a 28-year-old export house employee, identified as Gaurav, on the Diwali night in Gandhi Nagar area here after a brawl.Commissioner of Police KK Rao had lauded the Sector 40 crime branch for cracking the Pooja murder case. “There were no leads, not even the CCTV footage. More than 500 people were questioned to solve the case,” he said.
20-11-2020||Parveen Arora||BJP councillors ask CM to pick names for Karnal MC posts||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 19With the elections for the posts of senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor of Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) scheduled for tomorrow, the heart beats of the aspirants have quickened.CM Manohar Lal Khattar conducted a meeting of councillors to build some consensus to finalise names for the posts at the PWD Rest House here today. However, the outcome of the meeting was not disclosed by any councillor.As per sources, the councillors have left the decision to pick names on the CM and assured that they would accept it. “We have left it on the CM and the organisation, that whatever they decide would be acceptable to us,” one of the councillors present in the meeting said.Later, Khattar said: “I am thankful to the councillors that they have left it on me. It is a tradition of the BJP.”Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar has been appointed as the poll observer by the party.In the House of 20 members, the BJP has a majority as it has 18 councillors and both posts are likely to go to the ruling party.KMC Commissioner Vikram Singh said: “We have sent information regarding elections for the posts of senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor to the councillors. It will be held at the Panchayat Bhawan at 3pm. The election process will be conducted under Section 71, 72 and 73 of the Municipal Corporation Act. Only councillors can vote in the elections. Mayor can vote only when the results end in a draw.”
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Schools in 8 villages to get toilets||To mark World Toilet Day on Thursday, schools in eight villages in Haryana were adopted by a building material company for constructing toilets under its ‘Build A Toilet, Build Her Future’ campaign. Introduced under the company’s initiative ‘Hygiene that Empowers’, the campaign focuses on encouraging girl students to continue schooling by providing access to adequate sanitation infrastructure in schools. The company will provide infrastructure and maintenance of toilets, enabling and empowering young girls in these villages. “Aimed at addressing the issue of nearly 20 million girl students dropping out every year due to lack of proper and private sanitation facilities, the campaign is undertaken in a phased manner with a vision to be extended to the national level,” said Sandip Somany, chairman and managing director of Brilloca Limited. — IANS
20-11-2020||---||Got toilet in house on becoming MLA: Kataria||New Delhi, November 19 Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria on Thursday said his house had a toilet two years after he became an MLA and minister in Haryana in 1987. “I will share with you my personal experience. I became an MLA and Minister in Haryana in 1987. A toilet was constructed in my house two years later,” he said while addressing a virtual function to mark the World Toilet Day, which was presided over by Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. Ambala MP Kataria is a native of Ladwa in Kurukshetra district.
20-11-2020||Yamunanagar||Man held with banned drugs||A team of the anti-narcotics cell of the police had arrested a person with 1,620 tablets of banned drugs.Chamkaur Singh, Yamunanagar police PRO, said the accused was produced before a court in Jagadhri on Thursday and sent to judicial custody. A case has been registered against him under various sections of the NDPS Act. — TNS
20-11-2020||---||Agencies begin probe into Rs12 cr ‘scam’||Panipat, November 19 Investigation agencies have begun a probe into the alleged evasion of Rs 12 crore stamp duty in registration of properties in the district, with officials contacting the complainant. It was alleged by the complainant that stamp duty evasion was carried out in connivance with deed writers and officials of registration offices. According to sources, deed writers, in connivance with some property dealers, wrote the deed according to them and showed residential land as agricultural and commercial land as residential. As per government directions, land within MC limits or less than one acre should be measured per square metre, but deed writers showed it as part of an acre, due to which stamp duty got reduced. A person running property business said the scam could be unearthed only if registration of plots and land in the city was checked properly by some special agencies. Another way to reduce stamp duty was to show less covered area, which was possible at the time of deed writing, the sources said. Complainant Sandeep Rathi said officials of the CID and CM’s Flying Squad contacted him on Thursday and sought documents.
20-11-2020||Ambala||Trial dose for Vij  today||Home and Health Anil Vij will be administered a trial dose of Covaxin, Bharat Biotech’s Covid vaccine, in Ambala on Friday. Vij had on Wednesday volunteered to get himself vaccinated first for Covaxin, the third phase trial of which would commence in the state on November 20. “I will be administered a trial dose at the Civil Hospital under supervision of doctors from Rohtak’s PGIMS and Health Department,” he said. He said human trials had begun at the PGIMS in July. Using inactivated Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid, Covaxin has been developed indigenously in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research’s National Institute of Virology in Pune. — TNS
20-11-2020||Gurugram||Man held for ‘molesting’ minor||The police have arrested a 50-year-old man for allegedly molesting and trying to kidnap a 10-year-old schoolgirl. An FIR has been registered against him at a women police station. The accused was produced in a local court on Thursday which sent him to judicial custody.According to a complaint filed by the victim’s father, when his daughter was returning from school with her brother and sister on Wednesday, the accused, Subhash of Aurangabad village, molested her. “He also tried to kidnap her and when the students raised an alarm, he fled the spot,” he told the police.Following the complaint, an FIR was registered against the accused under the POCSO Act and the accused was arrested. “The accused has confessed to the crime,” said Palwal women police station SHO Rekha. — TNS
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Five IAS, 10 HCS officers shifted||The state has issued transfer and posting orders of five IAS and 10 HCS officers.Among the IAS officers, Monika Gupta, District Municipal Commissioner, Palwal, has been additional charge of Palwal ADC.Mahavir Singh, secretary, RTA, Panchkula, has been posted as ADC, Kurukshetra; Rahul Narwal, ADC, Bhiwani, as ADC, Charkhi Dadri, in addition to his present duties. Vishram Kumar Meena, SDM, Mahendragarh, has been posted as SDM, Kanina, in addition to his present duties; and Ayush Sinha, SDM, Karnal, as SDM, Indri, in addition to his present duties.Among the HCS officers, Veena Hooda, secretary, RTA, Karnal, been posted as ADC, Karnal, in addition to her current duties. Munish Nagpal, District Municipal Commissioner, Nuh, has been posted as ADC, Nuh. Satyender Duhan, Secretary, RTA, Jind has been posted as ADC Jind and Secretary, RTA, Jind in addition.Samwartak Singh Khangwal, District Municipal Commissioner, Fatehabad, has been posted as ADC, Fatehabad. Sumeet Sihag, SDM, Indri, has been posted as SDM, Narwana. Preetpal Singh Mothsara, City Magistrate, Kurukshetra, has been posted as SDM, Ladwa, in addition to his present duties.Ashvir Singh, SDM, Hisar, has been posted as SDM, Barwala, in addition to his present duties. Virender Singh Dhull has been posted as SDM, Bilaspur; Ranbir Singh, SDM, Kanina, as SDM, Narnaul; and Rajesh Kumar, SDM, Barwala, has been posted as SDM, Jind. — TNS
20-11-2020||New Delhi||18 yrs on, Rs 20L relief for slain jawan’s wife||The widow of a CRPF jawan, Ramesh Kumar of the 45th battalion, who died fighting terrorists during the 2002 J&K Assembly poll, has received ex-gratia payment from the Election Commission after 18 years.Anguished by the delay, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora wrote a letter to Pramila Devi, apologising on behalf of the administrative machinery. The EC decided to provide her Rs 20 lakh ex-gratia as an exception, which is the present admissible amount. — PTI
20-11-2020||Hisar||Delay in Rohtak-Hansi rail project deliberate: Hooda||Leader of Opposition Bhupindrer Singh Hooda has accused the BJP-JJP government of delaying on purpose the Rohtak-Meham-Hansi rail project, the stone of which was laid during the Congress government on July 31, 2013. “The project’s estimated cost was Rs 287 crore then. The delay of seven years has shot up the cost to Rs 750 crore — a rise of 161.32 per cent. Half of the work is still incomplete,” he told the media in Hansi on Thursday. The ex-CM also claimed several projects, which were approved during his government, had either been cancelled or were still hanging fire. “Buildings with a weak foundation fall. The result of the Baroda bypoll has shown that the government is losing its hold over people. Every section of society is angry at the government,” he said.  On the controversial farm laws, Hooda said even today, the crop of farmers was being purchased below the MSP. “The government data shows that the paddy procurement this time has been lesser than the last year.”  He also expressed concern over the rising Covid cases. “The decision to reopen schools was taken in haste. As a result, hundreds of students and school staff got infected. The government must understand that it is difficult to make children follow rules. All precautions must be taken before reopening schools.” — TNS
20-11-2020||nit Dhawan---||MBBS fee hike based on expenses incurred: VC||Tribune News Service Rohtak, November 19 The Haryana Government’s decision to enhance fees for the MBBS course is based on expenses incurred on studies and has been taken after obtaining the requisite information from senior faculty members as well as senior officials of the administrative, finance and accounts wings at the state’s medical institutes. This was stated by Dr OP Kalra, Vice-Chancellor (VC) of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, on Thursday. It had been alleged that key officials of the UHS and members of the medical fraternity were not consulted before revising the fee structure. “The committee constituted by the Haryana Government regarding the matter had taken the said decision after assessing the estimated expenditure incurred on each MBBS student, which is about Rs 40 lakh,” said the Vice-Chancellor. Representatives of the UHS as well as other medical institutes in the state were consulted before reaching the decision and it would not be right to say that they were not kept in the loop, he added. Questioned about the imminent unaffordability of medical education for students from economically weaker sections in the wake of the exorbitant fee hike, Dr Kalra asserted that the state government would repay the loans of MBBS passouts who joined government service. On being pointed out that there was no surety of all MBBS passouts getting government jobs, he stated that doubts and concerns arising in the wake of the recent decision would be suitably addressed.
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Two cyber fraud gangs busted in Sirsa, 11 held||The police have busted two cyber fraud gangs in Sirsa and arrested 11 members for duping a large number of people through online companies such as Amazon, PayZapp and Dhani.A police spokesperson said they recovered 607 SIM cards of different mobile companies, 22 cellphones and two laptops from their possession.While one gang with four members was operating from the Ding Mandi area, another with seven members was active in the Sherpura village area.Initial police investigation has revealed that the accused used to get the SIM cards of various companies on fake documents. Later, they duped people by availing cash benefits to be given to the general public by online companies.In the first operation, the police arrested Ramesh Kumar, Vinod Kumar, Subhash and Rajesh and recovered 280 SIM cards, 11 mobile phones and a laptop in the Ding mandi area. Those arrested in the another raid were identified as Ajay Kumar, Sanjay, Govind Singh, Vikas, Darshan Singh, Sanjay and Harsh. As many as 327 SIM cards, 11 mobile phones and a laptop were also recovered from them. A case has been registered. — TNS
20-11-2020||---||Virus scare, Haryana issues fresh norms for schools||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19After a number of students tested positive for Covid following the reopening of schools in Haryana, the Directorate of School Education today issued fresh instructions to district-level education officers.ML Khattar, CMCM to reconsider regular classesSchools were closed for the past seven or eight months. The rising number of cases in schools is a serious issue. We will rethink continuing regular classes.According to the guidelines, a daily record of temperature of every teacher and student will be maintained. Details of those having abnormal temperature will be shared with the nodal officer of the Health Department.The officials have also been told to send details of students or staff who undergo Covid test to the directorate on a daily basis. Subsequently, the test reports will also be shared with the authorities concerned.
