20-10-2020||---||Minor girl abducted, gang-raped in Haryana’s Palwal; 3 booked||Palwal, October 20A minor teen girl was allegedly abducted and gang-raped in Palwal district of Haryana.The local police on Tuesday booked three people and three launched a probe into the incident.The 16-year-old girl was abducted and allegedly gang-raped on the intervening night of October 18 and 19.It is alleged that the victim, who was asleep at the time in her house, was abducted after administration of some intoxicant. She was later taken to a house in Omaxe city here by three youths, who are claimed to be known to the victim.A hunt for the culprits has been launched after registration of a case against the accused, said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minor-girl-abducted-gang-raped-in-haryanas-palwal-3-booked-158527
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Former Haryana MLA Parminder Dhull quits BJP; will protest against anti-farmer bills||In a set back to the ruling party BJP in the run-up to November 3 Baroda assembly bypoll, Parminder Dhull—a two time MLA from Julana assembly seat quit the saffron party against farm bills.Dhull, who was elected to the assembly in 2009 and 2014 on the INLD ticket had unsuccessfully contested 2019 assembly election on BJP ticket.He said, that he would campaign against the anti farmers' policies of the BJP in the upcoming Baroda bypoll.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-haryana-mla-parminder-dhull-quits-bjp-will-protest-against-anti-farmer-bills-158505
20-10-2020||---||Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran reschedules demolition drive in Panchkula||Panchkula, October 19Citing ‘unavailably of sufficient police force’, the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has decided to reschedule its three-week-long demolition drive that was to begin from Madrasi Colony today.Anil Kumar Doon, HSVP Estate Officer, said they were waiting for police protection to start the demolition drive. However, the Police Department had told us that “enough force” was deployed in and around Mansa Devi temple for the Navratri fest that will end on October 25. Hence, we have decided to re-schedule the demolition drive.”Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta had recently taken a stern view on thriving encroachments on the HVSP land. He had instructed district officials to conduct special drives to remove/raze all encroachments.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja had issued orders for “special anti-encroachment drive from the HSVP land in various sectors of Panchkula”.As per the dates fixed by the administration, the drive was scheduled to begin from Madrasi Colony today and end on November 13 in Sector 12 and Sector 12-A.Interestingly, the local Police Department had celebrated ‘Police Presence Day’ on October 17 by scrutinising vehicles at checkpoints and conducting a special checking drive across the city to avoid any untoward incident.According to the Police Department, as many as 271 police officials have been deployed at Mansa Devi temple to maintain law and order. Nakas have been laid at 15 entry points to screen everyone entering the temple. A bomb squad and an anti-sabotage team have also been deployed at the temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-shahri-vikas-pradhikaran-reschedules-demolition-drive-in-panchkula-158212
20-10-2020||---||Arranged shooters to eliminate Sonu Shah, Bishnoi gang member tells Chandigarh police||Chandigarh, October 19The UT police have claimed that gangster Raj Kumar, alias Raju Basodi, a member of Lawrence Bishnoi gang, confessed that he had arranged shooters to eliminate Rajveer Singh, alias Sonu Shah, on the directions of Bishnoi.The Chandigarh Police brought Basodi on production warrant from the Panipat jail last week to interrogate his role in the Sonu Shah murder case.“Basodi admitted that he had assigned the job to shooters,” said a police official.Basodi’s three-day remand ended today after which he was sent back to the jail.Meanwhile, another suspect Abhishek, who was also brought on production warrant from the Rohtak jail, had done the recce of the area before the shooters shot Sonu Shah. Abhishek’s remand also ended today after which he was sent to the jail.Sonu Shah was shot dead by four assailants inside his office at Burail village in Sector 45 in September last year. The assailants had pumped 10 bullets into Shah’s body. His two colleagues, who were present at the office, had also suffered bullet injuries. A day later, a post was updated on the Lawrence Bishnoi’s Facebook profile claiming the responsibility for the murder.10 bullets were pumped into Shah’s bodySonu Shah was shot dead by four assailants inside his office at Burail village in Sector 45 in September last year. The assailants had pumped 10 bullets into Shah’s body. His two colleagues, who were present at the office, had also suffered bullet injuries. A day later, a post was updated on the Lawrence Bishnoi’s Facebook profile claiming the responsibility for the murder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arranged-shooters-to-eliminate-sonu-shah-bishnoi-gang-member-tells-chandigarh-police-158214
20-10-2020||Nitish Sharma||Air quality gets worse in Kurushetra||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, October 19Air quality in Kurukshetra continued to be ‘poor’, with the air quality index (AQI) recording average particulate matter (PM) 2.5 at 272 on Monday evening.The average AQI, as per the Central Pollution Control Board, was 284 on Monday morning. The situation improved marginally as the day progressed and particulate matter 2.5 was recorded at 272 at 6 pm, it was still poor.The AQI in the range of 0-50 is considered good, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 moderate, 201-300 poor, 301-400 very poor and 401-500 severe.Local residents said there were clouds of dust in Thanesar due to work on road six-laning and the AQI had now turned poor.They said the administration should take some steps to improve the situation as people were facing difficulty in breathing and suffering irritation in the eyes.In a related development, the district administration was going tough on farmers who had set paddy straw ablaze and recovered nearly Rs 6 lakh as environment compensation charge from them.As per information, HARSAC had reported 450 active fire locations till Saturday, of which 182 were identified till Sunday.An amount of over Rs 3.17 lakh had been collected as environment compensation charge while around Rs 1 lakh was yet to be recovered. The department had got a case registered for stubble burning.In addition to locations reported by HARSAC, 121 active fire locations were found till Sunday. An amount of Rs 2.77 lakh had been collected as environment compensation charge while Rs 25,000 was yet to be recovered.“Action is being taken against offenders who set crop residue afire. We have been appealing to farmers not to burn paddy straw as it results in loss of plant nutrients and organic carbon of soil. Farmers can earn extra income by selling the straw instead of burning it,” said Pradeep Meel, Deputy Director, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare. “We have a zero tolerance policy and strict action is being taken against offenders. Officials have been directed to keep a check on other establishments and take appropriate action if they are found violating guidelines. We have appealed to people not to burn any waste. Agricultural officials and patwaris have been motivating farmers not to burn paddy straw,” said Sharandeep Kaur, Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/air-quality-gets-worse-in-kurushetra-158286
20-10-2020||Rohtak||Don’t buy loose kuttu flour, residents told||With more people getting ill after consuming kuttu flour during Navratras, officials concerned have raided several shops and taken samples for laboratory analysis.  More than 50 residents from different parts of the district have taken ill after consuming kuttu dishes so far.The residents have been advised not to buy kuttu flour being sold loose as it may be toxic. Stale kuttu flour should also not be consumed, warn experts. A number of residents visit the local PGIMS and other hospitals during navratra ith complaints of gastric and digestive ailments due to the consumption of stale, contaminated and toxic kuttu flour. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-buy-loose-kuttu-flour-residents-told-158287
20-10-2020||Yamunanagar||Principals’ asssocation takes up fund crunch with Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar||A delegation of the Government Aided College Principals’ Association met Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar at his residence in Jagadhri on Sunday and raised issues related to government aided colleges of Haryana.They discussed the issue of acute financial crisis of Haryana Government aided colleges, less admissions in all colleges, issue of fee of promoted students, issue of fee of SC students, timely release of grant-in-aid and salary and provision of payment of pension through treasury. Association president Dr Raj Pal Singh said so far after second merit list, hardly 25 per cent of admissions were done in government aided colleges.“It was also pointed out during the meeting that online admission process should be implemented when the numbers of applicants are more than the available number of seats. But, the situation is opposite in all government aided colleges in Haryana,” said the president of the association. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/principals-asssocation-takes-up-fund-crunch-with-education-minister-kanwar-pal-gujjar-158288
20-10-2020||Faridabad||Parents’ body asks CBSE to hold board exams in May||The All-India Parents Association (AIPA) has demanded that the annual board examination of Class X and XII not be conducted before May 2021. The association has asked for the issuance of necessary instructions and guidelines so that the students could prepare for the exams.Stating loss of classroom teaching time due to pandemic and lockdown, it said around six to seven months could not be fully utilised by students. AIPA general secretary Kailash Sharma said majority of students were not prepared for the exams due to the gap and disruption in studies, as they could not attend school. He said though online classes were being held, around 50 to 60 per cent of students, who belonged to poor and middle class, faced problem in having an access to the required infrastructure such as Internet connection, smart phones and laptop and could not attend online classes. Moreover, he said the time devoted for online classes was comparatively less than that of offline mode.“Rather than slashing syllabus, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) should hold the Class X and XII board exams in May 2021 and provide appropriate time to students for preparation,” said a letter addressed to the CBSE Chairperson and the Haryana Education Minister. — TNSMajority of students not prepared for examsThe All-India Parents Association general secretary Kailash Sharma said a majority of students were not prepared for the exams due to the gap and disruption in studies, as they could not attend school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parents-body-asks-cbse-to-hold-board-exams-in-may-158289
20-10-2020||---||Wards reserved for Ambala MC polls||Ambala, October 19The exercise for the reservation of wards for the Scheduled Caste, Backward Caste and women candidates for the municipal corporation election was completed on Monday.A meeting was held for the reservation of wards at the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Ambala City. Municipal Commissioner Parth Gupta and other members of the committee formed for the delimitation and reservation of wards were also present on the occasion.While ward number 1, 2, 7, 11 and 14 have been reserved for SC candidates, ward number 4 and 18 have been reserved for BC candidates. Of the wards reserved for SC candidates, ward number 11 and 14 have been reserved for SC women candidates, similarly ward number 6, 9, 12, 17 and 20 have been reserved for women candidates through draw of lot, while the remaining wards such as 3, 5, 8, 10, 13, 15, 16, and 19 will be open.A minimum population of 3 lakh was necessary for the status of municipal corporation. As per the notification issued by the urban local body, the total population under the corporation limits is 3,03,850, of which SC population is 71,940.Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma said, “There are 20 wards in the municipal corporation limits and the wards for the SC, BC and women candidates have been reserved today. All government and non-government members were present at the meeting.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wards-reserved-for-ambala-mc-polls-158290
20-10-2020||Hisar||Property of 2 drug dealers attached||The Union Ministry of Finance has attached the properties of two imprisoned brothers, who are facing 12 cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The accused have been identified as Baljeet Singh and Ranjeet Singh, residents of Fatehabad’s Kalotha village. Ranjeet is facing trial in four NDPS cases, while his brother is an accused in eight cases.  Fatehabad Superintendent of Police Rajesh Kumar said the Union Ministry of Finance had attached one acre land and a tractor owned by the two brothers. In November 2018, more than nine quintals and 72 kg of poppy husk were recovered from a tractor owned by Baljeet and Ranjit during patrolling.  The SP said the police initiated the attachment proceedings under the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act, 1976, and the NDPS Act, 1985. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/property-of-2-drug-dealers-attached-158291
20-10-2020||Faridabad||Gang of vehicle thieves busted in Gurugram||The police have claimed to have busted a gang of vehicle lifters by arresting four of its members, including the kingpin. In all, 11 vehicles — eight motorcycles, two Scootys and one auto-rickshaw — have been recovered from them.  The accused have been identified as Rakesh, Amir, both residents of Nuh district, Jatin of Gurugram and Hakmuddin of Dhunela village in Sohna. With their arrest, 13 cases have been solved, the police have said. The accused were arrested after local resident Sunny had, on October 15, filed a complaint that his motorcycle was stolen from Sector 45 here.  Subsequently, a team of the crime unit led by unit head inspector Naveen Kumar nabbed the four accused on Sunday. “The gang was active in the city since 2019,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gang-of-vehicle-thieves-busted-in-gurugram-158292
20-10-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Baroda Bypoll: Shot in the arm for Cong candidate||Tribune News ServicePanipat, October 19Baroda constituency witnessed a big development on Monday after independent candidate Kapoor Singh Narwal, who was seeking ticket from the BJP as well as from Congress and had filed nomination as an independent candidate, withdrew his nomination in support of Congress candidate Induraj Narwal alias Bhalu in presence of former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda.Another independent candidate Joginder More also withdrew his nomination in support of the Congress candidate in presence of Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda. Independent MLA from Meham Balraj Kundu also announced to support former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda to oust the BJP from power.Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, while addressing the gathering, welcomed the decision of Kapoor Narwal and said that Narwal’s decision has changed the scenario in Baroda constituency. Narwal’s joining has made the electoral battle a one-sided affair, he claimed.Hooda assured the people present at the meeting that he would lead the fight for change and no one would be allowed to snatch the steering wheel handed over to him by the farmers and people of the state. Taking a dig at the BJP, former CM Hooda said that they have derailed Haryana, pushed the state into debt and made the state number one in unemployment and top in crime.The time has come to oust the government which has pushed the youth towards drugs and crime, Hooda alleged.Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda said the time for change has come. As the counting of votes in Baroda ends, the countdown of the BJP-JJP coalition government would start. The people of the state are now demanding change because this government has wasted six years of the state, he said.“Baroda’s election is not just a contest between Congress versus BJP, Hooda versus Khattar or Induraj versus Yogeshwar Dutt. The election is to decide the future of Haryana. In this election, the people of Baroda have to decide whether they want to retain the BJP-JJP coalition government in Haryana or to overthrow it. This byelection has given Haryana a chance to uproot the government,” Deepender added.On this occasion, Kapoor Narwal said he took the decision to withdraw from the race for the honour of Baroda and for change in Haryana.He hoped that Bhupinder Singh Hooda would carry this fight to the end and would work to oust the BJP from power and the change would begin from Baroda, Narwal added.Besides, Jitender Hooda alias Jeeta, son of deceased MLA Sri Krishan Hooda who was seeking ticket on the Congress symbol, has extended support to Congress candidate Induraj Narwal.Former Union Minister Jai Prakash and other MLAs of the Congress were also present during the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/baroda-bypoll-shot-in-the-arm-for-cong-candidate-158293
20-10-2020||Sushil Manav||Battle lines drawn: BJP, Congress direct contest likely||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19The battle lines are drawn for the Baroda Assembly bypoll. After the withdrawal of nominations today, the election is poised to be almost a direct contest between the BJP and Congress though the INLD can try to make it a triangular fight.With three candidates, including the “panchayati” independent candidate Kapoor Singh Narwal, withdrawing their nominations, 14 are now left in the fray. These developments have made the picture for the November 3 bypoll clearer.In a shot in the arm for Congress candidate Induraj Narwal, two out of three —Kapoor Singh Narwal and Joginder More — have vowed to support him in the election in presence of former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda.Jitender Singh Hooda alias Jeeta, a son of former Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda whose death had necessitated this byelection, has also come in support of the Congress candidate today.Jeeta as well as his wife Gayatri were among those who had applied for Congress ticket for the bypoll.The former CM as well as Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda went to Jeeta’s office in Gohana today where the late MLA’s son announced his support for the Hoodas and the Congress candidate.Meanwhile, JJP national president Ajay Chautala today directed his party’s rank and file to consider BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt as him (Ajay) and work for his victory in the bypoll.Ajay Chautala took a dig at his younger brother Abhay Chautala without naming him directly when he said, “Those with just one seat in the Assembly are talking about change in government after this bypoll.”With today’s developments, the election is poised to become almost a direct fight between Yogeshwar Dutt of the BJP and Induraj Narwal of the Congress though the INLD’s Joginder Malik will try to make this a triangular fight.From 1977 to 2005, the INLD or its previous avatars have won the Baroda seat on seven consecutive occasions. The seat was reserved for SCs till 2005.In the three elections held after delimitation exercise, Sri Krishan Hooda of the Congress won Baroda seat on all the three elections consecutively with Kapoor Singh Narwal, who was INLD candidate then, finishing runner-up to Hooda.In October 2019, INLD candidate Joginder Malik (also contesting this time) finished a poor fifth after Congress, BJP, JJP and BSP with just 3,145 (2.56 per cent) votes.Battered by the setting up of JJP by its leaders Ajay Singh Chautala and Dushyant Chautala, the INLD had fared very badly in the 2019 Assembly poll with only Abhay Chautala winning his Ellenabad seat.The JJP candidate, Bhupinder Malik, however, had polled 32,480 (26.45 per cent) votes in the 2019 Assembly poll.It is to be seen whether the INLD is able to revive some of its lost base and make the fight a triangular contest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/battle-lines-drawn-bjp-congress-direct-contest-likely-158294
20-10-2020||---||Yogeshwar’s win will bring development, says RS MP||Panipat, October 19Rajya Sabha MP Dushyant Kumar Gautam said that honest governments of the BJP are serving the people at the Centre and in the state. If the people of Baroda give a chance to BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt, then surely the blot of backwardness of this region would be erased forever.Gautam was interacting with mediapersons at the BJP office in Gohana on Monday.Gautam claimed that he understood the political pulse very well and claimed that the BJP would win by a huge margin because the people here have made up their mind to go with development.Taking a dig at former CM Bhupinder Hooda, Gautam asked why did he not develop the constituency in the 10 years when he was the head of the state.I have come here for the Baroda bypoll in support of Yogeshwar Dutt, an honest candidate of the BJP, he said. Dutt had brought laurels to the country by winning medals and now, he has come into politics to serve the people of his own constituency and to develop the constituency, Gautam asserted.By giving ticket to an honest candidate, the BJP has proved that we give ticket to deserving candidate instead of nepotism, he claimed.Gautam also held a meeting with the SC/ST wing of the BJP. He appealed to the people not to be influenced by the Opposition. Gautam said that over four years of the state government are left and the constituency would reach new heights in development in the present government’s tenure.Subhash Barala, former state party president, said that this election is only for the development of the constituency.Senior Congress leader and former HPSC member RS Bhola joined the BJP in presence of Gautam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yogeshwars-win-will-bring-development-says-rs-mp-158295
20-10-2020||---||Strive for coalition nominee Yogeshwar Dutt’s victory, Ajay Chautala tells JJP workers||Panipat, October 19Ajay Singh Chautala, national president of JJP, appealed to party workers to make efforts for the victory of BJP-JJP coalition candidate Yogeshwar Dutt.Ajay Chautala was addressing party workers at a district-level meeting of JJP workers held in the Mann Dharamshala in Gohana on Monday.Every worker had to think that coalition candidate Yogeshwar Dutt was not contesting the election but Ajay Chautala himself was contesting the election. You have to go door to door in the constituency for the win of the coalition, said Ajay.Ajay Chautala directed party workers to make efforts on the directions of senior party leaders. This election is only for the development of the constituency and the people of the constituency have to understand who would bring development to their area, he added.Taking a dig at the Congress, Ajay Chautala said that the people in the constituency knew very well what the Congress had done for them in the past 10 years.Commenting on Kapoor Singh Narwal, Ajay Chautala said him ‘khoonta badlu neta’ and said that Narwal was used to change political parties from the beginning and the leaders like former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda usually confused them.Dr KC Bangar, Telu Ram Jogi, MP Sanjay Bhatia, JJP MLA Amarjeet Dhanda, BJP MLA and district president Mohan Lal Kaushik, Pawan Kharkhoda and Padam Dahiya along with other leaders were present during the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/strive-for-coalition-nominee-yogeshwar-dutts-victory-ajay-chautala-tells-jjp-workers-158296
20-10-2020||---||Man held for kin’s murder||Faridabad, October 19The police have arrested a 40-year-old man in connection with the murder of his brother-in-law two weeks back. The accused has been remanded in judicial custody.The accused, identified as Imran Khan, was nabbed on Sunday. Hailing from Sihi village in the district, he was residing in old Faridabad.He was booked for the murder of Liaqat (45), residing in Dabua Colony, on October 5. A police official said Imran killed Liaqat by hitting him on the head several times with a brick on October 5 after a quarrel.Imran had reportedly developed strained relations with Liaqat after he sold his property in Sihi village and shifted to Ghaziabad about six years ago, but returned to Liaqat’s house after getting no work.Liaqat had been working as carpenter. The police recovered blood-stained clothes and the brick purportedly used to commit the murder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-kins-murder-158297
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||HSLSA launches online mediation||Amid the spiralling number of Covid cases, the Haryana State Legal Services Authority (HSLSA) today launched online mediation for enabling litigating parties to arrive at mutually agreed solutions for settling disputes with the help of trained mediators. Underlining the importance of online mediation, Justice Daya Chaudhary released the standard operating procedure before asserting that Covid had affected the working of courts across the country. Pre-litigation desks had been set up in all mediation centres to deal with matrimonial disputes before these reached court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hslsa-launches-online-mediation-158298
20-10-2020||Nitish Sharma||Naraingarh cane growers await Rs20 crore dues||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 19Sugarcane farmers in Naraingarh are yet to receive payment of around Rs 20 crore for the cane-crushing season that ended in April this year.The mill had crushed 55.33 lakh quintals of sugarcane this year, with dues amounting to over Rs 186 crore. Payment of Rs 166 crore, including postdated cheques for Rs 38 crore, had been given.The crushing season at the Naraingarh sugar mill started on November 12 last year. As per norms, payment was to be cleared within 14 days of purchase of sugarcane.“Delayed payment by the Naraingarh sugar mill has become a regular feature and farmers are forced to agitate. We have been told that between Rs 5 crore and Rs 6 crore will be given by the second week of November, but it is going to be a tough task,” said Rajiv Sharma, spokesman of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni).“The ongoing protest against the three farm laws has been the only reason why there has been no agitation for payment this year. Mill operations should be started in the first week of November so that the new stock of sugar is sent in the market and payment of farmers can be released,” he said.“There has been huge improvement this year,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/naraingarh-cane-growers-await-rs20-crore-dues-158299
20-10-2020|| 
||Arthiyas protest hike in market fee||Rohtak, October 19 Commission agents under the aegis of Haryana Sabji Mandi Arhtiyas Sangthan on Monday took out a protest march in the city against the hike in market fee on the sale of fruits and vegetables. They also submitted a memorandum to the Tehsildar demanding removal of the entire fee. “The state government has doubled the market fee from one per cent to two per cent in a situation when arhtiyas across the state are struggling due to the Covid pandemic. The rates of vegetables and fruits have gone up following the hike. Hence, we are demanding removal of market fee. The government can raise the annual licence fee to cover up the losses,” said Sonu Chhabra, vice-president of the sangthan. He said the government slapped one per cent market fee on May 1 when the state was under lockdown. The commission agents also opposed it at that time but later started depositing the fee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arthiyas-protest-hike-in-market-fee-158300
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Farmer's death in BJP rally: BKU wants probe by outside agency||President of the Haryana unit of the BKU (Charuni) Gurnam Singh Charuni is among those booked for their alleged involvement in the death of the farmer.Addressing a press conference here on Monday, Charuni alleged that they had been falsely implicated by the Haryana Police in the case as the organisers were to be held accountable for any mishap as per the permission letter for the rally from the district administration. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-death-in-bjp-rally-bku-wants-probe-by-outside-agency-158301
20-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court allows 17-yr-old to stay with her ‘mother-in-law’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19A girl does not magically assume mental maturity and wisdom at the stroke of the midnight hour on the eve of her 18th birthday, according to the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Her age of majority as prescribed must be construed and interpreted in the context of the law for which it is being considered, the High Court has ruled.The assertion came as Justice Sanjay Kumar allowed a girl, 10 months short of attaining majority, to stay with her “mother-in-law”. The judgment makes a clear-cut departure from the standard procedure of protecting the “minor” girl’s interest by either entrusting her custody to her parents or sending her to a women’s home.“Most times, this course of action is not to the liking of the girl, who would have approached this court along with her paramour seeking protection,” Justice Kumar asserted. The Bench stated that the High Court had always exercised “parens patriae” (legal protector) jurisdiction in protection matters when the girl was found to be a minor, but unfortunately, there was no consistency as to how decisions in these cases turned.Referring to the facts of the case in hand, Justice Kumar observed that the girl had claimed having overheard her parents planning her marriage with a boy of their choice, after which she ran away from home and contacted the boy. Justice Kumar added that the minor was certain and unshaken in her opinion and desire and it would not be right and proper for the court to brush aside her views on the grounds that she was not 18 years old.Justice Kumar asserted that the age of majority stood frozen at 21 for boys and 18 for girls. Justice Kumar pointed out that it was an acknowledged fact that children these days attained both physiological and psychological maturity long before they completed the age of majority fixed for them by the statute long ago.Not required to deny factum of marriage||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-allows-17-yr-old-to-stay-with-her-mother-in-law-158302
20-10-2020||---||Three gangs involved in transformer thefts busted||Karnal, October 19Three teams of detective staff have arrested 12 members of three inter-state theft gangs and claimed to have solved 200 cases involving theft of 360 transformers in the district. Other accused of the gang are absconding. The police have also recovered five vehicles from their possession.Giving details, DSP Rajiv Kumar said they had arrested 12 members of three gangs from different locations, who were active in transformer thefts in Haryana and UP. In initial investigation, they had revealed their involvement in the theft of 360 transformers in the district.He said the team, led by Harjinder Singh, arrested Mohamad Hanif of Saharanpur, Khalil Khan of Silampur, Delhi, and Papan of Meerut district, from near Ghoghripur village on October 12, who were taken on remand. Later on their revelation, two more members, Mahinder of Partap Nagar, Delhi, and Surinder of Kailash Nagar, Ghaziabad, Delhi, were arrested. The police recovered two vehicles and 30 kg copper from their possession, he added.The DSP said another team of the detective staff arrested a gang including, Bunty of Bulandshar in UP and Johny of Meerut road, Badli, on October 14. Later on Sunday, another gang members including, Munna of Gonda district in UP and Farman Ali of Bulandshar, were arrested. During interrogation, the police recovered two vehicles and 18 kg copper from their possession.The police on Sunday also arrested gang members Pawan of Alewa of UP, Salinder of Badsalu in Karnal district and Mukim Ansari of Badhayu in UP and recovered a vehicle and 12 kg copper from their possession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-gangs-involved-in-transformer-thefts-busted-158303
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Former legislator appointed housing board chairman||The state government appointed senior JJP leader and former MLA from Dadri Rajdeep Phogat as housing board chairman. He has expressed his gratitude towards the Chief Minister and the Deputy Chief Minister. Rajdeep Phogat was first elected to Dadri Vidhan Sabha seat in 2014. Meanwhile, Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta also nominated MLA Ram Kumar Kashyap as a regular member of the Committee on Subordinate Legislation from October 14 for the remaining period of the year 2020-2021. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-legislator-appointed-housing-board-chairman-158304
20-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||250 years on, khap frees 2 Jhajjar villages of marriage restrictions||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, October 19Breaking the 250-year-old practice, the Ahlawat khap has lifted the social restriction on weddings between Barhana and Birdhana villages here.Both the villages, located 12 km apart, had been maintaining brotherhood because of being part of Tapa (a unit of eight villages of Ahlawat khap) in which matrimonial ties were not allowed.Both the villages are dominated by Jats. People of Ahlawat gotra reside in Barhana, while Birdhana is the village of Dahiya gotra.As per prevalent social custom, matrimonial relations are prohibited between adjoining villages and within the same gotras of boy/girl, his/her mother and grandmother. No case of matrimonial ties between Barhana and Birdhana villages has come to light in the past 250 years.“Opening of the matrimonial ties between the two villages was a need of the hour to provide villagers more options to find a suitable match for their sons and daughters in nearby villages so that they don’t have to go to distant places. People of Ahlawat and Dahiya gotras maintain brotherhood but matrimonial ties were allowed among their villages except between Birdhana and Barhana. Now, residents of these villages will also be able to establish wedding relations,” said Jai Singh Ahlawat, president, Ahlawat khap, which has influence in 27 villages of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/250-years-on-khap-frees-2-jhajjar-villages-of-marriage-restrictions-158305
20-10-2020||---||8 die; 1,201 cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, October 19With 1,201 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 1,51,234 on Monday. The state reported eight more deaths, taking the toll to 1,648.The maximum cases were reported from Gurugram (228), followed by Faridabad (153), Hisar (118), Sonepat (71) and Rohtak (61).Gurugram, Panipat, Hisar, Panchkula, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Charkhi Dadri reported one death each.Meanwhile, the state reported a maximum of 40,472 cases in the age group of 25-34 years, followed by 35-44 years (30,008), 45-54 years (21,919) and 15-24 years (21,558). Thirty cases were reported in the age group of 95-104 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-die-1-201-cases-in-haryana-158306
20-10-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Expedite Manesar land scam trial: CBI court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19In view of the 14 truncated hearings in the Manesar land scam case due to the Covid pandemic, the CBI special court in Panchkula has called for speeding up the trial.Among the 34 accused are Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, retired IAS officers and private companies.In the last hearing on October 15, neither the accused nor their lawyers were present. CBI Special Judge Jagdeep Singh had said that “since the matter pertains to… legislators and proceedings in such cases are to be conducted expeditiously, notices must be issued to the accused as well as their counsel to explore the possibility of conducting further proceedings through video-conferencing if physical hearing of the case does not get fully functional”.He Judge had further said that in case physical hearing was made mandatory till the next date of hearing, which is on November 16, all accused shall be present on the adjourned date.Recently, the Supreme Court had also called for expeditious trial of MLAs and MPs facing criminal cases.In the Manesar land scam, the CBI had filed a chargesheet against then Chief Minister Hooda, former principal secretaries to then CM and then Director Town and Country Planning SS Dhillon for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy in the Rs 1,500 crore scam.A notification to acquire 912 acres and 7 marlas was issued under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, on August 27, 2004, in Gurugram’s Manesar, Lakhnaula and Naurangpur villages.Landowners, in haste, sold land at throwaway rates of Rs 20 lakh to Rs 25 lakh per acre. According to the CBI, the land mafia bought the land on the pretext of acquisition by the state at meagre rates. Subsequently, then Director (Industries), in violation of government policy, passed an order for releasing the land in favour of builders, their companies and agents instead of the original landowners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/expedite-manesar-land-scam-trial-cbi-court-158307
20-10-2020||Ambala||3 women held for theft||The police arrested three women and claimed to have recovered stolen items from their possession. Surjit Singh of Ambala had reported that three women stole two LPG cylinders, three computers and between 20 and 25 water taps from Khalsa High School. A local court remanded the three accused in 14-day judicial custody. TNSTwo caught with scooterThe police arrested Gagandeep of Patiala and a woman and claimed to have recovered a stolen scooter from their possession. Shiv Ram of Ambala had reported theft of his Honda Activa scooter. The accused were sent to police remand. TNSTwo nabbed for assaultThe police arrested Ankush and Sachin of Saha in a case of assault. Paramjit Singh of Saha had reported that the accused had assaulted him and members of his family with sticks and rods. The accused were later released on bail. TNSTwo arrested for theftThe police arrested Saurav alias Bhulla and Chhinda alias Raju of Barara and claimed to have recovered stolen cash from their possession. Gurnam Singh of Barara had reported that some unidentified miscreants had stolen gold ornaments and cash from his house. The accused were sent to 14-day judicial remand. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-women-held-for-theft-158315
20-10-2020||---||Road caves in at Gurugram||It is a matter of grave concern as a road caved in opposite Tata Enclave. It is very deep and can cause serious damage if any vehicle falls into it. At least, I am seeing it for the last several days. It must be filled and repaired as soon as possible.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramStop corruption in Transport DepartmentIn 2004, the then Congress government abolished the post of DTO in Haryana, explaining that it was riddled with rampant corruption. Now, the CM Haryana has again created the post of DTO in each district. Has the Transport Department become honest now? Instead of changing the nomenclature of the department, the CM should stop rampant corruption prevailing there.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaPower connections still in ancestors' nameThere are thousands of people in Haryana, whose residential, commercial and agricultural electricity connections are still in the name of their ancestors, who died years ago. These connections have not yet been transferred in the names of their heirs. Similarly, there are tpeople who have sold their electricity connections along with their property, but these connections have also not been transferred in the names of new buyers. HVPN should identify such consumers and the data should be updated.Shakti Singh, KarnalNo door-to-door garbage collectionThe Ambala city municipal corporation which is responsible for the door-to-door garbage collection in the city has since long stopped the service for the reasons best known to officials. Heaps of garbage are lying unattended in many parts of the city. Several people have made their own arrangements on payment basis for lifting the garbage from their home by safai workers of the area, who is deputed by the municipal corporation to keep the roads clean. But this temporary solution will not work, a permanent solution is needed in this regard.Kapil Kumar, Ambala CityIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/road-caves-in-at-gurugram-158316
20-10-2020||Hisar||Silver jubilee function||Students shine in NEET, JEEKarnal: Students of OSDAV Public School, Kaithal, have set new benchmarks in NEET, and JEE. They have brought laurels to the school by securing good All-India Ranking (AIR). Seven students have secured AIR in NEET and three students in JEE. Principal Suman Nijhawan said Rajat Bansal secured AIR-3650 with 99.68 per cent marks, while Ashish secured AIR 5614 with 99.5 per cent marks and Aakarsh secured AIR-8905 with 99.2 per cent in JEE while NEET's star performers are: Ashish AIR-783 with 99.9 per cent, Purav Sachdeva AIR-2974 with 99.77 per cent, Liza AIR-3228 with 99.75 per cent, Sonali AIR-4220 with 99.68 per cent, Harsh AIR-6178 with 99.54 per cent, Navdeep AIR 11019 with 99.18 per cent, Ritika AIR- 13226 with 99.02 per cent. Ashish attained good ranks in both NEET as well as JEE, she added.IGU introduces 2 new coursesRewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) here has introduced two new PG courses- sports sciences and behavioral and cognitive sciences on getting the approval of the Governor and Chancellor of the university. "The courses not only are job-oriented, but also boost sports in South Haryana. The department of yoga will also be associated with the course of sports science," said Prof SK Gakhar, Vice-Chancellor.Webinar on Education PolicyJhajjar: The Prarambh, a State Institute of Advanced Studies in Teacher Education, organised a national-level webinar on National Education Policy: 2020 and Antyodaya Darshan in collaboration with the de-notified and Nomadic Tribes Welfare Association. Dr Rishi Goyal, director of the institute, said the policy would prove to be a milestone in fulfilling the dreams of new India and making India a world leader. Vice Chancellor of Himachal Pradesh Central University Professor Kuldeep Chand Agnihotri gave a key note and described the feature of the policy.2 diploma programmes launchedRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has introduced two diploma programmes at the Institute of Management Studies and Research (IMSAR) from 2020-2021session. Dean, faculty of management sciences and director, IMSAR Prof Rajkumar informed that a one-year diploma in digital marketing and one-year diploma in business analytics with intake of 40 seats each, had been introduced at IMSAR. Prof Rajkumar said online applications for these two programmes could be submitted till October 21. Details and admission procedure could be checked on the MDU website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/silver-jubilee-function-158317
20-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court to examine if death by heart attack after assault is ‘natural’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19In a significant order, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the constitution of a board of senior doctors to examine whether myocardial infarction or heart attack would amount to natural death in cases where assault was alleged.About the caseThe victim was allegedly beaten up and death occurred at subsequent stageHC wants a board of doctors to examine if heart attack amounted to natural death in such casesThe court has called for adoption of more scientific medical investigationCalling for adoption of the more scientific medical investigations, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted the cause of death of elderly persons, inflicted injuries following fist and kick blows on their abdomen, chest or back, was reported as myocardial infarction in a number of cases.Such type of injuries, being internal, were not visible and went unreported in medico-legal report (MLR) or post-mortem report, if death occurred at a subsequent stage. As such, it was difficult for the courts to form an opinion despite eyewitnesses levelling specific allegation of injuries inflicted following fist or kick blows.Justice Sangwan said the FIR in some cases was registered at the instance of an injured, who gave the “history of assault” before he died. But injury was not noticed while preparing the MLR and conducting the post-mortem examination. It was simply observed external injury was not visible.Justice Sangwan asked Punjab Director-General, Health Services, to constitute the board of senior doctors, experts on the subject matter, to also suggest whether ultrasound scan or any other scientific investigation could be conducted to find out internal injury while conducting MLR/post-mortem examination.The directions came in a case where a cancellation report was prepared and submitted by the police in the trial court after the post-mortem report described the cause of death as myocardial infarction ante-mortem in nature and sufficient to cause death. The victim in the case was allegedly beaten, resulting in injuries on his head and back.Justice Sangwan also asked the board to give opinion on chemical examiner’s report describing the cause of death as myocardial infarction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-examine-if-death-by-heart-attack-after-assault-is-natural-158359
20-10-2020||---||Ex-bureaucrat Dhesi CPS to Haryana CM||Chandigarh, October 19Following in the footsteps of neighbouring Punjab, Haryana today appointed retired bureaucrat DS Dhesi as Chief Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, a development that will change power equations within the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO).Dhesi, who remained state’s Chief Secretary for over four years having retired on June 30, 2019, yesterday resigned as the Chairman of the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) to take up the new assignment.Though the terms of Dhesi’s appointment are yet to be made public, it is expected that like his Punjab counterpart Suresh Kumar, he would be the “super boss” in the CMO with all files meant for CM Manohar Lal Khattar being routed through him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-bureaucrat-dhesi-cps-to-haryana-cm-158358
20-10-2020||New Delhi||Stubble: Kejri for monthly meets with Punjab, Haryana||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday requested Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar to hold monthly meetings with the CMs of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and UP to curb air pollution in the National Capital.He said there was a lack of political will at the level of the states to address the problem of stubble burning.In a virtual press briefing, he said the affected states had been unable to find a solution to stop stubble burning and prevent air pollution. The crop residue could be biodegraded or converted into biogas, coal and even cardboard.Kejriwal said he agreed with Javadekar that air pollution was not limited to one state.He, however, added that Javadekar had said it would take at least four years to control pollution, but he believed if all states and political parties "work honestly by keeping aside their political differences then we can check air pollution in much less than four years".He said: “Although scientists and engineers have come out with solutions to reduce the incidents of stubble burning, there is no political will to adopt these methods.” — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stubble-kejri-for-monthly-meets-with-punjab-haryana-158357
