21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records highest single-day spike of 1,203 COVID-19 cases; 7 more die||Haryana registered its highest single-day spike of 1,203 coronavirus cases on Friday, a day after it recorded 996 infections, taking the total cases to 52,129 while the state’s death toll rose to 585 with seven more COVID-19 fatalities, the state Health Department said.It was for the fifth straight day that Haryana recorded a surge in coronavirus cases. The state had reported 994 infections on Wednesday, 896 on Tuesday and 887 on Monday.Of the seven fatalities reported on Friday, two were from Kurukshetra while one fatality each was reported from Bhiwani, Palwal, Karnal, Panipat and Faridabad, according to the state health department's daily bulletin.Also read: Haryana enforces weekend closure of commercial establishments, offices after COVID cases cross 50KRohtak PGIMS reports spurt in doctors, health workers contracting COVID-19According to the bulletin, among the districts which reported fresh cases are Panipat (132), Faridabad (127), Gurugram (120), Rewari (111), Ambala (98), Kurukshetra (63), Yamunanagar (58), Mahendragarh (58) and Karnal (73).There are 8,131 active cases in the state and so far, 43,413 COVID-19 patients have been discharged after recovery.As of Friday, the state’s recovery rate was 83.28 per cent while the rate of doubling of infections was 33 days. The state has a fatality rate of 1.12 per cent, according to the bulletin. PTI
21-08-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram ‘gang war’: 24 hours on, arrests made||Gurugram, August 21Twenty-four hours after triple murders shocked the millennium city, the Gurugram Police have failed to nab the culprits,Even as police claimed to have identified three out of the six accused in the incident and announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh each for providing info leading to arrest of suspects Pawan Nehra, Raju and Amit Kala of Hari Om Gang, no arrests have been made in the case so far.The police have so far formed four teams to nab the culprits and have acquired the CCTV footage in which two accused are unmasked while the other four have their faces covered with towels and helmets. “We have announced Rs 1 lakh reward on each for providing info leading to the arrest of three suspects. Our four special teams are conducting raids on suspected places and will nab the accused soon,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.An FIR has been registered against unidentified accused on the complaint of Sunny’s father Sarwar at the Sector 9 A police station.The shootout at Basai village and inside CRPF Society, Sector 9, here, has left residents in shock.Also read: Three shot dead in Gurugram ‘gang war’The residents questioned the law and order situation in the city, saying the lawlessness and terror on roads created by gangsters highlight the lack of any fear amongst them.The villagers claimed that they have been for years living under the shadow of the enmity of warring gangs and trigger-friendly culture. The investigation so far has revealed that victims belonged to Jony gang and the incident followed a tussle with Hari Om gang over a piece of land.Police sources said that Hari Om and Jony Kataria were in jail where the conspiracy was hatched.The police, meanwhile, handed over the bodies to their kin after postmortems were conducted by a board of doctors comprising Dr Deepak Mathur, Dr Pawan Chaudhary and Dr Yudhveer Singh.The deceased have been identified as Shashikant alias Sunny, Sameer and Anmol.“Anmol had received only one bullet while Sameer received over a dozen bullets. Sunny received five bullets. All were dead within two or three minutes of being shot,” said Dr Deepak Mathur, member of the postmortem board.Tension had prevailed at Basai village and CRPF Society after a “gang war” broke out between two groups on Thursday evening.Gangsters first shot dead a youth at Basai village and later entered the CRPF Society where two others were shot dead during a shootout.
21-08-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak PGIMS reports spurt in doctors, health workers contracting COVID-19||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 21A sudden surge has been witnessed in the number of doctors, paramedics and other health workers at the local PGIMS testing positive for COVID-19 in the past few days.As per the official sources, as many as 52 doctors serving at the PGIMS have tested positive for the virus to date. The doctors at departments of anaesthesia and gynaecology at the institute are among the worst affected.PGIMS Public Relations Officer Dr Varun Arora, who has been looking after the operations of the COVID Control Room at the institute, has also been found positive and was admitted to the trauma centre of the institute for treatment.Besides doctors, as many as 17 health workers of PGIMS, including staff nurses, operation-theatre technicians, bearers and sweepers have also tested positive for COVID-19.Several doctors serving at PGIMS have complained about the shortage of masks, gloves, soap and surgical caps, maintaining that they were not getting the aforesaid items as per their requirements for nearly two weeks.“We have been forced to attend patients without proper preventive gear, thereby increasing the chances of contracting the infection from them. A number of doctors, paramedics and other employees have tested positive for COVID in the recent days but the authorities concerned are unresponsive and indifferent,” says a consultant.On the other hand, the authorities at the helm of COVID-control regime at the PGIMS maintain that there was a shortage of masks, gloves and other items at the institute.“There is no shortage of masks, gloves and other preventive gear. We have adequate stocks and arrangements of these items till February 2021 has been made. There may be a temporary shortage owing to supply gaps but there is no scarcity as such,” says Dr VK Katyal, convenor for COVID-19 at PGIMS.
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana enforces weekend closure of commercial establishments, offices after COVID cases cross 50K||Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij on Friday said all offices and shops, except those providing essential services, will remain closed on every Saturday and Sunday in the wake of increase in COVID-19 cases in the state.“All offices and shops except essential will remain closed in Haryana on every Saturday and Sunday due to #COVID-19,” Vij said in a tweet.He later told PTI that the decision was taken as cases during past few days have registered a sudden increase.“We have taken this decision as there has been a sudden increase in cases,” Vij said.The shops and offices in the state, except those dealing with essential services, will remain closed on Saturday and Sunday till further orders in this regard, the minister said.During the past couple of weeks, Haryana has registered a big spike in cases. The infection tally has crossed 51,000-mark with around 600 fatalities.The state had on Thursday registered its highest single-day spike of 996 coronavirus cases, just a day after it recorded 994 infections. PTI
21-08-2020||Faridabad||Couple of leopards ‘sighted’ in Faridabad village; residents on alert||Residents of some villages of Ballabgarh subdivision in the district have been put on alert after sighting of a couple of leopards in the wee hours of Friday morning near Jajru village here.The warning has been issued by the officials of the wildlife department here.“The report of roaming of the leopards came this morning when the officials of the  NTPC Solar Power plant located near Jajru village sent clips of the footage of the CCTV camera installed on its outer boundary wall, depicting the movement of two or three leopards around 2.30 am this morning,” said Virender Singh, a resident of Jajru village.He said the footage clearly shows the movement of the wild cats in one of his fields located adjacent to the solar plant.Claiming that besides informing the officials of the wildlife department, he said information has been passed to the villagers asking them not to go alone in the fields at odd hours.“I asked my brother to come back immediately when he had gone to the nearby fields to collect fodder for the cattle,” he said adding that crops like jowar, bajra and cotton were standing in the fields at present.He demanded drone surveillance of the area to detect the presence of the leopards in the area, as he claimed that the incident has posed a panic and threat to the lives of both humans and cattle.Charan Singh, District Wildlife Inspector, said that while no pug marks have been found so far by the teams that visited the area, he said the villagers have been put on alert and have been asked to inform movement of such an animal if any, immediately.The department had rescued a leopard that had strayed into the Industrial area of Saroorpur village in the NIT region here on November 15, last year.
21-08-2020||Aditi Tandon||NEP 2020 first India-centric education policy since Independence: Education Minister Nishank||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 21Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Friday said the National Education Policy 2020 was the first India-centric education policy since Independence and would lay the foundations for the development of strong citizens rooted in their culture but trained to take on global competition.Pokhriyal was speaking at the event of the virtual launch of a new building of Karnal Regional Centre of the Indira Gandhi National Open University here on Friday.The centre set up in 1991 is disseminating distance education to over 83,000 students in remote areas of Haryana through 32 study circles at present, the Minister said.Also read: Will stop talent and patent from leaving country: Education Minister NishankHe said the Karnal Regional Centre would take forward the agenda laid out by the NEP 2020, which is aligned with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pledge to make India a $5 trillion dollar economy by 2025.“The NEP 2020 is the first India-centric education policy since Independence. It has room for cultural values and inventions, for knowledge and science, for and education,” said the Education Minister noting that the Policy would lay the foundations for a new and prosperous India.Hailing Haryana for reaching education in distance mode to thousands of students, Pokhriyal said 70 per cent students receiving distance education through Karnal Regional Centre of IGNOU in Haryana were from rural areas, of which 30 per cent were girls.He said the Karnal centre would get a chance to roll out NEP 2020 which aims to create students to build a self-reliant India.“The new policy has the capacity to create a world-class citizen,” said the Minister.
21-08-2020||Ambala||Depressed after losing job, 22-year-old woman commits suicide in Ambala||A 22-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan at her residence in Ambala cantonment as she was depressed after losing her job, police said on Friday.Police said that she was working with a company in Delhi and was getting a good salary. However, she was retrenched from the job recently after which she returned to her native place in Ambala.Her parents told police they found her hanging from the ceiling fan in her room on Thursday and that she was depressed after losing the job.A case has been registered in this regard, police said.Inquiry Officer in the case,  Balkar Singh, said on Friday that no suicide note was recovered from the room of the deceased.Further investigations were under progress, he said. PTI
21-08-2020||New Delhi/Chandigarh||Punjab 6th cleanest; Haryana 2nd among states with under 100 local bodies||Indore was adjudged India’s cleanest city for the fourth straight year in the Swachh Survekshan Awards-2020 announced today.Among the northern states, Punjab moved up by one notch to sixth position in the overall ranking, a major improvement over 2017 when it was among the 10 bottom states. The Ludhiana Municipal Corporation topped among the best big cities in innovation and practices, while the Nawanshahr Municipal Council scored a hat-trick by retaining the first position in cleanliness in the 25,000 to 50,000 population category for north zone.Haryana was adjudged the second cleanest state having less than 100 urban local bodies. Karnal, CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s hometown, retained the tag of the cleanest city in the state. Besides, it topped the cleanliness list for the north zone in the 1 lakh to 10 lakh population category. The city improved its nationwide ranking from last year’s 24 to 17. The other top cities were Rohtak (35), Panchkula (56) and Gurugram (62).Jalandhar Cantonment was declared the cleanest cantt, while Chandigarh was awarded the best union territory in citizen feedback. For the fourth straight year, Jammu was declared one of the dirtiest cities, getting the 224th position among 382 cities with under 10 lakh population. — TNS
21-08-2020||Rewari||No access, patients in deep waters||With the entry-exit points to the Civil Hospital here waterlogged, patients and their attendants have no option but to risk their lives by scaling the boundary wall to get inside the health facility.No lessons learntA Rewari village resident was electrocuted in July 2018He had come to the Civil Hospital for his X-rayAs the entry was waterlogged, he tried to scale a wall. He came in contact with an overhead transformerThe danger has been compounded by a transformer installed adjacent to the wall with its cables hanging precariously. A 49-year-old patient was electrocuted two years ago after coming in contact with the transformer. Though iron-fencing was done over the wall after the incident, it lies broken currently.As the hospital is located in a low-lying area, water accumulates at several points on the premises even after moderate rain. “Scaling the wall is the only option to enter or exit the hospital, else one has to wade through muddy water,” claimed Harish, an attendant.Dr Sarvjit Thapar, Senior Medical Officer, maintained they had installed high-power motors with capacity to pump out water. “But people can’t wait even that much and prefer jumping over the wall,” he said, adding that the transformer had been installed at a distance from the wall.
21-08-2020||This is the plight of one of the posh colony of the Cyber City||CyberCity Gurugram submerged||Aarohi P Kansal, GurugramNon-functional traffic lightsThe Shaheed Major Sandeep Sagar Chowk in Panchkula has non-functional traffic lights for years together. The area becomes risk-prone during peak hours. Then one wonders about the rationale behind spending public money on the installation of lights. All attempts to put these non-functional traffic lights back to their functional mode, have miserably failed. Are the authorities listening?Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaFoodgrains’ WastageLast week, on my way to Hisar it was still raining and I was surprised to see an open plinth where employees of a government agency were removing the tarpaulins spread over wheat stocks, instead of neatly covering them. They were doing this so that in moisture the grains may gain weight and that would be to their advantage. But in their greed, they were destroying the grains and rendering them unfit for human consumption. This is nothing but wastage of foodgrains. All relevant employees are always hand in gloves in this illegal operation. The authorities must take note.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNE invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
21-08-2020||Jhajjar||Farmer shot dead in Jhajjar||A farmer was shot dead after he intervened in a scuffle between two groups in Dubaldhan village of the district on Thursday. The assailants fled the spot after the incident. The deceased was identified as Ramesh (51). The police registered a case of murder against two residents of the village. TNSAmbalaPedestrian dies in mishapA pedestrian was killed after being hit by a truck near Naraingarh. The deceased was identified as Manglesh (35) of Naraingarh. In another mishap, three members of a family from Mullana were injured when a car hit the motorcycle they were riding near Mullana. The police registered separate cases. TNSTwo held with illicit liquorThe police have arrested Mukesh Kumar and Kamal of Saha and claimed to have recovered 20 boxes of illicit liquor from their possession. The police registered a case and launched investigation. TNSJail inmate’s mobile phoneAn inmate at the Central Jail here has been caught with a mobile phone, battery and SIM card. The police registered a case and launched investigation. TNS
21-08-2020||Kurukshetra||Refresher course concludes at KU||Webinar series ends at GJUSTHisar: Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Computer and Informatics Centre (PDUCIC), Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST), here concluded a webinar series on ‘Matlab Software’. Of the three webinars under the series, the theme of the last webinar was ‘Machine Learning with Matlab’. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar was the chief guest of the webinar. Akhilesh and MM Zafar from Design Tech Systems Private Limited were the speakers of the webinar. The VC in his address said training on modern tools such as Matlab would be very helpful for students in the field of research as well as in industry. More such training sessions should be conducted for the students. Zafar provided preliminary information about the software, while Akhilesh imparted training on its use in mathematical calculations and machine learning. He said the software was being used in various industries and institutions in the field of speech recognition, mechanical industry, stock market and object detection etc. Director Mukesh Arora said the theme of the first webinar was ‘Matlab for new user’. The second webinar was organised on the theme ‘Mathematical Modeling with Matlab’. Kuldeep Singh and Naveen Sangwan of the PDUCIC coordinated the webinar.Date for admissions extendedFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, here has given another chance to students aspiring to pursue master’s degree in various disciplines by extending the last date for submission of online application form for admission to all post-graduate (PG) courses to September 15. The university has also issued detailed instructions and criteria for online counseling for admission to all under-graduate (UG) courses except BTech. The spokesperson said 10,000 students had already registered themselves on the admission portal, out of which 5,000 applied for various courses except BTech, the admission for which was done through centralised counselling conducted by the Haryana State Technical Education Society (HSTES). Admission Director Dr Maneesha Garg said the first merit list and cut-off to various UG courses except BTech would be released on August 21 and online counseling by the concerned departments for document verification would be conducted on August 24 to 27. However, the successful candidates in the merit list will have to upload the scanned copy of their original documents on the admission portal using their login ID, she added. Admission to BBA, BCA and BA (Journalism and Mass Communication) courses will be made on the basis of cumulative percentage of qualifying exam. For admission to BSc (Hons) in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics courses, the merit will be made on the basis of percentage of marks obtained in physics, chemistry, and mathematics or biology in the qualifying exam, she added. The university will conduct second and third counselling from September 1 to 3 and September 7 to 9, subsequently, the merit list for the same will be released on August 28 and September 4, respectively.
21-08-2020||Parveen Arora||Colleges face glitches during online admission mock drill||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 20With the aim to make the admission process paperless and ensuring social distancing in the wake of the Covid pandemic for the 2020-21 academic session, the colleges in the district have started the mock drill process of the new online portal, which will be adopted by the Directorate of Higher Education, Haryana.During the mock drill, the colleges faced several technical glitches such as unavailability of various courses of the colleges and combination of different courses are not displayed on the portal. They have submitted a detail of such technical errors to the department. Technical issues in way The principals consider the online portal effective if all errors are resolved. “It will not only save the time of the students as well as the faculty, but will also ensure the social distancing norms to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic,” feel the principals. They are hopeful that this system will be functional in a couple of days.They say the students have to fill little information. After filling the roll number of their previous class, the details of their subjects will be displayed on the screen. “The Higher Education Department has started this portal to facilitate the students who are willing to take admission in under graduate courses sitting at their homes due to the pandemic. They have to fill only their application forms online. At presently, Colleges have started mock drill process of the new online portal to be adopted by the Directorate of Higher Education, Karnal on Thursday.Tribune Photo Sayeed Ahmedwe have been asked to conduct a mock drill by getting entered the details of at least 50 students in two days. We have started the process, but we are facing some technical errors,” Dr Chander Shekhar Bhardwaj, Principal, Dyal Singh College, said, adding that the options of subjects in the BSc non-medical stream are not being displayed. The error should be addressed for smooth admission process.Dr RP Saini, Principal, DAV College, said no doubt this portal was useful for the students and it would save time, but they had been facing a couple of technical errors. “The OTP is not being generated while submitting the file. Besides, preview of the uploaded and verified file is not displayed on the screen,” he added.Appreciating the department’s step, Dr Rekha Sharma, Principal, Government College, Sector-14, said instead of implementing the portal with immediate effect, the department had asked the colleges to conduct a mock drill first to check the flaws if any occurred. “We are facing some technical glitches, which will be resolved by the department. We have apprised the higher authorities about it,” she added.
21-08-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Family stuck in flooded fields for 12 hrs, rescued||Gurugram, August 20A civil defense team rescued a family, which got stuck in the flooded fields for 12 hours, by making rafts of empty water bottles here this morning. The rescue operation took two hours as the water was over 7 ft.The family, which used to rear chicken in the fields, got stuck after yesterday’s waterlogging. Despite an alert, the family did not evacuate the field. After waiting the entire night for water to subside, the family raised the alarm in the morning. The villagers called the administration and a team of civil defense warriors rescued them.“The civil defense team has been aggressively rescuing those stuck in waterlogged areas and even aiding police in traffic management,” said Gurugram DC Amit Khatri.Meanwhile, several parts of Gurugram and key road stretches remained waterlogged on the second consecutive day as rains continued to drench the city on Thursday, triggering traffic snarls.A 35-year-old man, Sujauddin, from West Bengal died and his wife Junena got injured after a boundary wall of a plot fell on the shanty he was living in Sector 33. Rural areas and villages like Daultabad and Gadoli reported heavy flooding.The Municipal Corporation evacuated water from residential societies, parks, road and underpasses. The DLF phase-3 underpass where a car got submerged under 10 ft of water was being cleared till the filing of the report.
21-08-2020||
||Kurukshetra University (KU)  plans to conduct exams from Sept 1st week||Kurukshetra, August 20 Kurukshetra University(KU) has planned to conduct terminal semester, final-year examination and compartment exams for students of final year from the first week of September. The university is expected to issue a tentative schedule and the guidelines soon. The department, in its orders last week, had said the state government had decided that the universities would conduct  the terminal semester and final-year examinations under the ambit of the Higher Education and Technical Education Department of all courses as per the guidelines of the UGC. Dr Hukam Singh, Controller of Examination, said, “In the light of the orders received from the state government, Kurukshetra University has accordingly planned to conduct exams from the first week of September for which meetings are being held to chalk out a strategy and guidelines. A tentative schedule will be issued soon. We are working on opting the best mode to conduct the exams and the university is expected finalise the mode and issue guidelines in a couple of days.” “The data about the students who will appear in the examination is being compiled. A case regarding the examination is pending before the Supreme Court, but following the orders from the state government,  the KU is making all its preparations so that it is prepared, to  implement directions when it is given,” he added.
21-08-2020||Mukesh Tandon
||Suspended  official issues challans||Tribune News Service Panipat, August 20 A transport inspector, who was suspended on July 14, reportedly continued to report to duty and even issued challans before going incommunicado. Sources say that as per the suspension order, transport inspector Jagmohan Sharma was to report to duty at the headquarters in Chandigarh. But he reportedly defied the order and kept marking his presence at the office of the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) here for 15 days. During this period (from July 14 to 28), he reportedly issued 53 challans using the ID cards of the RTA-cum-Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) and the Assistant Secretary, source say. Sharma was suspended on the complaint of a transporter from Kohand in Karnal district.  “Sharma did not have the power to issue tickets. He misused the ID cards of the RTA-cum-ADC and the Assistant Secretary, RTA, to issue challans,” an official on the condition of anonymity said. Amit Rathi, a local social activist, suspected the role of senior officers, under whose patronage Sharma continued to report to duty during the suspension period. The traffic inspector is untraceable. When contacted, Manoj Yadav, RTA-cum-ADC, said: “The matter is not in my knowledge. I will get it checked. If any negligence is found, action will be taken.”
21-08-2020||---||Haryana CM in 3-day quarantine after Union minister tests positive||Chandigarh, August 20Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has gone into quarantine for three days after Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, with whom he attended a meeting on Tuesday, tested positive for coronavirus.“In the past couple of days I have met certain people who have now tested positive for the virus. Though I have gone for the test and the report is negative, I have decided to go into quarantine for three days as a precautionary measure,” Khattar tweeted today.Earlier in the day, Shekhawat tweeted that he had undergone a test after developing symptoms. “I have been tested after developing symptoms and the report has come positive. I am getting hospitalised on the advice of doctors. I request all who have come in contact with me in the past days to isolate themselves and get tested,” Shekhawat tweeted in Hindi.The minister held two important meetings on Tuesday, one of which was on the Sutlej-Yamuna Link canal issue. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh virtually attended the meeting while Khattar was physically present along with Rattan Lal Kataria, Shekhawat’s deputy in the ministry, and senior officials.Kataria was also present in another meeting alongside Shekhawat in a virtual conference with Tamil Nadu Chief Minister EK Palaniswami, said sources.
21-08-2020||---||Tally crosses 50K in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 20The state recorded 996 fresh cases, which is the highest so far in 24 hours, taking the Covid-positive tally to 50,926. Eleven deaths were reported — three from Karnal, two each from Panipat and Faridabad, and one each from Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Jind.A 50-year-old man of Mohdinpur village, a 64-year-old man of Char Chaman and 61-year-old man of Sector-13 in Karnal died of Covid in the past 24 hours. A 66-year-old woman from Nai Colony and 77-year-old man from Sector 8 in Faridabad were also among the casualties.A 65-year-old woman from Shahabad also died of Covid in Kurukshetra.Today, the maximum fresh cases (114) were recorded from Panchkula followed by Gurugram (111), Panipat (98), Ambala (92) and Faridabad (88).In Ambala district, 49 cases came from Ambala City, 18 from Ambala Cantonment, 12 from Chaurmastpur, six from Mullana, five from Barara and one each from Naraingarh and Shahzadpur.There are 187 critical patients across the state with 23 on ventilator and 164 on oxygen support.
21-08-2020||Panipat||Protest against ‘inaction’ in fraud case ‘involving’ BJP leader in Panipat||Members of a social youth organisation today protested against the district administration for not taking action against a BJP councillor’s husband for his alleged involvement in a property fraud case for the past two-and-a-half months even after a naib tehsildar’s complaint.The protesters also burnt an effigy of the district administration and submitted a memorandum to City Magistrate Anupma Malik.Raising slogans against the district administration, members of the youth organisation led by president Shashi Kapoor gathered under the flyover to protest the “inaction” of the administration.Kapoor alleged that the government had ordered an investigation into the property registration of the past three years.However, the police allegedly did not register a case against BJP councillor of Ward No 8 Chanchal Sehgal’s husband and BJP leader Vijay Sehgal for fraud in plot registration.He added that naib tehsildar Anil Kaushik had sent a complaint to the city SHO to lodge a case against Vijay Sehgal and his father Daulat Ram for doing fraud in a property registration on June 29.According to the records, Daulat Ram had made a transfer deed of a shop on 25 sq yards in Ward No 12 on March 17, 2020, in the name of his son Vijay, he said.During investigation, it was revealed that the registry produced in the tehsil office was of May 22, 1982, and the shop was in the name of Nebraj of Ram Nagar and not in Daulat Ram’s name, but Vijay had scanned his father’s name in place of Nebraj and produced the copy of registration in the tehsil office and on the basis of the fake registration, the property was transferred in his name, he alleged.Kapoor warned that if action was not taken against the councillor’s husband, their organisation would show black flags to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on his visit to Panipat.Despite regular attempts, BJP leader Vijay Sehgal did not respond. — TNS
21-08-2020||
||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Don’t finalise selection to IAS from non-HCS quota||Chandigarh, August 20 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the Union of India and Haryana not to finalise the selection of candidates for Indian Administrative Service (IAS) from non-HCS quota. The direction by the Bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma came on a petition filed against the Union of India, the state and other respondents by Surender Singh Dahiya, a Class I officer posted in the Agriculture Department in Haryana. Dahiya had moved the High Court, challenging the order of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) on August 7. The Bench was told during the course of hearing that the petitioner was aggrieved by the decision of the government dated June 9, through which the Haryana Public Services Commission (HPSC) was asked to hold a written examination for the selection to the IAS from non-state civil services officers’ quota. In his plea before the CAT, the petitioner argued that the decision to conduct the written examination was against the All-India Service Act, 1951, and the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder.  Before parting with the order, the Bench also issued notice of motion to other respondents, including the HPSC.
21-08-2020||
||Sex test racket busted, 2 held||Mahendragarh, August 20 A team of health and police officials today unearthed a sex determination racket with the arrest of a quack and an operation theatre assistant working at a private hospital in Narnaul. The duo, identified as Jitender of Nihalpura village and Vinod of Hamidpur village, used to conduct the ultrasound test in a car while connecting it to a cell phone. The team recovered three cell phones, a bottle of jelly, Rs 30,000 and the car.
21-08-2020||Karnal||16-yr-old found dead, family alleges murder||The body of a 16-year-old boy was found in a canal near Munak on Wednesday late evening. The deceased has been identified as Tinku of Staundi village. The family members accused two of Tinku’s friends for murdering him and dumping his body in the canal. They refused to carry the body till the arrest of the accused.  However, later with the assurance of Sadar SHO Baljeet Singh, they took the body. “We have registered a case against two friends of the deceased,” said the SHO.
21-08-2020||Our Correspondent
||Three killed in gang war||Gurugram, August 20 Three persons were killed in a gang war that erupted in Basai village here today. A group of gangsters first shot a youth at Basai village and later entered the Wing Enclave Society in Sector 9, where two more persons were killed. One of them got injured, while others fled the spot. The police reached the spot and took the bodies and injured into custody. According to the police, the deceased have been identified as Sameer, Sunny and Anmol, residents of Basai village. The incident took place after six armed men riding on a motorcycle and scooty intercepted Sameer at Basai village around 5.30 pm and shot him. Sunny, Angrez and Anmol, who were nearby Sameer, fled the spot on a motorcycle and barged into the society. The armed men followed them and during shooting Anmol and Sunny were also killed, while Angrez got critically injured. The accused managed to flee the spot. No FIR was registered till the filing of the report. “We suspect that the Pawan Nehra group of Bhudka Kalan is behind the crime,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.
21-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: No lewd queries to rape victims||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear to judicial officers in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh that lewd, filthy and indecent questions cannot be put to rape victims and the trial court should not allowed the same.The High Court was hearing appeals filed by accused in an alleged sex scandal. The observations came in reference to certain questions asked by an advocate during cross-examination. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted that such queries, in opinion of the High Court, could not have been asked to a rape victim to prove the innocence of the accused.Justice Sangwan asserted that it had been held a number of times by the Supreme Court that the court should be vigilant that the defence counsel should not adopt the strategy of continuous questioning of the prosecutrix on rape detail, while conducting cross-examination and the court should not sit as a silent spectator, while the victim of the crime was being cross-examined.Justice Sangwan also asked the High Court Registrar-General to circulate among all presiding officers and designated courts dealing with cases of crime against women in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh the observations regarding lewd, filthy and indecent questions to the prosecutrix, which could not be allowed by the trial court in violation of the directions given by the Supreme Court. Justice Sangwan also referred to the apex court judgment in the case of “Punjab vs Gurmit Singh”.Justice Sangwan also quoted the judgment as saying that there had lately been a lot of criticism regarding the treatment of victims of sexual assault during cross-examination. The provisions of the Evidence Act regarding relevancy of facts notwithstanding, some defense counsel adopted the strategy of continual questioning of the prosecutrix on details.“A victim of rape, it must be remembered, has already undergone a traumatic experience and if she is made to repeat again and again, in unfamiliar surroundings, what she had been subjected to, she may be too ashamed and even nervous or confused to speak and her silence or a confused stray sentence may be wrongly interpreted as discrepancies and contradictions in her evidence,” read the SC judgment quoted by Justice Sangwan.
21-08-2020||andigarh||12 IAS officers shifted||The government has ordered transfers and postings of 12 IAS officers, including three DCs. Devendra Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, Irrigation and Water Resources, has been given additional charge of Skill Development and Industrial Training, while V Umashankar, Additional Principal Secretary to CM, will also hold the charge of Principal Secretary, Electronics and IT. Vijayendra Singh, Principal Secretary, General Administration, has been given additional charge of Sainik and Ardh Sainik. Pankak Yadav, Chief Administrator, Haryana Shehari Vikas Pradhikaran, will also get the charge of Director General, Urban Estates. Urban Estates Director General Renu Phulia has been transferred as Director General, Women and Child Development. Ashok Kumar Meena, currently posted as Commissioner, Food and Drug Administration, will be new Registrar Cooperative Societies. Pankaj, DC Nuh, has been posted as Managing Director, HARTRON, while Mani Ram Sharma, Registrar Cooperative Societies, has been posted as Director, Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare. Dhirendra Khadgata, DC Kurukshetra, will be DC Nuh. Sharandeep Kaur Brar, awaiting orders of posting, will be new Kurukshetra DC. Manoj Kumar, Director, Women and Child Development, has been posted as Rohtak DC. Similarly, Lalit Kumar, awaiting orders of posting, will be Commissioner, Food and Drug Administration. — TNS
21-08-2020||Ambala||Ambala cleans up act, is 120th||Ambala has jumped 26 spots to rank 120 in the pan-India cleanliness survey Swachh Survekshan 2020. Haryana Local Government Minister Anil Vij’s home district had ranked 146th in the survey last year while its rankings were dismal at the 159th spot in 2018 and 308th rank in 2017. While Ambala came up from 308th to 120th rank in four years, it could not make it to the top 100 clean cities. Ambala scored 3,095.96 points from the total of 6,000 points from different parameters. Civic officials maintained that the non-functional solid waste treatment plant and the non-existent door-to-door garbage collection were the major drawbacks that kept Ambala out of the top-100 clean cities. — TNS
21-08-2020||---||Karnal Haryana’s cleanest city||Karnal, August 20Karnal has retained the tag of the cleanest city of Haryana in the results of Swachh Survekshan-2020 declared on Thursday.Karnal is at the top in cleanliness in the northern region in the category of 1-10 lakh population. State placed 2nd Also, the city has improved its ranking in cleanliness to 17 in the country in the same category from the 24th position in Swachh Survekshan-2019. It had secured 41st position in 2018 and 65th in 2017. Out of 6,000 marks, Karnal city has secured 4,655.07 marks.As many as 9,289 residents gave feedback during Swachh Survekshan 2020 conducted in 382 cities of the country in this category. The city has achieved 3-star in garbage-free city, and ODF++ status, said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Commissioner, Karnal Municipal Corporation.Giving credit to city residents, Yadav said it was the result of continued public participation, citizens’ awareness programmes, involvement of NGOs, corporate, RWAs and self-help groups, schools and colleges along with scientific management of solid waste through well-equipped centralised and de-centralised waste processing plants.Renu Bala Gupta, Mayor, also gave credit of this achievement to the active participation of the people.Rohtak second in stateIn the category of population between 1 lakh and 10 lakh, Rohtak got 35th rank, Panckhula 56th, Gurugram 62nd, Sonepat 105th, Hisar 105th, Rewari 118th, Ambala 120th, Yamunanagar 147th, Panipat 160th, Bhiwani 166th, Jind 168th, Sirsa 176th, Kaithal 199th, Bahadurgarh 216th, Thanesar 219th and Palwal 357th.Union minister interacts with ragpickersUnion Urban Development Minister Hardeep Singh Puri interacted with the ragpickers of the city through video-conferencing. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was supposed to interact with them.Ragpickers Sonu and Bachi Devi informed the minister that the MC had got ragpickers registered and given them work of segregation at a garbage centre.“After being registered, I am getting benefits of various government schemes including Ujjwala, BPL ration card and others,” said Sonu. Bachi Devi said that the registration of rag-pickers has given them a new identity.
21-08-2020||
||Relief sought for residents post downpour||Hisar, August 20  A BJP leader from Fatehabad, Praveen Jaura, has demanded compensation for residents and also sought action against the erring district officials whose negligence has led to heavy inundation of various parts of the town during rain on August 18. In a statement issued today, Jaura said though it was a welcome relief from the hot weather, the residents were inconvenienced as the rainwater inundated streets and roads in the town. Apparently, the officials who were responsible for maintaining the drainage system have failed to perform their duty, which resulted in losses to the residents.  The BJP leader said a youth, Mahesh, drowned when he slipped in a roadside open space ,which was full of water after the heavy rain. He said he had apprised the state BJP president, Om Prakash Dhankar, about the matter and he had assured to take it up with the Chief Minister.
21-08-2020||---||Fill vacant posts of patwari, former minister urges state government||Rohtak, August 20Former minister and state Congress spokesman Krishan Murti Hooda has demanded that the state government fill all vacant posts lying in various departments so that educated unemployed youth get the jobs.“As many as 1,415 posts of canal patwaris are sanctioned, but merely 225 posts are filled and remaining have been lying vacant for a long time. Similarly, the recruitment of primary teachers and trained graduate teachers is not being done for the past six years causing resentment among the aspirants,” said Hooda in a press note issued here.He maintained that the Congress would raise the issue of unemployment in the coming monsoon session of the Assembly to mount pressure on the state government for filling all vacant posts.
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||PTIs’ exam on Aug 23||The Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) will conduct written examination for the post of physical training instructor (PTI) from 1 pm to 2.15 pm on August 23 in five districts — Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat, Kaithal and Hisar — in compliance with the orders of the Supreme Court. As many as 9,273 candidates have been issued admit cards for which a total of 95 exam centres have been established across five districts. — TNS
21-08-2020||
||Construction of school left midway; education officer, principal booked||Yamunanagar, August 20 A Block Education Officer and a Principal were booked for financial lapses in the construction of 11 rooms at Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Saraswati Nagar. An FIR was lodged on the complaint of Suresh Kumar, District Project Coordinator of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, Yamunanagar, at Chhappar police station under Section 409 (criminal breach of trust) of the IPC on August 18. On the complaint of Ajay Yadav of Haryana Jagruk Manch, Yamunanagar, the State Vigilance Bureau conducted an inquiry about the construction work of 11 rooms at GMSSS, Saraswati Nagar. The Additional Chief Secretary (Vigilance) sent the inquiry report to Additional Chief Secretary (School Education Department, Haryana) on April 18, 2019 in this connection. As per the report of ACS (Vigilance), it was found that serious financial lapses were committed by Karnail Singh, then additional principal (May 8, 2012 to July 19, 2012) and Ram Parkash, BEO of Saraswati Nagar and additional charge of principal of the school (July 19, 2012 to August 26, 2013) in utilisation of grant amounting to Rs 38,23,430. This amount was released for the construction of 11 rooms (nine classrooms, one art and craft room and one science laboratory). As per the report of the State Vigilance Bureau, the construction work of the rooms was found incomplete. As a result of the incomplete work, Rs 8,57,020 was to be recovered from both officers.
