21-09-2020||Faridabad||Faridabad civil hospital functioning with only 12 nurses against sanctioned strength of 90||The local Bhadshah Khan civil hospital, one of the largest government hospitals in the state is faced with a nursing staff crisis. Against the total sanctioned strength of 90 posts, the hospital is left with only 12 staff nurses at present, resulting in the adverse impact on the health services.“Though the hospital has about 20 staff nurses posted here at present, but as eight of the nurses are either in home isolation or were in quarantine due to COVID-19, the available staff left with the hospital is just 12, of which two to three of them may not be available due to various factors like leave or duty elsewhere,” claimed the sources in the civil hospital here. The situation regarding the availability of adequate staff nurses and nursing sisters has failed to improve for over the past several years, though the number of patients had gone up several times in this period, it is claimed.  While the number of medical officers (MO) has improved lately, the department concerned has failed to post adequate numbers of support staff (paramedics), it is claimed.The hospital has three nursing sisters against the sanctioned number of ten and only six laboratory or OT attendants against the required number of 14 at present.With no fulltime ENT specialist, the post of neurologist is lying vacant for the past 10 years. The hospital has only a single radiologist and ultrasound specialist against the requirement of two to three posts each.“Unavailability of ultrasound facility during the night leads to the patients being fleeced by private centres,” says Satish Chopra, a social activist.As the number of patients attended in the OPD daily has been between 2,200 and 2,400, the staff and infrastructure has not shown improvement despite claims, making the patients suffer, who come from poor and low income backgrounds, said an employee on condition of anonymity.  “We have taken up the issue of staff nurses shortage and related matters with the authorities concerned and it is expected to be resolved soon,” said Dr Savita Yadav, Principal Medical Officer (PMO), Civil Hospital.
21-09-2020||Azamgarh||Pilot from Haryana's Palwal dies as 4-seater aircraft crashes in UP's Azamgarh||A four-seater aircraft crashed in Uttar Pradesh's Azamgarh on Monday, leaving a 21-year-old trainee pilot dead, officials said, as they suspected that bad weather led to the incident.The aircraft crashed into an agricultural field at Kushaha Fariuddinpur village under the Sarai Mir police station area around 11.30 am, District Magistrate of Azamgarh Rajesh Kumar said."The plane had taken off around 10.30 am from a training institute and was being controlled by a trainee pilot. There was only one person in the aircraft," he added.The aircraft belonged to the Centre-run flying training institute Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Uran Akademi, Amethi, its officials confirmed.The deceased pilot has been identified as Konkark Saran. He was a resident of Palwal in Haryana, a spokesperson for IGRUA said."Saran had 125 hours of flying experience as a trainee, including over 52 hours solo. He was a skilled trainee pilot with a very good track record. Prima facie his aircraft got caught in the dense CB (cumulonimbus) clouds, which led to the incident," the spokesperson told PTI."He was flying a four-seater SOCATA TB 20 aircraft with fully equipped avionics and related instruments. The incident is most unfortunate and all due procedures are being carried out," the official added.Azamgarh administration and police officials reached at the crash site to inspect the situation. PTI
21-09-2020||Parveen Arora||Villages under vigil||WITH the onset of paddy harvesting amid the Covid-19 crisis, the Haryana government has chalked out a plan to check stubble burning, a major contributor to air pollution that chokes the national capital region in the winter. Apart from planning to establish more custom hiring centres (CHCs) to provide high-end equipment for crop residue management to farmers, the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department has categorised the fields as red, orange and green zones, based on the active fire locations detected by the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) in the last paddy season.Data shows 3,911 active fire locations were detected in the state from April 15 to May 31 this year, compared to 7,383 cases last year in the same period. A total of 6,630 such locations were identified during the last paddy season against 10,286 in 2018.Villages with six or more active fire locations have been kept in the red category, those with 2-5 locations in the orange zone and those with fewer locations in the green zone. As many as 332 villages of the state are in the red zone and 673 in the orange zone.SMS a must in combine harvestersIn order to ensure better management of stubble in the fields while harvesting, almost all district administrations in Haryana have made the installation of the straw management system (SMS) in combine harvesters mandatory. Combine harvesters operating without SMS will be impounded and the operators fined. “The SDM will issue a certificate after ensuring that the SMS is attached,” says Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, Karnal.To bring down the incidents of stubble burning this season, a strict vigil will be kept, especially on the villages in the red and orange zones. Agriculture officials, with the help of officials of several other departments, including Panchayati Raj, police, revenue and the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), will not only keep a vigil but also make the farmers aware of the proper management of stubble. Nodal officers have also been appointed to check the menace of stubble burning.“Local-level committees are being constituted to keep an eye on the erring farmers,” says Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department.Kaushal is hopeful that the plan will help in reducing the number of stubble burning cases to a great extent.The department has fixed a target of establishing around 2,000 more CHCs this season. “We have set up 2,879 CHCs in the state since 2018,” says Jagmander Nain, Joint Director (Agricultural Engineering). These CHCs will also help the farming community in better management of paddy straw.However, a farmers’ body says these steps are not sufficient for small and marginal farmers. “Farmers won’t burn stubble if they get machines for the better management of stubble without any rent. The Union government had once announced to set up straw procurement centres to motivate farmers, but nobody knows what happened to the project. The government should open such purchase centres so that instead of burning the stubble, farmers can manage it and further sell it in the market,” says Rattan Mann, president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU-Mann). He says the number of CHCs and machines is inadequate.Experts say stubble burning contributes significantly to air pollution, with the period between October 15 and November 15 being critical. Dr Rakesh Bhardwaj, Principal, Banwari Lal Jindal Suiwala College, Tosham, and an environmentalist, says the farmers need to be made aware of the respiratory problems caused by stubble burning and the various industrial uses of rice/wheat stubble. He fears that the worsening of air quality might aggravate the Covid-19 crisis.
21-09-2020||Ravinder Saini||Son of martyr, he wants govt to recognise all INA soldiers||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 20The Indian National Army (INA) led by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose had played a significant role in the freedom movement and its soldiers had sacrificed their lives for the sake of nation but there were many such heroes who were lost in the oblivion.Shri Bhagwan Phogat, 60, of Dhani Phogat village in Charkhi Dadri has been pulling out all stops for the past eight years to get recognition for such heroes. He claims to have so far identified around 250 such INA soldiers across the state. Besides getting them recognition, his another motive is to ensure “Swatantrata Sainik Samman Pension” for INA soldiers or their widows.“My father Ram Singh Phogat was also an INA soldier, who participated in the freedom movement. He died in 1996. In 2012, we initiated efforts to find out my father’s association with the INA and visited the National Archives of India, which is a repository of the non-current records and several files pertaining to INA soldiers are also available there,” said Phogat, who currently resides in Rewari city.He said during the process he learnt about a large number of INA soldiers who were not recognised by the Centre. Thereafter, he took a pledge to get recognition for them and started gathering information about them from their next generation so that they or their widows could avail the benefit of the pension.“A large number of soldiers of the then British army had joined the INA following the call given by Bose. Many of them attained martyrdom fighting against the British army, while several others had to face physical torture at the hand of the British who deliberately did not give any record to the kin of the martyrs,” he said.Phogat claimed he had, in the past eight years, identified 250 such INA soldiers and traced their association with the INA in records. All cases had been sent to the state government for the pension, he added.He has appealed to the kin of the INA soldiers to share unit number and British army name where their forefather worked so that their association with the INA, too, could be traced.
21-09-2020||Parveen Arora||With actor’s help, youth undergoes knee surgery||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 20Continuing with his humanitarian gesture, Bollywood actor Sonu Sood arranged the knee-ligament surgery of a 23-year-old Thane (Mumbai) youth, Arjun Chauhan, in a Karnal hospital. He had sought Sood’s help on Twitter.Dr Balbir Singh Virk and Dr Amanpreet Singh of Virk Hospital performed the surgery free of cost yesterday, while the travelling expenses of Chauhan were borne by Sood. It is the second surgery conducted by this hospital free of cost following Sood’s “adopt a patient” campaign.On September 1, Dr Ashwani Kumar, a neurosurgeon at the hospital, had performed a brain tumor surgery of a Guwahati-based woman, Gudi Devi, for free.Hit with financial crisis amid Covid-induced lockdown, Chauhan, who was a call centre employee in Mumbai, suffered knee injuries in an accident and was unable to bear the cost of the operation as he was rendered unemployed. “I requested everyone for help in the past four months, but nobody came forward. I approached Sonu Sood on Twitter. He assured me that my operation would be done free of cost,” Chauhan said. “I thank Sood as well as the entire team of Virk Hospital who did not take a single penny from me for the operation,” he said.Meanwhile, Sood also appreciated the work done by the hospital team. “Another successful surgery. This Sunday is special. Thank you for everything,” he said.Hospital director Dr Balbir Singh Virk said they would continue their contribution towards society by helping the needy.
21-09-2020||---||Rs4.2 cr for farmers under water conservation scheme||Rohtak, September 20The Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare has allocated Rs 4.20 crore for farmers of 21 districts, who switched over to maize, bajra and pulses from paddy cultivation under the ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ scheme.The amount has been allocated for a total diversified area of of 21,030 acres in the state. This is the first instalment of Rs 2,000 per acre under the scheme, which aims at preserving the depleting water table in the state, while the final instalment of Rs 5,000 per acre would be given at the time of maturity of the crops. Deputy Directors (Agriculture) of the districts concerned have been directed to pay the amount to the farmers through the direct benefit transfer (DBT) within10 days.Hisar district will be receiving the highest amount of Rs 1.04 crore for 2,085 hectares comprising 2,034 hectares for bajra, 27 hectares for pulses and 24 hectares for maize. It is followed by Jhajjar with a sum of Rs 60.65 lakh for 1,213 hectares comprising 1,206 hectares for bajra and 7 hectares for pulses. Karnal with get Rs 31.75 lakh for 635 hectares.Similarly, Jind will get a sum of Rs 30.05 lakh for 601 hectares, followed by Rs 28.15 lakh for Charkhi Dadri (563 hectares), Rs 22.50 lakh for Kaithal (450 hectares), Rs 19.80 lakh for Ambala (396 hectares), Rs 19 lakh for Panchkula (380 hectares), Rs 16.95 lakh for Yamunanagar (339 hectares), Rs 12.70 lakh for Kurukshetra (254 hectares), Rs 11.80 lakh for Rewari (236 hectares), Rs 11.75 lakh for Panipat (235 hectares), Rs 11.50 lakh for Faridabad (230 hectares) and Rs 11 lakh for Fatehabad (203 hectares).Rohtas Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), said: “Under the scheme, a total sum of Rs 7,000 per acre will be given to eligible farmers. The final instalment of Rs 5,000 per acre will be released at the time of maturity of the crops.”“In Rohtak, the process of verifying the bajra crop is underway hence, more incentive will be allocated to the district by the department later,” Singh added.Rs 7,000 per acre for eligible farmers"Under the ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ scheme, a sum of Rs7,000 per acre will be given to eligible farmers. The final instalment of Rs5,000 per acre will be released at the time of maturity of the crops." Rohtas Singh, Deputy Director (agriculture)
21-09-2020||Ambala||Kurukshetra Development Board likely to come out with new list of ‘tirthas’||The Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) is expected to come out with a new list of ‘tirthas’ in Kurukshetra, Kaithal, and Karnal districts in a few months.There are said to be over 300 pilgrimages under 48-kos land spread over Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Panipat and Jind districts, but only 134 have been identified and listed so far. Sources said during a ongoing survey, the KDB had identified nearly 30 more ‘tirthas’ so far.“A large number of ‘tirthas’ have become extinct over the period of time. In order to identify, preserve and develop them, the KDB did a survey in the 48-kos area and some new pilgrimages were identified in Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Karnal districts over the last two years that could fit in the list,” said Madan Mohan Chhabra, KDB honorary secretary.“The board received 60 proposals during the survey from various panchayats and samitis for the inclusion of their pilgrimage places in the list. The ‘tirthas’ are selected on the basis of their mention in shastras, historical value, archaeological value and folklore.”“The survey is still on. A proposed list will be sent to the Governor, who is also the chairman of the board, and he will issue the final list of the identified ‘tirthas’. Due to administrative reasons, Covid and a lack of manpower, the survey is proceeding at a slow pace but we are hopeful of its completion in the next couple of months,” he added.Chhabra said the ownership of the pilgrimage places would remain with the panchayats and the samitis concerned, and the board would only develop them. “The aim is to identify all ‘tirthas’ and develop them,” he added. — TNS
21-09-2020||Rohtak||Compensation for crop loss sought||About 14,900 farmers from Rohtak, Jhajjar, Rewari and Mahendragarh districts have sought compensation under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana after waterlogging in their fields damaged their cotton and bajra crops. In all, 8,545 farmers in Rewari, 2,651 in Mahendragarh, 2,277 in Jhajjar and 1,427 in Rohtak have filed the claim applications, sources say. In Rohtak, 714 cotton farmers and 713 bajra growers have approached the Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare for compensation. In Jhajjar, 895 cotton farmers and 1,382 bajra growers have filed the applications. Vikas Kadian, a farmer from Jhajjar, claimed his cotton crop over five acres suffered over 80 per cent damage due to waterlogging in August.  Inderjit Singh, vice-president, Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha, urged the state to ensure compensation to distressed farmers at the earliest. Jaswinder Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), Mahendragarh, said the process was underway to upload the claim applications on the government portal, while a joint panel of the Agriculture Department and an insurance company had started carrying out a survey to assess the loss so that eligible farmers could be compensated. — TNS
21-09-2020||Gurugram||Air purifiers at 10 G’gram intersections by Oct-end||With the air quality dipping and smog-filled winters being predicted in the city, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will now install air purifiers at 10 most-polluted intersections. The GMDA officials claimed that the installation of purifiers would be completed by October-end. The GMDA along with the Indian Pollution Control Association has started a survey to identify the 10 roundabouts, where the purifiers will be installed.  “Construction activity and vehicular emission are main reasons for the poor air quality of the city. Thus we will choose those points with either rampant constructions around or heavy vehicular load,” said GMDA CEO VS Kundu. The areas being considered include Bakhtawar Chowk, IFFCO Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Vatika Chowk, Khandsa Chowk, Jharsa Chowk and Atul Kataria Chowk.  The air quality survey of the areas concerned has already been started and readings are also being taken from two pollution-checking machines installed at Vikas Sadan and HSIIDC building, Manesar.  “The purifiers will be able to clean the air in 500-m area. Under the pilot project, 10 purifiers named ‘Vaayu’ will be installed in the first phase and subsequently, 100 in other areas. If the purifiers prove effective then these will be installed in the entire city. We hope that these will help  in curbing air pollution.” —OC
21-09-2020||---||Govt urged  to clear Rs75 cr dues of cane growers||Yamunanagar, September 20 Farmer leader Satpal Kaushik has demanded that the state government must soon clear dues of sugarcane farmers pending for the past four months. “The crushing season ended about four months ago, but cooperative and private sugar mills in the state are yet to clear the dues of Rs 75 crore. As a result, farmers are suffering. The Covid pandemic has exacerbated their problems. But the state government has been ignoring their concerns,” he alleged. The farmer leader also demanded an increase the sugarcane prices in the upcoming crushing season. “The government should announce an increase of Rs 50 per quintal in sugarcane rates as the prices of pesticides and fertilisers, and labour charges have almost doubled in the past few years,” he added.
21-09-2020||---||3 overcharging for RCs booked||Chandigarh, September 20 The Chief Minister’s flying squad recently raided the kiosks on the judicial premises of Mini-Secretariat in Charkhi Dadri after which two employees and another person have been booked for overcharging for issuing the registration certificates (RCs) of vehicles and driving licences. An official spokesperson said the Rohtak team of the CM’s flying squad had received information regarding discrepancies in the issuance of RCs and driving licence at the e-Disha Kendra. Thereafter, the squad raided the kiosks of typist Pradeep Kumar on the judicial premises. During the raid, four driving licences, 20 RCs of vehicles, 33 Aadhaar cards, 12 voter identity cards and receipts of files deposited for obtaining NOC were recovered. In addition, seven high-security number plates of vehicles and a register maintaining the record of money transactions were also recovered. During the interrogation, Pradeep confessed that he used to work in alliance with licence clerk Mohit Kumar and RC clerk Sunita Devi, working in the SDM office of Charkhi Dadri. Pradeep said he used to demand Rs 3,500 to Rs 5,000 from the applicants for issuing RCs of vehicles and driving licences. The money demanded by them was higher than the fees prescribed by the government and the three used to divide the remaining amount.  Meanwhile, Pradeep and Sunita have been nabbed but Mohit Kumar is yet to be arrested.
21-09-2020||---||Deputy CM Dushyant Singh Chautala: Will quit if MSP under threat||Chandigarh, September 20Urging farmers not to be misled, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala today said there was not a single line in the three farm Bills on ending the minimum support price (MSP). He said he would quit his post if MSP came under threat.He said the crops would be procured on MSP and farmers would have right to sell the crop in the market in case they got higher prices. Speaking to reporters at his residence, her made it clear that farmers would have the right to MSP.Accusing Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda of misguiding farmers for his political interests, Dushyant said Hooda had advocated an open market for farmers and signed recommendations of a committee set up by then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh during the UPA regime.Dushyant said the Congress had supported contract farming in its vision document during the first term of the UPA government and was now opposing the ordinances for political gains.He said each grain would be procured on MSP in the upcoming paddy procurement season and maize would also be procured on MSP.
21-09-2020||---||Farmers block 10 roads in Karnal, JJP MLAs join them||Karnal, September 20Farmers blocked roads at 10 places between noon and 3 pm in the district in protest against the agriculture Bills. They claimed the Bills were against farmers. The protest remained peaceful, but commuters suffered.Farmers came in large numbers at all 10 places and blocked Karnal-Kaithal road in Nissing, Karnal-Jind road at Assandh, Karnal-Ladwa road at Indri, Karnal-Munak road at Gagsina village, Karnal-Assandh road at Jundla village, Indri-Kurukshetra road at Bhadson village chowk, Gharaunda-Barsat road near Barsat village, Taraori-Sonkra road near Taraori grain market, Nilokheri-Nigdhu state highway near Anjanthali village and Assandh-Kohand road near Ballah village.PM’s effigy burntPanipat: Farmers of Panipat district protested against the three Bills at Madlauda and blocked traffic on Panipat-Assandh-Jind highway for three hours. Farmers also blocked traffic at Kharkhoda and Gohana in Sonepat district. A group of farmers burnt copies of the three ordinances near Police Lines on Sonepat-Gohana road. Another group of protesters burnt an effigy of the Prime Minister in Gannaur area.Meanwhile, arhtiyas and farmers held a mahapanchayat in the grain market addressed by Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association.Congress leader Virender Rathore also extended support to the farmers and arhtiyas here. They demanded these Bills should be taken back.Phool Singh, a protesting farmer, said the Bills were against farmers and the Union Government was passing those in haste without a discussion with farmers and arhtiyas. They would continue their protest against these Bills.Meanwhile, two MLAs from the JJP, which is part of the BJP-led ruling coalition in the state, also participated in the protests, reflecting a rift on the issue among their ranks.Legislators Jogi Ram Sihag (Barwala) and Ram Karan Kala (Shahbad) went against the official line spelled out by the party’s leader Dushyant Chautala.Sihag said he would not hesitate even to resign if his constituents want him to do that when at any point they feel that the farmers’ interests were compromised.HIGHLIGHTSDeepender calls it a ‘black day’Chandigarh: The lone Opposition MP, Deepender Singh Hooda, launched an all-out attack on the government by calling Sunday a black day for farmers and Parliament. He said it was unfortunate that a Bill of this magnitude was passed without voting and ignoring the objections of farmers. Deepender, who has been recovering from Covid for 12 days, has expressed his opposition to the Bills by issuing a video message from the hospital. He expressed his pain and said he could not go to Parliament because he was infected. TNSInd MLA supports farmers Rohtak: The agitation of farmers' outfits against three agriculture Bills remained peaceful with farmers, arhtiyas and farm labourers resorting to road blockade at four places in the district for two hours on Sunday. Independent MLA from Meham Balraj Kundu also joined the protest and expressed his solidarity with the protesters. He went to Baha Akbarpur and Bhaini Maharajpur villages where the protesting farmers were staging a dharna on the Rohtak-Hisar road. A group of farmers burnt copies of the three ordinances near Police Lines on Sonepat-Gohana road. TNSProtesters’ sole demand: Better MSP Palwal: Around 100 farmers related to the Bharatiya Kisan Union staged a dharna at the local Gandhi park to protest against the farm Bills on Sunday. The protest, which was peaceful, came to an end around 4.30 pm. The majority of the speakers sought withdrawal of the Bills. They demanded better and guaranteed MSP for the crops besides adequate compensation system to support agricultural work and farmers in the country. They claimed the Bills would cause harm to farmers and the people involved in the work of procurement and activities associated with farming. TNSVehicles queue up in JhajjarJhajjar: Following the call given by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), farmers of various villages staged a dharna at Bhagalpur chowk in Beri town for over 30 minutes. The blockade led to a long queue of vehicles on the Kalanaur, Jahajgarh and Dighal roads. Deputy Commissioner (DC) Jitender Kumar and Superintendent of Police (SP) Ashok Kumar rushed to the spot on getting information about the dharna and persuaded the protesters to clear the road. Earlier, the farmers gathered at a grain market in Beri town and flayed the BJP government at the Centre and in the state for the three farm Bills. TNS
21-09-2020||---||Punjab leaders stopped from entering Haryana||Ambala, September 20The day the Parliament passed three contentious farm Bills amid protests by Opposition MPs, hundreds of Punjab Youth Congress activists who were on their way to Delhi to back protesting farmers were stopped in their tracks by the police at the inter-state border near here on Sunday.The police had to use water cannons to disperse the activists after the latter tried to march forward by breaking the barricades. In protest, the Congress members hurled stones at the police and set a tractor on fire.The activists led by Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, Youth Congress president Srinivas BV and Punjab Youth Congress leader Barinder Singh started off in tractors from Punjab. When they reached Sadopur border here, the police stopped them.Raising slogans against the BJP-led Central government, Srinivas said: “The BJP government has been taking anti-farmer decisions. It is under the false impression that it can suppress the voice of farmers.”Another leader said, “Punjab is part of India. Do we need a passport to enter Haryana? They (police and administration) cannot stop us to go to Delhi.”After protesting for nearly one-and-a-half hour, the Youth Congress leaders were taken away by the Punjab police. Subsequently, the road was opened for traffic.Ambala Range Inspector General (IG) Y Puran Kumar said, “Farmers’ organsiations had given a call for a ‘chakka jam’ in Haryana. In their solidarity, Youth Congress members wanted to join them. Since the Haryana Police apprehended a clash, Congress leaders were stopped at the inter-state border itself. The Punjab Police persuaded the protesters to not march forward.”
21-09-2020||---||Cong misleading farmers for vested interests: Dalal||Hisar, September 20 Farmers in Hisar, Sirsa, Jind and Bhiwani districts succeeded in sending out a strong message to the state government through today’s protest demonstration and road blockades.  The blockade passed without any untoward incident as the protesters as well as the administration exercised restraint during the demonstrations. In Hisar, farmers resorted to demonstration at Balsamand road on Hisar-Bhadra road, Mayyar toll plaza on Hisar-Delhi highway, Sarsod village on Hisar-Chandigarh and Baas village in Narnaund block. They briefly blocked the roads at these spots while the police and administrative officials diverted traffic via alternative routes. JJP MLA from Barwala Jogi Ram Sihag went to the dharna site in Sarsod village and expressed solidarity with the farmers. Sihag said that if the need arises, he is ready to resign from the Assembly in support of the farmers.  The farmers also staged demonstration and blocked roads at various places including Alewa, Uchana and Kandela villages in Jind district. The protesting farmers described the Bills as anti-farmer and raised slogans against the BJP government at the Centre and in the state.  Farmers in Panjuana village of Sirsa, Mundhal village in Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri districts burnt the effigy of the government and copies of the ordinances. Meanwhile, Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal accused the Congress of politicising the issue for vested political interests. Interacting with the media in Bhiwani today, Dalal said that though holding dharna and demonstration is a democratic right, the Congress and some anti-social elements are trying to misguide farmers.  Maintaining that the farm Bills are in the interest of the farmers and that the MSP would stay, the minister stated that capitalist forces are opposing the Bills so that farmers continue to be exploited by middlemen. State Congress president Kumari Selja said when a Congress-led government comes to power the law will be repealed. The party will hold protests on Monday against the “anti-farmer” bills at district headquarters across Haryana.State
21-09-2020||Yamunanagar||Centre must roll back farm Bills: Chaduni||Gurnam Singh Chaduni, state president of Bharatiya Kisan Union, said that government must roll back all three farm Bills and clear the loans of farmers.He said farmers were not going to demand the withdrawal of cases registered against them and they were ready to go to jail.“We are not afraid of the atrocities being done by the government on farmers. We are ready to make any sacrifice — from facing bullets to lathicharge to registration of cases,” said Chaduni.He was addressing farmers at the toll plaza situated on Panchkula-Yamunanagar NH in Milk Majra village in Yamunanagar district today.Farmers under the banner of BKU blocked a road here to lodge their protest against the three farm Bills.Chaduni said that in the name of reforms, the government was planning to discontinue the MSP of crops.The district administration deputed a huge police force at the toll plaza where the farmers had assembled. — TNS
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||2,305 cases, 29 deaths||With 2,305 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state went up to 1,11,257 today. With 29 more deaths, the toll reached 1,149.Gurugram reported a maximum of 405 cases, followed by Hisar (257), Sonepat (234), Faridabad (203) and Ambala (180).Karnal, Ambala, Sirsa and Kurukshetra reported three deaths each. Faridabad, Sonepat, Hisar, Panchkula and Yamunanagar reported two deaths each. One death each was reported from Rohtak, Gurugram, Mahendragarh, Bhiwani, Fatehabad, Nuh and Kaithal. — TNS
21-09-2020||Jaipur||Haryana liquor seized in Jaipur||The Excise Department has seized 1,500 cartons of IMFL being smuggled in a truck in Jaipur district, officials said on Sunday. On a tip-off, an Excise Department squad stopped the truck on the Jaipur-Ajmer NHand seized the Haryana-made liquor worth Rs 90 lakh on Saturday. The truck driver was arrested for liquor smuggling, Excise officer Babu Lal Jat said. — PTI Two more arrested Ambala: The SIT constituted by the Ambala police has arrested two more men, who are accused of being the masterminds, in connection with the huge stock of IMFL brands recovered from Mandour village in Ambala on September 11. The suspects have been identified as Shankar Bhai More, hailing from Gujarat, and Pradeep, a resident of Naraingarh in Ambala. — TNS
21-09-2020||---||Body with 90% burns found along road in Sonepat||Panipat, September 20An unidentified burnt body was found on the Sewli-Jakholi road in Sonepat late on Friday night.The police suspected that the man had been murdered and to hide the deceased’s identity, the assailants burnt the body by pouring highly inflammable product over it.Amit of Jakholi in his statement to the police said he had gone to his fields around 10 pm on Friday and saw some fire near the fields along the road. As he approached closer, he saw the body of a man was burning. Meanwhile, commuters controlled the flames and informed the police.Rai SHO Vivek Malik along with his team reached the spot and found that the body was burnt around 90 per cent and a cloth was tied to its neck. The police suspected that the man was strangled to death. A case against unidentified persons has been registered under sections 302 and 201 of the IPC. Malik said it was a blind murder case.
21-09-2020||---||Now, pay property tax online in Faridabad||Faridabad, September 20The payment of property tax in the city has gone paperless as owners will now be able to submit it online. At present, the city has around 2.62 lakhproperty taxpayers.Municipal Corporation Commissioner Yash Garg said while it was for the first time that property tax payment had been facilitated online, the new system was expected to bring in more revenue for the civic body, which had been dependent on old and dwindling manual system having complaints of inefficiency and poor transparency.A senior official said the facility was made available on onlineharyana.gov.in, where the consumer could easily pay the tax from anywhere and anytime depending upon one’s own convenience.The authorities have also announced a rebate up to 25 per cent on the total pending amount for the period between 2010-11 and 2016-17, if the property tax owners have submitted their house or property for the past three years (period between 2017-18 and 2019-20) on time and without any delay. An additional one per cent rebate will also be applicable in such cases, it is added.The total number of property taxpayers in the city is expected to rise to 5 lakh next year as the survey to find the new taxpayers since 2011-12 is also on.According to sources, the annual income of the MC from the property tax is around Rs 45 crore, but an amount of over Rs 150 crore is unrecovered.
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||Proposal mooted to let guard room in parking||The state government is set to amend the Haryana Building Code-2017 and allow the construction of a guard room along with toilet in the stilt area used for parking purposes of the residential and commercial buildings.The Director, Town and Country Planning, has mooted a proposal to this effect and invited objections from the general public till October 15.According to the proposal, the guard room measuring 20 square metres will be allowed near the staircase or the lift. The construction of this room will be counted towards floor area ratio (FAR) of the building and the building owners will have to fulfill parking and other norms. — TNS
21-09-2020||---||Police claim 93% disposal rate of complaints routed through Vij||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20A day after work was withdrawn from ADGP AS Chawla for delay in the ‘Dial 112’ project, the Police Department on Friday released its report card on the redressal of grievances routed through Home Minister Anil Vij.It has been claimed that the police “suitably disposed of” the grievances of 93 per cent of the people who submitted their complaints to Vij. It was on Vij’s order that work was withdrawn from Chawla.It was claimed that the maximum 100 per cent redressal of complaints has been achieved by the office of IGP Haryana Armed Police (HAP) Madhuban, 1st Bn HAP Ambala, 3rd Bn HAP Hisar, 5th Bn HAP Madhuban, Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) Bhondsi, CID and Telecom. Chawla was handling the charge of Telecom.Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk today said that a total of 9,384 complaints related to police, CID, Haryana Armed Police (HAP), Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB), railways and other units were received at the police headquarters through the Home Minister’s Office since he assumed office.Out of these, 8,755 complaints have already been resolved and 629 are under process, it is claimed.He said that Vij had instructed the police to redress all issues and grievances once a complaint from his office was received on any matter and attempt to resolve it as early as possible.Following his directives, DGP Haryana Manoj Yadava had instructed all the field units that once a complaint is received, it should be resolved on priority in the minimum possible time.
21-09-2020||---||Recovered patients under watch||Rohtak, September 20The patients who have recovered from Covid are being monitored to assess the long-term effects of the viral infection on their health.As many as 100 recovered Covid patients visiting PGIMS in Rohtak are to be registered every month as part of a registry by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“The profiles of these patients, their recovery pattern and after-effects, if any, of Covid on their health will be registered under the ICMR project,” said Prof OP Kalra, Vice-Chancellor, Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak.Talking to The Tribune, Prof Kalra pointed out that some patients who had been infected with Covid were later found to have cardiac issues, brain stroke or diarrhoea etc.“Once the virus enters the body, it may affect any part or organ. Hence, the patients who have recovered must have regular follow-ups and medical check-ups as advised by doctors,” he said.On being questioned about human trials of India’s indigenous Covid vaccine “Covaxin” going on at PGIMS, he said the volunteers participating in the trials would be scanned for Covid antibodies at regular intervals for a period of six months in the second phase of the project.“The final decision on the conduct of further (phase 3,4) trials will be taken by the ICMR authorities and Bharat Biotech, the company which is developing Covaxin,” he added.
21-09-2020||---||Pollution board chief pulls up officials of Panipat and Sonepat districts for violating norms||Panipat, September 20Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) Chairman Bhure Lal yesterday pulled up officials of Panipat and Sonepat districts after he found norms being violated at various places.He found solid waste and construction waste on the roadside in Sector 25 during his visit to the “Textile City” and several lapses in the construction of NH-44 by the NHAI and the management of solid waste in HSIIDC in Sonepat.He had reached Panipat via Ghaziabad, Bulandshehar, Merrut and Kairana in Uttar Pradesh to take stock of the pollution and garbage management and to check other parameters responsible for pollution in the national capital region (NCR). He visited the garbage dumping site in Nimbri village on Panipat-Sanoli road in Sectors 25 and 29.Sushil Kumar, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Panipat (MCP); Kamaljeet Singh, Regional Officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) along with his team; Jagmal Singh, XEn, HSVP, and other officers were present during his visit.He pulled up the officers while reaching Nimbri dumping yard and directed officers to send the garbage at a solid waste management plant as soon as possible.Pulling up the MCP officials, the Chairman directed them to clean the sites and shift garbage dumping yards from the open area of Sector 25. He also directed them to provide treated water to industrialists again.He also got annoyed at seeing black smoke emitting from the chimney of an industrial unit here and directed the HSPCB member secretary to initiate action against the industry.Besides, the Chairman also visited various areas in Sonepat and found several anomalies in the management of solid waste in the HSIIDC industrial area and norms being violated at construction sites in Sonepat area. He also found several lapses in the widening of the NH-44 from Delhi to Panipat.S Narayanan, Member Secretary, HSPCB said: “We will comply with the directions issued. Notices will be served to the industrial unit in Panipat and the NHAI for violating norms.”
21-09-2020||---||26-year-old raped in Palwal, three booked||Palwal, September 20 Three men have been booked for allegedly raping a 26-year-old married woman here on September 9, the police have said. No accused has been arrested so far. The victim, who lodged the police complaint on Saturday, said three men, identified as Amir, Arif and Ashiq, entered her house on the night of September 9 and raped her. The accused threatened to kill her when she tried to resist. Her husband, a truck driver, was not at home when the alleged incident took place. “The investigation is underway. The accused will be arrested soon,” a police official said.
21-09-2020||---||Woman files rape complaint against husband’s friend||Yamunanagar, September 20 A woman of a village in Yamunanagar district has accused her husband’s friend of raping her at a hotel in Ladwa of Kurukshetra district several times. On the complaint of the victim, a case has been registered against Anil Kumar of Baindi village. She alleged that he had been forcing her to befriend him, but when she refused, he threatened her to kill her husband and children. “He called me to a hotel in Ladwa on the pretext of facilitating a bank loan. He spiked my drink and after I fell unconscious, he raped me. He clicked obscene photographs,” alleged the victim. She alleged that he kept blackmailing her and raped her several times. “He threatened to upload the photographs on social media,” she added.
21-09-2020||---||Khaps want CBI to probe banker’s death, issue ultimatum||Jhajjar, September 20 A panchayat of the representatives of various khaps held at Dighal Toll Plaza on Sunday served a week’s ultimatum on the state government to launch an agitation if banker Dheeraj Ahlawat’s murder case is not handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The case is, at present, being investigated by a special investigation team (SIT). Jai Singh, chief of Ahlawat Khap, said the SIT had failed to arrest the killers of Dheeraj even after 40 days of the incident. “In this situation, we don’t have any other option except to demand for a CBI probe into the matter,” he added. Dheeraj, 38, was a native of Dighal village and was working as senior vice-president of a private bank in Gurugram. His body was found in a canal in Delhi on August 12, a week after he had gone missing while taking a stroll outside his house in Gurugram on August 5. Residents of Dighal village under the aegis of the Ahlawat Khap blocked the NH-71 on September 2 for over 12 hours demanding the arrest of the killers.
21-09-2020||---||SIT set up in gangrape case||Karnal, September 20 Kaithal SP Shashank Kumar Sawan has constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the gangrape case in which a school owner and a tehsildar are accused. The SIT is probing two cases of extortion and blackmail registered against a teacher of the same private school, who has accused the school owner and tehsildar of raping her. She had been arrested along with her husband while accepting Rs 7.25 lakh from an employee of the same school, reportedly for withdrawing the gangrape complaint. “I have constituted a team led by a DSP, which has started investigation into the case. We will submit our report to the IGP after completion of investigation,” said the SP. Members of the SIT reached the school with the teacher and her husband on Saturday. Police personnel refused to comment on findings in the case.
21-09-2020||Gurugram||Woman held with pistol||A woman was nabbed by CISF personnel at the Sikanderpur Metro station on Sunday for carrying an illegal pistol in her bag. An FIR under the Arms Act was registered. She was produced before a duty magistrate, who let her off on bail. The accused was identified as Rubi (28) of Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh, currently staying in Gurugram. — OC
21-09-2020||---||Rs24,000 looted from Ganaur fuel station||Panipat, September 20 Three armed miscreants looted Rs 24,000 from a petrol pump in Sonepat’s Ganaur area on Sunday.  A case against unidentified miscreants was registered under Sections 392 and 397 of the IPC, and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. Kapil, an employee at the police pump, said in his statement to the police that three youths on a motorcycle came to the petrol pump around 9.45 am and asked him to fill up the tank.  Meanwhile, two of the youths pointed a gun towards him and his colleagues, and took out all money from their pockets. On hearing the noise, petrol pump owner Haridutt, who was in his office, came out but the miscreants had fled by then, Kapil said.  He could not note down the registration number of the motorcycle as the number plates were folded. The police said that the accused would be arrested soon.
21-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Now, submit bullet usage record to get arms licence renewed||Gurugram, September 20To curtail trigger-friendly culture in the millennium city, the Gurugram police have mandated prior submission of bullet usage records before licence renewal.The decision comes in the wake of recent shootouts where the police discovered a nexus between gangsters and licence holders who would provide bullets issued in their names to the former.A licence holder can get 200 bullets issued in a year. Some of them are allegedly handing the same out to local gangsters who have in the recent past terrorised the city with firing as many as 40 bullets in one go.Issuing an order in this regard, the police have asked all gun houses and licence holders to exercise caution in getting bullets issued and maintain accounts of bullets used. The records would be counter checked with declarations and any discrepancy would lead to cancellation of licence.“They will be making declarations in affidavits and we will be counter-checking the same with records and will take stern action in case of any discrepancy,” said a senior police officer of arms licence branch.Sources claim that the police have got leads about many gun houses and licence holders misusing bullets. At present, more than 6,000 arms licence holders are in Gurugram and they can purchase 200 bullets on a licence in a year. Eight gun houses are operating in Gurugram and one of these was shut last month after discrepancy in bullet provisions was spotted.“The process has been changed to stop illegal use of fire bullets. At the time of licence renewal, the holder must provide information about the usage of bullets and if he fails to provide it, his licence will not be renewed,” said Nitika Gehlot, DCP, headquarters.Fact file.
21-09-2020||Karnal||Cycle rally by doctors||Study material for kidsKarnal: The Varitra Foundation, an NGO, distributed study material in schools in rural areas of the Gharaunda block. Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav gave study material to students at the government school in Rasulpur and appreciated the efforts of the foundation. “We have a target of study material distribution and building beautification in 20 schools,” said Ayeshna Kalyan, Varitra founder.Getting pat from CMRohtak: Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has issued appreciation letters to local social outfits for their contribution in helping the needy, especially migrant labourers, by providing them ration, food, medicines, masks, sanitisers and other essential commodities during the lockdown. Rohtak District Red Cross Society secretary Devender Chahal handed over appreciation letters to the social outfits. “It has encouraged us to do social work with more enthusiasm and dedication. We are overwhelmed to get appreciation from the Chief Minister,” said Mukesh Bagri, convener of Ready to Help.
21-09-2020||The road connecting Amravati Enclave to the DLF Valley in Panchkula is in a pathetic condition. Residents are suffering a lot due to this. I request the PWD Minister to look into the matter||Panchkula road in bad shape||Pankaj Kamboj, (retd Navy PO), DLF, PanchkulaNeed to curb noise pollutionNoise pollution is so omnipresent in today's society that we often fail to notice it anymore. It's quite harmful and can have adverse effects such as hypertension, hearing loss, sleep disturbances, child development and higher blood pressure, etc on humans and other living beings. The WHO has fixed 45 decibels as the safe noise level for a city, whereas most of the metropolitan areas in India usually register an average of more than 90 decibels. It is suggested that to start with, the authorities should at least impose a blanket ban on the use of automobile horns and loudspeakers in places of worship to rid the city of noise pollution.Ritu Shahi, PanchkulaDemand to open varsities, collegesI am a student of BSc (Agriculture) in Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar. Our course is mostly based on practicals. I request the government to open the universities and colleges, which are closed for the last six months. We are attending lectures online, but there are a lot of queries regarding practical knowledge. Vivek Lohan, HisarIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
21-09-2020||Yamunanagar||Award for Yamunanagar polytechnic||Pact inked for teachers’ trainingFaridabad: The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, have signed an MoU to conduct joint training programmes for teachers on technical education quality parameters and providing certification to them. Vice Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar signed the MoU on behalf of the university right after the formal discussion with AICTE chairman Prof Anil Sahasrabudhe on various issues of mutual cooperation in New Delhi. The university is working to support and provide mentorship services to its affiliated colleges to get NAAC and NBA accreditation, the VC said. Under the tie-up, the university will conduct training and capacity building programmes for teachers on examination reforms, NBA accreditation and process and model curriculum as prescribed by the AICTE, etc.
21-09-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Anil Vij warning: Perform or make way||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20With a surprise stopover at the Haryana Police headquarters last week, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij seems to be back to his “activist” ways with a message for senior officers — perform or make way for performers.While senior officers will be required to submit day-long performance reports as and when asked, Vij continues to independently monitor their work. Still recovering from a thigh-bone fracture, the minister has “pre-warned” senior officers of another visit to the headquarters soon.Pull up socksWe want the officers to be in office, working. I have a fair idea of performers and non-performers... But I want all to get a chance to pull up socks. —Anil Vij, Haryana Home MinisterVij said those coming late or absent without leave would be taken to task. “By announcing that I will be back and making my agenda for the visit known, I hope the non-performers will fall in line,” he said. Though the “seat-to-seat” check at the police headquarters to identify “absentees” was to be undertaken during the minister’s last visit itself, it was called off at the last minute.
21-09-2020||Chandigarh||In Haryana, police use force to disperse farmers||The Haryana Police today used water cannons to disperse farmers and Indian Youth Congress (IYC) activists who tried to enter the state from Punjab on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway.As part of their tractor march to Delhi, Congress activists, led by PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar and IYC president Srinivas BV, tried to break the barrier near Sadopur village by allegedly throwing stones at cops, following which force was used to stop them.Haryana farmers, meanwhile, blocked major roads, including Panchkula-Yamunanagar, Jind-Delhi and Ambala-Roorkee highways. The farmers were joined by arhtiyas and farm labourers.Gurnam Singh Charuni, Bharatiya Kisan Union state chief, claimed the protest was peaceful despite “provocation” by the police. — TNS
