21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt to bear insurance premium of farmers sowing alternative crops in state||The Haryana government will bear crop insurance premium of the farmers who opt to cultivate alternative crops, including cotton, under the state’s crop diversification scheme.Sanjeev Kaushal, additional chief secretary (agriculture and farmers’ welfare department), on Tuesday said that following the revamp of the central government’s crop insurance scheme, farmers would have to pay 2 per cent of the sum insured for kharif, 1.5 per cent of sum insured for rabi, and 5 per cent for cotton, which is a commercial and annual crop.“However, farmers who opt to cultivate alternative crops, including cotton, under the state’s crop diversification scheme would not have to pay any insurance premium on such crops,” Kaushal said, as per a state government release.He added that the state government would also bear 100 per cent of the premium share of maize crop in eight blocks of five districts.He also said the cotton growers in Haryana who have enrolled under both the central government’s crop insurance scheme---Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana---and the state government’s crop diversification scheme---Mera Pani-Meri Virasat---need not worry about any increase in premium rates as the state government will bear complete cost of insuring alternative crops.Kaushal said farmers in the state have received more money in claims than the premium paid collectively by them under the crop insurance in the past three years.Between kharif 2016 and rabi 2018-19, farmers received Rs 2,097.93 crore in claims as compared with Rs 1,672.03 crore paid as premium, he said.As many as 49,78,226 farmers in the state were covered under the scheme between kharif 2016 and kharif 2019.Allaying the fears of farmers, he said the changes made to the crop insurance scheme earlier this year would prove to be beneficial to them, as the scheme has been made voluntary for farmers with crop loans as well.He said that when the scheme was launched in Haryana in 2016, kharif crops including paddy, bajra, maize and cotton, and rabi crops namely wheat, mustard, gram and barley were covered. Sunflower was also covered under the scheme from rabi 2018-19 onwards. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-to-bear-insurance-premium-of-farmers-sowing-alternative-crops-in-state-116005
21-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||Mahendragarh farmer’s daughter tops Class 12 exams||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, July 21Manisha, a student of Government Senior Secondary School in Sihma town here, scored 99.8 per cent marks to top the Class XII exams, the result of which was declared by the Haryana Board of School Education (HBSE) on Tuesday evening. Daughter of a farmer in Khampura village, Manisha bagged 499 marks out of 500.“I did not get private coaching but toiled hard under the guidance of my teachers to get this position. My dream is to become an IAS as it is the best platform to serve those people who actually need succour,” said Manisha, adding that her parents supported and motivated her at every step.Also read: Girls outshine boys in Haryana board class-12 resultManisha also revealed that her school was 2 km away from her house and she went to school on foot.Manisha’s father Manoj Kumar said her daughter had brought laurels not only to the village but the entire district by securing highest marks across the state. “She did self-study and burnt the midnight oil to obtain highest marks,” said a proud father.Manisha’s mother Sunita Devi is a housewife.     Deputy Commissioner RK Singh congratulated Manisha and her parents for her achievement. “We will not only honour Manisha but also other students who performed marvellously in the exams,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mahendragarh-farmers-daughter-tops-class-12-exams-115983
21-07-2020||---||Online fraud: Man duped of Rs 1.9 lakh; one arrested||Palwal, July 21 The police have arrested a person in connection with Rs 1.90 lakh fraud in the name of selling a used car through the online platform OLX.The accused identified as Waris hailing from Bamni village of Bharatpur district of Rajasthan had got transferred the money from the account of one Rinku, the complainant, who is a resident of Pengletu village in the district.Rinku in his complaint lodged on February 14 had alleged that he had contacted a person, who had put on sale an Alto car of the 2105 model on OLX. While the advertiser had shown Rs 90,000 as the price of the car, the complainant who agreed to buy it was made to transfer the amount of Rs 1.90 in the e-wallet of the accused.The additional Rs 1 lakh was demanded in the name of courier, transport, tax and transfer of the registration number. He told the police that the accused switched off his mobile after the money was transferred into his account. According to SP Deepak Gahalwat, while three persons, including the kingpin, Arif, a resident of Lalpur of Kama district of Rajasthan is already in judicial custody, Waris is on the run.He said the gang which had been involved in at least a dozen of cheating cases mainly on the OLX in the past couple of years, have been found to have 30 e-wallet accounts. “Two POS machines, six PAYTM cards, three Sim cards, a cash counting machine and Rs 15,000 have been recovered from the accused.  The accused was remanded to judicial custody on Tuesday,” police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-fraud-man-duped-of-rs-1-9-lakh-one-arrested-115960
21-07-2020||Deepender Deswal||Girls outshine boys in Haryana board class-12 result||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 21The Board of School Education Haryana, Bhiwani, declared the result of class 12 examinations on Tuesday with 80.34% of the students passing the test.The girls again are ahead of the boys with the success rate of 86.30% while the boys have a pass percentage of 75.06.The board could hold the examination of 22 subjects out of a total of 42 subjects in the three streams of Arts, Commerce and Science. It has compiled the result on the basis of the average marks secured by the students in the examinations which were conducted by the board.BSEH chairman Jagbir Singh said an Arts stream girl Manisha of the government senior secondary school in Sihma village of Mahendergarh district has topped the examination with 499 out of 500 marks.Monika of Hisar and Amandeep Kaur of Sirsa district got second position with 497 marks each.In the Commerce stream -- two students – Pushpa of the KVM senior secondary school in Pai village of Kaithal district and Sanyam of the Sharda senior secondary school in Fatehabad town have been declared joint toppers with 498 marks out of a total of 500 marks.Ansu of Hisar and Muskan of Jind district have bagged joint second position with 496 marks, Singh said.The chairman said the Science stream has the topper from Rewari’s Bodia Kamalpur village as the girl of this village’s government senior secondary school Bhawna got 496 marks.Amit of Bhiwani, Monu Kumari of Charkhi Dadri, Shrutika of Kurukshetra and Kajal of Jhajjar district have secured joint second position by getting 495 marks each.He added that a total of 2,12,693 students have appeared in the senior secondary examination, of which 1,70,881 students have been declared as pass. While 32,361 students have got the re-appears in certain subjects, 9,451 students have been withheld in examination.Urban students have pass percentage of 82.28% while 79.14% rural students have been successful. Private school students have put up marginally better result with 80.97% as compared to government school students who have secured success percentage of 79.78%.The students who appeared in the Haryana Open Schooling system have a pass percentage of 64.83%. The pass percentage is highest in last four years. In 2019, 2018 and 2017, the pass percentage was 74.48, 63.84 and 64.50, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/girls-outshine-boys-in-haryana-board-class-12-result-115956
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala’s strategic location behind using it for induction of Rafale: former Air Vice Chief Barbora||Former Vice-Chief of Air Staff Air Marshal PK Barbora (retd) said the Ambala air station was chosen for in the induction of Rafale jets because of its strategic location.Air Marshal PK Barbora (retd), who once served at the airbase and witnessed the induction of first Jaguar aircrafts in 1979, said: “Ambala was the first air force base post-Independence the country had. The location is very strategic. It is equidistant from the east and west”.“In case of raid at Ambala, it has to go through many layers of air defence before reaching the air base. It will give us adequate warning to be able to take all precautionary measures. We can activate all ground and air based defence systems to take care of any threat.”“We also got first of Jaguar aircrafts at Ambala which is a Deep Penetration Strike Aircraft (DPSA). It implies we have a long range which we can cover, do the job and come back at our base or land at a secondary base. So, it suited the Jaguar aircrafts and two squadrons were formed at Ambala.”“Over a period of more than 50 years, the infrastructure at Ambala is developed enough to induct any new aircraft without pumping a lot of money. The air defence systems around Ambala are also developed,” he said.“Rafale gives us longer range than Jaguars. Ambala gives us adequate depth when the range required is more, both towards the north and west. We have adequate area for air to air refueling which is not possible at forward bases,” he said.At present, Ambala has two squadrons of Jaguar and one of MIG-21 Bison.  “The second base for Rafale is planned at Hashimara (West Bengal). Pakistan is not the real enemy as far air power is concerned, but our eastern neighbour China is. When we didn’t have Rafale, we had moved three squadrons of Sukhoi in the east. With Rafale, we will have adequate number of airborne fighters and fighter bombers to look after the China threat,” he said.He added that nearby bases of Hashimara had also been beefed up.Barbora had also served as Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Eastern Air Command and then Western Air Command.The Indian Air Force is inducting Rafale aircrafts into the ‘Golden Arrows’ squadron on July 29. History of ‘Golden Arrows’After MIG-21 aircrafts were phased out, Golden Arrows was ‘number plated’ on December 31, 2011. It was resurrected on September 10, 2019, when Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa was Chief of Air Staff.Dhanoa himself had served in the ‘Golden Arrows’.  It was formed on October 1, 1951, at Ambala under the command of Flight Lieutenant DL Springett. Then it was equipped with Harvard-II B aircraft.  According to information provided by the Indian Air Force, the squadron converted fully to De Havilland Vampire by November, 1955 and by 1957, it was flying Hawker Hunter aircrafts.The squadron converted to the MIG-21 M in 1975.As far as operations were concerned, the squadron participated in Goa Liberation Campaign in December, 1961 and in 1965 operations as a reserve force.Under the command of Wing Commander N Chatrath, it took part in the Indo-Pak war of 1971 and flew close air support, counter air and fighter recce missions, getting numerous gallantry awards.In November, 1988, the squadron was presented ‘Colours’ by then President of India, R Venkataraman.Under Dhanoa, when he was Wing Commander, Golden Arrows participated actively in Operation ‘Safed Sagar’ in 1999.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambalas-strategic-location-behind-using-it-for-induction-of-rafale-former-air-vice-chief-barbora-115947
21-07-2020||Rohtak||Woman, five-year-old son killed as wall collapses amid heavy rains in Rohtak||A woman and her five-year-old son were killed when a wall collapsed on their slums due to torrential rain in Palika Colony, under Shivaji police station, here, on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday.Five other slum dwellers also suffered injuries in the incident.They have been admitted to PGIMS where the condition of one the injured is said to be critical.The deceased has been identified as 23-year-old Shivani and Adarsh.The incident took place around 1 am when all the dwellers were asleep. The slums were set up adjacent to a 9-feet long outer wall of main sewage water disposal on the Jhajjar road here.The injured were rushed to the PGIMS where Shivani and Adarsh succumbed to their injuries during the treatment.Shivaji Colony Police Station, SHO, Balwant Singh, said they were informed about the situation around 2 am.“We rushed to the spot and thereafter, went to the PGIMS. Four-five who sustained minor injuries were discharged while a woman is still admitted there. An action under section 174 of CRPc has been taken in this respect,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-five-year-old-son-killed-as-wall-collapses-amid-heavy-rains-in-rohtak-115905
21-07-2020||Hisar||2 liquor contractors shot dead in Haryana's Sirsa||Two liquor contractors were shot dead by a group of armed assailants on the Sangaria border in Dabwali subdivision of Sirsa district on Monday night.The deceased have been identified as Mukesh Godara, a resident of Bharukhera village, and Prakash Punia, a resident of Chautala village in Sirsa district.The police said that the contractors were sitting in a liquor shop in Aachchi Dhani near Sangaria border on Monday night when 5-6 assailants, on two motorcycles, arrived at the shop. Police sources said that the assailants fired nearly 30-35 rounds targeting the victims. They were rushed to the hospital where the doctors declared them brought dead. The sources said that rival groups seemed to be involved in the murder.DSP Kuldeep Beniwal said that the police have started an investigation after registering a case of murder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-liquor-contractors-shot-dead-in-haryanas-sirsa-115887
21-07-2020||Deepender Deswal||Two doctors, three medical staffers among test 23 more tested positive in Hisar||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 21The health authorities sanitised the laboratory in the Civil Hospital and quarantined six other lab technicians and one computer operation after a lab technician, working at the hospital tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday.With medical staff getting infected with the virus, the health authorities are on alert as two doctors and a nurse of Maharaja Agrasen Medical College (MAMC), Agroha, Hisar, also tested positive on Monday.After 17 fresh cases, the caseload has gone up to 664 in the district.After the lab technician tested positive, six other lab technicians and a computer operation, who came in contact with the infected lab technician during working hours in the hospital, have been quarantined.Besides, an employee of the Additional Deputy Commissioner’s office also been found COVID infected and portions of the office were sanitised.Meanwhile, the district administration has decided that COVID positive patients will not be home isolated and will be referred to COVID Care Centres only.The administration took the decision after a complaint that a home-isolated COVID patient was seen wandering in the market.“Laxity on any part in dealing with COVID-19 could result in grave consequences. Thus, it has been decided that the patients will be admitted in the COVID Care Centres instead of allowing them to stay in home isolation,” DC Priyanka Soni said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-doctors-three-medical-staffers-among-test-23-more-tested-positive-in-hisar-115882
21-07-2020||Karnal||Karnal reports 37 COVID-19 cases||Karnal reports 37 fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday morning.However, four infections are recorded of other districts, which will be added to those. While the remaining 33 infections will be added to Karnal's account, said the sources in the Health Department.As per information, around 17 police personnel of CIA-1, CIA-2, and Police Lines are among the positive cases.Besides, fiver members of a family— a 50-year-old woman, a 20-year-old male, a 5 five-year-old girl and a 25-year-old woman—of Karan Vihar, who are contacts of Nigdhu police station, have tested positive.Apart from them, two people—a 33-yea-old man and a 58-year-old man—of Gurdwara Manji Sahib, a 28-year-old man of Sitamai, a 24-year-old man of Shanti Nagar, a 31-year-old man of New Prem Nagar, a 37-year-old man of Ghoghripur, a 25-year-old man of Ram Nagar, a 45-year-old man of Karan Vihar, a 58-year-old man of Dera Jundla, a 42-year-old man of RK Puram and a 29-year woman of Sector-6 are among the positive cases.A 29-year-old woman and an 11-year-old boy of Panipat, a 30-year-old man of Haripura in Kaithal district and a 40-year-old man of Kurukshetra are also positive cases, but they belong to other districts.So far, 26 police personnel have tested positive.Earlier, six police personnel including SHO of Nigdhu Police Station have tested positive, prompting the Superintendent of Police, Surinder Singh Bhoria to close the Nigdhu Police Station for 48-hours. A makeshift police station has been developed in the government school, while the whole proceedings of the police station are being done from Butana Police Station and Sitamai police post. Karnal registered 10 fatalities.With the new cases, the number of positive cases crossed the figure of 690. Of them, 500 have been discharged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-reports-37-covid-19-cases-115881
21-07-2020||Parveen Arora||Three women on 1 bed at Karnal maternity ward||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 20Two to three women on one bed is a common sight at the gynaecology ward of the Karnal Civil Hospital, where women have been battling the agony of overcrowding alongside labour pain.Limited spaceWe earlier had 20 beds. Eight more were added by turning the waiting hall into a ward. There is no further scope now.— Dr Piyush Sharma, Principal medical officerAnti-natal, post-natal and abortion patients have been forced to put up together, exposing them to the risk of infection amid the Covid pandemic. The ward has 28 beds to deal with a huge rush of patients, including those being referred from Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, which has been converted into a Covid centre. Around 40 patients turn up daily, says an official.“We have little choice but to share a bed. There are several beds that have three patients each. The hospital staff attribute the rush to the closure of gynae ward at the Kalpana Chawla hospital,” says a woman whose daughter-in-law delivered a child three days ago. Hospital stay is one of the most horrifying experiences for the pregnant women, who are in immense pain both before and post-delivery, claims another attendant. An official says compared to a total of 2,364 deliveries in 2019, 2,327 deliveries have already been conducted till July 19 this year. Apart from beds, the ward is facing shortage of doctors too as only one gynaecologist is available against the requirement of four.Dr Piyush Sharma, Principal Medical Officer, maintains there definitely is a shortage of beds and doctors. “We earlier had 20 beds. Eight more were added by converting the waiting hall into a ward. There is no scope for further expansion,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-women-on-1-bed-at-karnal-maternity-ward-115748
21-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||‘Kothali’ witnesses new trend during pandemic||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 20The Covid pandemic has changed the trend of centuries-old tradition of ‘kothali’ with brothers transferring money to sister’s’ bank account through mobile apps for buying sweets in place of personally visiting them as a precautionary measure to protect them from the deadly virus. The trend is being witnessed especially in Covid hotspot areas.‘Kothali’ is a popular tradition in which brothers take sweets to their married sister’s house as a ‘shagun’ on the occasion of ‘Teej’ festival. The sisters also eagerly wait for their brothers. Teej will be celebrated on July 23.“My elder brother used to come to my house every year to give ‘kothali’ on Teej, but this time, he transferred Rs 2,000 as shagun into my bank account in place of coming to Rohtak from Delhi. It was for the first time in the past 16 years when my brother will not come on Teej due to the pandemic,” said Sangeeta Rani, a housewife.Parveen Tondwal, an architect, said his sister resided in Sonepat, which was among the four top Covid hotspot districts in the state. “I was planning to travel to my sister’s house on Sunday to give kothali, but she called me up asking not to come this time as the infection was wreaking havoc in her locality, hence I had to cancel the plan, but transferred the Teej shagun online into her bank account,” Tondwal added.Lalit of Najafgarh (Delhi) also followed the same trend by giving ‘shagun’ to his elder sister residing in Gurugram through Paytm.“Precaution is the only option to avoid Covid infection hence my brother did not come to Rohtak from Faridabad this time and sent the money for ‘kothali’ online. I will also send ‘rakhi’ to my brother by post on ‘Raksha Bandhan’ if the situation does not change. No one should take the risk of travelling in these conditions if it’s avoidable,” said Seema, a teacher.This new trend has also taken a toll on the sale of ‘ghevar’ and other sweets. “Ghevar has been a vital part of ‘kothali’ hence the brothers do not forget buying ghevar for their sisters on Teej but this time, the sale of ghevar has gone down drastically as people are hesitating in buying sweets due to the Covid fear,” said Dharampal Kataria, a sweetshop owner.Brothers Transfer money to sisters onlineBrothers transfer ‘shagun’ for sisters online, but stay away from visiting them as a precautionary measure, especially in Covid hotspots.Know about ‘Kothali’‘Kothali’ is a popular tradition in which brothers take sweets to their married sister’s house as a ‘shagun’ on the occasion of ‘Teej’ festival. The sisters also eagerly wait for their brothers. Teej will be celebrated on July 23.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kothali-witnesses-new-trend-during-pandemic-115688
21-07-2020||Nitish Sharma||Thanesar elevated rail track project likely to take off  in September||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, July 20More than a year after it was cleared by the Centre, the work on the 6-km elevated railway track project in Thanesar town of Kurukshetra is likely to start in September.The project was approved in July last year and its foundation stone was laid in August. The Haryana Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation (HRIDC) floated the tenders for the project worth Rs 212.73 crore this week.While the Railways’ contribution to the project is Rs 100 crore, the state government will spend the remaining amount. The track, to be developed within Thanesar town on the Kurukshetra-Narwana rail line, will eliminate five railway crossings at Main Bazaar, Jhansa Road, Birla Mandir, LNJP Hospital and near the third gate of Kurukshetra University.Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha said, “The project will start in the next three months. Tenders have been floated by the HRIDC and a pre-bid meeting will be held at its office in Gurugram on July 29. After the tender is allotted, the firm will be given 30 months to complete the project. Efforts are being made to complete the tendering process by August, so that the work can be started in September.”The existing railway track has divided Thanesar into two parts. Hassle-free movement of vehicles in the town has been a long pending demand of residents. All five gates are closed whenever a train passes through the Kurukshetra-Narwana section, causing inconvenience to commuters. “Elimination of five railway gates by constructing an elevated track was required to not only give relief to commuters from traffic jams, but also for the beautification of the city,” the MLA said.Venture to cost Rs 212.73-cr||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/thanesar-elevated-rail-track-project-likely-to-take-off-in-september-115689
21-07-2020||
||CSR-funded project for  basic learning  in state’s schools||Chandigarh, July 20 The Haryana School Shiksha Pariyojana Parishad has launched a CSR-funded ‘Haryana Early Literacy Outcomes Development Impact Bond’ for improving foundation language learning for grade 1 and 2 students. The programme, launched in partnership with IndusInd Bank and SBI Capital Markets, is being implemented by the Language and Learning Foundation. While IndusInd Bank has promised Rs 14 crore, SBI Capital Markets has committed Rs 2.8 crore. The parishad has built the programme to help strengthen academic support provided by state resource personnel to develop a state-specific early literacy and learning package to help improve students’ language learning outcomes. It is aimed at making students understand appropriate texts and understand simple sentences.  The project is aimed at bringing the Language and Learning Foundation’s evidence-based programme to 1.15 lakh children in 3,330 schools across seven districts by March 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/csr-funded-project-for-basic-learning-in-states-schools-115690
21-07-2020||Sanjay Yadav
||Pilot booked for abetting  suicide||Gurugram, July 20 The police booked a pilot for allegedly abetting suicide of his former live-in partner, a former crew member of an airline. The accused had invited her to a party that he hosted at his friend’s place. The duo had an argument there, following which the victim allegedly jumped from the fifth floor. The police have registered a case, but they are also suspecting foul play. The deceased was identified as Peggyla Bhutia (26), a native of Sikkim. She lived with her elder sister Bebyla in S block of DLF Phase-3 and both worked as crew members in airlines. On Sunday evening, the victim went to a party hosted by one of her friends, Dzzel Thiksey Sharma, at Bestech Park View Spa Next Society, Sector 67. The police said Sharma was a pilot with Jet Airways and had 10 guests, including the deceased and four couples.  “At 9:30pm while others were busy having dinner, an argument started between the deceased and Sharma. They came outside in the balcony and soon Sharma came back saying that she had jumped. Soon, residents gathered there and rushed her to Artemis Hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead. The police came and took the body in custody,” said a senior investigator. Bebyla said in her complaint that she was fed up with Sharma and he was responsible for her death. According to preliminary investigation, a fight had taken place between the host and the deceased, minutes before her death. An FIR was registered against Sharma at the Sector 65 police station. “We are investigating all angles. The accused will be called for investigation,” said Dinkar, SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pilot-booked-for-abetting-suicide-115691
21-07-2020||Sushil Manav||Will work to broaden BJP base in Haryana: Dhankar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20A day after his elevation as state BJP chief, Om Prakash Dhankar today said he planned to broaden the party’s base in Haryana in coordination with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and ensure that the party reached out to those in distress due to the pandemic.On CongressThe Congress is no longer the party it used to be. This is not my assessment, but its own leaders have been telling this to people. The other political parties in Haryana are family based and are no match for the BJP.In an exclusive interview with The Tribune at his Panchkula residence, the newly appointed state BJP chief said he had worked with Khattar for long and their relations had always been very good.“Even my entry to the BJP was because of Khattar when he was a ‘pracharak’. I still vividly remember how Khattar convinced me to join the party at a juice shop in Bhiwani, where I was a lecturer. Later, when Khattar was party incharge for north zone, I served the party as co-incharge for Himachal Pradesh,” he said.About his priorities and challenges, the state BJP president said the biggest challenge concerned ways to help the people amid the pandemic.On saffron party I want to see the BJP cadre in Haryana as strong as it is in states such as Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. All my endeavours will be in that direction.“Public health specialists from AIIMS had predicted that the country could witness 2.5 crore cases by August 15. Due to timely steps initiated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and precautions taken by the people, we are in a much better position. The government has done a lot to reach out to those in need during and after lockdown and now, as state party president, I will ensure that the party reaches out to those in need,” Dhankar said.The BJP leader said it was a positive sign that people had come out of the initial panic associated with Covid. He said earlier, some people did not even want to cremate their dear ones out of fear, but now, the infected were being isolated at home under the care of family members.Maintaining that the party had been in pause mode in Haryana for the past couple of months, Dhankar said he would soon appoint office-bearers at the district level to rejuvenate the party.Terming “Give your best and derive the best from others” as his motto in over three decades of experience in organisation, during which he had served the party as national president of the BJP’s Kisan Morcha, Dhankar said his endeavour would be to bring all sections of society to the party fold.He saw the impending byelection to Baroda, caused by death of Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda, as the first challenge as state party president and exuded confidence that the party would win.“The Congress is no longer the party it used to be. This is not my assessment, but its own leaders have been telling this to the people. The other political parties in Haryana are family based and are no match for the BJP,” Dhankar said.Refusing to be drawn into the Jat versus non-Jat discussion, considered a reality in state politics, Dhankar said the BJP had never believed in such a division.“I want to see the BJP cadre in Haryana as strong as in established states like Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh and all my endeavours will be in that direction,” he concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-work-to-broaden-bjp-base-in-haryana-dhankar-115692
21-07-2020||---||Rajasthan cops denied entry to resort, again||Gurugram, July 20A day after the showdown with the Haryana Police, Rajasthan Police’s Special Operation Group (SOG) on Sunday night came looking for rebel Congress MLAs who are supporting suspended party leader Sachin Pilot.The MLAs are reportedly putting up at Best Western Country Inn and ITC Grand Bharat near Manesar.Led by SP Vikas Sharma, the SOG travelling in three cars reached Country Inn on Sunday but had to return empty-handed after 15 minutes as the resort authorities refused them entry on the pretext that it was a “quarantine centre”, asking them to come on Monday with permission.The SOG didn’t come back on Monday. The Haryana Police kept vigil at the two luxury resorts.Sources in the SOG claim the MLAs have been switching between the two resorts, which are 5 km apart. On Friday, the Haryana Police allegedly held up the SOG team outside Grand Bharat to help the MLAs shift to an undisclosed resort.On Sunday, the SOG got a tip-off that the legislators had returned to Country Inn. So the team started from Rajasthan House in Delhi and reached Country Inn in a jiffy to catch the MLAs unawares. But the resort authorities denied them entry, claiming the resort was a “quarantine centre”.The 18 MLAs supporting Pilot have been reportedly putting up near Manesar since last week following the political rumblings in Rajasthan. The Nuh police are guarding ITC Grand Bharat, while the Gurugram police are deployed at Country Inn. The cops are reportedly in civvies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rajasthan-cops-denied-entry-to-resort-again-115694
21-07-2020||---||Cases rise, 11 of 22 districts in red zone||Chandigarh, July 20With the number of positive cases increasing by the day, the number of districts in the red zone, according to zoning parameters recommended by the Centre, has increased by nearly 50 per cent in a week.Nine districts — Ambala, Faridabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Mahendragarh, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak and Sonepat — have been placed in the red zone for the total number of active cases in the week ended July 19 compared to six districts a week before.In terms of active cases per lakh population, Jhajjar, Panchkula and the nine mentioned above have been included in the red zone in the week ended July 19 compared to eight districts a week back. All other districts are in the orange zone while no district is in the green zone on these two parameters.The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has recommended various parameters like total active cases, active cases per lakh population, case fatality rate, testing ratio, positivity rate and case doubling rate for determining zones.On the parameters of positivity rate and case doubling rate, the number of districts in the red zone remains unchanged at four and five, respectively. Faridabad leads with the maximum of 1,194 active cases, followed by 1,028 in Gurugram and 718 in Sonepat.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said the state government had increased testing considerably and with the increase in cases, the focus was on saving more lives.He said 10,203 samples were tested on July 19 compared to 9,771 a week earlier, thereby registering an increase from 38 samples per lakh population to 40.“Due to the government’s efforts, the fatality rate has come down from 1.4 per cent to 1.3 per cent last week. Testing ratio per lakh population has gone up from 1,444 to 1,733 last week, which has helped the department identify infected persons early and isolate them. Higher testing is helping saving lives by hospitalising moderate and critical cases well in time,” Arora added.No district in green zone||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cases-rise-11-of-22-districts-in-red-zone-115695
21-07-2020||---||Virus kills six more, 694 cases reported||Chandigarh, July 20With 694 cases, the Covid tally reached 26,858 today. Six deaths pushed the toll to 355. Three deaths were reported from Sonepat and one each from Jhajjar, Hisar and Nuh. A 57-year-old woman of Shiv Colony and a 60-year-old man of Sector 7 died in Karnal, but were yet to be added to the toll in the state health bulletin.Fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (109), Faridabad (103), Sonepat (98), Rewari (75), Ambala (70), Palwal and Panipat (35 each), Jhajjar (24), Hisar (23), Karnal (21), Mahendragarh (20), Rohtak (15), Fatehabad (14), Panchkula (13), Bhiwani and Sirsa (8 each), Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Jind and Charkhi Dadri (5 each) and Nuh (3).A 68-year-old woman and a 45-year-old woman from Pehowa, a 24-year-old youth and a 24-year-old woman from Kurukshetra and a 20-year-old youth from Bachgaon village tested positive in Kurukshetra.Among the 70 cases from Ambala, 44 were reported from Ambala Cantonment, 16 from Ambala City, five from Chaurmastpur, four from Naraingarh and one from Shahzadpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/virus-kills-six-more-694-cases-reported-115696
21-07-2020||Jhajjar||Jhajjar sepoy cremated||The mortal remains of Sepoy Akshay Kadyan, who died in Jammu and Kashmir in an accident two days ago, were consigned to flames at his native Dubaldhan village with full military honour. Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma and Beri MLA Raghuvir Singh Kadian attended the last rites.  Akshay had joined the Army four year ago.  His father was also in the Army. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-sepoy-cremated-115697
21-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur
||Nine hand sanitisers fail  quality test||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 20 The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) has detected substandard alcohol-based hand sanitisers and busted illegal factories. The FDA had taken 158 samples in June after complaints about poor quality. The results of 59 samples are out and nine have been found substandard. “The samples which have failed the test have low content of isopropyl alcohol or ethanol,” said Ashok Kumar Meena, Commissioner, FDA. “We will launch prosecution against nine brands under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. Some of these firms are based in the state,” he said. He pointed out that no sample contained methanol. The FDA had so far got eight FIRs registered for the sale of spurious and overpriced hand sanitisers. On Health Minister Anil Vij’s directions, the samples were collected from across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nine-hand-sanitisers-fail-quality-test-115698
21-07-2020||---||Farmers hold tractor ‘andolan’ against Centre’s 3 ordinances||Ambala, July 20Unhappy with the three ordinances introduced by the Centre in agriculture sector and higher fuel prices, farmers on the call given by the Bhartiya Kisan Union and other farmers’ unions on Monday held a tractor ‘andolan’ in Kurukshetra, Ambala and Karnal.The farmers parked their tractors along roads and highways to mark their resentment and later submitted memorandums to the subdivisional magistrates to be further presented to the Prime Minster, seeking the withdrawal of ordinances and rollback of fuel prices.BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said: “The Centre has introduced three ordinances — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, Farmers Agreement of Price assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, and Ordinance to amend the Essential Commodities Act — which are not acceptable to us at any cost. The ordinances will disturb the grain market system badly. The government has been taking anti-farmers decisions and this is harmful for the future of farmers as well as for food security. There will be no guarantee of the MSP and farmers will be forced to sell their produce at cheaper rates. These ordinances will help the corporates only.”“On one hand, the government claims to double the farmers’ income by 2022 but on the other it has hiked the taxes on diesel, resulting in an increase in the cost of cultivation. The government must reduce the diesel prices at the earliest,” he added.“We have held a peaceful agitation on Monday. Another meeting has been called on July 30 to discuss the future course of action. If our demands are not met, we will be forced to intensify the agitation,” Charauni added.Meanwhile, in Karnal, scores of farmers and commission agents took out a tractor ‘andolan’ against the Centre’s recent ordinances on the agriculture sector. The protesters led by Rajinder Arya, president, Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan, and Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Commission Agents Association, handed over a memorandum to SDM Narender Pal Malik.Arya and Chaudhary said all three ordinances were against the agriculture sector. “These ordinances are against the democracy and should be taken back,” they added.Other demands||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-hold-tractor-andolan-against-centres-3-ordinances-115699
21-07-2020||Gurugram||Man drowns in Dhankot canal||A 24-year-old employee of Ecogreen company, who had gone with his four friends for a dip in Dhankot canal, drowned and died. The police along with a team of divers reached the spot and recovered victim Ajay’s body after an hour of search.  Yesterday, the five friends decided to go to the canal for a swim. One of them Ajay (24), a native Ghaziabad, slipped and drifted to deeper waters. Seeing Ajay gasping for breath, his four friends Sandeep, Karan, Mukesh and Karamveer shouted for help, but nobody heard them and not being trained swimmers, they finally called the police and his family. It took half-an-hour when the rescue team reached the spot and by that time the body of Ajay had disappeared. After an hour of search, the body was fished out. “The man’s family has not filed a complaint yet. We handed over the body to the kin after postmortem. His father Ramniwas did not raise any doubt or suspicion,” said Inspector Pankaj Kumar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-drowns-in-dhankot-canal-115700
21-07-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Police solve Rs4.23 cr robbery case after 2.5 yrs, arrest five||Tribune News ServicePanipat, July 20The police have arrested five persons in a two-and-a-half-year-old robbery case, in which jewellery worth Rs 4.23 crore and Rs 2.45 lakh cash was stolen from a private gold loan company’s office at Bhim Goda Chowk on the Panipat-Haridwar highway on January 29, 2018.The accused have been identified as Bijender of Bambar Hedi village in Karnal district; Rajiv of Chhatar village in Jind district; Imran of Kairana, Sunny of Simbhalka village, and Dawood of Roshanpura, all in Uttar Pradesh.At a press meet on Monday, Satish Vats, DSP, Headquarter, said on a tip-off, CIA-3 team incharge Inspector Anil Chhillar nabbed the five accused from the clinic of Sunny in Sector 29 here on July 14. During a preliminary probe, they disclosed the gold heist.It was revealed that Dawood was the main conspirator of the gold heist, the DSP said. He had come to Panipat with his family and started living at a rented accommodation in Manmohan Nagar four years ago. He was fond of gambling due to which he got debt-ridden and owed Rs 5 lakh.Dawood made a plan to become a millionaire along with Sunny and Imran, who were also living in Panipat on rent, and decided to loot gold from Indian Infoline Finance Limited office, he added.Three of the five accused have been taken on five-day remand again, the DSP said.We have recovered Rs 52.25-lakh cash, 81.31-gram gold jewellery, a Swift car, 3 country-made pistols and a motorcycle used in the crime, the DSP said.Now Sections 342, 397, 420 and 120B IPC have also been added to the FIR. The case has been transferred to the Special Task Force, the DSP added.Panipat’s biggest gold heist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-solve-rs4-23-cr-robbery-case-after-2-5-yrs-arrest-five-115701
21-07-2020||Nitin Jain
||Notice to 200 health institutes lacking waste disposal system||Tribune News Service Ambala, July 20 The civic body has issued notices to 200 hospitals, health clinics, nursing homes and laboratories in Ambala to dispose of their biomedical waste as per the guidelines issued by the Health Department.  As per the notice, the management of the health institutions has been asked to enter into a contract with a private firm hired by the district administration for collection of waste from the source and its disposal as per the norms. The notices gave instructions on collection of biomedical waste and its segregation at source, before the authorised agency picked it up from the premises. While some hospitals in twin towns had already tied up with the private firm to dispose of their biomedical waste, several others were allegedly mixing it up with the rest of the waste and disposing it collectively through their private cleanliness staffers or general waste collectors.  A visit to several parts of the twin towns revealed that a large quantity of  biomedical waste comprising used disposable syringes, needles, gloves, empty intravenous drip bottles, blood-soaked bandages and cotton swabs  was littered at public places. “We have issued notices to the health institutes to adhere to the norms for disposing of biomedical waste, failing which fine and penal action as per the prescribed rules, will be slapped against the violators,” said a senior MC officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notice-to-200-health-institutes-lacking-waste-disposal-system-115702
21-07-2020||Despite claims by Chief Minister ML Khattar to curb stray animal menace||Stray animal menace continues in Kaithal||Rewari DC’s courtesy call appreciableI was very much impressed with the timely action of Yashinder Singh, DC, Rewari, when he came to know that an owner of a house was harassing his tenant — a woman doctor, who became a Corona patient while serving patients. She was being compelled to leave the house and he disconnected her water supply, electricity and asked the milk vendor not to supply her milk. The DC visited her house and talked to her and called the owner and reprimanded him for his action. Later, the land owner felt sorry and assured the DC that it would not happen again. Of course, our doctors who have done a nice job while putting their lives at risk deserve all the respect.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramTwo-wheelers' theft on the riseDuring the ongoing lockdown, motorcycle thieves have suddenly become active in Narwana. Only during the last fortnight, at least three motorcycles have been stolen in the broad daylight at different locations and the police are finding it difficult to trace them. In many cases, the motorcycles were properly locked, but still the thieves did their work without any fear. Will the authorities take steps to club such thefts.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-animal-menace-continues-in-kaithal-115715
21-07-2020||Hisar||Tools to detect fake news||CUH to start online classes on Aug 1Mahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) has decided to start online teaching from August 1 after the declaration of intermediate semester provisional results. Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad informed the decision to conduct the online classes was taken unanimously at a meeting of heads of various departments in view of guidelines issued by the Department of Human Resource Development and the University Grant Commission.Two new heads appointed at IGURewari: The Vice-Chancellor of Indira Gandhi University ( IGU) ,Prof SK Gakhar, has appointed Assistant Professors — Dr Vikas Batra and Dr Pooja Vyas — as the head of department of economics and management, respectively. He maintained both teachers would be authorised to take all sorts of policy decisions for smooth functioning of their department concerned.Webinar for language enrichmentPanipat: The department of laws of Bhagat Phool Singh Mahila Vishwavidyalya (BPSMV) organised an interactive webinar in association with "Project Shakti", which was led by women IRS officers of 2007 batch for career building and language enrichment of students. Vice-Chancellor Professor Sushma Yadava presided over the session and in her speech motivated participants for building good language as an important part of their personality. She also told the students to develop reading habits for language enrichment. Dr Rajesh Hooda, chairperson, law department, and Shashi Kajle, Additional Commissioner, have initiated to coordinate an interactive session for the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tools-to-detect-fake-news-115716
21-07-2020||Ambala||3 nabbed for vehicle theft||The police have arrested three persons in separate cases of vehicle theft and claimed to have recovered two stolen two-wheelers from their possession. According to the police, Ajay Kumar and Sagar ,alias Monta of Ambala City were arrested with a stolen motorcycle They were later released on bail. Rahul Kumar of Railon village was arrested with a stolen scooter. TNS1 held for drug smugglingThe police have arrested Rohit Kumar of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh in a case of smuggling intoxicating drugs. The arrest was made following a confessional statement of Jatinder alias Johny of Mahesh Nagar, who was arrested with 1,856 capsules and 800 tablets on July 18. TNS5 arrested in assault caseThe police have arrested Daya Shanker, Ram Avtar, Jaswant and two woman accomplices of Jagatpura in Mohali in a case of assault. The accused were later released on bail. TNS16-yr-old girl abductedA minor girl was reportedly abducted after being lured with the promise of marriage. A woman of Saha reported that her 16-year-old daughter was abducted by Ashu. The police registered a case. TNSMLA nominated to panelChandigarh: Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta has nominated MLA Bishamber Singh to serve on the Committee on Subordinate Legislation for the remaining period of 2020-2021. TNSWoman jumps into canalKarnal: A woman, along with her two children, allegedly jumped into an augmentation canal near Madhuban, today afternoon. The woman was fished out, but was declared dead by the doctors on the arrival at the hospital. The identity of the woman was yet to be ascertained, the police said. The woman jumped into the canal, along with her two boys, one aged two-and-a-half and another one. Efforts were being made to trace the boys. TNSTwo die in Jind mishapHisar: A man and his eight-month-old daughter were killed when the motorcycle they were riding collided with a truck in Jind on Sunday. Vijay and his daughter Vinamrata, residents of Sajuma village in Kaithal, were rushed to a hospital, where they died during treatment. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-nabbed-for-vehicle-theft-115717
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||‘No community transmission’||Health Minister Anil Vij said the recovery rate was about 75 per cent and it took 22 or 23 days for cases to double. He asserted that there was no sign of community transmission. He said human trials of the vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech was likely to yield positive results at the PGIMS in Rohtak. He said about 70 persons had registered for the tests on their own and no side-effects had been observed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-community-transmission-115733
