21-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus recovery rate over 56 pc in Haryana||The rate at which the number of coronavirus cases in Haryana was doubling is 13.15 days as against 7.5 days of the national average, Health Minister Anil Vij said on Tuesday.He also said that the state has a recovery rate of 56.7 per cent.“Doubling of #Covid-19 cases in Haryana is in 13.15 days as against 7.5 days in the country,” Vij tweeted.He said six districts in the state have not reported any fresh case in two weeks, and added that Haryana was fast moving towards normalcy.“With 56.7 per cent recovery rate against 16.38 per cent of all-India rate of #coronavirus cases Haryana is moving fast towards normalcy,” the health minister said.Meanwhile, four fresh cases surfaced in the state on Tuesday, taking the total to 255. Among the new cases, two were reported in Sonepat and one each from Gurugram and Faridabad.The Union Health Ministry had on Monday said the rate at which the number of coronavirus cases in the country was doubling in the last one week has slowed to 7.5 days, as against 3.4 days before the nationwide lockdown was imposed.“Death rate in Haryana is 0.79 per cent against 3.15 per cent of the country. Tests per million of population in Haryana are 548 against all India average of 304,” Vij said.He added that though there was a long way to go before the battle against COVID-19 was won, “full credit goes to the doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, sanitation workers, the police force and others who are working round-the-clock performing their duties in different roles”.According to a bulletin issued by the Health Department, the state’s tally of coronavirus cases includes 24 foreigners.The number of active cases stands at 106 and 147 patents have recovered, it said. Haryana has so far recorded two COVID-related deaths.The worst affected district is Nuh with 57 cases, followed by Faridabad (43), Gurugram (37) and Palwal (34).As many as 14,562 samples have been tested so far, out of which 12,253 have come out negative. Reports of 2,068 samples are awaited.Among the 24 foreign nationals who tested positive, 14 were Italian tourists and 13 of them were discharged later while one elderly woman in the group had passed away recently even though she had recovered from COVID-19.The other 10 foreign nationals found coronavirus positive are from countries including Sri Lanka, Nepal, Thailand, South Africa and Indonesia while 64 are from other states, as per the bulletin. — PTI
21-04-2020||Satish Seth||Kaithal sees slow start||Kaithal, April 20On the first day of wheat procurement, commission agents remained on strike and made no purchases till Monday noon. However after the intervention of MLA Lila Ram and SDM Kamalpreet Kaur, traders assured to start the purchase late in the evening.But a visit by The Tribune reporter revealed that only three farmers had brought their produce in New Anaj Mandi and none turned up in old mandi here.DFSC Virender singh said though traders were reluctant to purchase wheat in the beginning but MLA Lila Ram and SDM talked to them and cleared their apprehensions following which commission agents agreed to start the procurement. Market committee secretary Deepak Kumar said the produce brought in New Mandi had been purchased by traders.On the other hand, despite a boycott call in Cheeka mandi, the traders started the procurement after they were persuaded by Guhla-Cheeka MLA Ishwar Singh to do so.According to information, 128 farmers brought their produce for sale, which was purchased by the DFSC and Hafed.Virender said about 6,000 quintals of wheat reached Adani Sillos in the Dhand area and the produce in Siwan Mandi was also purchased. However, no wheat purchase took place in Kalayat.
21-04-2020||Deepender Deswal||Wheat arrives in just 5 of 77 centres in Hisar||Tribune News ServiceHisar, April 20Farmers, it seems, have opted a wait-and-watch policy on the first day of wheat procurement on Monday as they brought their produce only at five centres of total 77 in the district.The Food and Supplies Department figures show that of 1,908 quintals of wheat at five purchase centres, 550 quintals was bought by the procurement agencies on Monday.Farmers said they were withholding the stock for a couple of days as the IMD had predicted showers. The weather is likely to be variable with showers till April 25 in the region. Dr ML Khichar, head of the agri-meteorology department of the HAU, said there was a possibility of showers on April 23 and 24.Zile Singh, a farmer of Bir Babran village, said the authorities don’t have adequate arrangements in the grain markets for wheat procurement. The arhtiyas were not cooperating and the procurement agencies have shortage of labour. “It’s better to withhold the yield for a couple of days,” said Singh.
21-04-2020||
||In Panipat, arhtiyas oppose govt procurement policy, go on strike||Panipat, April 20 Members of the Panipat Arhtiyas Association on Monday opposed the government’s wheat purchase policy and went on an indefinite strike. Meanwhile, farmers too didn’t show up at the grain markets and purchase centres in the district on the first day of procurement. However, the district administration claimed to have purchased 5,700 quintals of wheat. The district administration had made the arrangements for wheat procurement in 12 grain markets and established 18 sub-centres. However, the arhtiyas went on an indefinite strike to oppose the government procurement policy. Dharambir Singh Malik, state vice-president and district president of Arhtiyas Association, said the government wants complete details of money transaction between farmers and arhtiyas. However, the farmers have rejected to disclose their details and also warned that if the arhtiyas would disclose about their details they would not return their money, Malik added. He said no farmer brought even a single trolley of wheat in the grain market at Panipat on the first day even when the marketing board officials had called them. Similar situation was witnessed in Israna and other grain markets in the district.
21-04-2020||Sushil Manav||Restrictions eased, yet industry not eager to resume operations||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20Govt disagrees, clears the airHe said the condition of insurance of workers for Covid before resuming operations was laid down by the Ministry of Home Affairs and there was nothing wrong with itHe denied there was a condition of lodging of FIR against industrialist in case a worker gets infectedThe confusion regarding posting of pictures of units with application is also unfounded. “Industrialists merely have to give an undertaking that they will disinfect their units before starting operations,” Prasad saidDespite conditional easing of the lockdown by the government from Monday, few industrial units in Haryana were keen to begin operations, largely because of stringent guidelines and complexities and confusions in the permission process.The complete lockdown in Delhi is another reason behind industrialists’ reluctance to resume operations since units in the state largely depend on the National Capital for both raw material needs and marketing of finished goods.“Sonepat has around 7,000 industrial units. While nearly 450 that manufacture essential commodities are already operating, very few barring those into printing and packaging material are likely to resume work,” said Rakesh Chhabra, president of the Rai Industrial Association in Sonepat district.He said that as per government guidelines, industrialists were either supposed to provide accommodation to labourers or bring them in buses maintaining social distancing. Both these were difficult for them. “The government condition that an industrialist would be booked if a labourer gets infected with Covid has also forced industrialists drag their feet on resuming activities,” he said. So far, not a single permission to restart activity has been granted by the authorities, he added.Rajive Chawla, chairman of the Integrated Association of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Faridabad, said many industrialists were keen to resume operations, but the complexities and confusions involved with the guidelines, standard operating procedure and permission process have forced them to hold back.“The government wants us to insure workers for Covid before starting operations, though they are already covered under the Employees’ State Insurance (ESI). This will not benefit workers, but only the insurance companies because insurance from two companies will only divide their liability,” said Chawla. He said industrialists had time and again pointed out this to the authorities and tried to seek clarification, but they have not received a satisfactory answer so far.Chawla said industrialists have been asked to upload pictures of their units as proof of complying with guidelines while applying for permission, but it was not possible for them to do so unless they visit their factories.He said resuming industrial activities without opening retail outlets was pointless “There will be no use of manufacturing things such as furniture, footwear or auto parts if the shops selling them in retail are closed.”Satish Jagga, general secretary of Bahadurgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said a majority of the members were of the view that manufacturing activities should begin only after May 4 when the lockdown is lifted. “Labourers are not educated and aware enough to maintain social distancing and follow other protocols against Covid. Resuming industrial activities under these conditions will be fraught with the risk of spread of infection,” said Jagga.Sources said a large number of industrial units in the NCR were ancillary units of companies such as Maruti and Honda. “When Maruti and Honda are not functioning, their ancillary units have to automatically keep shut, since they don’t have any other customers,” said the sources.
21-04-2020||---||23 wheat growers turn up at Palwal mandi||Palwal, April 20In all, 23 farmers turned up at the local grain market on the first day of the wheat procurement on Monday.A maximum of 25 farmers are allowed on a single day. Almost half of the total wheat growers in the district have registered on “Meri Fasal, Mera Beora” portal, set up by the state government, for farmers for which seven procurement centres have been set up.Narveer Singh, Market Committee secretary, said while the details of the total procurement done on Monday were still to be compiled, all measures to ensure proper sanitisation and social distancing were taken.Claiming that the produce of only those farmers was being procured who have registered themselves on the portal, Narveer said while 13,000 farmers had already registered, the process was still on. Meanwhile, information about the date of procurement is given to the farmers 24 hours prior to their turn, he added. A total of 7,706 quintals of mustard had already been procured here in the past three days, he added.However, condemning the procurement strategy, local BKU leader Ratan Singh Sorot said binding the farmers to bring their produce on a certain day or date and not accepting it later was gross injustice as many of them may not be able to arrange transportation on a certain day and they must be given another date. He said not accepting the produce of the farmers of the villages falling under the containment or buffer zone was also unfortunate as the growers were under huge stress.
21-04-2020||Parveen Arora||Safety norms go for a toss in Karnal grain markets||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 20With wheat procurement beginning from Monday, farmers started bringing their crop to various purchase centres in the district. However, slow server speed in generating gate pass and social distancing remained a big challenge for the administration.Moreover, some of the commission agents seemed unhappy with the assigned rice mills or procurement centre due to lesser space.‘All arrangements in place’ All farmers registered on the “Meri Fasal, Mera Byora” portal are being called or sent SMSes. I have even instructed the officials concerned to ensure social distancing and sanitisation of the vehicles coming to mandis. — Nishant Kumar Yadav, DCTo check the ground reality, The Tribune team visited various grain markets and purchase centres in Karnal district. It was found that the thermal scanning of farmers was being done but sanitisation of tractor-trailers was not being conducted at the entry gates of the grain markets.Meanwhile, around 300 government teachers have been assigned the procurement activity.On the other hand, farmers, labourers as well as arhtiyas were seen flouting the social-distancing norms. Some of them were not even wearing masks.In a sugar mill on Bajida Road, DC Nishant Kumar Yadav was found inspecting the arrival of the crop and directing the authorities to ensure social distancing among arhtiyas, farmers and labourers.Arhtiyas seek more spaceIn the meanwhile, arhtiyas led by Rajneesh Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association, raised the issue of allotment of less space to them. “Some of the arhtiyas, who have several customers, have been assigned very less space in small rice mills, which is not sufficient for them. They should be allotted more space in the grain market,” Rajneesh told the DC, and the latter assured him of a solution in a few days.Gate pass generation hitIn another sugar mill, farmers alleged that due to slow server speed they could not get the gate pass, following which they couldn’t enter the market and sell their produce. “I came to the rice mill around 7 am, but even after five hours I have not received the gate pass even when I was supposed to sell my produce today,” said Ajmer Singh, a farmer of Dakwala Roran.
21-04-2020||Deepender Deswal||Bhiwani’s swift response to cases proves effective||Tribune News ServiceBhiwani, April 20261 samples takenTwo persons tested positive and were treated successfully.Another resident of Bhiwani, who is posted as jail warder, tested positive in Gurugram.All the 19 contacts of three cases tested negative and were quarantined.261 samples taken for Covid testing. Of these, reports of 33 are awaited.Bhiwani Municipal Council and the other three municipal committees in the district Siwani, Loharu and Bawani Khera have conducted disinfection and sanitation activities in every ward of their respective municipalities.The district administration’s approach to reach out to local residents to fulfil their essential needs coupled with the quick response to trace out the contacts of the three positive cases in various villages have proved effective in containing the outbreak of the Covid infection in the district so far.The district Health Department teams had reacted swiftly to positive cases detected in Sandwa and Manheru villages on April 4. These two persons had visited the Nizamuddin event and tested positive on returning home.A detailed containment plan was formed immediately after the two positive cases of Covid were diagnosed in these villages. Their family members and other contacts tested negative.While the patients were quarantined and treated successfully in the civil hospital, the health authorities carried out door-to-door influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) testing for every resident in the two villages.A similar testing campaign was carried out in Rohnat village as a local resident, posted as jail warder in a jail in Gurugram, tested positive in Gurugram and is admitted in the civil hospital there.Deputy Commissioner Ajay Kumar stated that the administration launched a mobile app ‘Bhiwani Bazaar’ for people to get groceries, medicines and other essentials on their doorstep during the lockdown.“A dedicated helpline was set up to handle queries of customers. They were given the option to call and send messages over WhatsApp to the vendors to ease communication. Movement passes and necessary logistics for the vendors were made available by the district administration,” he said.The district authorities also started door-to-door distribution of ration to BPL and other eligible families free of cost.“We realised that two aspects were crucial regarding distribution of ration. First, it needs to be distributed at the earliest possible to eliminate any hardship faced by the card holders. Second, the ration needs to be delivered on the doorstep of every card holder to avoid crowding at PDS depots,” said the DC.He informed that around 400 vehicles and 826 helpers were hired by the depot holders at their own expense and to ensure delivery of ration.“In the first week of April, 1.25 lakh card holders were delivered ration on their doorstep, thanks to the volunteering spirit among the officials, depot holders and gram panchayats,” he said, adding that 5,000 packets of dry ration were supplied to needy people in slums.Civil Surgeon Dr Jitender Kadian maintained that presently, 141 teams of the Health Department have embarked on complete scanning of residents across the district.
21-04-2020||Sushil Manav||4 cases reported positive by private lab test negative||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20A private laboratory in Haryana, approved for Covid tests by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), faces probe after samples of four patients who tested positive there were found negative when tested again in government labs.Ordering a probe, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij has also ordered that no further samples should be sent to this lab for testing till the inquiry is completed. The lab in question is one of the five private laboratories of Haryana, all based in Gurugram, approved by the ICMR for Covid tests.Confirming the development, Vij said that he has told the Health Department to test again at government laboratories all patients reported positive by this laboratory."An auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), who worked in a containment zone in Ambala, had tested positive for the infection on Saturday. In the second test done at Kalpana Chawla Medical College and Hospital, Karnal, her report came negative. Alarmed, the Health Department decided to get a third test done, this time from BPS Medical College, Khanpur Kalan in Sonepat. This time, the report said she was negative."At this, we decided to get three others from Shehzadpur village of Ambala -- who were tested positive by this lab -- tested again from BPS Medical College, Khanpur Kalan. All these samples tested negative. This is a very serious matter. If people who don't have the infection are being tested positive for Covid, this can have serious implications," the minister told The Tribune."I have directed Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Rajeev Arora for a probe into the matter. I have also asked him that that tests of all the people conducted by the laboratory in the state so far should be got conducted again from government labs," he said.He said that the manner in which tests are being conducted by this laboratory has raised suspicion. "In these four cases, the department had to unnecessarily seal certain areas and quarantine a number of their contacts as per the protocol. But now, it has emerged that they were not infected," he said.
21-04-2020||---||With three fresh Covid cases, Haryana tally goes up to 239||Chandigarh, April 20The number of Covid positive cases reached 239 in Haryana on Monday, with three more persons testing positive for the virus. Two of the fresh cases were reported from Sonepat and the third from Panchkula. A man and a woman who had come in contact with a Delhi Police constable posted at Nizamuddin Markaz tested positive. With this, the number of positive cases in the district has increased to nine.A 20-year-old Tablighi Jamaat follower who attended a congregation in Sirmaur, Himachal Pradesh, added to Panchkula’s tally. He had also visited Bijnore district in Uttar Pradesh after Sirmaur. He himself reported to the authorities on April 4. With this case, the district’s tally reached 18. Out of 18 cases, seven are connected with Tablighi Jamaat.37 discharged in last 24 hrsNo case was reported from the hotspots of Nuh (57), Faridabad (42), Gurugram (36) and Palwal (34). So far, the state has conducted 13,894 tests of which 11,523 returned negative and results of 2,134 samples were awaited. The test positivity rate has come down to 1.7 per cent from 1.9 per cent in 24 hours. As many as 127 persons have been discharged with a cure rate of 53.1 per cent while three have died. Thirtyseven persons were discharged in the last 24 hours, which is the highest in a single day so far.
21-04-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Deputation of cops to other depts cancelled||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 20With relaxations in the ongoing lockdown set to open up movement and economic activity in the state, the already stretched Haryana Police will have more work to juggle and Home Minister Anil Vij wants all hands on deck. With this in mind, deputation of personnel to other departments, including Power and Vigilance, stands cancelled and staff have been recalled as an immediate remedy for staff shortage.“Police personnel are managing a whole lot of activities from implementing the lockdown to overseeing procurement and from accompanying health workers to keeping tabs on fake news. To add to this, they will be required to maintaining the lockdown while allowing movement and activity for those issued passes. With more people on the roads, this can be slightly tricky since it will mean carrying out more exhaustive checks. We need every single police personnel in the field. Keeping this need of fanning out more men in the field, we have decided to recall all our personnel presently on deputation with other departments. DGP Manoj Yadava is handling this,” Vij said.To augment the 40,000-plus personnel already occupied with a range of duties, 500 Home Guards will supplement the existing staff. “Now that wheat procurement has started, we will need more police personnel at mandis and more police presence on the roads to ensure violators do not start taking chances to step out along with those given due permission,” Vij said. He said in a couple of days, with permissions in hand, the number of people out on the roads would go up, as would the police workforce.Handling all four departments critical to the present times — police, health, medical education and research and municipal bodies — Vij has his hands full. “After evaluating our resources and the risk involved, we have sent out supplies of PPE kits, masks and sanitisers throughout the state. The police and Urban Local Bodies Department are purchasing these for use in the 160-odd containment zones we have created across the state,” the minister said.The police and Urban Local Bodies Department have been asked to ensure that their respective employees, visiting containment areas for discharge of their duties, also wear PPE kits to cover all risks. “We want to take as many precautions as possible because every life is precious,” Vij said.
21-04-2020||---||Over 1K int’l travellers complete quarantine||Ambala, April 2025K rapid testing kitsChandigarh: Haryana on Monday received its first shipment of 25,000 rapid testing kits from SD Bio Sensor, a Korean company based in IMT Manesar, Gurugram, said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health.All 1,205 traced international passengers in Ambala have completed their quarantine period. A list of as many as 1,379 passengers had arrived, of which 169 belonged to other districts or had already left the country, five remained untraced due to wrong addresses while 1,205 were traced.Satinder Siwach, Nodal Officer for quarantine monitoring in Ambala, said, “All traced international passengers in Ambala have completed their quarantine period and luckily there was no positive case among them. As per the report till Sunday night, 228 persons including 115 belonging to Jamaat and their contacts, and 113 other high-risk contacts are under quarantine in Ambala. Of the total, while 15 are under facility quarantine, 10 are isolated at hospital.”“To ensure that the people who were home quarantined have been following the guidelines regular visits were made by the health officials and Asha workers. Besides visiting, their health checkup was also done twice a day. More than 10 FIRs have been registered against the violators who were roaming outside the houses,” he added.
21-04-2020||
||3 escape from quarantine centre, booked||Rewari, April 20 The Sadar police have registered a case against three persons for escaping from a quarantine centre set up at a school on Delhi road here.  The police said two of the accused belong to Bharatpur district (Rajasthan) while third one is from Jhajjar district.  Sadar Police station in charge Neeraj said the incident took place on Saturday night but came to the fore next morning when the doctors on duty found the accused missing from the quarantine centre.  The accused were brought to the quarantine centre here on Saturday. The police said efforts were underway to arrest the accused.
21-04-2020||---||Shahabad teen dies in Canada||Kurukshetra, April 20A Shahabad teenager pursuing BCom (Finance) degree in Canada has died under mysterious circumstances. The deceased has been identified as Navjot Singh (17).Navjot left for Canada on September 3 last year and was staying there with his friends. The family received a call from the embassy regarding the death on Monday.“Navjot was at home for a month due to Covid. We asked embassy officials to bring the body, but were told that they would get back after the cause of death was clear,” said Navjot’s cousin Rajpal Singh Pannu.
21-04-2020||---||Start mapping of land assets in green zones, CM tells officials||Chandigarh, April 20Base map preparedData acquisition using drones has been completed in 75 villages of 15 districts, while the process of data collection is underway in Karnal and Sonepat districts.A preliminary base map of the population (lal dora) has been prepared for three villages in Sonepat, five villages each in Panchkula and Karnal, four villages each in Sirsa and Panipat, and five villages in district Faridabad.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed officials to start the mapping of land assets in the green zones of Mahendragarh, Rewari, and Jhajjar districts through the Survey of India following the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).The Chief Minister said this in a meeting while reviewing the project of mapping of land assets of the State by Survey of India on Monday through video-conferencing with Lieutenant General (retd) Girish Kumar, Surveyor General of India. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala was also present.The CM also directed the officers concerned to develop a dashboard in coordination with the National Informatics Centre to keep track of the mapping, for which the first phase of survey has been completed. He also ordered immediate appointment of a Director of Land Records and Land Records Officer, separately. He said till the director is not appointed, Additional Principal Secretary to CM V Umashankar will coordinate with the Survey of India.The MHA has given permission to the states to carry out industrial and economic activities conditionally during the lockdown period from April 20 onwards, except in containment zones. Three districts of Haryana, Mahendragarh, Rewari, and Jhajjar have been declared green zones.
21-04-2020||Kaithal||Cop booked for killing son, injuring three||An Inspector with the Haryana Police has been booked on the charges of murder and attempt to murder. He reportedly  fired shots at his two sons and daughters-in-law last night following a quarrel. One of his sons died on the   spot and   the other three victims were   referred to the PGIMS in Rohtak with serious injuries. A complaint was lodged by   Simran, whose husband Gagandeep died of two bullet injuries. The police has registered a case against Inspector Satbir and his wife Birmati. Simran reported that a quarrel broke out after Satbir came home drunk last night. —OC
21-04-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Nomadic woman wants to ‘surrender’ newborn to government||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 20In a peculiar case, a 20-year-old unmarried woman delivered a girl child after having stayed in live-in ties with three men at different times and abandoned the baby a few days after giving birth to her.After being arrested, the woman maintained that she wanted to surrender her daughter with the Child Welfare Committee as she would not be able to take care of her. “The child was suffering from jaundice and has been admitted to Rohtak PGIMS. She will be sent to a specialised adoption agency after she gets discharged,” said Asha Ahuja, the chairperson of the Child Welfare Committee.The infant was found lying abandoned in Naya Padao locality of Rohtak on April 15. Police investigators traced the girl’s mother on April 18.“The woman is a nomad and was admitted to Rohtak PGIMS on April 10. She gave birth to the baby and got discharged on April 11. On April 15, the woman, along with her partner Ashish, abandoned the infant. They were arrested and produced before a local court which granted them bail,” said Inspector Balwant Singh, SHO, Shivaji Colony police station.
21-04-2020||Gurugram||Man pushes wife to death, booked||The Gurugram police booked a private company executive for pushing his wife to death from 13th floor of a society building in Sector 37-D here. The victim was also an employee at the same company and allegedly died on Monday. On a complaint of the deceased’s brother, an FIR has been registered and the police are investigating the matter. The police said the deceased had been identified as Ritu Chauhary (35) who lived with her husband Nitesh Aggarwal and a five-year-old daughter at Corona Optus Society, Sector 37-D.  As per the accused, his wife had jumped off from the balcony and died on the  spot. The body was taken into police custody. —OC
