21-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Order to deploy MDU professors at quarantine centres evokes criticism||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 21The Rohtak Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate has ordered deployment of 20 professors and assistant professors of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) at different quarantine centres in the district, evoking a sharp reaction from the teaching fraternity.The MDU Teachers Association (MDUTA) opposed the move and called an urgent meeting to decide on the future course of action.“The university administration has surrendered before the district authorities. They should have adopted a firm stance, but they have meekly given in. A meeting of the MDUTA will be convened tomorrow to chalk out the action plan,” said Vikas Siwach, president of the association.Earlier, teaching and non-teaching associations of MDU had opposed the administration’s decision to turn the university faculty house into a quarantine facility for medical staff.The matter was resolved after Deputy Commissioner RS Verma had said no confirmed Covid patient would be lodged at the faculty house.The fresh order from the district administration though has stirred up a hornet’s nest, with the MDU teachers taking a strong exception to the move of deploying faculty members at quarantine centres along with other government employees.“The move to deploy university professors and assistant professors at quarantine centres cannot be justified. It is not an academic matter which requires their guidance,” said a university professor, requesting anonymity.
21-05-2020||Sanjay Yadav||28 migrants duped in lieu of being ferried to West Bengal||Gurugram, May 21Around 28 migrants hailing from West Bengal have moved to the police accusing four people, including a bus driver, of fleecing them of Rs 1.40 lakhs on the pretext of sending them back home.An FIR has been registered at Bajghera police station in this regard.The migrants claimed that Azad Ali, Sultan Ali, Kaba and Rafeek were told that the bus had a permit but were decanted by the police on the road in wee hours on Thursday.The driver in possession of a valid movement pass was, however, not allowed to go.“They took Rs 5,000 per person from us and got a total of 1.40 lakhs. The bus driver said he was allowed to ferry people home in the bus. Trusting him, we gave the money and boarded the bus from Sarai Alavardi. It was around 3 am, however, when we reached the Dwarka expressway, the police stopped the bus and got us down saying we were traveling illegally. They told us the driver had a movement pass but not the permission to ferry passengers. He was allowed to go and could not be contacted,” read the complaint filed by Mahabul Haq, one of the migrants.The migrants were taken to the police by social worker Jai Singh Punia, who saw them stranded on road.A case has been registered against four people under Sections 420 (Cheating), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and Section 51-B of the Disaster Management Act at Bajghera police station.“The migrants who live across the city consisted primarily of maids, who being out of work, are going back to their native towns but were duped. We are conducting raids to nab the accused,” said the investigating officer.Police beef up security at border’s entry point; send 600 migrants trying to cross border backA day after the clash between the police and migrant workers at the Delhi border in Palam Vihar, Gurugram police have beefed up the security at border’s entry point. The police sent back around 600 migrants posing as workers, even while they were trying to enter on Thursday. They were offered the option of getting a one-time pass and live in the lodgings provided by the industries, but majority of them insisted on being allowed to cross the border daily.Meanwhile, the MCG had closed an illegal way from Salahpur village after making a permanent wall. Only essential services are being allowed at the border.“Security has been tightened at the borders and we are not allowing migrants without passes. They are not allowed to cross the border daily as per the restrictions under the guidelines of COVID-19,” said Birem Singh Poswal, ACP, Udyog.
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Faridabad, Panipat report 7 new cases, Haryana tally rises to 1,000||Haryana on Thursday reported seven new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s case tally to 1,000.Faridabad reported the three new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 179. All three are women. While two are employees of a private company, one is working at an old age home.Panipat reported the four new cases of the contagion, taking the total in the district to 46.
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Cong leader Pankaj Punia arrested in Haryana for 'objectionable' tweet||Congress leader from Haryana Pankaj Punia has been arrested by police in Karnal for allegedly "hurting religious feelings" through a social media post, a police official said on Thursday.Punia, a former secretary of Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee, was arrested late Wednesday night following a written complaint by a Karnal resident at Madhuban police station that he allegedly "hurt religious feelings" and "promoted enmity between different groups on ground of religion" through his tweet, the official said."Pankaj Punia was arrested from Madhuban area," Station House Officer, Madhuban police station, Inspector Tarsem Chand said.A similar complaint against Punia, also a member of the All India Congress Committee, was registered on Wednesday by the Uttar Pradesh Police.An FIR was registered against Punia at the Hazratganj Police Station in Lucknow for his alleged objectionable tweet.Chand said in the case registered in Madhuban police station, Punia has been booked under IPC sections related to promoting enmity between different groups (153 A), outraging religious feelings (295 A), public mischief (505-2), and Section 67 of the Information Technology (Amendment) Act 2008.In his complaint, the complainant has alleged that "one person namely PankajPunia@INC has posted provocative falsehood to promote enmity between sections of society on ground of religion and his acts are prejudicial to maintenance of harmony".On Tuesday, Punia in his tweet, now removed, had targeted the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh, referring to the politics over plying of buses by the Congress for ferrying migrants. PTI
21-05-2020||Yamunanagar||Promised govt job for son, man duped of ~6 lakh||Shubham of Chuhadpur village allegedly duped Shubkaran of Mamli village of Rs 6 lakh on the pretext of providing a government to his son. A case was registered against Shubham of Chuhadpur village under several sections of the IPC at Sadar police station, Jagadhri, on Monday on Shubkaran's complaint. TNSSonepatDCRUST-Murthal extends last date for re-appearThe Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and Technology (DCRUST), Murthal, has extended the last date for students applying for re-appear and mercy cases to June 15. Earlier, the last date was May 5. University Vice Chancellor Rajinderakumar Anyath said the step had been taken keeping in view the lockdown restrictions. OCKarnalCong leader held over remarks against RSSCongress leader and former state secretary Pankaj Punia has been arrested by the police after the workers of BJP, RSS and Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) filed a complaint against him over his alleged derogatory statement against the RSS and Hinduism. He made the statement on his twitter account on Tuesday. TNS
21-05-2020||Palwal||2 Home Guards jawans loot ~50,000, arrested||Two Home Guards jawans posted in the district have been arrested in connection with a loot incident recently.According to DSP Sunil Kadyan, the accused, Karamvir and Jogender had intercepted the complainant, Pintoo of Kherla village, on May 20. It is alleged that the duo threatened the victim and got transferred an amount of Rs50,000 from his bank. — TNS
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Penalty for no mask, spitting in public: Vij||Home Minister Anil Vij today wrote to state Home Secretary for making provisions so that fine could be imposed on people for not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing in public places.  In Lockdown 4.0, several relaxations are in place and the movement of people has increased in the state.  Vij said, “There will be fine for spitting, not wearing mask, not maintaining social distancing in public places, for inviting over 50 people to a wedding and not limiting the number to 20 at a funeral.” “The Home Department will work on the provisions. Rules need to be made so that all can enjoy the relaxations.” —TNS
21-05-2020||---||Gurugram man dies, 29 new cases||Chandigarh, May 20One person died and Haryana’s Covid tally inched closer to the 1,000-mark on Wednesday. The NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Panipat and Jhajjar continued to make up for most of the new cases as they accounted for 24 of the 29 patients, which took the state tally to 993.A 38-year-old man of Gurugram’s Hari Nagar died in hospital in the early hours of Wednesday. He is the state’s 15th Covid casualty though his death was not shown in the state tally released in the evening. He was admitted on May 18 and shifted to the ICU on May 19. He was suffering from Type 2 diabetes and presented with complaints of difficulty in breathing, cough with expectoration and fever for the past five days.Of fresh cases, eight were from Sonepat, seven from Faridabad, six from Gurugram, four from Kurukshetra, two from Panipat and one each from Jhajjar and Jind.Five staff nurses of BPS Government Medical College for Women, Khanpur Kalan, tested positive besides a 51-year-old woman in Kundli and a nine-year old girl of Kishora village, taking the district tally to 147.Among fresh cases in Faridabad are a 40-year-old woman and her daughter from Auto Pin slum cluster in Mujesar, a 27-year-old girl from Bharat Colony and four members of the family of a woman patient from Parvatiya Colony. The district tally has reached 170.In Gurugram, with two cases reported from Sector 48 and one each from Sector 32, Shakti Park, Sikanderpur Ghosi and Bharti Chowk, the tally has touched 226.In Kurukshetra, a 39-year-old woman of Laxman Colony discharged last Thursday after considering her false positive, and her 15-year-old son tested positive. Other patients were a 58-year-old woman who returned with her family from Ahmedabad on May 18 and a labourer working on a gas pipeline project in Sector 3 who had come from Ghaziabad recently. The district tally stands at seven.In Panipat, a 25-year-old from weaver’s colony and a 32-year-old woman who had come to Panipat with her husband from Delhi two days ago tested positive. A 40-year-old labourer tested positive in Bahadurgarh town, taking Jhajjar’s tally to 91.Total 21 persons have been cured in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 648 and recovery rate to 65.26 per cent. The state’s doubling rate now stands at 16 days.Faridabad hospital gets ICMR nod for plasma therapyFaridabad: The ICMR gave its nod to the local ESI Medical College and Hospital for plasma therapy on Covid-positive patients. Dr Anil Pandey, deputy dean of the hospital, said the work on a trial basis would start soon. He said as a majority of Covid patients had undergone treatment here, the trial of the therapy was expected to be successful.2 undertrials +ve; 3 judges quarantinedFaridabad: Three judges of the local judicial complex and 15 staff members have been home-quarantined for 14 days and three courtrooms shut after two undertrials lodged in the district jail were found Covid-positive on Tuesday. The undertrials, aged 22 and 49, hail from Sector 16 here and Delhi. TNSAll 76 US returnees have no symptomsPanchkula: The health officials on Wednesday screened all 76 persons, who were deported from the US and currently staying at various hotels and dharamshalas here, and found that none of them had any Covid symptoms. Dr Rajeev Narwal, district nodal officer for Covid, said, “All of them will be tested in a day or two and Covid-positive will be isolated.” TNS
21-05-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Migrants clash with  cops at Delhi border||Gurugram, May 20The Gurugram police booked over 50 persons and nabbed three for allegedly attacking the police with stones at Palam Vihar border today.Today morning, hundreds of people marched towards the city trying to enter from Kapasera and Bijwasan border. Claiming to be workers of industrial units in the Udyog Vihar area, these people, who were not carrying any valid pass, tried to cross the border and ended up having an altercation with the local police.They allegedly tried to enter, but were stopped by the police. The cops guarding the borders sustained minor injuries in the stone-pelting.They claimed that despite having a checkpoint, the Delhi Police did not stop the mob. “All industrial workers have been issued passes. As per our information, the workers will be lodged in the city by the industries. They had no I-cards, no passes and were entering forcibly. We have no orders to let them in. So we stopped them and they attacked us,” alleged inspector Devender Singh, SHO of Udyog Vihar police station, who was at the spot.On the complaint of police naka incharge SI Dharambir, an FIR has been registered against the migrants at Palam Vihar police station.“Six accused have been identified and three out of them have been nabbed,” said inspector Rajender Singh, SHO of Palam Vihar police station.2 lakh sent home so far
21-05-2020||Sushil Manav
||Locusts seen in Rajasthan, 7 dists on alert in state||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 20 With an attack of locust witnessed in Rajasthan districts, Haryana today alerted seven districts — Sirsa, Fatehabad, Hisar, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendragarh and Rewari — to remain prepared for its monitoring and control.  Haryana Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department has brought to the notice of the Deputy Commissioners of these seven districts that there was information that locusts might move towards Haryana and might affect these districts. Locusts move in swarms and have the ability to fly rapidly across great distances. Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department, Haryana, said, “Ever since locust attacks were witnessed in Rajasthan and parts of Punjab earlier this year, the department had already taken necessary steps for its control in the seven districts close to Rajasthan through various training awareness camps. The situation is being closely monitored in coordination with the central government and agriculture officers from Rajasthan and Punjab.” The department has decided to arrange stocks of various pesticides needed for the control of locust on consignment basis and the same may distributed to the farmers at 50 per cent subsidy. In case of locust attack, the DCs have been told to make use of pesticides to be supplied through HAFED, Haryana Seed Development Corporation, Haryana Agro Industries Corporation and Haryana Land Reclaim and Development Corporation. After the orders of the DCs, the pesticide stocks will be utilised on 100 per cent subsidised rates. The DCs have been told to coordinate with DCs of the adjoining districts in case of swarm attacks. The Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department has constituted a response team at the headquarters led by Director General of the department. Its officials at the district level have been asked to set up WhatsApp groups by including progressive farmers for sharing of information. Gurjeet Singh Mann, a progressive farmers from Kirpal Patti village of Sirsa, said that luckily, the threat of damage to crops due to locust attack will be much lesser than it would have been had the attack occurred in January and February when nearby districts of Rajasthan witnessed swarms of locusts. “At this point of time, over 75 per cent of agriculture land in these districts is without any crop,” said Mann.
21-05-2020||---||Looking to lure US firms, Khattar dials CEOs, biz honchos||Chandigarh, May 20Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and United States India Business Council (USIBC) president Nisha Biswal jointly chaired a video conference attended by CEOs and top management of over 60 prominent American companies late Tuesday evening.A number of opportunities, including promotion of home healthcare, transition of automobile component manufacturing to aerospace machinery manufacturing and use of transformational technology such as 5G, Edge, artificial intelligence and blockchains in governance and industrial manufacturing were identified in the video conference. The meeting was attended by CEOs and top management of prominent companies including Boeing, Coca Cola, Baxter, Walmart, Stryker, Master Card, Troy Corporation, GE and Intel.Addressing the honchos, the CM said PM Narendra Modi had last week announced an economic stimulus equal to 10 per cent of the country’s GDP. He laid out four aspects of the package — land, labour, liquidity and laws – and said Haryana shall be the frontrunner among Indian states on each of these aspects in the coming days, weeks and months.Khattar tasked Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) Managing Director Anurag Aggarwal with regularly following up with individual companies through the Virtual Web Desk already set up. He also suggested that Biswal depute someone from the business council for the same.Biswal said Haryana was best suited for setting up of manufacturing bases of US companies wishing to diversify their production across the globe in the post-Covid world.
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||Congress backs farmers on paddy cultivation||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today said the Congress stood with the farmers against restrictions on paddy cultivation and asked the government to take a pragmatic view of the matter. The former CM said despite repeated requests to reconsider orders banning paddy cultivation in parts of the state, the government was adamant on its decision. “The farmer is in the best position to decide what to sow. The Congress will support the judgment of the farmer if he decides to sow paddy or any other crop,” he said. Hooda said concerns over rapid groundwater depletion were legitimate and were a priority even for the Congress government, but it made attempts to find a solution for the same and not ban paddy cultivation. He said the government had gone back on its promise of giving 6,200 tubewell connections and was now giving only 4,000. “Over 84,000 farmers had applied for connections,” he said. He also objected to the government’s recommendation to cancel 1,530 recruitments. — TNS
21-05-2020||
||Make sure no migrant walks home, DCs told||Chandigarh, May 20 Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora has said that as Lockdown 4 has begun, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed every DC to ensure that no migrant labourer or worker wishing to go to their home states does so by walking.  All such migrant labourers should be counselled and looked after in relief camps till the time transportation arrangements are made by the district administration concerned, she added. The Chief Secretary shared this while presiding over the meeting of the Crisis Coordination Committee with the DCs and Nodal Officers appointed for Covid through video conferencing here today.
21-05-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Probe team visits Kharkhoda godown, wants stock reassessed||Tribune News ServicePanipat, May 20The special enquiry team (SET) formed by the state government to probe liquor smuggling visited the Kharkhoda godown in Sonepat district from where the stock was stolen.The team directed Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma to reassess the liquor stock in the godown.As per sources, the SET visited the Excise Department, where it stayed for around three hours and sought the record of liquor allotted to contractors and their stock position.It also interacted with the excise officials and later went to the godown in Sisana village near Kharkhoda to physically verify the warehouse from where the wall was breached. They also assessed the liquor stock seized by the Police and Excise Departments.The team then decided to get the liquor stock reassesed by a special committee headed by Rohtak SP, the sources said.Meanwhile, Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said the recounting of liquor would be conducted soon to assess the stock along with the batch numbers so that it becomes clear that which stock had been allotted on which permit.Former SHO dismissed from service
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||SD College organises ‘Serenity 2020’||An online, national-level competition, “Serenity 2020— A Rainbow of hope, joy and peace”, was organised by the women professors of Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College (GGDSD), Palwal, which is affiliated to MD university, Rohtak. The organisers and college Principal Dr GK Sapra, invited undergraduate and postgraduate students from various universities and colleges across the nation. The contest, open to students from all fields of academics, provided an opportunity to articulate their vision for world after Corona, the emerging situation due to Covid and tackling the challenges that must be overcome to achieve their vision. The competition drew participation from students of Maharashtra, Ladakh, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Haryana and various other states. They structured their essays, poetry, fine arts creations, PPTs and videos on managing stress with yoga, music, dance, immunity-boosting recipes and Ayurveda to tackle Covid. — TNS
21-05-2020||
||Three drown in canal||Jhajjar, May 20  Three civil engineers from Delhi drowned while taking a bath in a canal passing through Badli town here on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as Pradeep, Aashish and SN Muslim. They were employed in a company located at Dadri Toa village of the district. The incident came to the fore today when their parents approached the police and lodged a missing complaint. The police launched a search operation after finding their mobile location near Badli town. A car was found abandoned near the canal and the clothes of the trio were also lying inside it.  The police immediately pressed the divers into service who later fished out the bodies from the canal. Sources said the trio had gone to Naurangpur village to inspect a construction site. On returning, they drowned in the canal while bathing.
21-05-2020||
||Interest on student loan waived||Chandigarh, May 20 Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday announced a three-month interest waiver on student loan besides several sops for MSMEs and small traders. During his address to the people of the state on Wednesday, Khattar said the state government had decided to pay three-month interest on loans taken by students, who had completed their studies but were yet to start any job or business. “Over 36,000 students are set to benefit to the tune of nearly Rs40 crore through this scheme,” he added. Khattar said the state had also decided to pay 2 per cent interest on collateral-free loans under the Mudra scheme, under which the beneficiary got Rs50,000 each. He said the government would also bear 2 per cent of the total 4 per cent interest on Rs15,000 loan to over three lakh small traders. Listing measures taken for the poorest of the poor hit hard by the lockdown in view of Covid crisis, Khattar asserted that about 27 lakh families were given free ration by the state government. Besides, 3.70 lakh families, which did not have ration cards, were provided with distress ration coupons while over 15 lakh families were given financial assistance amounting to nearly Rs636 crore ranging from Rs4,000 to Rs5,000 per month.
21-05-2020||Chandigarh||As Vij objects, Haryana scraps move to start inter-state buses||Following objections raised by Home Minister Anil Vij, the Haryana Government has slammed brakes on its proposed move to start the inter-state bus service.Vij not only wrote against it to CM Manohar Lal Khattar, but also met him today to convey his reservations.“The CM has asked the Transport Minister (Mool Chand Sharma) to halt the proposed start of the inter-state bus service,” said Vij, who also holds the charge of health ministry.“We are not ready for it. How will we quarantine and test so many passengers?” he asked. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs had on May 17 permitted inter-state movement of passenger vehicles and buses with the mutual consent of states/UT(s) involved.The Haryana transport department had written to the neighbouring states, including UP, Delhi, Punjab, HP, Chandigarh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand, for their consent to start the service.Vij said they were in touch with the Railways for arrangements of maximum trains to ferry stranded migrants to their home states. — TNS
