21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana cricket great Rajinder Goel dies||Haryana's Rajinder Goel, one of the best and unluckiest cricketers of India, has died today at his residence. He was 77.Goel, who had been keeping unwell for some time, held the record for most wickets in the Ranji Trophy, 637. The left-arm spinner's First-Class career lasted from 1958 to 1985.Goel was one of India's best spin bowlers in the 1960s-70s but could not represent India because of the quality of spin-bowling talent available in India in that era. He came close in 1974 when he was included in India's squad for the series against West Indies. He bought new boots, bat and the entire kit but was not included in the playing XI. Sunil Gavaskar noted in a tribute to him that Goel was one bowler he was "never comfortable against".A very simple, humble man. Highest wicket taker in his last first class season. 750 First- class wickets but never played for India. Was India’s loss. Rajinder Goel ji ko vinamra Shraddhanjali. Om Shanti pic.twitter.com/qTYvalr1nU  Goel was the recipient of the CK Nayudu Lifetime Achievement Award by the Indian cricket board in 2017.Goel's career ran concurrently with that of Bishan Singh Bedi, rated among the greatest left-arm spinners of all time, so Goel could never make it to the Indian team.750 wicketsOverall, Goel took 750 wickets First-Class cricket in a long and successful career in which he represented Patiala, Southern Punjab, Delhi and Haryana.Born to an assistant station master at Narwana (then Punjab, now part of Haryana) in the Indian Railways in 1942, Goel first tasted success for North Zone schools in 1957. He made his Ranji debut in the next season, for Patiala, which later evolved into the Southern Punjab team. He moved to Delhi in 1963 and to Haryana 10 years later.Goel played in an unofficial 'Test' against Ceylon at Ahmedabad in 1964-65 when he took four wickets in the second innings. Gavaskar, in his book 'Idols', noted that he felt the selectors did not really want to give him a chance in Test cricket because Bedi's "return to the team would have been delayed for some time" if Goel had taken a few wickets.
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Below normal day temp at most places in Punjab, Haryana||The day temperature at most places in Punjab and Haryana hovered below normal limits on Sunday, the meteorological department said.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 33.7 degrees Celsius, which was four notches below the normal during this part of the season, it said.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a maximum temperature of 35 degrees Celsius, down three notches against the normal.While the day temperature in Hisar was three degrees below normal at 37.9 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded below normal maximum temperatures at 37.1, 36.2 and 34.6 degrees Celsius, respectively, the MeT department said. PTI
21-06-2020||---||Panipat reports sixth Covid death; district tally 134||Panipat, June 21Sixth death due to Covid-19 was reported in Panipat on Sunday.  Dr SL Verma, Civil Surgeon, said the deceased has been identified as a 40-year-old woman of Ekta Vihar colony.She was referred to Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women at Khanpur Kalan, from a private hospital on Saturday. But the doctors at medical college declared her brought dead and collected samples for COVID testing. The reports came positive on Sunday. She had a fever history and also had a paralytic attack.Besides, seven more persons tested positive for COVID in the district taking the tally to 134  positive cases, including sixth death reported today.
21-06-2020||---||Haryana deploys MBBS final-year students to manage Covid pandemic||Chandigarh, June 21The Haryana government has deployed final-year students of MBBS course studying in government and private medical colleges of the state in the districts for management of Covid-19 pandemic.In all, 1,106 students of 11 government and private medical colleges have been assigned duties and they have been asked to report to the civil surgeons of the districts concerned.In the orders issued in this regard by the Director General of Medical Education and Research, Haryana, 204 students studying in Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma PGIMS, Rohtak have been distributed among Rohtak, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Rewari and Fatehabad districts, 100 students of BPS Government Medical College for Women, Khanpur Kalan will perform duties in Sonepat and Jind districts, 103 students of SHK Government College, Nalhar (Mewat) in Nuh, Palwal and Mahindergarh districts and 100 students of Maharaja Agarsen Medical College, Agroha, have been deputed in Hisar and Sirsa districts.As many as 79 students of Kalpana Chawla Medical College, Karnal have been assigned Karnal and Jhajjar district, ESIC Medical College, Faridabad have been assigned Faridabad, 150 students of MM Institute of Medical Sciences, Mullana at Ambala, Panchkula and Yamunanagar, 96 students of SGT Medical College, Gurugram, at Gurugram, two students of NC Medical College, Israna, at Panipat, 150 students of Adesh Medical College, Kurukshetra, at Kurukshetra, Panipat and Kaithal; while 21 students of World Medical College, Jhajjar, have been assigned duties in Jhajjar district.“There has been a recent surge in the number of Covid positive cases in Haryana. The government is in the process of creating additional health care facilities to effectively manage the Covid-19 cases and accordingly, there is requirement of additional manpower,” said a June 19 letter by Director General of Medical Education and Research, Haryana.The students have been asked to report to their concerned civil surgeons by June 22.
21-06-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 11 positive COVID-19 cases, district's tally at 95||Panchkula reported 11 positive coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the district's tally to 95.Out of the 11 infections, a female employee of Haryana MLA Hostel in Chandigarh tested COVID-19 positive.With two patients from Baltana and one case from Hardoi, Uttar Pradesh—only eight infections would be added to Panchkula's COVID-19 tally."A couple in their 60s from Baltana will be added in Punjab's tally. Whereas a 22-year-old female from Hardoi would be added in Uttar Pradesh's count," said Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur.Meanwhile, a 42-year-old male from Sector 26, a couple in their 30s from Shakti Nagar in Kalka, a 17-year-old girl from Bitna Colony, and a 27-year-old female, an 11-year-old girl, and a 22-year-old female from Raipur Rani have tested COVID-19 positive.“Three from Raipur Rani are contacts of an already infected person, while officials are trying to identify the source of the infection of other patients,” added Kaur.
21-06-2020||Kurukshetra||Solar eclipse: No fair, only simple religious ceremony this time in Kurukshetra||A simple religious ceremony was held on the banks of the Brahma Sarovar here on Sunday as the administration had decided not to allow any fair this time on the occasion of solar eclipse amid the coronavirus pandemic.The holy city had been placed under curfew till 4 pm on Sunday to prevent people from gathering on the banks of sacred sarovars in this district for taking a dip or holding any ritual on the occasion of solar eclipse.According to Hindu beliefs, a bath in the holy tanks at Kurukshetra during solar eclipse is considered auspicious.A simple religious ceremony was held at Subhadra and Ganga ghats on the Brahma Sarovar in which 200 religious leaders took part.During usual times, the Brahma Sarovar and Sannihit Sarovar here attract close to 10 lakh pilgrims on solar eclipse.A large number of devotees from various parts of the country flock Kurukshetra on the occasion of solar eclipse to take a dip in the holy ponds here and a grand fair is organised.District Magistrate Dhirendra Khadgata said earlier that the administration had decided not to allow any fair this time in view of the pandemic.Swami Gyananand, the head of Kurukshetra-based Global Inspiration and Enlightenment Organisation, and some seers reached the Subhadra Ghat on Brahma Sarovar at about 10 am and took a holy dip.The local priests were allowed to perform their rituals only at Sannihit Sarovar.A few scientists had also reached here with their equipment to study the solar eclipse.An annular solar eclipse, wherein the sun appears like a ring of fire, was visible from here.The annular phase began at 10.19 am and ended at 2.02 pm.While interacting with the religious leaders here via video conference, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the 'anushthan' (religious ceremony) being performed at the banks of Brahma Sarovar would help in bringing peace and prosperity in the world, which is currently batting the COVID-19 pandemic.Kurukshetra district had been sealed from all sides with barricading at the Brahma Sarovar, and adjoining sacred ponds, officials said on Sunday.People had been requested to observe rituals at home, they said.To ensure tight security, 52 'nakas' were set up in Kurukshetra district with constant patrolling by the police, the officials said.The district magistrate on Wednesday had barred holding of the fair by imposing prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC with immediate effect. The provision bans the assembly of more than four persons.The annular phase was visible on Sunday morning from some places within a narrow corridor of the northern part of the country (parts of Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttarakhand). A few prominent places within this narrow annularity path are Dehradun, Kurukshetra, Chamoli, Joshimath, Sirsa, Suratgarh.It was seen as a partial solar eclipse from the rest of the country. PTI
21-06-2020||Lucknow||UP, Haryana, Uttarakhand chief ministers decide to suspend Kawariya Yatra amid coronavirus crisis||Chief Ministers of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Uttarakhand have decided to suspend Kawariya Yatra this year in the light if the ongoing COVID-19 public health crisis.The month long-yatra that Hindu God Shiva’s devotees follow usually begins when Shravan begins, which is on July 23 this year.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Adityanath held a virtual meeting with his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar and Uttarakhand counterpart Trivendra Singh Rawat to call off this year’s yatra as the public health crisis continues to mount alarmingly across the country.The three chief ministers agreed to establish dialogue with the ‘dharma gurus’ (religious leaders) of their respective states to inform the people of the decision to suspend the Kawariya Yatra this year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.Following the agreement with the heads of Uttarakhand and Haryana, Adityanath had a virtual meeting with all police heads across Uttar Pradesh in which he asked them to meet the religious leaders, Kanwar Sanghs and Peace Committees in their respective areas.It is expected that these opinion leaders would take the initiative to widely propagate among the masses the reason for the Kawariya Yatra being suspended this year due to it violating the strict COVID-19 rules of social distancing, sanitization, facemasks etc.The Kanwar Yatra is an annual pilgrimage of Shiv’s devotees known as Kanwarias or ‘Bhole’ to Hindu pilgrimage places like Haridwar, Gaumukh and Gangotri in Uttrakhand and Sultanpur in Bihar to fetch holy waters of river Ganga.Millions travel by foot in groups for hundreds of kilometres chanting ‘bol bom, singing bhajans and dancing to bring back holy water from Ganga for Lord Shiva established in their respective Shiva shrines.Until the late 1980s the yatra used to be a small affair undertaken by only by a few saints and older devotees. However, the yatra also gained popularity among the young in a development that coincided with the mandir movement in the early 90s.In recent years, its popularity has seen a dramatic increase clearly supported by Adityanath’s government. It makes special arrangements by restricting traffic for the Kanwariyas, providing them free food and other facilities on the way, allowing DJs, preventing the sale of non vegetarian food on the route and even making an ADG level police officer shower them with rose petals from a helicopter.
21-06-2020||Karnal||Coronavirus: Haryana reports death, four new cases; tally rises to 10,227||Haryana on Sunday reported a death and four new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s COVID toll to 150 and case tally to 10,227.Sonepat reported the death of a 56-year-old COVID patient, taking the toll in the district to 11. The man was a resident of Chidana village in the district and died at the BPS Medical College, Khanpur Kalan late on Saturday.Karnal reported the four new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 218. A woman and her son of old Nilokheri area are among those who have tested positive.On Saturday, Haryana reported five deaths and 480 fresh cases. The fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (171), Faridabad (97), Sonepat (71), Rohtak (23), Karnal (21), Bhiwani (20), Hisar (15), Yamunanagar (13), Panchkula (13), Palwal (10), Jhajjar (6), Ambala (6), Nuh (4), Kaithal (3), Kurukshetra (3), Jind (3) and Fatehabad (1).
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana using dexamethasone on critically ill||Haryana has started using dexamethasone, a steroid found to be life-saving in Covid clinical trials at Oxford University, to treat critically ill patients.The drug is being used under the observation of a multidisciplinary specialist team constituted by PGIMS, Rohtak. “For decades, dexamethasone has benefited diverse patients, including those suffering from respiratory diseases. We are using it in ICUs,” said Dr VK Katyal, nodal officer for Covid in Haryana. Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General of Health Services, Haryana, said the drug would be tried in all medical colleges of the state where critically ill Covid patients were being treated.Of the 10,223 cases in Haryana, 68 are critically ill — 48 of them are on oxygen support and 20 on ventilators. — TNS
21-06-2020||---||Dy Mayor: Cancel pact with Chinese company||Faridabad, June 20Riding the anti-Chinese sentiment in wake of the bloody clash at the India-China border recently, Manmohan Garg, Deputy Mayor of Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF), has demanded cancellation of the contract of garbage removal here given to Ecogreen, a Chinese company.In a letter written to MCF Commissioner, Garg, who is also a local BJP leader, has said that the authorities concerned should cancel the contract given to Ecogreen, a China-based firm, as it is against the sentiments of the majority of the people here.He said the authorities ought to look for suitable alternatives. He said as the issue of boycotting Chinese products had gained immense importance, he has also written to industry to stop the import of material and products from China.Ecogreen was given the contract of garbage collection and removal in December 2017. MCF Commissioner Yash Garg said no such letter has come to his notice so far.
21-06-2020||---||Raid units selling sanitisers above notified rate, says High Court||Chandigarh, June 20Taking suo-motu cognisance of companies manufacturing and selling hand sanitisers with maximum retail price above the rates notified by the Central Government, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed Secretary-level officers in Haryana, Punjab and Chandigarh to get ‘raids’ conducted on chemist shops and manufacturing units before initiating action in accordance with the law. Directions have also been issued to gather masks during the raids for quality check.Justice Amol Rattan Singh also made it clear that selling hand sanitisers at more than the notified process would, prima facie at least, amount to an offence punishable under the relevant provisions of the IPC. In his detailed order on a petition filed by Raman & Weil Pvt Ltd and other petitioners against the State of Haryana and another respondent, Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted the court was taking suo-motu notice of the fact that most companies manufacturing and selling hand sanitisers even after March 21 were showing the maximum retail price of such products to be far above Rs 250 for 500 ml.As such, Additional Chief Secretaries, Principal Secretaries or Secretaries in the Departments of Health, and Food and Supplies, in the States of Haryana, Punjab and Union Territory of Chandigarh were directed to have ‘raids’ conducted to obtain samples of hand sanitisers and hand disinfectants.The notification restricting the sale price of hand sanitisers was issued by the Government of India on March 21. “Wherever those are manufactured after March 2020, showing a maximum retail price above Rs 250 for 500 ml or more than Rs 100 for 200 ml, proceedings as per law shall be initiated against all such manufacturers. If the shops selling the products also are selling at prices above what is stipulated in the notification of March 21, action would be taken against them too as per law,” Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted.Also taking note of highly substandard quality facial masks, Justice Amol Rattan Singh added the strings attached break off while tying the masks, making them unusable. As such, masks would also be collected by the ‘raiding party’ for testing. “If such breaking is found, or the masks are otherwise found to be of sub-standard quality, proceedings as per law shall be taken against all concerned”.Before parting with the order, Justice Amol Rattan Singh directed the Secretary-level officers of the two states and UT to file their own affidavits along with a report on the raids conducted and the results thereof. The case will now come up for further hearing in July first week.Takes suo-motu cognisanceIn his detailed order on a petition filed by Raman & Weil Pvt Ltd and other petitioners against the State of Haryana and another respondent, Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted the court was taking suo-motu notice of the fact that most companies manufacturing and selling hand sanitisers even after March 21 were showing the maximum retail price of such products to be far above Rs250 for 500 ml.
21-06-2020||---||Gender test racket busted, man held||Jhajjar, June 20A team of district health authorities led by Civil Surgeon Randeep Singh Punia today busted a cross-border sex determination racket with the arrest of a tout in Bahadurgarh town here. The team also recovered more than Rs 2 lakh from his possession.“We got a tip-off that a Bahadurgarh-based tout, identified as Chand Singh, was involved in a sex-determination racket. A decoy customer was sent to him who cracked a deal for Rs 70,000. Chand called the customer in Bahadurgarh in the wee hours on Saturday from where he took her to Noida in a car,” said Dr Anchal Tripathi, Deputy Civil Surgeon, Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques.Action after tip-offWe got a tip-off that a Bahadurgarh-based tout, identified as Chand Singh, was involved in a sex-determination racket. A decoy customer was sent to him who cracked a deal for Rs70,000. —Anchal Tripathi, Deputy Civil Surgeon“We immediately nabbed him with the help of the police. A total of Rs 2.11 lakh in cash was recovered from his car. The tout is being interrogated by the police. They will take him to Noida in the evening to nab the doctor who performed the ultrasound,” he said.The Civil Surgeon said several more people might be engaged in the racket as another vehicle carrying some more pregnant women was also following the tout’s car in the morning. “It seems these women were also been called for a sex-determination test,” he said.
21-06-2020||---||Gangster owns up attack on liquor contractor in Karnal||Karnal, June 20Wanted gangster Joginder Geong, brother of gangster Surinder Geong, has claimed “responsibility of firing” on liquor contractor Sanjay Rana alias Sanju.Geong posted a message on his Facebook page in this regard on Friday. However, the police are yet to verify the account. “Sanju Rana, you has been punished for betrayal and as per my principle, the traitor is punished with death. If some work is left incomplete, it will be completed and every informer will have the same result,” Geong said on his Facebook page.After the post, Superintendent of Police (SP) Surinder Singh Bhoria has increased security in the hospital for Rana’s safety.Two miscreants opened fire at Sanju on Friday near Jaisinghpura village when he, along with two other persons, was coming to Karnal from Assandh. Rana received three bullet injuries and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Sanju has a bulletproof SUV, but on Friday, he was in a standard SUV.The police are waiting to record his statement as he is not fit for it so far. SP Bhoria has constituted a SIT headed by DSP Assandh Ramesh Chand. “We have received a Facebook post which is said to be of Joginder Geong and we are verifying the account. We are waiting for Sanju’s statement,” the SP said.Sanju belongs to Muana village in Jind district and has liquor shops in Assandh block.
21-06-2020||---||Covid cases cross 10,000; five more succumb in Haryana||Chandigarh, June 20With five deaths and 480 fresh cases, Haryana’s Covid tally crossed 10,223 today. The deaths were reported from Gurugram (4) and Faridabad (1).Haryana has now become the ninth state of the country where the number of Covid cases has crossed the 10,000 mark. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh are ahead of Haryana in the number of cases.In Faridabad, it was a 34-year-old man from Sector 14 who succumbed to the viral fever. So far, 149 deaths have taken place with 102 males and 47 females with a fatality rate of 1.46 per cent. Among the dead, 87 had comorbidity but 62 were without any comorbidity.The fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (171), Faridabad (97), Sonepat (71), Rohtak (23), Karnal (21), Bhiwani (20), Hisar (15), Yamunanagar (13), Panchkula (13), Palwal (10), Jhajjar (6), Ambala (6), Nuh (4), Kaithal (3), Kurukshetra (3), Jind (3) and Fatehabad (1).The localities from where the fresh cases came in Faridabad included Ballabgarh, Old Faridabad, NIT, Jawahar Colony, AC Nagar, Bharat Colony, SGM Nagar, Dabua Colony, Sanjay Colony, Adarsh Nagar, Kheri Kalan village, Sector-3, Sector-15, Sector-16, Sector-23, Sector-19, Mahaveer Colony and Panhera Khurd village.Six persons, including a Delhi Government employee, mobile shop owner and two housewives, tested positive in Jhajjar on Saturday. Five of them were from Bahadurgarh town and one belonged to Barahi village.In Palwal, positive cases included five from Hodal while one case each was recorded from Minar Gate, Hathin, Daya Colony and CIA Palwal. Fresh cases in Ambala included three from Ambala City, two from Ambala Cantonment and one from Naraingarh. In Kurukshetra, a 50-year-old woman from Babain, 26-year-old youth from Shahabad and a 30-year-old man from ward-6 of Ladwa tested positive.Meanwhile, 239 got cured in the past 24 hours, taking the tally of recovered cases to 5,128 with a recovery rate of 50.16 per cent.
21-06-2020||Vijay Mohan||Hisar IAF cadet passes with flying colours, bags Sword of Honour||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20Flying Officer Anurag Nain, another youngster from Haryana, has done the state proud by winning the Sword of Honour at the passing-out parade at the Air Force Academy, Dundigal, on Saturday.Flying Officer Anurag Nain, who stood first in the order of merit in his batch, has been commissioned into the IAF’s Flying Branch.While the IAF officially declined to release the state-wise details of the passing-out cadets, a senior IAF officer told The Tribune that Flying Officer Nain hails from Hisar, but has studied in Delhi. He has also been an NCC cadet. He also got the President’s Plaque for standing first in the overall order of merit in the Pilot’s Course.Flying Officer Aanchal Gangwal was awarded the President’s Plaque for being first in the overall order of merit in the Ground Duty Branch.Nain is the second person from the region to top his respective pre-commission training course in a service academy. Last week, Lt Akashdeep Singh Dhillon from Punjab, an alumnus of Sainik School, Kapurthala, was awarded the Sword of Honour while passing out from the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun.Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria was the reviewing officer of the Combined Graduation Parade. He formally conferred the President’s Commission on 123 Flight Cadets as well as awarded ‘Wings’ to 11 officers from the Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard.Among the newly commissioned officers, 61 officers joined the Flying Branch with 62 being inducted into various Ground Duty Branches of the IAF. This included 19 women officers.Also honoured with President’s PlaqueWhile the IAF officially declined to release the state-wise details of the passing-out cadets, a senior IAF officer told The Tribune that Flying Officer Anurag Nain hails from Hisar, but has studied in Delhi. He has also been an NCC cadet. He also got the President’s Plaque for standing first in the overall order of merit in the Pilot’s Course.
21-06-2020||Nitish Sharma||Solar eclipse today, saints to perform rituals in Kurukshetra||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, June 20A three hour, 26 minute-long annular solar eclipse will be visible from 10.20 am to 1.47 pm in Kurukshetra on Sunday. While a curfew has been imposed in the district since Friday night, which will remain imposed till 4 pm on June 21, over 100 saints and priests from Kurukshetra and some from Rajasthan, Mathura and Vrindavan will be performing prayers at Brahma Sarovar and Sannihit Sarovar in Kurukshetra.As per the information available, the Kurukshetra Development Board has made arrangements at two prayer ghats of Brahma Sarovar where 40 saints at each ghat will perform rituals and while at the Sannihit Sarovar, nearly 35 local purohits have been issued curfew passes to perform rituals.KDB honorary secretary Madan Mohan Chhabra said, “A small religious ceremony will be organised on the bank of Brahma Sarovar in keeping with the ancient traditions and for global peace during the eclipse. A few saints from Rajasthan, Mathura and Vrindavan have also arrived for this purpose after getting their Covid test done.”Meanwhile, the state government and district administration have been facing criticism from the Opposition political parties for allowing the congregation.Jawaharlal Goyal, convener of the Aam Aadmi Party in Kurukshetra, said, “Some privileged people have been granted permission to perform some rituals. We are not against any religious rituals. They can be permitted to do so without allowing them to take the holy dip and outside the premises of the Brahma Sarovar so as to prevent the spread of Covid. As the passes have been issued to privileged persons, the administration should also permit the general public to have a holy dip without any discrimination.”Sumit Hindustani, another AAP leader, said, “We will move towards the Brahma Sarovar and if we are not allowed, then we will court arrest.”Congress leader and former member of the KDB, Pawan Garg, said, “It is not appropriate to give permission to nearly 200 devotees to perform rituals. Every day, it is told that people above 65 years of age should remain at home. Then, why so many saints, who can be above 65 years of age, being allowed? It is not proper to organise such an event in times of such crisis.”
21-06-2020||Ambala||Train crushes Railways employee to death||A 52-year-old Railways employee died under mysterious circumstances after he got crushed under a train at platform number 7 of Ambala Cantonment station on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Davinder Kumar, who was residing in the Railway Colony of Ambala Cantonment. Davinder was in the Signal and Telecom Department of the Railways. The incident happened around 12.30 pm.Satbir, investigating officer of the Government Railway Police (GRP), said “It was an accident. The employee had a knee problem and was getting his treatment done from a railway hospital. His knee replacement surgery was pending due to Covid. While crossing a railway line, his shoe got stuck with a big nail and he fell down on the track, meanwhile the Kalka-Bandra express arrived at platform number 7 and Davinder got crushed under the train. There was no eyewitness. Family and fellow workers were informed. The post-mortem will be done on Sunday and then the body will be handed over to the family.” BS Gill, station director, Ambala Cantonment Railway Station, said: “The matter is being investigated by the GRP.” — TNS
21-06-2020||Hisar||BJP, JJP to jointly contest Baroda bypoll: Dushyant||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala today said that the alliance of BJP and JJP would field a joint candidate in the byelection to be held in Baroda Assembly segment in Sonepat district.Interacting with mediapersons in Jind town today, Dushyant said that the leadership of both parties has held a discussion over the issue and they are geared up to contest the bypoll. Baroda seat was won by Congress’ Shri Krishan Hooda in the previous Assembly polls and became vacant after his demise in April. — TNS
21-06-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Chinese firms’ bids to install pollution equipment cancelled||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20In the wake of the recent violent face-off between India and China, the Haryana Government has cancelled international competitive bids for the installation of pollution control system at two of its power plants in which the Chinese companies were the lowest bidders.Though the Chinese had quoted the most-competitive rates and would have bagged the tenders yet in view of tense relations between India and China, the state government has decided to cancel the tender. Now, fresh tenders on the pattern adopted by the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) which allowed firms registered in India only to bid for domestic projects would be invited. TC Gupta, Additional Chief Secretary, Power Department, confirmed that the bid has been cancelled. “We will float the tenders again and only companies registered in India will be allowed to participate,” Gupta added.The Haryana Power Generation Corporation Limited (HPGCL) had invited international competitive bids to install “flue gas desulphurization system”, an advanced system to control pollution at the Deen Bandhu Chhotu Ram Thermal Power Station, Yamunanagar, and the Rajiv Gandhi Thermal Power Plant, Hisar. The state government received five bids for the Yamunanagar plant of which three were from the Chinese firms while two were India firms — the EPIL (in collaboration with a Chinese firm), and Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (in collaboration with a non-Chinese foreign firm). For the Hisar plant, two Chinese firms and the BHEL (in collaboration with a non-Chinese foreign firm) had submitted the bid.
21-06-2020||Deepender Deswal||Fatehabad panchayat ‘bans’ widow’s entry for 15 years||Tribune News ServiceHisar, June 20The elected panchayat of Dhani Bhojraj village in Fatehabad district has banned the entry of a widow in the village for 15 years.The diktat was part of a written decision pronounced by the panchayat while settling a dispute over a share of land between the widow and her father-in-law.The State Commission for Women (SCW) took note of the diktat and visited the village today. The SCW chairperson, Pratibha Suman, said she had recommended the suspension of the sarpanch and registration of a criminal case against the panchayat members who were present at the meeting which took the decision.‘Panchayat not authorised to take such decisions’A panchayat cannot issue such diktats and the appropriate authority along with the police can take action against the sarpanch. —Mahender Singh, BDPOShamsher, the husband of woman Rajbala Devi, had died under mysterious circumstances in September last year. A mother of two children, the widow got embroiled in a property dispute with her in-laws and demanded a share in the property. She along with her son went to her parental home in Chamar Khera village. Her daughter, aged 12, is still residingwith her grandfather.Rajbala’s father-in-law Gopal owned 10 acres of agricultural land in the village. Gopal has three children — Shamsher (Rajbala Devi’s husband) and two daughters (both married).Village sarpanch Sadhuram informed that at the behest of both parties, a panchayat was held at the village on May 25. The panchayat decided to divide 10 acres equally among seven members of the family, giving approximately 1.4 acres per person. The equal share of the land went to Gopal, his wife, Gopal’s daughter-in-law (Rajbala Devi), her son and her daughter besides two daughters of Gopal.The panchayat decided that the rent of shares of Rajbala Devi and her son would be given to them annually as the land was leased out to another person for cultivation. The panchayat said a total of 4.5 acres (shares of Rajbala and her two children) would be mutated in the name of Rajbala’s son when he attains the legal age for landowning.In this written decision, the panchayat stated that Rajbala Devi would stay with her parents for 15 years and not come to her in-laws’ house for this period.Rajbala, however, stated that she had not accepted the decision of the panchayat about not visiting the village for 15 years. “How can they bar me from visiting the village? I refuse to accept the diktat of the panchayat,” she said.Meanwhile, Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO) Mahender Singh said a panchayat could not issue such diktats and the appropriate authority along with the police could take action against the sarpanch.Diktat to settle dispute over 10-acre family landThe diktat was part of a written decision pronounced by Fatehabad’s Dhani Bhojraj village panchayat while settling a dispute over 10 acres of land between a widow, Rajbala Devi, and her father-in-law, Gopal. It said Rajbala would stay with her parents for 15 years and not come to her in-laws’ house for this period.
21-06-2020||---||Man kills son, ends life in Panipat||Panipat, June 20A-35-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan after murdering his nine-year-old son in Wadhawa Ram Colony here on Saturday.The deceased have been identified as Mandeep, a cloth trader, and his son Ketan.In his statement to the Quilla police, Mandeep’s father Satpal said his son hanged Ketan on Friday and later hanged himself from a ceiling fan using a rope in his room.After getting information, the Quilla police reached at the spot to inquire the matter and sent the bodies to the General Hospital mortuary.Inspector Sandeep Kumar, Quilla SHO, said a case had been registered under Section 302 of the IPC against Mandeep and the bodies had been handed over to the victims’ kin after the post-mortem examination. The cause of murder and suicide is not clear yet, he added.
21-06-2020||Sonepat||2 killed over property row in Sonepat||Devender of Palra village was shot dead and his father Sahib Singh was injured seriously when the former’s cousin brother, Om Prakash, fired at them late Friday night over a property dispute.Soon, the police reached the spot and brought the victims to the local Civil Hospital where the doctors declared Devender as brought dead. Sahib Singh has been admitted to a local private hospital.As per DSP Ravinder, on Sahib’s complaint, a case of murder and attempt to murder has been registered at Rai police station against Om Prakash, who was arrested on Saturday evening.In another dispute, Kuldeep of Bari villagenear Gannaur was stabbed to death by some youths on Saturday morning.On the complaint of the victim’s father, a case of murder has been registered. — OC
21-06-2020||Faridabad||Murder victim cremated as Covid casualty; probe begins||The family members of a 32-year-old murder victim staged a protest at the Civil Hospital after they were told that the body had been cremated as it was a Covid case.The police have registered a case under Section 166, 166A and 201 of the IPC against health officials.The alleged act on the part of hospital officials surfaced around 11.30 am when the kin of the victim, Soni Khan of Subhash Colony, Ballabgarh, reached the hospital to take custody of the body after the post-mortem. As per Raju Khan, victim’s brother, the family was in shock after it was told that Soni, who had been mistaken as a Covid victim, was cremated half an hour ago by the department.‘Mistaken identity case’The incident took place due to mistaken identity and lack of proper information. A probe is underway in the matter. —Dr Savita Yadav, Principal Medical Officer, Faridabad Civil HospitalSoni Khan, a factory worker, had been murdered by some unidentified persons on Friday and his body was awaiting a postmortem, but officials concerned took it for cremation without a proper check or verification. — TNS
