21-12-2020||New Delhi||Haryana will issue notification in January for holding Panchayat elections||The Haryana government will issue notification sometime next month for holding of Panchayat elections in the state.“The date will be notified in January,” Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Singh Chautala said, ending speculations regarding timing of the elections which have been delayed due to turbulence and uncertainties  caused by COVID-19 pandemic.He said the government has asked the deputy commissioners in the state to complete the spade-work with regard to holding of the elections.Speaking on the sidelines of a function here, Chautala averted a direct question on the role of farmers of Haryana in the agitation against the three farm laws.“No comment in the matter,” Chautala said.He said the state government will further push the pace of industrialisation, modernisation and balanced growth of the state.He said the government’s efforts are towards rural development through a clutch of schemes of Centre and state, especially aimed at providing jobs to youths.The ongoing efforts will have a positive impact in the rural and hinterland of the state, he said. The villages will become model to be emulated by other states, he said.He made a special reference to implementation of MGNREGA.The jobs and expenditure on them so far this year have been 30 per cent more in comparison to the corresponding period last year.The state would have spent Rs 1,000 crore on the flag-ship rural employment guarantee scheme.He disclosed that the government is in the process of digitisation of the entire process of registration of persons wanting jobs, their application and the response from the department concerned regarding implementation of MGNREGA.The government will create a dedicated app through which registration for jobs could be made, and response from authorities sought. There would be no need for “job cards” on the part of applicants.The authorities will be made accountable if they do not respond to the applications in time.Also, in case there is delay in providing jobs under the MGNREGA, the applicants will be paid an unemployment allowance as compensation at half the official rate paid prescribed under this statute.
21-12-2020||Deepender Deswal||Traders enjoy luxuries of life, farmers’ labour goes in vain: JJP MLA Gautam||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 21Jannayak Janata Party MLA from Narnaund assembly segment in Hisar, Ramkumar Gautam has called for the need for a stronger and better law to ameliorate the condition of the farming community who has been suffering losses for years.The Centre should immediately repeal the three agriculture Acts and work on introducing a better law in consultation with the representatives of farmers organisations who are spearheading the agitation, said Gautam while talking to The Tribune here today.The farmers though produce grain despite all the vagaries of weather but never get profitable returns and even the Minimum Support Price (MSP) while the traders and others enjoy the fruits of his hard work, the JJP MLA said.“The traders and their families have all the luxuries of life. They own fleet of cars, their children live a blissful life, make marry, drink fine whisky. But a farmer suffers from hardships throughout his life and struggles hard to earn minimum basic needs to sustain the family. He never even gets an opportunity to experience the joys of life. The farmers are in dire straits these days, their children face unemployment, get addicted to drugs in frustration,” he said while pressing for a better and strong law.Gautam said the issue of SYL is equally important and the government must bring the matter for discussion with the farmers’ bodies from Punjab and Haryana on the same table for discussion along with chalking out provisions of an alternative law after withdrawal of the existing laws.“Punjab has been denying the due share of SYL waters to its younger brother – Haryana. Now, when Haryana farmers have welcomed the protesting Punjab brethren with open arms, supply manpower, logistics and goods for the agitators sitting on Delhi borders, their Punjab counterparts should show similar compassion and make befitting gesture to ensure that Haryana farmers get their due share. This issue should be resolved in the same meeting,” he added.The MLA added that earlier Punjab people have even filled up the portion of the SYL canal in their territory. But in view of the newfound bonhomie courtesy the ongoing agitation, they should not oppose the construction of the canal to fetch water in Haryana now.He maintained that the country will be stronger if farmers are in better condition as they are not only feeding the country but their sons are also guarding the frontiers of the country. All the wings of the Indian forces including the Defence, paramilitary or the police forces have sons of farmers, he said, adding that some wrong elements -- who are opposed to the government also -- have crept in the agitation which could be detrimental for the country.
21-12-2020||Sonepat||65-year-old farmer tries to kill himself at Singhu border||A 65-year- old farmer tried to commit suicide by drinking poison at the ongoing farmers’ protest at the Singhu border on Monday, sources said---the third such instance in a week and the second in two days.The victim, identified as Niranjan Singh from Punjab’s Taran Taran, was first admitted to a general hospital but was later moved to Rohtak’s Post Graduate Institute Medical Science.Not much else is know about specifics of the case, however.This is the third such instance in one week. A Sikh priest from a gurdwara in Haryana who joined the protests shot himself over what he saw was “injustice” to Sikh farmers last week. Head of a gurdwara in Karnal, the priest, Baba Ram Singh, left a suicide note that said he couldn’t see the plight of the protesting farmers.A 22-year-old farmer from Bathinda’s Dayalpura Mirza village who was part of the prolonged protest killed himself when he returned home on Saturday. Not much else is known about the reason for his death.Farmers mainly from Punjaba and Haryana have laid siege to Delhi and have been holding protests on the borders of the city, including the Singhu border, for nearly a month now against the central government's controversial agriculture reforms. The protests began in September when Parliament passed the three controversial laws but have since escalated, especially when farmers decided to march to Delhi in November. The agitation has been steadily getting support from other parts of the country as well, and has increased pressure on the central government to give in. The Centre and farmer unions have since held several rounds of talks amid a growing chorus of criticism of the government's handling of the situation. Neither party however has yet climbed down from their demands---farmers want a complete repeal of the laws, while the central government remains firm on offering concessions that are just short of rescinding the laws entirely.Farmers' primary objection to the law is their fear that the law will weaken the existing APMC system that assures them a minimum support price for their produce, and leave them at the mercy of private and corporate interests. They also fear that the clause allowing contract farming will give major corporations greater control over their lands. The central government denies these allegations and maintains that the laws are in farmers' interest.
21-12-2020||Gurugram||Man kills wife in Gurugram over suspected illicit affair, held||A young man hailing from Bihar has been arrested on charge of murdering his 21-year-old wife in Gurugram district as he suspected her of having illicit relations, police said on Monday.Ranjit Kumar, 23, of Madhepura district had allegedly strangled his wife Sudha at Manesar on Friday. He was arrested on Sunday after the autopsy report confirmed that his wife was murdered.The woman's brother said in his police complaint that his brother-in-law Ranjit had told him that his sister (Sudha) had tried to hang herself at their rented accommodation and was admitted in a private hospital in Manesar.The woman's brother reached the hospital on Saturday but found that she had died. The matter was reported to the police by hospital staff. The police sent the body for an autopsy, which confirmed that the woman was strangled."During questioning, the accused said that he suspected his wife had developed illicit relations. On Friday, the couple had heated arguments on the matter. In a fit of rage, Ranjit killed his wife but claimed that she had committed suicide," said Investigation Officer Ravi Kumar.A case of murder was registered against the accused at Manesar's Sector 7 police station. IANS
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cold wave continues in Punjab and Haryana, Adampur coldest at 3.2 deg Celsius||The ongoing cold wave conditions sweeping Punjab and Haryana for the past few days continued unabated on Monday with Adampur recording the lowest minimum temperature of 3.2 degrees Celsius, Meteorological Department officials said.Amritsar, too, reeled under an intense chill, recording a low of 4.8 degrees Celsius.Minimum temperatures in Faridkot, Gurdaspur and Bathinda settled at 4 degrees Celsius, 6.2 degrees Celsius and 5.2 degrees Celsius, respectively.Cold weather conditions also prevailed in Ludhiana and Patiala, which recorded a low of 5.7 degrees Celsius and 6 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh recorded a low of 5.8 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Ambala experienced a cold night at 3.3 degrees Celsius, while Hisar registered a low of 5.5 degrees Celsius.Karnal recorded a low of 5.5 degrees Celsius, Narnaul's minimum settled at 4.3 degrees Celsius, while Rohtak and Bhiwani recorded respective lows of 5.8 degrees Celsius and 5.3 degrees Celsius.Fog reduced visibility in the morning at Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Karnal and Ambala, the officials said.The severe cold weather conditions are likely to abate in Punjab and Haryana from Tuesday, the Met department officials said. PTI
21-12-2020||Dipender Manta ||'Biggest-ever' heroin haul in Himachal as 2 Ambala natives nabbed in Mandi||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 21The police have seized 337 gram heroin worth of Rs 1 crore in Mandi district from two Ambala natives.According to the police, the accused were travelling towards Mandi from Ambala in an Alto car when a police patrol party stopped the vehicle. The police recovered the contraband and apprehended the accused under the NDPS Act. READ: 2 from Himachal held in Pune with 34 kg of charas worth Rs 1 croreThe police claimed it to be the biggest one-time catch so far in Himachal Pradesh, the previous being of 320 gm in Hamirpur two weeks ago.Confirming the report, Mandi SP Shalini Agnihotri said an investigation was under way to dig out more details in the case and how the accused were trying to expand their narcotics trade in Mandi.
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||5-year-old girl raped, killed in Haryana's Jhajjar||A five-year-old girl was allegedly raped and killed by a man living in her neighbourhood in Haryana’s Jhajjar city, police said on Monday.The 30-year-old man, who has a criminal background, kidnapped the girl from her house at night and took her to his residence where he allegedly raped and then killed her, a police official in Jhajjar said.The body was recovered from the house of the man and he has been arrested, police said.The official said that a case has been registered against him under relevant provisions of the law.He said the girl’s father is a migrant worker and belongs to Madhya Pradesh while the accused hails from Jhajjar. — PTI
21-12-2020||---||Unions pay homage to deceased farmers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20While the number of farmers who died during the Delhi protest has reached 35, people across the country paid homage to the deceased farmers today.Jagmohan Singh, general secertary of the BKU (Dakaunda), speaking on the behalf of the Sanjyukta Kisan Morcha, said on a call given by 32 farmer organisations, people paid tributes to the deceased at 380 places in Punjab. These meetings were organised at the protest sites. He said at the national level, around 90,000 memorial meetings were organised in 22 states.In Amritsar. as a part of farmers’ call, several social, religious, public welfare and trade organisations observed a ‘Shradhanjali Diwas’ (Homage Day) to pay tributes to farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing agitation.The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), representing farmers from the holy city, paid homage to the departed souls at the Kundli-Singhu border. Sarwan Singh Padher, general secretary of the KMSC, said prayers were read out before the posters of around 30 persons who reportedly died during the course of the agitation. “The Modi government has been adopting tactics to justify their move but we will not rest before achieving what the ‘shaheed’ lost their lives for,” he said.Activists of the Chief Khalsa Diwan, Bhai Ghanaiya Ji Mission Society, Hawara Committee, Sri Sukhmani Sahib Sewa Society, Voice of Amritsar, Mission Aagaaz, Sri Akhand Path Sahib Society, Mata Kaula ji Bhalai Society and Amritsar Vikar Manch demanded repeal of the farm laws. Dhan Dhan Baba Deep Singh Lok Sewa Society activists held protests by putting iron chains around their necks. They alleged the Centre had framed these laws to rob farmers of their land and profession at the hand of corporate houses.Similar events were also held in Sangrur and Barnala districts. “In the coming days, we will launch an agitation for financial compensation and government jobs to the families of the victims,” said Bhupinder Singh Longowal, a leader of the Kirti Kisan Union.Meanwhile, bhog was performed in the memory of Balbir Singh, 57, who died in a road accident on December 12 while on way back from Delhi, at his native Bagga Kalan village in Ajnala.
21-12-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Take steps to end farmers’ stir||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Take steps to end farmers’ stirTHE final curtains should urgently be drawn on the farmers’ agitation. One shudders to imagine what will happen if this ongoing ‘egoistic’ war between the Centre and the farming community belonging to Haryana, Punjab and UP continues for long. The stir will cause more and more hardships to the general masses including thousands of industrial units situated in Haryana as they will be hit due to the complete blockage of Delhi’s borders. So, in all fairness, both the government and the protesting farmers should make some honest efforts to break the ice before it gets too late. SK Gupta, PanchkulaStop exploiting farmersSince independence, successive governments have treated farmers harshly, to say the least, by giving them bread when they deserved butter. It is high time the plundering of the hard-working ‘annadatas’ is stopped altogether by acceding to their genuine demands. The farmers may also be strictly dealt with for any violation of rules and/or violation of law and order. I pity the people of Delhi and surrounding areas who must be going through terrible times due to the ongoing farmer agitation as every action is followed by its reaction. Lastly, the government’s move to test the patience of farmers by calling joint meetings after considerable time gap is condemnable. Ramit Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaDrains Choked with mudTHE drains constructed by NHAI alongside main highways passing through inhabited areas in Narwana are lying choked with garbage and mud. Nobody clears those even once. In such a scenario, the very purpose of constructing these drains is defeated. Instead of proving to be a utility, these are proving to be a nuisance. The administration must regularly clear these drains thoroughly. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaRow over parking lotTHIS refers to “P’kula DBA chief, 80 lawyers booked” (Chandigarh Tribune, December 19). The unsavoury row was over a parking lot outside the court complex that advocates reserved for themselves despite the sessions judge stating that it was for the public as well. A good lawyer is said to be a bad neighbour as he knows the law too much! Decency and decorum warrant that legal eagles must not cross the line. Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaClosing of schools unfortunateTHE state government is in the process of closing 52 senior secondary and high schools for want of students. The number of students is less than 70 and 50 respectively in these schools. It is an unfortunate action by the stakeholders. The economic rationale of the social rate of return on education is not the proper criterion for doing so. We need introspection about the quality of teaching in government schools where teachers’ pay is higher than in private schools. Prof MM Goel, Kurukshetra
21-12-2020||Kurukshetra||Gita Mahotsav at Kurukshetra University from today||e-library app launchedHisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University will now have information about the e-resources available in the Nehru Library through mobile app. For this, university VC Prof Samar Singh digitally launched CCSHAU e-library app during a webinar. The main theme of the webinar was "spreading awareness and use of e-resources through mobile e-library app". With this, the CCSHAU has joined the league of top agricultural universities that are providing library facilities through mobile app.Refresher course on climate changeKurukshetra: The Department of Geophysics and UGC-HRDC (Human Resources Development Centre), Kurukshetra University, organised a two-week refresher course on "earth system sciences for mitigating disasters and climate change" for the university and college teachers in online mode through Google meet. Forty-one teachers from nine states, including J&K, Kerala, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, West Bengal, UP, Assam and Haryana attended the programme. The invited resource persons from academic and research institutions from India, Nepal, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh shared their research experience in mitigating climate change. They emphasised on pan-SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation) approach for mitigating disasters and climate change.Sainik School plans next sessionRewari: Sainik School here conducted a meeting of its local board of administration to discuss the plans and activities for the upcoming academic session. Principal Soumyabrat Dhar said the meeting was presided over by Chairman K Anantharaman and issues pertaining to infrastructural development projects and various policies for betterment and smooth functioning of the school were discussed. 'Rewari Rays', the annual magazine of the school, was also inaugurated besides declaring the results of Class X and XII exams, he added.Asst Prof aspirants want result outRohtak: Candidates who went through the interview conducted for the post of assistant professor (college cadre) in public administration submitted a memorandum to the Secretary of Haryana Public Service Commission, urging him to declare the results pending for the past three months. "Interviews for the post of assistant professor in computer science, sociology, psychology and public administration were conducted from August 12 to 14. Results of all subjects except public administration were declared on August 27. So, we called on the Secretary who assured us of declaring results soon," said Dr Vikas Narwal, one of the aspirants.IGU holds induction programmeRewari: The Department of Psychology at Indira Gandhi University (IGU) here organised an online induction programme for its new students. VC Prof SK Gakhar said the art of effective stress management was the key to happy life, while senior psychologist and consultant Dr Ritu Chauchan from Narayana Group of Hospital, Bangalore, delivered a lecture on "Mental health issues and stress management during pandemic period". She elaborated various types of stress, its impact and measures to overcome it.JC Bose varsity exams from todayFaridabad: Keeping in view the prevailing pandemic, the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has announced to conduct the odd semester theory examination for main and re-appear students in online mode from December 21. The university has already released the datesheets of online examinations except the first semester of all programmes; and third semester of BTech and MCA, for which the exam will be held later. Controller of examination Rajiv Kumar said to make students familiar with the process, online training sessions and demo tests are being conducted. For appearing in exams, students will require webcam-enabled computer/laptop/tablet/mobile phone with internet connectivity. However, those who don't have it will have to reach the university or respective affiliated institute with prior intimation to appear in the exam.
21-12-2020||Hisar||Haryana Govt benefits for 40 maids||New story collection outYamunanagar: Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar released the story collection 'Peethasin Adhikari', written by Braham Dutt Sharma. In the story, a polling party's plight during the election process was described in a brilliant, credible and entertaining manner. "The collection has 10 stories," said Sharma, a teacher by profession.Blankets for marginalisedGurugram: The M3M Foundation distributed 2,000 blankets to marginalised sections of society at various construction sites and labour camps. The objective of the initiative was to provide relief to the less privileged. "The initiative is a part of our endeavour to aid the marginalised sections of society through continuous efforts. The foundation stands committed to alleviating their misery and making their lives brighter," said Payal Kanodia, trustee of the foundation.Contributed by Deepender Deswal, Shiv Kumar Sharma and Sanjay Yadav
21-12-2020||New Delhi||Haryana hailed for executing hydrology project well||The Union Jal Shakti Ministry, while reviewing the National Hydrology Project (NHP), has lauded the Haryana Government’s efforts towards the effective implementation of the project.Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria, who co-chaired the meeting, stated that Haryana is among the top 10 performing states in terms of the percentage of fund utilisation.The NHP was started in 2016 as a Central sector scheme with 100 per cent grant to implementing agencies with a budget outlay of Rs. 3,680 crore to be spent over a period of eight years.The project aims at improving the extent, reliability and accessibility of information related to water resources and to strengthen the capacity of water resource management institutions in India. The efficient and reliable information paves the way for an effective water resource development and management.During the meeting,which was chaired by Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, the ministry was of the view that the project, in its mid-term, had made significant progress in the fields of water resource monitoring system, water resource information system, water resource operation and planning systems, institutional capacity enhancement and trainings in the country. — TNS
21-12-2020||---||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij’s condition ‘better’||Chandigarh, December 20Health Minister Anil Vij, who is under treatment for Covid at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram, is feeling better and continues to make steady progress, a media bulletin stated on Sunday.Dr AK Dubey, Medical Superintendent, Medanta, said the minister was still in the ICU on oxygen support. “His oxygen requirement has reduced and he doesn’t have fever. His blood reports have shown that his health is improving. The doctors are satisfied with his progress,” he added.
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||DFO’s arrest in assault case unjustified: Ambala court||The arrest of a Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) for allegedly assaulting his senior, a Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF), has taken a new turn with a court in Ambala terming the arrest “unjustified” and contrary to SC guidelines.It has also surfaced that two days before the government withdrew administrative powers from Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) Amarinder Kaur, she had written to the state terming the FIR against the DFO “contrary to the instructions issued by the department”.The CCF, G Raman, had lodged an FIR against the DFO, Virender Singh Gill, on December 7, accusing him of assault for refusing to clear “doubtful” files and payments. The DFO was arrested on December 16. The same day, the government had withdrawn administrative powers from the PCCF.When Gill was produced before Judicial Magistrate Anita Rani on December 17, the court said reasons mentioned for the arrest were not tenable. It said the accused was arrested six days after the FIR and the documents revealed that the probe officer did not make efforts to make the accused join the probe. — TNS
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Five die, 577 fresh cases in Haryana||The Covid tally reached 2,57,644 on Sunday with the state reporting 577 more cases. The death toll went up to 2,821 with the addition of five more deaths. Faridabad and Hisar reported two deaths each while Kurukshetra reported one death.Gurugram reported a maximum of 128 cases, followed by Faridabad (61), Panipat (43), Hisar (41) and Yamunanagar (38). — TNS
21-12-2020||---||Three get life term for killing minor in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, December 20Yamunanagar Sessions Judge Deepak Aggarwal has sentenced three persons to life imprisonment for murdering a juvenile.Public prosecutor Sanjeev Kumar said the court of Sessions Judge had also imposed a fine of Rs 17,000 on the convicts, Naseem and Abdul Rehman, both residents of Bhud Kalan village, and Noor Hassan of Kutipur village in Yamunanagar district.“In case of default in payment of fine, the convicts shall further undergo simple imprisonment for a year,” said the public prosecutor. He said the judgment was pronounced on December 14.Deshraj of Khillawala village said in his complaint to the police that his 16-year-old son Lucky Pal had been working at the barber shop of Naseem situated at Kutipur road in Pratap Nagar for the last one year.He said his son left the house around 8 am for the shop on July 25, 2019, saying that he would go to Haridwar. His mobile phone had been switched off since that day.On Deshraj’s complaint, a case was registered under Section 365 (kidnapping) against unknown person at Pratap Nagar police station on August 1, 2019.However, the complainant later moved an application to the Yamunanagar Superintendent of Police, alleging that during search of his son, he came to know that on the night of July 25, 2019, four boys were consuming liquor on the bank of a canal near Herbal Park of Pratap Nagar block.He suspected that Naseem along with his accomplices Abdul Rehman and Noor Hassan might have pushed his juvenile son into the canal. After investigation, Naseem, Abdul Rehman and Noor Hassan were arrested.During interrogation, the accused told the police that they were consuming liquor in the evening sitting on the bank of the canal on July 25, 2019. They called the juvenile there along with cold drinks and other items.While consuming liquor, Noor Hassan and Lucky entered into a verbal duel on some issue. He along with Abdul Rehman caught hold of him and Noor Hassan pushed him into the canal.
21-12-2020||---||Opium found inside Ambala jail, warder among 6 booked||Ambala, December 20The Ambala police have booked six men, including four under-trials and a jail warder, in connection with a mobile phone and 27 gram opium recovered from the Central Jail last evening.The suspects have been identified as under-trial Gurdeep, a resident of Mahesh Nagar, Amit, a resident of Valmiki Nagar, Devender, Iqbal Ahmad, jail warder Purushottam and Devender’s brother Gurjinder.Lakhbir Singh, Jail SuperintendentFurther investigation onWarder Purushottam has been suspended and further investigation is being done. Only the police can tell about the details of the deal between the warder and the under-trials. We will soon nab all others involved in the nexus. As per information, Gurdeep and Amit were spotted fighting on Saturday evening. On being asked about the reason, Amit said that recently Devender had used his mobile phone to get opium smuggled inside the jail with the help of jail staff but he was not given the drug after being supplied into the premises.Devender confessed that he had given his brother Gurjinder’s number to Iqbal Ahmad, who later struck a deal with the jail warder and arranged the opium. During checking, opium was recovered from Gurdeep, while a mobile phone was recovered from Amit.Iqbal said he had collected opium from Purushottam on December 17 around 3.45 pm when he was on duty at block number-7. A CCTV footage was also obtained in this context.Jail Superintendent Lakhbir Singh said: “Taking departmental action, warder Purushottam has been suspended and further investigation is being done by the police. Only the police can tell about the details of the deal between the warder and the under-trials. We are working on this case and we are hopeful that we will nab all other people involved in this nexus.”A case has been registered on the complaint of Jail DSP Rakesh Kumar at the Baldev Nagar police station under sections 42 A of the prisons Act, 18 of the NDPS Act and 120b of the IPC.Hamir Singh, SHO, Baldev Nagar police station, said: “The jail warder is yet to be arrested, while the production warrant of the under-trials will be obtained for questioning and further investigation.”
21-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Rohtak village erupts in joy as Panghal bags gold in Cologne||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 20Boxer Amit Panghal, a resident of Mayna village here, won a gold medal at the World Cup in Cologne on Saturday.Amit’s uncle Raj Narayan Panghal said: “The tournament was postponed twice this year and Amit, who went to Europe for training, too, did not know about it. He got to know about the tournament just two days before it began and performed marvelously. We all were quite confident about his gold-medal victory.”He said due to Covid pandemic no function was organised in the village today to celebrate his success but the social media was flooded with congratulatory messages.“Amit will return to India on Tuesday. Thereafter, we will celebrate keeping in view the Covid guidelines,” Raj Narayan added.Krishan, another resident of the village, said the whole village was overwhelmed by Amit’s achievement. “H has been persistently bringing laurels to the village and the district.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda also congratulated Amit on Twitter.“Amit has again made Haryana and India proud by winning the gold medal in the 52 kg weight category. I wish that his achievements become an inspiration for the youth,” tweeted Khattar, while Deepender said: “We all are proud of your talent. Keep shining the name of the nation.”
21-12-2020||---||Panipat liquor contractor attacked, 1 assailant shot||Panipat, December 20Members of a gang on Saturday night fired at a liquor contractor near Noorwala in Panipat city. During the crossfire, an assailant was shot dead. The liquor contractor and another person sustained serious injuries.Extortion motive behind incide NT The deceased has been identified as Manish alias Mukhia (25) of Goela Khera village in Bapoli area of the district. Liquor contractor Ajeet alias Jeeta of Khalila Prahaladpur village and his driver Sagar of Juan village of Sonepat district sustained bullet injuries.Surender, younger brother of the liquor contractor in his statement to the police, said that his brother has a liquor vend at Noorwala area.He along with his brother Ajeet, driver Sagar, gunman Dilbagh and Aman, a bouncer of Juan village, went to the liquor vend at Noorwala on Saturday evening in a car. When they were getting ready to return at around 8.30 pm, 4-5 youths from Noorwala side came there and opened fire at them, he added.Ajeet sustained a bullet injury on his shoulder. He opened fire with his licensed weapon at the assailants. Aman also opened fire on the assailants with a gun. After being hit by a bullet, a youth fell down. The others managed to flee from the spot, he added. Meanwhile, driver Sagar also sustained a bullet injury. Ajeet also received bullet injuries on his chest and shoulder.Then, Surender got his brother and driver admitted in a private hospital where they are unconscious.He further alleged that gangster Person alias Lambu of Sewah village and Rakesh alias Raku of Lakhu Buana have attacked him and his brother through members of their gang.The primary inquiry revealed that Lambu gang had demanded extortion from the liquor contractor around three years ago, said Inspector Kamaljeet, SHO, Sector 13/17.But Ajeet had refused to give extortion money. The gang had attacked him twice earlier — in 2018 and December 2019, the SHO said. Lambu was arrested in both the previous cases and he is in jail presently. Manish, who was shot dead on Saturday, was recently released from jail and had a criminal record, he said. A case has been registered against Person and Rakesh, he added.
21-12-2020||Nitish Sharma||Candidates promise jobs to voters; campaigning picks up in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 20With the election campaign at its peak, all parties and mayoral candidates are working in full swing to woo voters. They have come out with different poll promises, including installation of 5,000 CCTV cameras, 2,000 jobs, improving drainage system, new community centres, vertical gardens, and beautification of Ambala city.In its “vachan patra”, the Congress has made 17 promises, including ending NOC system, contractual system in corporation, constructing multilevel parking, regularising illegal colonies, making Ambala stray animal-free, installing 5,000 CCTV cameras and improving the drainage system.Congress candidate Meena Aggarwal said: “Corrupt practices are rampant in the corporation and our priority would be to eradicate corruption, bring transparency and provide hassle-free services to the residents. The sanitation condition in city is very bad and we aim at making Ambala beautiful and clean.”The BJP is yet to release its manifesto, but its mayoral candidate Dr Vandana Sharma has been promising scientific disposal of garbage, improved drainage system, vertical gardens, skill programme centre for youth, child home and beautification of Ambala city.Sharma said: “We are reaching out to people with the agenda of development. Our aim is to provide all facilities and hassle-free services to people of Ambala. There is BJP government at the Centre and the state, and the MP and the MLA of Ambala city also belong to the BJP. We have been appealing to voters to elect the BJP candidates in wards as well as for the post of mayor to ensure smooth development.”Former minister Nirmal Singh-led Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) is also promising slash in house tax rates, public toilets, CCTV cameras at sensitive places, beautification, online portal for resolving grievances, doorstep delivery of services, and scientific disposal of garbage.HDF general secretary Chitra Sarwara said: “We have been appealing to voters to help the HDF in making the corporation corruption-free and transparent. Our aim is to make Ambala green and clean, while providing all services to the residents in a smooth manner. We will release our manifesto on Monday.”The Haryana Jan Chetna Party (V) is promising 2,000 jobs in the MC besides making Ambala livable. Its mayoral candidate Shaktirani Sharma said: “City residents have many complaints and they have been witnessing problems, including poor sanitation, poor lighting, and unemployment for the past few years. The budget of corporation has been misused by some people due to which neither the city was developed nor basic facilities were provided to people. We will ensure that residents are not harassed in the name of NOCs and all 20 wards are equally developed.”
21-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Expect Supreme Court order in 2-3 days: Haryana CM||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, December 20Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said he had requested the Centre to hold a dialogue with farmer leaders. He said the Supreme Court had taken up the issue and it would issue directions within two or three days in this connection. Khattar was addressing a ‘Jal Adhikar Rally’ in Narnaul.“In a democratic set-up, the government having a full majority has the rights to enact laws and policies. Those who want to resist these can adopt different ways. They can raise the issue before the House, go to the media and hold rallies and public meetings, but cannot block highways to exert pressure on the government. There is no space for such an undemocratic way in a democracy. The nation will go in the wrong direction if the government bows to such pressure,” he said.Referring to the farmers’ protest, Khattar said an amicable solution was needed and everyone would have to make efforts to end it peacefully. He reiterated that he would quit politics if the MSP and mandi system were abolished. On the SYL canal issue, he said Punjab had to leave its arbitrary attitude and give Haryana its share of water as the Supreme Court had already given its verdict in favour of Haryana.Union minister Rao Inderjit Singh said south Haryana fully stood with the state government on the SYL issue and three farm laws, but such public meetings and rallies were required to be organised in Kurukshetra and Karnal areas to make people aware of these issues. Since south Haryana had no objection to the issue, the Delhi-Jaipur highway had remained open for traffic, he pointed out.Member of Parliament Dharambir Singh, state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar, Agriculture Minister Jai Prakash Dalal, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Om Prakash Yadav, former minister Ram Bilas Sharma and MLAs Abhay Singh Yadav and Sitaram Yadav were also present.BLACK CLOTH SHOWN TO KHATTARTwo persons waved a black cloth at Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar during the rally. Police personnel immediately forced them out of the venue though Khattar asked them to force the duo to remain seated to listen to his address. “I have no issue as I was aware of such persons,” he said in his speech. Sources said the police took some local residents into preventive custody earlier as a precautionary measure.
21-12-2020||Deepender Deswal||In Jind to hold camp on farm laws, BJP workers face wrath||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 20BJP workers who went to hold a training camp at Gatauli village of Jind district faced stiff opposition from the local residents today.They reached the village to apprise the local farmers of the benefits of the agriculture Acts brought in by the Centre earlier this year.BJP district president Rajkumar Mor said the party workers had gone to the village to hold “prashikshan shivir” (training camp), but some miscreants disrupted the programme after which the party workers had to cancel it.“This type of hooliganism is not good for the democratic values as the workers were conducting the programme without causing any inconvenience to anybody,” he added.Surender Singh, SHO, Julana police station, said the police rushed to the spot after they got information about the protest by some villagers. “The BJP workers left after the matter was resolved amicably,” he said.Anil Kumar, a villager, said the protesters were not part of any organisation. “The villagers were upset with the BJP workers who came to the village to hold a training camp and hold an interaction on agricultural laws even as our brethren are protesting for the past one month. The villagers raised anti-government slogans and assured the BJP workers that they will not harm anybody and requested them to cancel their programme,” Kumar added.Event cancelled
21-12-2020||---||Haryana farmer leaders to start relay fast today||Sonepat, December 20Farmer leaders on Sunday announced a relay fast from Monday at all dharna sites against the three controversial farm laws. To start with, 11 leaders will sit on fast at the Singhu border.This was decided in a meeting of the united front in Kundli. Another decision taken in the meeting was that December 23 would be observed as “Kisan Diwas” in the memory of Chaudhary Charan Singh.Swaraj India convener Yogender Yadav said, “The united front appeals to all people across the country to skip lunch on December 23 in support of farmers.”Farmer leader Jagjeet Singh Dallewal said protesters would not allow toll companies in Haryana to charge tax on December 25, 26 and 27. “We appeal to Indians living across the world to protest on December 26 in support of farmers, he added.The leaders also appealed to people to bang “thalis” during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “Mann ki Baat” programme on December 27.Meanwhile, “Shradhanjali Diwas” was observed in the memory of those who have died during the ongoing protest.At the Tikri border, a two-minute silence was observed in the memory of deceased farmers.Karnal: Sewa Singh Arya, BKU vice-president said the sacrifice of farmers would not go in vain. “The Centre has been taking the agitation lightly, but the farmers are resolute. We will intensify the agitation in the coming days,” he said.
21-12-2020||---||It’s fight for survival, not for MSP, says BJP’s Birender Singh||Palwal, December 20Former Union Minister Birender Singh has said farmers would win the fight against the Centre and get the three agricultural laws repealed.“The enthusiasm among the sons of the soil is remarkable. Farmers are fight for their rightful share in the country’s economy, which is mainly dependent on agriculture, and not for the MSP,” he said while addressing about 1,200 farmers camping near the district’s Atoha village on Sunday.Birender Singh, BJP leaderWill win battleThe enthusiasm among the sons of the soil is remarkable. It is not a fight for the MSP, but a battle to seek their rightful share in the country’s economy, which is mainly dependent on agriculture.BJP leader Singh held dharna in Jhajjar in support of farmers on Friday and demanded resumption of dialogue.“Every sector of the economy, but agriculture, has been hit hard by the pandemic. The farm sector has recorded a growth of 3.4 per cent,” Singh said, adding a whopping 62 per cent of the country’s population was still dependent on agriculture.On the precarious situation of farmers, he cited an example of coffee production. “A farmer’s share in a cup of coffee sold in the market was not more than 2.5 per cent of the cost charged from the consumer,” Birender said.Taking potshots at the corporate sector, he asked how a chairman or an MD of a corporate house could draw an annual salary in crores, when the food provider of the country was fighting for his survival.Meanwhile, Shiv Kumar, one of the protesting farmers, said the agitation had gained momentum with the support from every section of society.
21-12-2020||---||Khap panchayats in Haryana to protest at MLAs’ houses||Hisar, December 20Contrary to their temperament of delivering diktats, khap panchayats are keeping their calm and staying put for a prolonged struggle in support of the farmers’ agitation.Khap panchayats, which are mobilising support for the stir, say they are playing a supportive role and working in tandem with the farmers’ outfits spearheading the agitation.Phool Kumar, petwar from the Satrol khap, said khaps had reposed faith in the committee which was taking all decisions regarding the agitation.“Khap panchayats will go by the decisions of the farmers’ body. We have been gathering support from villages since November 26. Khap panchayats have pitched tents at the dharna sites at the Tikri and Singhu borders,” he said.He said khaps would organise protests at the houses of Haryana MLAs this week to press for withdrawal of farm laws.Ramniwas Lohan, pradhan of the khap, said around 400 tractor-trolleys had been transporting people and goods from the Narnaund in Hisar to the dharna sites.Surja Ram, a khap leader from Khairi village in Hisar, said they had been urging villagers to supply milk, lassi, flour, vegetables and dry ration from villages.
21-12-2020||Ghaziabad ||Cong leader Harish Rawat joins dharna at Ghazipur||Congress leader Harish Rawat joined farmers protesting against the Centre’s agricultural reform laws at the Ghazipur border on Sunday and demanded the government take back the legislations.The former Uttarakhand CM also paid homage to farmers who have died during the agitation.AICC member Narendra Rathi said Rawat was accompanied by several Congress office-bearers and workers.“I am the son of a farmer and understand the problems of farmers,” Rawat said. — PTI
21-12-2020||---||Bhupinder Singh Hooda: SYL move bid to derail protest||Chandigarh, December 20Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday said the BJP’s move on the SYL issue was an attempt to break the unity of farmers. He said the BJP leaders’ fast on the issue was a cruel joke on farmers.Bhupinder Singh Hooda, former CMStop tricking themThe BJP should give stop tricking farmers and accept their demands. Food providers are staging dharna in the freezing cold. The Centre should accept their demands and put an end to the agitation.“The BJP has always put its political interests before the interests of Haryana. Had it really been serious about getting water for Haryana, the state would have got SYL water by now. The Supreme Court ruling in favour of Haryana was taken three and a half years ago. This government never took a step forward in getting water. The aim of the BJP is to derail the farmers’ movement and divide them,” he said.He said farmers had understood the BJP’s intent and would not fall in this trap. “Farmers are aware that the canal cannot be expected during this BJP regime. This government abandoned the Dadupur-Nalvi canal project, started during the Congress government. This government stopped work on the project against the wishes of farmers,” he said.He said the BJP should give up its attempts to trick farmers and accept their demands. “Food providers of the country are staging dharna in the freezing cold. The government should accept their demands as soon as possible and put an end to the agitation,” he said.
