21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 2,666 fresh COVID-19 cases, 25 deaths||Haryana on Saturday reported another big spike of 2,666 fresh coronavirus cases taking the caseload in the state to 2,15,021 while 25 more fatalities took the COVID-19 death toll to 2,163.  Of the fresh cases, the maximum 939 were reported from the hardest-hit Gurgaon district, the second highest single-day spike so far, according to the state health department's daily bulletin.Earlier, Gurgaon had reported 964 cases on November 8.Gurgaon and Faridabad (630 new cases) are the two hardest-hit districts, both of which fall in the Delhi-National Capital Region.Among other districts which reported a big spike included Hisar (179), Sonipat (110) and Rohtak (101).The fatalities included five from Faridabad, four from Bhiwani and three each from Gurugram and Hisar among others.Active cases in the state currently stand at 20,325 while the recovery rate is 89.54 per cent, the bulletin said. --- PTI
21-11-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Fake Covid testing lab busted in Gurugram||Gurugram, November 21The CM flying squad on Saturday busted a fake diagnostic lab allegedly providing fraudulent a Covid report at mere Rs 1,200.Situated at Saini Khera village, ‘Medicartz’ lab would provide “desired” Covid reports. Police have nabbed two of its managers, identified Anirban, a resident of Sector 30, and Pariman Rai of Saini Khera. Both of them hail from West Bengal and have reportedly admitted to handing out Covid reports.The investigation so far has revealed seven such instances where two people used Covid negative certificate to travel abroad.In the evening, the squad got a tip-off and sent a decoy customer who asked for report within an hour of giving sample. He was given a negative report, but when he asked for a positive report the same was given within half-an-hour. The flying squad raided the lab and caught the two red-handed.Inspector Suresh Chand, head of the raiding team, said they had got fake IDs created and were running the racket for the past two months. An FIR has been registered against the duo at Sector 40 police station.
21-11-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram doctor commits suicide, wife booked for abetment||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, November 21A doctor of a renewed multispecialty hospital here committed suicide at his residence by injecting himself with some poisonous substance.He was allegedly perturbed about the purported affair of his wife, who has been booked for abetment. The FIR has been registered at the Sector 50 police station.The deceased has been identified as Dr Manuj Sodhi (47), a native of Bhiwadi in Rajasthan.Dr Sodhi was working with Medanta Medicity as intensive care specialist and lived with his wife in a Sector 49 apartment. The couple was married for around 22 years.Monika, Dr Sodhi’s wife, is working as teacher in a private school.Dr Sodhi allegedly committed suicide by injecting himself with some poisonous substance when he was alone at his flat on Saturday morning, police said.He was rushed to hospital by a neighbour who saw him unconscious but was declared brought dead by the doctors.Dr Manuj’s father Vinod Sodhi filed a complaint against Monika alleging that his son was depressed because she had an affair with someone from last three years.Based on Vinod Sodhi’s complaint, an FIR has been registered against Monika under section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC at the Sector 50 police station.“Following the complaint a case has been registered but we are investigating all angles. Action will be taken as per law after verifying the facts,” said Surender Phogat, SHO, Sector 50 police station.
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Maximum temperatures hover below normal in Punjab, Haryana||The maximum and minimum temperatures stayed below normal levels in Punjab and Haryana on Saturday, with the meteorological department predicting dry weather in the two states for the next couple of days.Chandigarh, the joint capital of the two states, recorded a high of 22.2 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded maximum temperatures at 22.2 degrees Celsius, 21.8 degrees Celsius and 23.3 degrees Celsius respectively, up to five degrees below normal.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a high of 21.9 degrees Celsius, five notches below the normal, while Hisar’s maximum was 23 degrees Celsius, six degrees below normal. Narnaul’s maximum was 26.2 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperatures too hovered between 1 and 4 degrees below the normal at most places in the two states. --- PTI
21-11-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Health authorities in Gurugram to identify superspreaders to check Covid infections||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, November 21With Covid crisis getting virtually out of hand in Gurugram, the health authorities here have turned their focus on identifying and isolating the superspreaders in the city.Having tested 10,000 people on Saturday, the health authorities, starting from Sunday, will randomly conduct 6,000 tests per day.In addition to holding camps on borders, the authorities have identified 20 areas in the city, including crowded markets, which are believed to be a key “infectivity pool”."We are taking a target driven approach in Covid crisis management. We are identifying the superspreaders targeting geographical, professional and social profiles which have reported highest infectivity in last 15 days,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav.“We will be holding testing camps here and doing random sampling. Given the fear of infection in transition we have been conducting regular camps at all borders also," said Dr Yadav.Panic gripped the city after it reported the highest ever single day spike of 939 cases. The city has reported around 8,000 fresh cases in the last 15 days and the majority of patients have had a history of visiting or staying in the identified “key hotspots”.The health authorities, in line with Delhi, have also sought stricter penalty for mask violation.Similar penal action is also being sought for crowding and the proposal is under consideration of the administration.Meanwhile, the city is abuzz with rumors of compulsive random testing but health authorities claim that they are putting up camps for voluntary testing.
21-11-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Pataudi man confesses to ‘raping' mother||Gurugram, November 21“I was in a trance and may have raped her then but I am sure I have not killed her. The last visuals I remember of her are hanging from roof,” said 22-year-old youth who has been accused of allegedly raping his mother and abetting her suicide.Police will question him regarding all aspects and will produce before city court tomorrow.On November 16, a 45-year-old woman of a village near Pataudi was found dead in her house. In a written complaint, the woman’s second husband accused her son of allegedly raping and then murdering her.He alleged that despite his insistence, police treated this as natural death and filed a report under 174 CrPC. It was only after post-mortem that a case of rape was registered. Based on the post-mortem report an FIR has been registered against the son of the victim under Sections 376 (rape), 306 (abatement to suicide) of IPC at Pataudi police station.“The accused son of deceased has been arrested. Prime facie he confessed that he might have raped her mother because he was not in his senses as he was inebriated. He also claimed that he found her mother’s body hanging and fled only after getting her body on the cot. We are questioning him and he will be produced before court tomorrow,” said inspector Karan Singh, SHO of Pataudi police station.
21-11-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak PGIMS told to submit disability report of Rewari man||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 21The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) has directed the Rohtak PGIMS to get a destitute and physically challenged man of Rewari district examined and submit the report regarding his disability to the Commission.In a recent order passed by the HHRC chairperson Justice SK Mittal and member Deep Bhatia, the PGIMS Director has been ordered to get the man’s medical tests done free of cost.Sher Singh of Rewari had requested the authorities concerned for medical treatment and financial assistance. The Rewari Deputy Commissioner sought a report about his disability from the Rewari Civil Surgeon, who in turn referred him to Rohtak PGIMS to get his disability assessed and get a medical disability certificate.The man went to the PGIMS, where he was told to get his MRI (Brain and Cervical Spine) done.Sher Singh could not get the said tests done due to his poverty and disability. As a result, the assessment of his disability could not be done. After making rounds of government offices and hospitals for issuance of disability certificate, the hapless man lodged a complaint with the HHRC.
21-11-2020||---||2 yrs after polls, Karnal Mayor gets two deputies||Karnal, November 20Two years after the Karnal Municipal Corporation elections, the Mayor has finally got two deputies.In the presence of Mayor Renu Bala Gupta and Municipal Commissioner Vikram Singh, all 20 councillors have unopposed elected Rajesh Kumar Aghi of Ward Number 19 as Senior Deputy Mayor and Naveen Kumar of Ward Number 1 as Deputy Mayor.Aghi’s father Bhagwan Das Aghi has remained a councillor for four times, while Rajesh’s wife for one time. The Aghi family had switched to the BJP from the Congress before the 2014 Assembly elections. Rajesh had contested on the BJP ticket, while Naveen, an old BJP worker, too had contested from the saffron party ticket.As per the sources, Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar was appointed as the observer for the elections, who handed over two envelops having the names of the deputies to the Mayor. Aghi’s name was proposed by councillor Ish Gulati and Naveen’s name was proposed by Monu.The election of the councillors and the Mayor had been conducted on December 16, 2018, and the notification in this regard was issued on December 27, 2018, by the State Election Commission, Haryana. As per Rule 71 (2) of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Election (Amendment) Rules, 2018, the holding of elections for both the posts is to be ensured by the Commissioner within 60 days from the notification of the names of Mayor and the elected members of the House. These elections were to be conducted before or on February 25, 2019, but the MC was without both the posts till today.Meanwhile, the newly elected members said their focus would be on development of the city with the cooperation of all councillors.“The party has shown faith in me and I will try my best to fulfil their expectations. Under the leadership of CM Manohar Lal Khattar, we will ensure the development of the city without any discrimination,” Aghi said. Naveen said he would try to meet the expectations of people.
21-11-2020||Parveen Arora||Poor drainage in Gharaunda causes losses to farmers||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 20Many years have passed but the problem of waterlogging prevails in the fields of several villages of Gharaunda block, leading to losses to farmers.The poor drainage system of the Indri escape and drain number-1, which used to merge into small Yamuna river around 40 years ago, is a major reason behind the accumulation of water in the fields.With the passage of time, the land of small Yamuna river is being used by farmers for cultivation, which has led to incomplete drainage system, officials of the Irrigation Department said.The showers post Diwali were enough to waterlog several acres of land in Kairwali, Faizlipur Majra, Kalram and other villages. It is not a new issue, but the situation gets worse during rains.The issue was raised in the last Assembly session by local MLA Harvinder Kalyan, on which Minister JP Dalal assured to sort it out at the earliest.The MLA also visited the waterlogged fields with the officials of the Irrigation Department on Thursday and took stock of the situation. He assured the farmers that their problem would be resolved soon as the Irrigation Department had chalked out a plan to construct a proper drainage system from Chaura to Tamsabad village in Panipat, where water will be discharged into the Yamuna after treatment.“I have raised the issue in the Assembly and also visited the villages. The water has submerged their fields. I had held a meeting with the higher authorities of the department in Chandigarh on Friday for a permanent solution. I am hopeful the problem will be resolved and farmers will get relief soon,” Kalyan said while talking to The Tribune.Farmers Om Parkash and Rishi Pal of Kalram and Prem Singh of Faizlipur Majra counted their losses in front of the MLA and said they had been facing the problem of waterlogging for the past around 30-40 years. “Some steps were taken by the present government but they are not sufficient. We need permanent solution as we have to suffer huge losses every year due to the poor drainage system,” Om Parkash said.Navtej Singh, XEN, Irrigation Department, said the Indri escape starts from Indri urban areas while water of Karnal sewerage treatment plant enters it from drain number 1 near Kairwali village. “A proposal has been made to construct a 45-km drain for which around 600 acres of land is to be acquired,” he added.Same situation for decades
21-11-2020||---||Farm unions to intensify ‘Delhi Chalo’ campaign||Rohtak, November 20The state chapter of All-India Kisan Sangharsh Co-ordination Committee (AIKSCC), a joint platform of several farmers’ outfits, today decided to intensify its ongoing ‘Delhi Chalo’ campaign on November 26 and 27 by chalking out strategies to make the protest successful.At a meeting of the AIKSCC here, the farmers’ leaders — Yogender Yadav, Satyawan, Prem Singh Gahlawat, Krishna Prasad, Inderjit Singh, Ram Pal Chahal, Sumit Singh, Sat Pal Beniwal, Ram Kumar Bahbalpuria, Pahlad Singh, Rajender Chahal, Jai Karan, Anoop Singh and Yudhvir Ahlawat — reviewed the preparations for the protest. They also condemned the Modi government for not restoring the freight trains to Punjab and described it as anti-national.“It is tantamount to the worst blackmail of the agitating farmers who were suffering from non- availability of fertilisers when the sowing of Rabi crops is at its peak. We warn the state and the Centre to refrain from obstructing the peaceful movement of lakhs of farmers to Delhi on November 26,” said Inderjit Singh, state vice-president, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS).Meanwhile, the district unit of the AIKS, at a meeting presided over by Subedar Sundar Singh, chalked out a detailed programme to mobilise maximum number of tractor trollies to reach Ch Chhotu Ram Memorial in Sampla town here before proceeding to Delhi on November 26 in the form of a convoy.The AIKS has appealed to all sections of society for their logistic support to the farmers, stating that the three black laws were bound to affect the vital interests of the nation and every citizen, if allowed to become operational.
21-11-2020|| 
||1 arrested for Pak flag on truck||Palwal, November 20 A man has been arrested for allegedly displaying the Pakistani flag on his truck plying here on Friday, the police have said. A case of under Section 153-B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) of the IPC has been registered against the accused, identified as Tausim, a native of Sambhal district in Uttar Pradesh. His truck was intercepted by local residents on the Palwal-Aligarh road. On getting information, the police reached the spot and arrested Tausim. His co-driver, Rajkumar, managed to flee.  The truck was laden with the carcasses of the cattle. Tausim had started from Tauru in Nuh district and was on its way to Sambhal district. Camp police station SHO Yadram said the accused was also booked under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, as he could not produce documents related to the carcasses of the cattle found in the truck, which had been impounded.
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Rights panel to rescue of physically challenged||The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) has come to the rescue of a physically challenged person, who had been running from pillar to post for assessment of his disability so that he could avail financial assistance.  The person, a resident of Rewari, is unable to move and approached the HHRC for financial assistance and medical treatment in 2018.  The Commission called for a report from the Rewari DC, who asked the civil surgeon concerned in April 2018 to assess the cost for his treatment. But the Civil Surgeon referred him to PGIMS, Rohtak.  As per the report of the Director, PGIMS, the person was referred to head of Department of Neurology, and he appeared there on January 3. He was advised MRI of brain and cervical spine.  But he said he did not have money and was unable to walk and thus it was not possible for him to undergo the MRI. The Commission directed the Director, PGIMS, to get all his tests conducted and submit a report regarding his disability. — TNS
21-11-2020||ibune News Service||Vij gets Covaxin dose||Ambala, November 20Home and Health Minister Anil Vij was on Friday administered a trial dose of Covaxin, Bharat Biotech’s proposed Covid vaccine, becoming the first minister in the country to join the trials.“I was administered a trial dose at the Civil Hospital under supervision of a team of doctors from the PGIMS and Health Department,” he said.After being administered the proposed vaccine around 11:30 am, Vij was kept under observation for three hours. A well-equipped ICU facility was set up at the emergency of the hospital. Two anaesthetists and one physician, surgeon and laboratory technical officer each were deputed to deal with any exigency.“The dose was administered after explaining pros and cons, recording vitals and taking necessary blood samples,” said Dr Kuldeep Singh, Civil Surgeon. He said the minister was kept under strict observation for an hour, during which his vitals remained within normal limits and there was no health issue.
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||25 casualties; 3,104 cases reported in Haryana||The Covid tally reached 2,12,355 on Friday with 3,104 more cases. With 25 deaths, the toll reached 2,138. Faridabad reported a maximum of 881 cases, followed by Gurugram (793), Hisar (288), Sonepat (162) and Rohtak (107). — TNS
21-11-2020||---||Woman cop kills 2 sons, ends life||Hisar, November 20A woman police constable reportedly committed suicide after strangling her two sons in Sukhlampur village of Fatehabad district on Friday.The woman was residing at her parental home after a marital discord with her husband, who is also a police constable.The woman identified as Sanju (26), who hanged herself to death after strangling two sons, Shivang (3) and a two-month-old boy.The woman was married to Naresh Kumar of Khairatikhera village. Both were posted in Hisar.The police said Sanju had gone to live with her parents after a discord with her husband some time back. The couple talked and quarreled over phone on Friday.Sanju who visited Ratia town for shopping, returned home and killed the children and committed suicide.Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Subhash Chander said Sanju’s family had lodged a complaint of abetment to suicide against Naresh.He said they had started inquiry and would take action as per the law.
21-11-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur 
||5-year-old special child found ‘illegally confined’ in Panipat||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, November 20  The Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) on Friday recommended the closure of an open shelter home in Panipat and sought a case against its manager, Tejpal, after a five-year-old girl was allegedly found illegally confined there.  The girl was Covid-positive too, but as per the commission no medical help was provided to her. For the past three to four days, the child was alone at the shelter home, which is being run by the Hari Mahila Vikas Samiti.  Commission officials also learnt that the girl was continuously crying and calling for help as she was locked inside the shelter home and neighbours were providing her food and medicines through a window.  In its proceedings on Friday, the commission, under its chairperson Jyoti Bainda, noted that during their visit to the shelter home on Thursday, the neighbours confirmed that the child was living alone for three to four days.  As per the records, the child came to the shelter home in August last year.  Bainda also learnt that the child went missing either from the shelter home or the manager’s residence on November 14. The girl was found the next day.  Meanwhile, the manager told the commission the girl was isolated as she was Covid-positive.  Bainda requested the Panipat Civil Surgeon to supervise the case.
21-11-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Only 100 register for Phase 3 vaccine trials||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 20Phase III of clinical human trials of Covaxin, the country’s indigenous Covid vaccine, commenced at the PGIMS here on Friday, though the initial response was lukewarm.Dr Ramesh Verma, co-investigatorWill make people aware of trialsWe expect more volunteers to come forward as awareness about commencement of the third phase of trials spreads.As per official sources, the proposed vaccine was supposed to be administered to nearly 1,000 volunteers at the PGIMS in the third phase of trials, while just 100 volunteers had got themselves registered so far.“We expect more volunteers to come forward in the coming days as awareness about commencement of the third phase of trials spreads,” said Dr Ramesh Verma, co-investigator of the project at the PGIMS.Dr Verma appealed to residents to come forward and participate in the trials. Persons interested could contact the PGIMS Covid helpline on 9416447071 to get themselves registered for the trials, he stated.Healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff members, would be included as volunteers in the third phase of the trials, he said, adding that only those above 18 years of age would be involved in this phase, he said.As per project investigators, clinical trials had been largely successful so far, though a few volunteers had borne mild reactions after administration of the indigenous vaccine in the first two phases.
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Schools shut till November 30 in Haryana||With the state witnessing a spike in Covid cases and a number of schoolchildren testing positive in the past couple of days, the Haryana Government on Friday ordered the closure of all schools in the state until November 30.“In the past couple of days, 175 schoolchildren and 107 teachers have tested positive during random sampling in some schools. It is in view of this development that we have decided to close schools till the end of this month,” said Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar.Gujjar said the orders would also be applicable to private schools in the state. The Directorate of School Education issued a letter to all District Education Officers and Block Education Officers, ordering closure of all schools till November 30. — TNS
21-11-2020||---||Day later, Panipat SP suspends two policemen for negligence||Panipat, November 20SP Manisha Chaudhary on Friday suspended Tehsil Camp police post in-charge SI Baljeet Singh and ASI Mahavir Singh for negligence in probing the case registered against ex-councillor, his daughter and eight others for allegedly selling firecrackers openly, snatching and misbehaving with a police official.Sandeep Khirwar, SIT chiefInvestigation under wayThe probe is under way. We are verifying the facts after the victim’s kin complained us. Also, the search operation for the ex-councillor is still on.The move came a day after senior BJP leader and ex-councillor Harish Sharma jumped into a canal due to the alleged police harassment. His friend Rajesh Sharma too went to save him, but drowned. His body was fished out from the minor canal near Burshayam village in the Samalkha area on Friday. However, Harish is still missing. The police have sent Rajesh’s body to the General Hospital mortuary for the autopsy.Meanwhile, the SIT formed by Home Minister Anil Vij and headed by ADGP Sandeep Khirwar recorded the statements of the ex-councillor’s family members, who cited police harassment as the reason behind the incident.SIT chief ADGP Khirwar along with Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma, Gohana ASP Udai Singh Meena, an FSL team and a dog squad visited the spot and recreated the crime scene on the basis of the statements of eyewitnesses Satish Sharma, Harish’s brother, and Sonu Saluja.Meanwhile, SIT member Rahul Sharma said the initial probe revealed that SI Baljeet was biased towards Harish. “Besides, it is a matter of concern as to why Harish took the extreme step even when non-bailable charges were removed from the case.”
21-11-2020||Deepender Deswal||Rs 7.7 cr fine on firms for selling liquor during lockdown||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 20The Excise and Taxation Department has imposed a penalty of around Rs 7.7 crore on L-1 and L-13 licensees in Hisar, Bhiwani, Jind, Sirsa and Fatehabad for selling liquor during the Covid-induced lockdown, when the Centre had banned its sale.Excise officialVB probe continuesThe inspection reports clear that the licensees sold liquor illegally amid lockdown. The Excise Department has sought detailed reports from the districts and imposed fine on firms. The vigilance probe will continue.Not only had the sale of illicit liquor picked up during the lockdown, but also its manufacturing saw a rise. The Centre had allowed the sale of liquor on May 6.Excise officials had checked the inventories in warehouses of the licensees in March. When they again inspected the warehouses in April and May, they found the stock missing. The department has imposed a fine of Rs 2.57 crore on three Bhiwani firms, which have five licences of L-1 and L-13. In Fatehabad, Rs 1.12 crore penalty has been imposed on two firms while, in Hisar, Rs 1.17 crore fine has been imposed on three firms.Three firms of Jind have been slapped with a collective fine of Rs 1.12 crore, while one firm of Sirsa was fined Rs 1.8 crore. Officials said the firms had served notices to deposit the fine within a week.So far, the department has imposed about Rs 49 crore fine on L-1 and L-13 licence holders, who reportedly smuggled illicit liquor during the lockdown. The highest penalty of Rs 16.65 crore has been slapped on four Karnal firms, which has seven licences.
21-11-2020||---||Woman dead after rape; husband blames stepson||Gurugram, November 20 A 22-year-old drug addict has been booked for allegedly raping and abetting the suicide of his 45-year-old mother in Pataudi.  The alleged incident took place on November 16, but an FIR was registered today after the woman's family moved the higher authorities, alleging policy laxity in registering a rape case. The family has sought action against local policemen. In his complaint, the victim’s second husband accused his stepson of raping and murdering his wife. “Initially, the police treated it as a normal death and filed a report under Section 174 of the CrPC. It was only after the postmortem report confirmed rape, an FIR under Section 376 of the IPC was registered,” he said.  The post-mortem report mentioned the cause of death as “asphyxia due to ante-mortem neck compression by ligature”. But registering the case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide), and not Section 302 (murder), has left the family dumbfounded.  The family maintained that the woman was killed.  Local cops claimed to have seen a nook lying around the body. The family and eyewitness, however, said the body lying on the cot, as mentioned in police reports. Forensic expert Dr Deepak Mathur, who conducted the postmortem, said the woman might have been raped and murdered.  Manesar DCP Nitika Gehlot said, “A case has been registered after the post-mortem report confirmed rape. The prime suspect is the son of the deceased woman. Based on circumstantial evidence, appropriate IPC Sections will be added to the FIR later.” — OC
21-11-2020||---||Mason found murdered||
21-11-2020||Gurugram||Five robbers nabbed in Gurugram||The Gurugram police have arrested five miscreants who had robbed a sadar bazar jeweller in September. The armed robbers came in on the pretext of buying jewellery from Mussadi Lal Jewellers but fled after robbing ornaments worth Rs 13 lakh.  The accused have been identified as Varun, alias Sonu (32), of Kaithal; Mintu (24) of Nathupur village; Harsh, alias Sagar (19), of Badshahpur; Toni (24) of Ramgarh village in Gurugram and Sunil (27), a resident of Madhya Pradesh.  On September 19, the accused reached the jewellery store in two groups posing as customers. While two men came in first, they asked the owner, Bhoop Singh, to show some designs of rings. After few minutes, other men came in and one of them pulled out a gun. They then decamped with jewellery trays. The entire act was captured on the CCTV camera.  “The accused have confessed to robbing the jewellery store. They had used a Swift car in the crime, which will be recovered soon,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP (crime). — OC
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar invites Singapore firms to invest in Haryana||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday offered support and cooperation of the government to leading enterprises of Singapore to further expand their base in the state.He said considering investors’ requirement, connecting global value chain and to handhold the investor through proactive facilitation to navigate business plans, the state had established a new “Foreign Cooperation Department”. “The department will provide all necessary assistance to Singaporean companies for their upcoming businesses in the state,” the CM added.Khattar was speaking at the Haryana-Singapore Roundtable Virtual Conference organised by the state government, Invest India and Enterprise Singapore here. Singapore High Commissioner to India Simon Wong attended the virtual conference. — TNS
21-11-2020||Karnal||Importance of probiotics discussed||Admission notice for MPhil, PhDHisar: Maharishi Dayanand University (MDU) has issued admission notice for MPhil and PhD programmes and award of University Research Scholarship for the session 2020-2021. Registrar Prof Gulshan Lal Taneja said the online registration for admission process would commence on November 23. The last date for submission of applications is December 14. The details of seats, entrance exam syllabi, admission schedule, etc would be available on MDU website, he added.Start-up challenge 2020 launchedFaridabad: To encourage and support innovative ideas of students, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has launched a 'start-up challenge 2020' to mark the 162nd birth anniversary of Sir Jagadish Chandra Bose, the father of modern science in the Indian subcontinent. The university, in collaboration with its industry partners, has also announced to provide up to Rs 5 crore assured funding and three years of incubation facility at its technology business incubation centre to the winning idea. Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar said as youth, innovation and entrepreneurship were the growth engines, the university had brought a student centric event to encourage and support their innovative ideas. The university had invited entries from student entrepreneurs by November 22. The winner would be declared on December 1. Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Krishan Pal Gurjar would be the chief guest at the valedictory function. Dr Omkar Rai, Director General of Software Technology Parks of India under Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, and Indresh Kumar would be the guests of honour on the occasion.Five students get placementHisar: Five students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology have been selected in the off-campus placement drive of Rewari based Boonoz Pvt Ltd, organised by the training and placement cell of the university. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar and Registrar Avnesh Verma congratulated the selected students. Pratap Singh, director, placements, said the placement drive was conducted on the premises of the company in Noida. Fourteen students of B Tech (CSE and IT) participated in this drive out of which five got selected. Aditya Vir Singh, assistant director, said the selected students were Yogita and Bharti from B Tech (CSE), Amit, Praveen and Aman from B Tech (IT).
21-11-2020||OVERLOADED tractor-trailers carrying wheat straw are a common sight on main highways in Narwana. It seems that the administration is not acting tough against these vehicles. These trucks and tractor-trailers are overloaded beyond capacity||Overloaded tractor-trailers pose a threat to commuters in Narwana||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaEntertain power bill disputes onlineLONG LINES of vehicles are a common site along the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) office, Kanhai, Sector 45, Gurugram. The office caters to electricity official services to many Sectors and villages. People visit here for getting their utility bills corrected having exaggerated readings that generally occurs due to average charges or fake and morphed billing which the meter readers do without visiting the spot. For a simple cause, which hardly needs 10 minutes, one has to run from pillar to post for several hours. Even amid the pandemic, no measures are being taken to maintain social-distancing. I have also not seen any higher authority visiting the office and monitor the working. No separate line is made for women and senior citizens. The authorities should take a note of the issue and must ensure that correct bills are sent to the consumers and also make a provision that complaints be entertained online to avoid people visiting the office personally amid the pandemic.Veena, Arohi Kansal, Sector 51, GurugramNeed to keep check on illegal typistsDEED-WRITERS sitting in temporary sheds at parking lot of Mini-Secretariat were moved to new cabins built along the back wall of the Administrative Block 2 by the district administration a few days ago and the parking space was vacated. But, some typists now sit on the sidewall built on the street along the outer wall of the Mini Secretariat and many of them can be seen sitting in temporary sheds in the vacant space of the HSVP along the wall of the Lawyers Chamber Complex in Sector 12. The work of such unauthorised typists sitting without permission should be stopped. I request the High Court and the state government to issue guidelines for private typing work in all District and Sub Divisional Courts and Tehsils of the state. Only experienced people with prescribed courses for steno typist should be allowed to sit with him on the district court premises or tehsil complex with the consent of a lawyer after the permission of the district administration and the respective District Bar Association.Shakti Singh, KarnalPeople must donate to poor patient welfare fundTHE general public, especially the rich strata of the society, should come forward to donate generously to the “Poor patient welfare fund” of the state government and/or multi-speciality hospitals as supporting and handholding the destitute patients is a true service to mankind. The facility of online donations should be encouraged to avoid physical visits to the hospitals. Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
