21-10-2020||Chandigarh||1,193 fresh COVID-19 cases, 14 more fatalities reported in Haryana||Haryana on Wednesday reported 1,193 new coronavirus cases, taking the total number of infections in the state to 1,53,367, while 14 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 1,674.Of the 14 deaths, three were reported from Hisar, two each from Gurgaon, Panchkula and Yamunanagar, and one each from Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Jhajjar and Panipat districts, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.The districts which reported a huge spike in cases include Gurgaon (304), Faridabad (187), and Hisar (104).There are 10,187 active cases in the state, while the recovery rate is 92.27 per cent. PTI
21-10-2020||Mahendragarh||Schools putting life of kids at risk by conducting elementary classes in Mahendragarh||Private schools are putting the life of children at risk by conducting elementary classes in violation of COVID-19 guidelines. The education officials found such a local school conducting a class of 2nd standard wherein more than 25 children were present.The violation of guidelines came to the fore when the officials raided the school on Tuesday while acting on the complaints in this respect.Sources said this was not a single school in the district but several others in Narnaul, Nangal Choudhary, Ateli and Kanina blocks had been conducting regular elementary classes while as per the guidelines, only students of 9th to 12th classes can come to the school for clearing their doubts.Even there is no order of holding regular classes of these students as well.Interestingly, the situation has put those schools in trouble which are not conducting elementary classes as parents are mounting pressure on them for organising the classes like other schools.   “Parents are persistently demanding me to hold elementary classes. Even, some of them have also threatened to shift their children to other schools if the classes are not conducted but I am a law-abiding citizen. Even I have appealed to other schools not to conduct the classes in violation of guidelines,” said Anil Kaushik, president, Progressive Private School Association, Narnaul.Ashok Sharma, Block Education Officer, confirmed a private school was found holding elementary classes. “We have put the school on notice for violating the Covid guidelines. Three others have also been served notice for not maintaining social distancing in the classes,” he added.Sunil Dutt, District Education Officer, said he raided four schools in Narnaul yesterday on getting complaints that some private schools were conducting classes below the 9th standard but the complaints were not found true.   “As per orders, no school is allowed to conduct regular classes but students of 9th to 12th standard can come to the school for clearing their doubts,” he added.
21-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||Masked men loot Rs 7.11 lakh from PNB in Jhajjar village||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, October 21In a broad daylight incident, five masked miscreants looted Rs 7.11 lakh at gunpoint from a branch of Punjab National Bank (PNB) in Machhrauli village here on Wednesday.The robbers fled on two motorbikes while the incident was captured in the CCTV cameras installed at the bank. The police have started investigations after registering a case.The crime was committed around 11 am when more than 20 customers were present at the branch. All the five miscreants were wearing black masks and holding guns. Three of them entered the branch after snatching the gun from the security guard deployed at the main gate. They also fired some rounds in the air before fleeing with cash.Superintendent of Police Himanshu Garg along with two DSPs and other police officials rushed to the spot on getting information about the robbery. “The CCTV footage is being analysed to identify the robbers. Two teams led by DSPs have been constituted to nab the perpetrators while I am monitoring the investigation,” said the SP.
21-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||Self-financed colleges in Haryana suffer as Department of Higher Education yet to refund admission fee||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 21Self-financed degree colleges across the state are facing the heat as the Department of Higher Education (DHE) has not refunded the money to them even several days after the deposition of fees by the students figuring in the first and second merit list for the admissions to first year of undergraduate courses.The colleges are finding it difficult to pay salaries to their staff and bear other expenses. Due to ongoing Covid pandemic, students are bound to make online payments to the DHE account.“As per guidelines, the DHE was to refund the admission fee to all government-aided and self-financed colleges across the state within 48 hours along with the list of students. Last date for deposition of fee by students for first and second merit list was October 8 and October 14, respectively, but the DHE has not yet refunded the fee to any college,” said Kuldeep Arya, Secretary, Haryana Self-Financed College Association (HSFCA).He said the delay in refunding the fee had put the colleges in trouble as they were unable to pay the salary of their teaching and non-teaching staff and bear other daily expenses.A majority of college owners had taken hefty loans for developing infrastructure hence they had been waiting for the fees to repay their loans.The association has raised the issue before the DHE but the fee was yet to be transferred to the colleges, Arya added.“It is for the first time when students on getting admission need to deposit the fee online to the DHE’s account and the DHE then will refund the fee to the colleges. Earlier, a challan was generated by the DHE to submit the admission fee and the students deposited the money to the college concerned. So, we are demanding the restoration of the earlier system of submitting fee directly to the college, either online or offline,” said Arya.Despite repeated attempts neither Director General (Higher Education) Ajit Balaji Joshi nor Deputy Director Hemant Verma could be contacted.
21-10-2020||rveen Arora---||Stretches in Kaithal district pose  threat to commuters||Tribune News Service Kaithal, October 20 Roads of Kaithal district are in pathetic condition, posing threat to commuters. The entry to the city from Karnal side shows a grim picture of the road. “A stretch near Sir Chhotu Ram Chowk on the Kaithal-Karnal road was constructed while widening the Kaithal and Karnal state highway,a few days ago, but it was again dug up by the civic bodies for laying sewer pipelines, which has become a nuisance for commuters and shopkeepers,” said Sanjeev Kumar, a shopkeeper. Another shopkeeper Shyam Lal said it showed poor communication between two departments. If the sewer lines were to be laid, then why was the road constructed first?. They should have laid the sewer lines first before constructing the road. He said it was the result of ill-planning by officials of both departments. Apart from this stretch, the 3-km stretch on the  Kaithal-Patiala road between Siwan and Polar village, a stretch between Siwan and Sotha village are in bad shape and full of potholes, due to which the commuters are inconvenienced. The work of the ROB near Teek village on the Kaithal-Kurukshetra road, which is being constructed at the cost of Rs 17 crore is still underway, due to which the commuters have to take alternative routes to reach their destination. Apart from this, a stretch between Kaithal city to Delhi Public School on the Kaithal-Ambala road needs widening. The residents said they had raised this issue with the authorities several times, but to no avail. Due to the congested road, the commuters are troubled, said Parveen Kumar, a resident. Sonu, another resident, said the work on the widening of the Karnal-Kaithal road was very slow. The government should pull up the executing agency for the speedy construction of the road.
21-10-2020||---||Minor raped in Palwal, 3 booked||Palwal, October 20A 17-year-old girl was allegedly abducted from her home and raped by three youths here on Sunday, the police have said. The accused have not been arrested.According to a complaint lodged her by father, the girl was sleeping in her house when three youths — later identified as Sachin, his namesake Sachin and Dinkar — broke in and abducted her around 10.30 pm on Sunday. They administered her some intoxicant and took her to a house in Omaxe City, where they allegedly raped her.The victim was rescued two hours later by her father. “The victim’s medical examination has been conducted. A case under Sections 365, 328 and 376-D of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act has been registered,” a police official said.
21-10-2020||---||Husband, three  others booked for cruelty||Yamunanagar, October 20A woman’s second husband is among the four persons booked in connection with cruelty to a woman. On the complaint of the victim, a resident of Mumbai now living in the Farakpur area, a case was registered against Balinder Singh Saini of Jawahar Nagar, Shakuntla and Geeta Saini, members of his family, and Manjeet Singh.They were booked under Sections 498-A (cruelty to woman), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 376 (rape), 377 (unnatural sexual activities), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) at the Farakpur police station on Monday. The complainant had a 15-month-old son from her first marriage. She said she came in contact with Balinder through a matrimonial site on February 23 and they solemnised their marriage at a temple in Yamunanagar on May 25. She stated that after some time, she came to know that Balinder was a widower and had a child. “He is a drug addict. He beat me up aa well as my son under the influence of liquor and threatened to kill my son. He committed unnatural sexual acts against my wish,” she stated. “He forced me to consume liquor on August 6. He called his friend Manjeet and forced me to have physical relations with him,” she reported. She claimed that Balinder and two members of his family forced her to have sexual relations with others, but threw her out of the house when she refused.
21-10-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Auto driver held for murder in Gurugram||Gurugram, October 20The Gurugram police have claimed to have cracked the case of hacked body found in sacks.The deceased had an illicit affair with wife of a relative and he allegedly murdered him. The police arrested the accused today, who is an auto driver.The accused has been identified as Naresh Kumar, alias auto wala, a native of Saharnpur district in UP. The police have taken him on one-day police remand after producing him in a city court.It was on October, 15 when a body cut into half was recovered from the Sector 5 area. Panic gripped the area as residents discovered two blood stained sacks in which body parts were stored. A case of murder was registered and later the victim was identified as Sandeep.The investigating team led by Inspector Rajender Yadav, SHO of the Sector 5 police station, finally nabbed the accused who lived with family as a tenant in the Palam Vihar area.“The accused said Sandeep was his nephew who was running a roadside dhaba near Bajghera Chowk and was also living with his family. Some days ago, he got to know about the illicit relationship between Sandeep and his wife and he hatched a plan to kill him. It was on October 13 night, when they were drinking alcohol together at the dhaba he took Sandeep home in his auto. Naresh then hacked his body. Next day, he forcibly sent his wife and children to Sandeep’s dhaba and later packed the body parts in sacks and dumped these in a vacant plot in the Sector 5 area”, the accused told the police.“We are questioning the accused. The sharp weapon, which was used in the murder will be recovered soon”, said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.
21-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Two held for theft of cars||Gurugram, October 20A trailer driver and his associate were arrested for allegedly robbing a trailer carrying new cars worth Rs 40 lakh and today sent to judicial custody.The police have recovered four new cars with trailer from their possession. The arrested accused have been identified as Ankit alias Amarjit Singh and Jitender alias Mukesh alias JK, natives of UP.Amarjit was working as a driver in Sandeep logistic company, Manesar, and departed with trailer loaded with four new cars —- two Ciaz, one Breezza and one Ignis —- for Gujarat on September 29 but did not reach till October 1.The logistics firm tried to contact the driver but failed and the location of trailer’s GPS was also found in Panchgaon near Manesar but trailer was not found anywhere. Finally, Kashmiri Lal, owner of Sandeep Logistics, filed a complaint with the Kherki Daula police station.The police finally nabbed both accused who confessed that they wanted to sell the new cars. While Ciaz were hidden in UP, Brezza was in Haridwar and they bandoned Ignis with trailer at the Agra-Sikanderpur road.“Jitender had criminal background and has been booked in cases of theft and under the gangster Act in UP. Ankit was also accused of carrying illegal weapon and theft cases. The accused were arrested on October 16 and after three days’ police remand were produced in a city court today,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, crime.
21-10-2020||---||Parmesh Kumar elected KU teachers’ assn president||Kurukshetra, October 20 Dr Parmesh Kumar has been elected the new president of Kurukshetra University Teachers Association (KUTA) for the third time on Monday. Parmesh got 190 votes compared to his opponent Dr Naresh Kumar’s 144 votes.   Besides the post of president, two candidates each contested for the post of vice-president and joint secretary, while three for the post of secretary.  While Dr Dilip Kumar has been elected as the Vice-president, Dr Vivek Gaur and Dr Harwinder Singh have been elected secretary and joint-secretary, respectively. Meanwhile, Dr Kuldeep Singh has been elected as an executive committee member. As many as 11 members were to be elected as executive committee members of which 10 were elected unanimously.  The elections were scheduled to be held in March this year, but were postponed due to Covid and then examinations. There were 367 eligible teachers for voting of which 337 participated. Dr Parmesh Kuma has also been KUTA secretary four times.
21-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Shooter arrested in Gurugram||Gurugram, October 20The crime unit on Monday night nabbed a shooter of Sandeep Badwasni gang, for firing at police Inspector Sonu Malik.The arrested accused is identified as Sombeer, resident of Kamas Khera village in Jind district, and is one of the shooters of the Sandeep Badwasni gang. The accused has over half a dozen cases of murder, murder attempt, theft and illegal weapon registered against him in Bhiwani, Sonepat and Gurugram district, said the police. A country made pistol, two cartridges and a motorcycle has been recovered from his possession. According to the police, Inspector Jogender Singh, head of crime unit, Palam Vihar, got a tip-off that the accused was coming to at Kartarpuri road on a bike. The police team put up barricades and when the accused reached there, he hit his bike in police vehicle and tried to escape. When the police followed him, he started firing on them and during the cross firing, he was arrested. He got injured after receiving a bullet shot in his leg and is under treatment at a hospital.“The accused revealed that he was trying to kill Inspector Sonu Malik for revenge but also his gang wanted to establish supremacy in Gurugram. The gang had planned to start extortion racket ,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.
21-10-2020||Karnal||Two food officials among 6 held||Six persons, including an inspector and a sub-inspector, have been arrested for an alleged embezzlement of 145 bags of wheat from a godown of the Food and Civil Supplies Department in Kalayat. Others arrested were two chowkidars, a driver and an accountant of a flour mill where the wheat was sent.A case was registered on October 10 against unidentified persons under sections of the IPC on the complaint of the Kaithal SDM. — TNS
21-10-2020||---||Ex-MLA Parminder Dhull quits BJP over farm laws||Hisar, October 20In a setback to the BJP ahead of the Baroda byelection, two-time MLA from Julana segment Parminder Dhull on Tuesday resigned from the party over the three controversial farm laws.“I support farmers’ agitation against the new laws. I am resigning from the primary membership of the BJP and will campaign against its candidate in the Baroda bypoll,” he told the media here.He called on political leaders to shun their vested interests and come together on a common platform to protect the interests of farmers and working class.The former MLA targeted the BJP-JJP government for failing farmers. “The JJP, which claims to be the voice of farmers, has failed to provide any relief to the farming community. The JJP leadership has failed to understand the sentiments to farmers,” Dhull said.He was elected to the Assembly in 2009 and 2014 on the INLD ticket. Ahead of the 2019 Assembly elections, he switched over to the BJP and unsuccessfully contested the poll, losing to Jannayak Janta Party’s Amarjeet Singh.Son also resignsAdditional Advocate General Ravindra Singh Dhull, who is the son of former MLA Parminder Dhull, has resigned from his post and also from the BJP media cell in protest against the three farm laws. In a Facebook post, he said he was resigning from the BJP as he was unable to represent the party at media platforms on the issue of farmers.
21-10-2020||---||Farmers gear up for another series of protests from November 1||Rohtak, October 20The All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) has decided to launch another round of agitation against the three controversial farm laws from November 1.The decision was taken at a meeting attended by 50 representatives of 34 organisations here on Tuesday. The meeting was presided over by three members of all-India working group of the AIKSCC — Prem Singh Gehlawat, Yogendra Yadav and Satyawan.The meeting also condemned the police for framing farmers in criminal cases.Inderjit Singh, state vice-president, AIKSCC, said: “From November 1, groups of farmers from across the state will start proceeding towards Karnal, where a state-level protest will be organised outside the Chief Minister’s camp office on November 9. The meeting also decided to make preparations for ‘Delhi gherao’ on November 26 and 27,” said.He further said that to make all sections of society aware of the “pro-corporate” character of the farm laws, pamphlets would be published and videos would be made.Krishna Prasad, national treasurer of the AIKSCC, said intensifying the protest against the three farm laws was the need of the hour.Punjab misleading farmers: Dhankar Kaithal: State BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar on Tuesday said the Punjab Government was misleading farmers by introducing new Bills in its House
21-10-2020||---||Put up united face, Cong leaders told||Rohtak, October 20Leaders and workers of the state Congress were told on Tuesday told to sink their differences and put up a united face to win the upcoming byelection to the Baroda Assembly constituency.During a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting under the chairmanship of the party’s Haryana affairs in charge Vivek Bansal in Rohtak, state Congress leaders were assured that internal conflicts would be resolved later and advised not to issue demeaning statements against each other.State Congress president Kumari Selja, Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Rajya Sabha member Deepender Singh Hooda and CLP leader Kiran Choudhry attended the meeting, conducted to review the party’s campaign for the bypoll.As per party sources, some Congress leaders aired their grievances at the meeting. The controversy pertaining to the selection of the Congress candidate for the Baroda byelection also cropped up during the meeting.Briefing mediapersons after the meeting, Bansal said the Congress would emerge victorious with a thumping majority in the Baroda byelection, which would pave the way for the ouster of the BJP government in Haryana.Selja remarked that people were fed up with the BJP regime and would teach it a lesson for making false claims.Bhupinder Singh Hooda claimed BJP leaders had conceded defeat in the Baroda byelection as they had started saying the result of the bypoll would be inconsequential.He pointed out that the Congress regime had enacted a law on contract farming in Haryana in 2007 and as long as it was in force, any new law could not be implemented in the state.Asked about CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s statement that the Congress candidate was largely unknown, Hooda shot back, “Who knew Khattar before he became the CM?”Dry day in segmentChandigarh: In view of the upcoming Baroda byelection, dry day will be declared in the entire Assembly constituency and adjoining areas within a radius of 3 km. Liquor vends within a radius of 3 km will remain closed from 6 pm on November 1 to 6 pm on November 3 and on the day of counting till counting is over.
21-10-2020||Panipat||NV Distillery chairman in 5-day police custody||A day after Ashok Jain, the chairman of NV Distillery, was arrested from his Delhi office for his alleged role in smuggling of illicit liquor, he was produced in Samalkha court on Tuesday and sent to five-day police remand.He has been arrested in connection with an FIR registered on October 13, 2019, under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC, and the Excise Act. The FIR pertained to the recovery of 1,180 cases of illicit liquor marked as Crazy Romeo, an Indian-made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) manufactured by NV Distillery, Satish Vats, DSP (Headquarters), told the media.On October 4, an SIT led by DSP Rajesh Phogat had arrested Dharambir, alias Nanha, of Sisiana village in connection with this case. During his three-day police remand, he disclosed that the liquor was illegally purchased from NV Distillery in Rajpura (Punjab) in connivance with its owner Jain, said Vats. — TNS
21-10-2020||---||Haryana Assembly session to begin on November 5||Chandigarh, October 20The second part of the monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha will begin on November 5. During this session, pending Bills will be discussed and legislative business completed.Speaker Gian Chand Gupta made this announcement here on Tuesday. He said information had been received from the government regarding the session and preparations had been started.The monsoon session started on August 26. At that time, Chief Minister, Manohar Lal Khattar, Gupta and a large number of MLAs had tested positive for Covid and the risk of virus spread was high in the country.Gupta said though the risk had started to lessen now, care would be taken regarding Covid guidelines while conducting this session.He said the press gallery would be set up at Haryana Niwas in Sector 3 for coverage of the monsoon session. He said all mediapersons would cover the session from there.He said special arrangements would be made to maintain social distancing throughout the session. He said both Haryana Niwas auditoriums would be booked and the place declared Vidhan Sabha premises.
21-10-2020||Yamunanagar||Two killed in road mishap||Two persons were killed when the motorcycle they were riding was allegedly hit by a truck near Pansara village of Yamunanagar district on Monday evening.The deceased were identified as Ankit and Arjun of Behlolpur village in Saharanpur district of Uttar Pradesh. On the complaint of Gulshan of Behlolpur village, a case was registered.The complainant said his brother Ankit and Arjun of the same village worked at a plywood factory in Badhi Majra village of the district. — TNS
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Outsourced staff to get full wages||Contractual staff of the Haryana Government, employed through outsourcing policies, will get full wages for March and April even if their attendance was not recorded or they failed to perform their duties due to lockdown in the wake of Covid.A communication from the Chief Secretary, while asking heads of departments to pay wages within seven days, has sought compliance report in the matter by October 31.The decision will benefit employees recruited through service providers, HARTRON, a government undertaking, and directly recruited by various government departments. — TNS
21-10-2020||---||Karnal tops in defying stubble burning ban||Karnal, October 20 Amid the state government’s efforts to check stubble burning incidents, the cases of farm fires are increasing in the state. According to the data recorded by the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC), 2,811 active fire locations have been detected in the state between September 25 and October 19. As per the data, with 585 fire cases, Karnal district has surpassed Kurukshetra district and is now at the top position. Kurukshetra district is at the second position with 545 cases, followed by Kaithal district with 446 fire incidents. Ambala district is at the fourth place with 337 cases, followed by Fatehabad (203), Yamunanagar (198), Jind (190), Hisar (88), Sirsa (59), Palwal (45), Sonepat (41), Panipat (26), Panchkula (20), Rohtak (5), Jhajjar (5), Bhiwani (5), Mahendergarh (4), Rewari (4), Faridabad (2), Gurugram (2), and Nuh (1), stated the data.  Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director Agriculture (DDA), Karnal, said their teams were keeping a vigil on the violators and also making farmers aware about not to burn the stubble. “We have recommended 15 FIRs, of which 2 have been registered. The department has also imposed a fine of Rs 4 lakh on farmers for the violation,” said the DDA. Kaithal DDA Karam Singh said they had been making efforts to make farmers aware about the stubble management. Several farmers are earning money from crop residue management. “Around 70 per cent of paddy area has already been harvested. We got registered 17 FIRs in the district and collected a fine of Rs 4,55,000 from the violators,” said Kaithal DDA.
21-10-2020||---||Uklana  gets procurement centre for cotton||Hisar, October 20Farmers from Uklana and nearby areas in Hisar will not have to go to grain markets in faraway Barwala or Bhuna to sell cotton crop as the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) has approved procurement centre at Uklana.A district spokesperson said farmers would now be able to sell their produce at the MSP of Rs 5,725 per quintal.Farmers and traders of the district have been demanding to set up a procurement centre. They took up the issue with the Minister of State, Labour and Employment, Anoop Dhanak.A farmers’ delegation, Cotton Mill Association and Kachha Arthiya Association had demanded the construction of a procurement centre so that farmers could get full price for their crop. Earlier, farmers had to go to Barwala or Bhuna to sell their crop. On the demand of farmers and traders, Dhanak held talks with high officials about setting up a procurement centre in Uklana, after which the approval was given to establish a procurement centre.Dhanak said the CCI procurement centre would prove beneficial for improving the financial condition of cotton growers and they would be able to sell their crop here at the MSP.
21-10-2020||Parveen Arora||5,000 farmers pick new wheat varieties||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 20High-yielding varieties Karan Vandana, known as DBW-187, and Karan Narendra, known as DBW-222, are the prime choice of farmers for the upcoming wheat season.Around 5,000 farmers from Haryana, Punjab, and western UP have booked these varieties on the online seed portal started by the Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research (IIWBR) here a few days ago to avoid mass gathering of farmers in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.The institute is now sending messages to farmers for their schedule to collect the seeds. Karan Vandana was released recently for Haryana, Punjab, J&K, eastern UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, Assam and West Bengal. The variety flowers in 77 days and matures in 120 days after sowing. Its average height is 100 cm and has the potential of around 80 quintals per hectare. The variety has better chapatti quality with 7.7/10 score and high iron content (43.1 ppm) in the grains.Similarly, the DBW-222 has a potential yield of 82.1 quintal per hectare, while its height is 103 cm. It matures in 143 days.“With an aim to follow the Covid protocol, we have started a seed portal for farmers where around 5,000 farmers booked the seed of their choice. We have to close the portal as it is flooded with booking while we have limited stock,” said Dr GP Singh, Director, IIWBR.He said it was a new initiative and had been successful. “Each farmer has been sent messages to collect his seeds,” he added.Singh said they produced seed for breeder seed producers of government agencies and some of the seed was given to farmers. “This time, we have produced 3,000 quintal of the seed, of which around 2,500 quintal has been kept reserved for the breeders, while 500 quintal for farmers. Each farmer is given 10 kg seed,” he said, adding that farmers could sow these varieties between October 25 and 31.He said farmers had shown interest in both the high-yielding varieties. Vikas Mehla, a farmer who got booked both the varieties, said these varieties were new, high yielding and disease-resistant.‘Better chapati quality’
21-10-2020||---||Toll goes up to 1,660||Chandigarh, October 20With 940 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 1,52,174 on Monday. The death toll went up to 1,660. Gurugram and Hisar reported two deaths each.The maximum cases were reported from Gurugram (255), followed by Faridabad (109), Hisar (88), Rewari (61) and Mahendragarh (54).Among the fresh deaths, two each were reported from Yamunanagar, Hisar and Gurugram while one death each was recorded in Panipat, Nuh, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Kaithal and Charkhi Dadri districts.
21-10-2020||Ambala||Undertrial dies after consuming sanitiser||An undertrial, who was lodged at Central Jail, Ambala City, died after he allegedly consumed sanitiser on Monday night.The deceased has been identified as Ajay Kumar (37), a resident of Himachal Pradesh. He was lodged here after being arrested in a case of robbery registered at the Pinjore police station in Panchkula.Satya Narain, SHO, Baldev Nagar, said, “The body has been handed over to the family after postmortem. Further, proceedings will be done as per the probe findings of the judicial inquiry.” —TNS
21-10-2020||Hisar||Virtual talk show organised||Techno-digital fest at JC Bose varsityFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, organised a two-day techno-digital fest titled “digi-fiesta: The essence of virtual world”. The fest, organised under the digital cell of the university, got an overwhelming response from more than 10 states across the country with 96 participating institutions and more than 1,500 entries. The fest concluded with a prize distribution ceremony. The prize distribution ceremony was presided over by Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar and director of DigiTech Services Pvt Ltd. VN Jatwani was present as a guest of honour. Registrar Dr Sunil Kumar Garg, all deans and chairpersons were also present on this occasion. Vice Chancellor, Prof Dinesh Kumar appreciated all efforts made by the digital cell of the university, including vibrant student coordinators and faculty coordinators and suggested that such events should be organised regularly to bring out and showcase the hidden talent of students. He also emphasised the importance of digital initiatives taken up by the government for the masses.
21-10-2020||The road leading to Sector 53-54 crossing from Sector 69||Gurugram road in bad shape||Subhash C Taneja, GurugramSocial distancing goes for a toss at private clinicsIgnoring Covid protocols, clinics of most of the doctors doing private practice remain overcrowded. The police simply issues challan to people for not wearing masks on roads, but no attention is being paid towards such clinics. The practice of social distancing is seen nowhere at these clinics and also there are no arrangement of hand sanitisers. The doctors themselves and the authorities too must ensure that Covid protocols are followed strictly everywhere.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaCybercrime increasing at worrisome paceCybercrime is increasing at a worrisome pace in the state. Many people get cheated by these fraudsters on social media as they hack their Facebook and WhatsApp accounts. Incidents of bank frauds by withdrawal of money from the bank accounts are also common these days. The government should look into the issue and take some concrete steps to curb such crimes.Shakti Singh, KarnalKarnal residents await open-air gymsI would like to highlight the issue that the residents of Sector 4, Karnal, have been waiting for open-air gyms for the past four years. Despite several assurances by the Karnal Municipal Corporation authorities, the HSVP and the district administration nothing has been done so far. The residents had also raised the issue before Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, but to no avail. In the absence of open-air gyms people don’t have any place to exercise. We request the authorities to provide the facility here as soon as possible . Sukhbir Tyagi, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
21-10-2020||Faridabad||Ballabgarh in Haryana records country’s worst air quality||Ballabgarh in Haryana’s Faridabad district has emerged as the country’s most polluted place, with its air quality index (AQI) declining to a low of 340 today.It is perhaps the first time that this sub-divisional town, a part of the National Capital Region, has fared the worst nationally due to high concentration of particulate matter (PM) 2.5.Though the town’s AQI level continues to be over 300 for the past four days, it touched 340 at 10 am, according to data placed on the Central Pollution Control Board’s environment app ‘Sameer’.Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh was the second worst performer with an AQI of 304. A majority of the cities in Haryana and the National Capital Region recorded AQI up to 283 this morning.An AQI level of 60 or less is considered “good”. It turns “satisfactory” between 60 and 100, “moderate” from 100 to 200 and “poor” from 200 and 300. The level between 300 and 400 is “very poor” and it becomes “severe” above 400.Ballabgarh’s air quality has been on a downward slide since October 17 when it was recorded at 305 for the first time this season. It touched 318 and 320 on October 18 and October 19. Faridabad’s AQI has remained between 229 and 293 over the past four days, bettering its worst of 307 on October 15.Haryana Transport Minister and Ballabgarh MLA Mool Chand Sharma cited stubble burning and construction work at two flyovers on the national highway passing through the town as the main reason for the high pollution level. “The presence of a large number of industrial units and high traffic movement are also to be blamed,” he said.Sharma maintained measures like sprinkling of water on roads to supress dust and action against those violating pollution norms were being taken.
