22-04-2020||Rohtak||Rohtak village sealed; 10 sent to isolation ward after man tests positive for COVID-19||A village in Rohtak was sealed on Wednesday as a local resident tested positive for COVID-19.Rohtak Deputy Civil Surgeon-cum-District Surveillance Officer (Covid unit) Dr Satyawan said a rapid response team (RRT) had been rushed to take the necessary measures at Kakrana village, which has been sealed in view of a local resident testing positive for COVID-19.Ten people, including the family members of the Covid patient, have been sent to the isolation ward.“While the 58-year-old man, his wife, brother and driver had been sent to the isolation ward earlier in the day, six more persons who had come in direct contact with the Covid-positive man have also been sent to the isolation ward,” he stated.
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||No FIR against unit owner if any of its worker tests Covid positive: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday sought to assure the industry owners that no FIR will be registered against any unit owner, who has been given permission to restart unit during lockdown, if any of their worker contracts coronavirus.From April 20 onwards, the government has decided to give conditional relaxations to the industries in select sectors outside the coronavirus containment zones to kickstart the economic activities amid the lockdown as per the Centre’s guidelines.Updating people about the Covid situation in the state and steps taken to control it, Khattar, in a televised address, touched upon the permission given to the industries while following conditions like ensuring social distancing and the number of people who can work in units at a given time etc.The chief minister informed that 1,800 units involved in production of items of essential need had earlier been given permission but now 106 more units have been given permission, which would employ nearly 18,000 workforce.Khattar assured that all those units which restart functioning with due permission and following all laid down guidelines of the Centre and the state government need not worry.“I want to make it clear that if any industry seeks permission to start their unit and if any employee working there tests Covid positive, no action or FIR will be registered against the owner.“A rumour was spread that FIR will be registered against those unit owners if an employee working there tests positive,” he said.Meanwhile, Khattar said Muslims should offer Namaz during Ramzan from their homes and not in mosques in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.The current lockdown, imposed to contain the spread of the deadly coronavirus, will be in force till May 3.   With Ramzan beginning later this week, Khattar said, “I appeal to all Muslim community members to follow social distancing norms by staying indoors... I request them to offer prayers from their home itself.” PTI
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Parents demand evacuation of Haryana students from RMS Bengaluru||More than 50 students hailing from Haryana have been stuck at hostels of Rashtriya Military School (RMS), Bengaluru, for more than a month.Manish Kaswan, a resident of Hisar, wrote a letter to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on April 20 for evacuation of students. His son Atharv studies in Class 9.“The school is closed but cadets are constrained to stay there due to unavailability of transportation from Bengaluru to Haryana. These teenagers are feeling lonely, stressed and anxious as there are no regular classes or scheduled activities going on during this period. Moreover, scheduled summer vacations will also start from first week of May,” Kaswan said.He added, “These students have already completed their first quarantine-isolation stage. Exceeded period of stay may create a panic situation among them.”Another parent Rajesh, resident of Barwala (Hisar), said, “When chief ministers of other states can bring their children stuck in Kota, Rajasthan, Haryana CM can also take initiative. The state government has to coordinate with Army headquarters. Students need a secure environment of home.”His son Nitesh studies in Class 10.Rashtriya Military Schools are from Class 6 to 12. There are five such schools in the country—Dholpur, Ajmer, Bengaluru, Chail and Belgaum.“DC Hisar has called me. He is asking me to go to Bengaluru and bring back my son. But it is not feasible as multiple states have to be crossed,” said Kaswan.“I am worried about my son who is in Class 9. The school authorities have taken details of nearby airport and railway station from us and have told us that they are talking to Army headquarters about it. But nothing has happened so far,” said Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Sirsa.  RMS Bengaluru Principal GJ Urankar confirmed that 340 cadets are stuck in the school with over 50 from Haryana.“We are in constant touch with Army headquarters for sending these children via train. But here too, we are taking full care of them. They are safe here. Parents need not worry.”
22-04-2020||Ambala||Coronavirus: Three more released from hospital in Ambala; no active case in district||Three more coronavirus patients were released from the civil hospital on Wednesday after they tested negative three times consecutively, an official said.With this development, there are no active cases of the deadly virus in the district, Civil Surgeon Kuldeep Singh said.The district reported 11 cases, of whom 10 people have been released. The eleventh person—a 55-year-old who attended last month’s Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi---was moved to Chandigarh’s Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education in critical condition on April 2.The state has sent 987 samples for testing. Authorities are awaiting reports for 40 people.
22-04-2020||New Delhi||Stuck at Delhi-UP-Haryana borders, nurses write to Home Minister Amit Shah||The All India Government Nurses federation (AIGNF) on Wednesday wrote a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah that nurses and other healthcare professionals are facing huge problems in crossing Delhi-UP-Haryana borders while going for emergency and other health services.The letter said health workers employed in both central and Delhi governments as well as in private sectors, who live in Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad, are facing problems in crossing borders.Speaking to IANS, the Secretary General of the AIGNF said that: “It is a big problem that nurses and other health workers are stopped at the border. The police personnel on duty are not considering the I-cards issued by the hospitals or by even the government. For making passes from District Magistrate Uttar Pradesh, the internet site is showing error after filling data. In fact in the category for which passes to be issued, nurses are not included as they were allowed by showing their I-card till date”. She further added, “If the nurses are not allowed to cross the border then how will the hospitals and other COVID health facilities function because a large number of nurses reside in Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Gurugram, Palwal and Sonipat, etc.” “Yesterday (Tuesday) UP Police stopped all the cars whether they are driven by nurses themselves or by their family members, who come to drop or pick up for duty. The same behaviour is shown to doctors and other health personnel. Nurses are standing on the border and not allowed to cross even after showing their own I-cards along with COVID duty pass.”The letter said, “This is a very urgent situation and needs your special attention to address this issue in no time.” The federation has demanded from Shah to intervene in the matter and said that proper policy should be laid down in such a manner that nurses and their family members (Who come to pick and drop) are allowed to cross the border.The copy of the letter has also been sent to Union and Delhi Health Ministry officials and Director General of DGHS.  IANS
22-04-2020||Faridabad||Coronavirus: 4 cured in Faridabad, total recoveries rise to 26||Four more patients were cured and discharged in Faridabad district on Wednesday, taking the total of those who have recovered from the deadly disease to 26 here. A total of 43 cases have surfaced in the district.In Palwal, the number of cured and discharged persons has gone up to 26, with the recovery of one more patient on Tuesday night. Thirty-four people were infected in this area.Meanwhile, in Karnal, after a meeting with SDM Karnal Narender Pal Malik, the arhtiyas (middle-men) in the district called off their strike. They were alleging that the names of registered farmers were not being displayed on the e-kharid portal. The SDM assured them that the issue has been resolved.
22-04-2020||Rohtak||Rohtak arhtiyas on strike, wheat purchase hit||No wheat was purchased through arhtiyas (commission agents) at the Rohtak grain market for the second day today as they continued their protest against the e-procurement system, though Hafed procured 700 quintals of wheat directly from farmers.The Haryana Warehousing Corporation also purchased 439 metric tonnes of wheat at the Sampla grain market and 76 MT at the Meham grain market.“The conditions imposed by the Haryana Government under its e-procurement regime are inconvenient for farmers as well as arhtiyas. We will remain on strike until the manual system of purchase is restored,” said Dimple Budhwar, president, Rohtak Anaj Mandi Arhtiyas Association. He said there were nearly 90,000 farmers in Rohtak, but only 24,000 had got registered online.Rohtak market committee secretary Deepak Lohchab said the district administration had been apprised of the arthiyas’ demand. — TNS
22-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Murder accused inspector held||Kaithal, April 21The police have arrested Inspector Satbir (57) on the charges of murder and attempt to murder. He reportedly fired at his two sons and daughters-in-law on Sunday night following a quarrel.His service revolver, with which he reportedly killed his son and injured the other three, was seized. Five live cartridges were seized and five empty cartridges recovered from the spot.
22-04-2020||---||Six fresh cases in Haryana, but seven districts now Covid-free||Chandigarh, April 21Though six fresh Covid cases were reported in the state on Tuesday taking the total to 245, the cure rate showed a marginal improvement from 53.1 per cent to 54.3 per cent.A 68-year-old woman from Badkhal village in Faridabad and five persons from Gurugram tested positive on Tuesday. She had reported to the district’s civil hospital on April 19 complaining of Covid-like symptom. While she and her family members have been isolated and quarantined, the Health Department is tracing all persons who came in her contact in the past few days. This is the18th positive case from Badkhal village, which has already been declared a containment zone.Dead Rewari man tests negativeRewari: A middle-aged man who died at a private hospital here tested negative for Covid. The district health authorities had taken his sample after he died of fever. Six members of the deceased's family and 12 employees of the hospital staff engaged in his treatment were isolated too. Their reports are expected to be out late in the evening. The hospital claimed that the man died of dengue. DC Yashendra Singh said the samples were taken as precautionary measures to check the spread of Covid pandemic. TNSOf the five fresh cases from Gurugram today, two are linked with the Tablighi Jamaat. All patients are in the 20-25 years age group.Six more patients cured, out of hospitalSix more patients were successfully treated and released from hospital in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative number of discharged cases to 133. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 110. Of the state’s 22 districts, seven are now Covid free after discharge ofall Covid cases from hospital. These are Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, Jind, Karnal, Rohtak, Sirsa and Yamunanagar. Three districts — Rewari, Mahendragarh and Jhajjar — have not reported any case.Good news from hotspot districtsThe highest number of cured cases was also reported from the hotspots. In Nuh, 26 patients have been discharged and there are 31 active cases. In Gurugram, the number of cured cases is also 26 of which 15 are active. In Palwal, 25 patients have been discharged and nine are still Covid positive. In Faridabad, 22 patients have been discharged, while 21 are still active.Haryana has conducted a total of 14,562 tests out of which 12,243 samples returned negative and 2,068 results were awaited. The test positivity rate — the proportion of positive cases as compared to total tests conducted – stood at 1.7 per cent on Tuesday.
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||ITIs come out with 11.5L quality low-cost masks||Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora has appreciated the initiative and efforts of Skill Development and Industrial Training Department for preparing good quality cotton cloth masks for distribution at nominal price to the district administration and NGOs.Target preparing 50 masks per day In order to utilise the capacity of ITIs for preparing masks in relevant trades, detailed instructions have been issued as per which every instructor of apparel sector trade has been given a target of preparing minimum 50 masks per day and 1,000 masks up to April 30.Giving this information here today, Director General of the department Rakesh Gupta said a collection of various designs of masks prepared by craft instructors of various ITIs was presented to the Chief Secretary in her office on Tuesday. She immediately took the decision to procure required masks for employees of Civil Secretariat.Gupta said there were 172 government ITIs in the state, out of which, apparel sector related trades are running in around 90 government ITIs. Every year, around 3,100 trainees are admitted in these for one year duration trades. After completing the courses, the candidate either starts his or her own work or gets a job in apparel sector establishments.Amid the spread of Covid, demand of face masks increased suddenly. The surgical face masks available in market are costly and are one-time use only. Health authorities prescribe surgical masks for use by patients only and a normal cotton cloth masks for a healthy person to keep him or her protected from the infection. Further, the Prime Minister too in his address to the nation suggested the use of homemade cloth masks for a healthy citizen, therefore the department took the decision to initiate mass production of masks in government ITIs and also to offer its infrastructure to self-help groups (SHGs) for making masks.He said the idea of the department was also approved by the Chief Secretary in a meeting held earlier with the ACS and PS of various departments. Accordingly, the Department of Skill Development and Industrial Training, Haryana, offered the use of its sewing machines for use by SHGs as per their requirement. Apart from this, the members of SHGs also started preparing masks on their own machines and till date more than 11.50 lakh masks have been prepared by various SHGs in across different districts.
22-04-2020||---||Traders booked for bid to sell Rajasthan mustard stock in state||Hisar, April 21In Charkhi Dadri district, the police booked a local trader who brought mustard produce from Rajasthan in a bid to sell it under the price protection scheme (PPS) at the grain market on Tuesday. Another vehicle was intercepted and impounded in Loharu town of Bhiwani which was trying to bring mustard from Rajasthan to Haryana mandi.Charkhi Dadri Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said a truck carrying mustard was caught in Bhageshwari village of the district. The police registered a case after a weighing machine owner tipped off the police about the truck.The complaint said, “On being asked, the trader claimed that the yield belonged to him and he was taking it to mandi for procurement.” He said the produce was in fact brought from Rajasthan’s Sardarshahar. The police booked the accused under Section 7 of the Essential Commoditeis Act and Sections 420, 188 and 120 B of the IPC.District Marketing Enforcement Officer Shyam Sunder said another vehicle was also intercepted and impounded in Loharu town which was trying to sneak in with the mustard produce from Rajasthan. He admitted that they were getting complaints about illegal transportation of Rajasthan mustard produce by the farmers there in collusion with Haryana traders. Haryana Government agencies are purchasing mustard produce at Rs 4,425 per quintal under the PPS.
22-04-2020||Faridabad||60 migrants sent back to Delhi||Relaxation norms floutedSonepat: Sixty persons have been arrested during the lockdown period for smuggling and selling illegal liquor. The police have seized 12,692 bottles of liquor and registered 47 cases. SP Sulochna said 40 cartons of illegal liquor was seized from a pick-up vehicle in Narnaul city on Saturday. The Jhajjar police also seized 952 cartons hidden under onion sacks from a truck near Bahu village under Salhavaas police station. The truck was headed towards Mahendragarh. Driver Pramod of Machhari village in Sonepat district has been booked. OCCop, 2 Asha workers hurt in attackFaridabad: An ASI and two Asha workers on Covid-screening duty were injured in an attacked in Faridabad on Monday. The incident took place around noon, when a team of the Health Department assisted by the police reached a residential society in Sector 62 to screen suspected Covid cases. An argument erupted between some women and health officials, following which the residents attacked them with sticks and punches. A police spokesperson said a case under various sections of the IPC had been registered against the accused, of which six have been identified. They be arrested soon, he said. TNSWrestler gives 1-month pay to farmerBhiwani: Asian Games gold medallist wrestler Bajrang Punia has extended a financial assistance of Rs50,000 to a farmer of Garanpura village in Bhiwani district. The farmer, Hazari, had lost his wheat crop on 10 acres and tractor due to an accidental fire in his fields recently. In a tweet, Punia announced that he gives his one-month salary to the farmer who had suffered losses in the fire incident and also urged the state government to extend a helping hand to the farmer. TNSANM, 3 Jamaatis cured, dischargedAmbala: Three Tablighi Jamaat attendees, hailing from Maharashtra, and an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), who had tested Covid positive on Saturday, were discharged on Monday after their two consecutive samples came negative. DC Ashok Kumar Sharma said the health worker had been home-quarantined while the Markaz returnees had been sent to a government facility. With this, seven of the total 11 Covid patients in the district had been discharged, Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said. Besides, three of a single family in Shahzadpur, who had tested positive on Sunday, and all their immediate contacts have also tested negative on Monday. TNS
22-04-2020||Kurukshetra||Total lockdown, doorstep delivery help Kurukshetra halt Covid in tracks||Kurukshetra district was Covid-free till April 11 when two persons tested positive (one of whom belonged to Karnal), but no fresh case has been reported since. A slew of strict measures, including strict implementation of the lockdown from Day 1 and a watertight containment plan after two cases, proved effective.Consecutive samples of both patients have already tested negative but they are in hospital and confirmatory tests will be done on April 22 and April 23 to decide their discharge date. The district put 2,349 people under surveillance of which only 74 were now in home quarantine. As many as 554 samples have been sent for testing so far, of which 492 returned negative, two positive and 60 results were awaited.The district administration ensured doorstep delivery of essential goods on the doorstep and implemented Central and state government guidelines regarding shop timings to a tee. It took the help of NIC Kurukshetra to develop e-Market Kurukshetra app that has seen over 1,000 downloaded till Monday evening.Deputy Commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said, “The lockdown is being implemented strictly from the first day. Home delivery of everyday essentials is being provided so residents don’t have to come out of their homes. So far, 40 commercial institutions and agro-based shops have sought permission for operations. Seven applications have been rejected and verification of 33 is under process. Wheat procurement has started at 188 purchase centres and medical teams have been deputed to screen every farmer who reaches the centre.”State Transport Commissioner SS Phulia, who has been monitoring activities to stop the spread of Covid in Kurukshetra, said, “After the Covid cases were reported, containment and buffer zone plans were implemented and restrictions were imposed on public movement. A door-to-door health survey is being conducted and mobile health vans have been introduced in the district to provide doorstep health services. Strict action is being taken against lockdown violators, but at the same time we are trying to create awareness on the need to stay at home in the current times. All possible efforts are being made to ensure there are no more fresh Covid cases in Kurukshetra.”As many as 108 cases have been registered against lockdown violators and 137 persons arrested. The police has impounded 123 vehicles and issued 5,747 challans.
22-04-2020||Parveen Arora||Shortage of labour hits Karnal development projects hard||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 21The reverse migration of labourers after the enforcement of lockdown to contain Covid spread has resulted in the shortage of labour, which seems to be a big hurdle in the completion of major projects in the district.After the fresh guidelines from the Centre to allow construction during the lockdown period, the state government has also granted permission to the PWD and NHAI to restart the work on the ongoing projects.Several road-widening projects in Karnal, including the ones to Indri Road, Kaithal Road, Assandh Road and Kunjpura Road, along with the maintenance of roads in Sector 13, Model Town among others were underway before the enforcement of lockdown. As per sources, a couple of projects have already missed the deadline.Contractors say usually the labour for road construction works come from UP and Bihar, but after the enforcement of lockdown they have moved back to their native places, creating a shortage in Haryana. Now the contractors are searching for labour in villages, but the rural workers are already occupied in wheat harvesting.“I have been facing a shortage of labour to carry on a road widening project. The labourers that were hired for the road project have already moved to their places after the enforcement of lockdown. I went to rural areas to arrange the labour, but could not get as they are busy in harvesting,” said a contractor on the condition of anonymity.Another contractor said they were not getting raw material for the construction, including sand and gravel, due to which they were not able to restart the work.Meanwhile, Dalel Singh Dahiya, XEN, PWD, said the contractors had been directed to start the work by arranging labour.
22-04-2020||Nitin Jain||Wheat procurement off to slow start in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, April 21Covid has cast its shadow on wheat procurement, underway in the district since Monday. While the standing crop on 87,000 hectares had already been harvested, procurement of foodgrain was being carried out as per government guidelines at 106 purchase centres.Grappling with labour shortage and storage crisis, over 60,000 farming families in the district were threatened by inclement weather for the past few days.Around 25 farmers were called to sell their produce at purchase centres on Monday and the number was increased to 100 at major centres, including 15 mandis, on Tuesday. Around 10,000 quintals of foodgrain was procured on Monday.Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma, who was reviewing procurement arrangements on the ground, said government officials, commission agents and farmers had been sensitised to exercise precaution and follow guidelines in place at all purchase centres in the district.All tractor-trolleys and other vehicles entering mandis were sanitised and farmers, commission agents and officials on duty screened and provided with masks and sanitisers to keep themselves safe.Most farmers alleged lack of proper arrangements by procurement agencies. Commission agents Rajesh Kumar, Surinder Kumar and Ajay Kumar accused government agencies and market committee officials of not doing enough to ensure smooth procurement.
22-04-2020||---||Expedite purchase on lines of Punjab: Hooda||Chandigarh, April 21Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Tuesday expressed concern over “huge mismanagement” in wheat procurement in the state.He said despite his repeated warnings, the government remained indifferent and this resulted in farmers facing serious problems in selling their produce.He said he didn’t want to do politics on the chaos in the procurement process but would not back down from fighting the fight of the farmers of the state.“There is an atmosphere of mistrust between the government and grain merchants due to which the procurement process has been disrupted. The government should speed up the process on the lines of Punjab by building trust with the merchants and continuing the ongoing system,” Hooda added.“The government has put up a condition on the farmers to buy only a part of his produce, which is impractical. Moreover, there is also a condition of buying crops only from registered farmers. Both the conditions have to be reconsidered and done away with,” he said.“One does not understand why these conditions have been put and why the government is conducting these experiments due to which both the farmer and the agent are facing problems. The government had said it will buy every grain of farmers, now it is buying it one grain at a time,” the former CM added.
22-04-2020||Palwal||Five booked for stubble burning in Palwal fields||The local police has registered a case against five farmers of the district for burning wheat stubble in their fields in violation of a ban.A case under Section 188 of the IPC was registered against Giriraj, Chotte Lal, Jagdish, Ramesh and Karan Singh for burning stubble on a complaint lodged by officials of the Agriculture Department. A police official said the accused were found violating the ban imposed by district authorities under the provisions of Section 144. While two of the accused hail from Bhulwana village of Hodal subdivision, the others were residents of Chhajju Nagar village of Palwal subdivision.Claiming that surveillance had been stepped up to curb stubble burning through various means, including satellite remote sensing, Deputy Director, Agriculture, Mahavir Singh.
22-04-2020||Karnal||Karnal arhtiyas to boycott procurement||Infuriated over names of registered farmers not being displayed on the e-kharid portal, arhtiyas in the Karnal grain market have decided to boycott the wheat procurement process.They have demanded that the government should allow farmers with manual gate passes or those generated by the e-portal of the market committee. A delegation of arhtiyas met SDM Narendra Pal Malik today and raised the issue.“The portal is not showing the names of registered farmers, due to which farmers are worried. The situation is the same in Nigdhu, Taraori, Kunjpura, Assandh, Gharaunda, Jundla and Nissing. Though the issue has been taken up with officials, no action is being taken, forcing us to boycott procurement from Wednesday,” said Rajneesh Chodhary, president of the Karnal Arhtiyas Association. — TNS
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Govt: Restart construction, brick-kilns||Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora today reviewed work related to Covid prevention, reopening of industries and procurement of crops in a meeting with DCs, officers of the departments of industry, agriculture and health and other senior officers through videoconferencing.To avoid bank rushTo ensure social distancing and avoid rush at banks, the Finance Department has devised a website that will help customers visit the bank during the time slot as per their convenienceChief Minister ML Khattar launched the website, http://bankslot.haryana.gov.in, on Tuesday. The features are book your bank slot & cash delivery at home by postal serviceShe said industries had started reopening, due to which workers were getting employment. She directed officers to monitor industries. She said work had restarted under MGNREGA, but more people should be provided work and labourers should be engaged more in water conservation and irrigation.Arora said efforts should be made to provide work to migrant labourers at locations near their workplaces and the police should be informed about their movement. She ordered that construction projects and brick-kilns should be restarted as per directions. — TNS
22-04-2020||Gurugram||All 61 rapid tests negative in Gurugram||While the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has suspended the use of Chinese rapid testing kits (RT-PCR) for the next two days, the Gurugram health authorities conducted 61 tests, the results for which turned out to be negative.Among those tested include 31 journalists of electronic media and 30 residents of Sohna, which is a hotspot.“All 61 samples have tested negative. We have suspended the testing for the next two days and waiting for further directives of the ICMR,” said CMO JS Punia.With all those tested in Sohna being reported negative, a sense of relief prevailed in the area, which was in panic after 10 Jamaatis recovered from a local mosque tested positive. People had not even been stepping out to get essentials.However, after a few hours, the news of the test not being dependable went viral and the people again got panicky. Those tested now want to go for swab analysis, fearing they might have contracted infection while being tested by a rapid kit. The health authorities, however, have dismissed the rumors. — TNS
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown works, case-doubling rate slower than national average||Effective implementation of lockdown in Haryana seems to be paying off, as the increase of Covid cases in the state is much slower than the national average.What it meansSimply put, the doubling rate of an infectious disease or epidemic is referred to as the time taken for the total number of known cases to double. While this figure stands at 13.15 days for Haryana, the national average is 7.5 days. The doubling rate is a key factor that governments monitor as they decide when to relax business and social restrictions that are credited with slowing the virus’s spread.The rate at which the number of Covid cases in Haryana is doubling is 13.15 days as against the national average of 7.5 days. Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij today tweeted these figures, claiming that the state was fast moving towards normalcy.The Union Health Ministry had on Monday said the rate at which the number of coronavirus cases in the country was doubling in the last one week had slowed down to 7.5 days, as against 3.4 days before the nationwide lockdown was imposed.“With 56.7 per cent recovery rate against 16.38 per cent of all-India rate of #coronavirus cases Haryana is moving fast towards normalcy,” Vij tweeted. “There are 108 active #COVID-19 patients as of today in #Haryana. Death rate in Haryana is 0.79 per cent against 3.15 per cent of the country. Tests per million of population in Haryana are 548 against all India average of 304,” he said.Haryana has so far reported 245 Covid cases so far. Of these, 175 are from the four districts of Faridabad, Gurugram, Nuh and Palwal. Of the 245 cases, nearly 70 per cent owe their infection to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi.A senior functionary of the government attributed the lower number of cases in the rest of Haryana to successful implementation of the lockdown. Meanwhile, sources claimed that three Haryana districts neighbouring coronavirus hotspots had not reported a positive case due to multi-pronged strategies adopted early by authorities and strict lockdown compliance by people.Rewari, Jhajjar and Mahendragarh are close to hotspots of Gurgaon, Faridabad, Palwal and Nuh. People in these districts are guarding the borders to prevent entry of outsiders and the district administrations are providing essentials on the doorstep.Despite falling in the ‘green zone’, authorities have not relaxed the lockdown that came into effect on March 25 to check spread of the virus.
22-04-2020||Gurugram||Rohingya in Nuh on Health Dept radar||Following the Centre’s orders as many as 1,500 Rohingya Muslims in Nuh are on health officials’ radar not just to monitor their status but also to search for any traveller to Nizamuddin.The Health Department claimed that while those who attended the Markaz had already been screened for Covid, the entire camp was under surveillance now.“As many as 1,500 Rohingyas are staying in Nuh since 2012. They are on police surveillance all the time and a report of their activities has been sent to the government,” read a police statement.CMO Dr Virender Yadav said all those, with declared travel history to Markaz, had tested and reported negative.“We are struggling for essentials as nobody is paying any attention to us. We are scared to call anybody as the authorities will get vindictive. We have a few leaders in Delhi whom we have contacted,” said a Rohingya man.While repeated attempts to contact DC Pankaj Kumar proved futile, an administrative official said the allegations were farce and the camp was being regularly supplied with food, medicines, etc. — OC
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Withdraw FIR against Panchkula doctor: IMA||
22-04-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Law catches up with Gurugram ‘killer’ in Kanpur||Gurugram, April 21A cook at a paying guest accommodation here has been arrested in Kanpur on the charge of brutally thrashing his wife to death.Not only did he manage to flee Gurugram, but travelled 500 km to reach Kanpur as well. A special police team nabbed the accused, identified as Satanu Mohammad, alias Raj.The accused claimed that his wife was in constant touch with her first husband, which infuriated him. He reportedly admitted to having thrashed her with a cricket bat and dumping her body in a bed on April 17.He purportedly confessed that he took lift on a motorcycle to the DLF area and then booked a cab to reach Safdurjung Hospital in Delhi.He said after some rest, he reached Bhanngel village near Noida, where he took a bicycle on rent and started for his village. He said he reached Bulandshahr on Monday and took a lift in a mini-truck on Tuesday, but the driver drove away after he got down to drink water in Kanpur.“The accused has three children. He met this woman at Nathupur in 2019. She was already married, but went with him,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Wanted criminal arrested from UP||In a major breakthrough, a team of Haryana’s Special Task Force (STF) arrested a most-wanted criminal, carrying a reward of Rs25,000, from Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh.Giving this information here on Monday, a spokesperson of the Haryana Police said the arrested accused was identified as Subhash, alias Rajesh, of Budanpur (UP). He had killed his room-mate over a financial dispute in Sonepat in year 2001.Since then, the accused was absconding. He was produced in a court, which sent him to two-day police remand. —TNS
22-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||Can't stake claim to benefits post retirement: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 21The Punjab and Haryana has made it clear that an employee can agitate his claim for benefits such as additional increment and promotion while in service, but cannot seek the benefit of decisions rendered in case of similarly situated employees subsequent to his superannuation.The assertion came in case of a widow, who moved the High Court 10 years after her husband's death to seek benefits following his promotion nearly 25 years ago.In her petition placed before Justice Nirmaljit Kaur's Bench, the petitioner had claimed that her husband was entitled to pay scale of Rs 7,500-Rs 12,000 with effect from January 1, 1996, and was also entitled to increment for higher responsibility on his promotion as principal.Justice Nirmaljit Kaur observed that the petitioner's husband died in 2010 and the right to pay scale as prayed for, and if at all, accrued to him during his lifetime and, that too, in 1996 itself, but he chose not to challenge the same and accepted the pay scale he was already getting.Justice Nirmaljit Kaur noted that the petitioner also continued to receive her deceased husband's full salary from the date of his death in 2010 till his deemed date of superannuation in May 2016 and she too, during this period, did not come forward to stake a claim."Today, we are in 2020. Therefore, the very claim is belated and deserves to be rejected on the grounds of delay and latches," Justice Nirmaljit Kaur added.Referring to a judgment by a coordinate Bench Court in the case of "Prem Nath and others versus Punjab and others", Justice Nirmaljit Kaur noted that in that case, the petitioners chose to agitate only after retirement. The Bench, among other things, had in the case held that the petitioners chose not to agitate their claim while in service.It was much subsequent to their superannuation that they woke up and sought to gain impetus from certain decisions that might have been rendered in the case of similarly situated employees, but the petitioners were not entitled to any relief as prayed for and the petition deserved to be dismissed on the grounds of delayand latches.
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Union opposes transfer policy in power dept||The decision of the Electricity Department to implement a transfer policy amid Covid crisis has come in for severe criticism from the employees, who have urged Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to intervene in the matter.Terming the transfer policy as ‘inappropriate’ at a time when the world is facing the coronavirus crisis, Sarv Karamchari Sangh president Subhash Lamba said the state should not hurry with the implementation of the transfer policy till situation becomes normal. “The power department employees are fighting along with the frontline workers to fight Covid and government should focus on combating the disease rather than coming out with the transfer policy,” he said.Recently, an order of the department asked the employees up to the rank of executive engineer to apply for transfers till April 24. Under the policy, certain employees, including specially-abled, couples and women officials, are entitled to up to 10 marks for ‘hardships’ being faced by them. —TNS
