22-09-2020||Delhi||Punjab, Harayna asked to urgently implement measures to reduce stubble burning||A Supreme Court-mandated pollution control authority wrote to Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday, asking them to “urgently” implement measures to reduce stubble burning—one of the major reasons behind high levels of air pollution in Delhi during winter.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, stubble burning contributed significantly to air pollution in Delhi last year with the share of farm fire smoke in particulate matter peaking to 44 per cent in November.“It has been brought to our notice that early burning of crop residue is taking place in Punjab. According to a SAFAR estimate, fire counts were 42 on September 21, around 20 on September 20 and nil on September 15,” Bhure Lal, the chairman of the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA), said in a letter to the two states.Satellite imagery from space agency National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) have also shown that farmers have started burning crop residue in parts of Punjab and Haryana.Though farm fires have started in Punjab and neighbouring border regions, its impact on Delhi’s air quality will be minimal for the next three days since predominant winds are not supportive for transport and accumulation of pollutants, according to SAFAR, the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor.On Tuesday, the national capital recorded an air quality index of 115, which falls in the moderate category.“While the impact on air pollution is currently minimal as wind speed is high and there is dispersion, the fact is that crop burning season has started and it needs to be urgently addressed as per the directions of the Supreme Court,” Bhure Lal said.He asked the states to make all efforts to comply with the directions of the apex court which has specified that measures need to be taken for both “in-situ and ex-situ stubble management so that incidence of fire is minimised, if not eliminated”.The EPCA chairman said the pollution control authority had been monitoring progress with the states and had worked out clear benchmarks and targets to be achieved before the coming season.“We recognise that we have lost time because of COVID-19, but given that the winter season is now approaching, we need to tackle this with urgency and ensure compliance,” he said.Bhure Lal asked Punjab and Haryana to ensure there is an implementation of measures to reduce stubble burning and that machines are procured and made available to farmers at affordable rates and with convenience.The EPCA also asked them to set up a control room to issue directions and ensure that machines are within the reach of farmers, and also take action against non-compliance reported from the field.The Punjab government had earlier told the EPCA that it has been utilising crop residue through biomass-based power plants and various bio-CNG projects are under process.The state has now proposed to set up a 25-megawatt solar-biomass project.Punjab has already set up 7,378 custom hiring centres (CHCs) to provide equipment for crop residue management. The state will establish 5,200 more CHCs this year to accomplish the target of having one CHC in each village. The administration will provide 220 balers this year, according to the EPCA.Farmers sell bales to nearby factories, mainly biomass plants, at around Rs 120 per quintal.Till now, the state has provided 50,185 farm machines to CHCs and individuals.Last year, Punjab produced around 20 million tonnes of paddy residue. Farmers burnt 9.8 million tonnes of it. These figures will be used as a benchmark for the state’s performance this year.The Haryana government had told EPCA that a committee has been set up to look into the progress of bio-CNG and bio-ethanol projects and biomass plants to manage crop residue.The state has set up 2,879 CHCs and 2,000 more will be established by October. As many as 791 balers will be supplied by the time harvesting starts. Haryana has deployed 24,705 machines, of which 8,777 are owned by individuals and the rest are with CHCs.Last year, Haryana produced seven million tonnes of paddy residue, of which farmers burnt 1.23 million tonnes.Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh attract attention during the paddy harvesting season between October 15 and November 15.Farmers set their fields on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue left behind after harvesting and before cultivating wheat and potato. It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution in Delhi-NCR.Despite a ban on stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, farmers continue to defy it as there is a short window between harvesting of paddy and sowing of wheat. The high cost of manual or mechanical management of straw is a major reason why farmers choose to burn it.State governments are providing 50 to 80 per cent subsidy to farmers and cooperative societies to buy modern farm equipment for in-situ management of paddy straw, installing paddy straw-based power plants and running a massive awareness campaign against stubble burning.But these measures are yet to make any significant impact on the ground. PTI
22-09-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram residents report break-ins by gang of thieves dressed as women||Gurugram Police claim a gang of people dressed in women’s clothing have been breaking into shops to steal.Police sources claim the latest target was a computer shop in Bhargava Palace, where they stole 25 laptops. The break-in was caught of security cameras in the area, police sources said.Sandeep, a security guard at Bhargava Palace, said he saw a group of five people dressed in salwar kameez and armed, among other things, with some iron rods break into A-One Music and Computers on Monday night. He claimed that when he confronted them, they attacked him and tied him up before taking away the loot.Police claimed that residents of Sirhail had raised alarm a few days ago about a man dressed in women’s clothes suspiciously roaming the area. The man was caught on a security camera.Assistant Commissioner of Police (Crime) Preet Pal Singh Sangwan said police were looking into the complaints and conducting raids.
22-09-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Woman molested while returning home with family in Gurugram||In a shocking incident, a woman was allegedly molested on the road while returning from a function in Delhi with her family in a car.The victim who works as a school coordinator alleged that two unidentified accused targeted her when her husband stopped the car and stepped out to urinate.She alleged that they also tried to snatch her seven months old daughter from her lap. It was only when she raised an alarm that her husband came rushing and the accused fled in their car.An FIR has been registered at Sadar police station.According to the complaint filed by the 30-year-old woman, it was yesterday night when she was returning home with husband and daughter after attending a function in Delhi in their car.“It was around 10:30 pm when we reached under the flyover of Hero Honda chowk. My husband stopped car and stepped out. In meantime two men came in a car from behind and stopped near our car. One of them came out and molested me after opening my car door. When I opposed, he tried to kidnap my daughter. They fled when my husband came running to help us,” the woman said in her complaint.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against two unidentified men under Section 354 (molestation), 365-511 (attempt to kidnap) of IPC at Sadar police station.“The complainant noted the number of the accused’s car and we are trying to trace the car owner. However no CCTV footage was available at the spot but we will nab the accused soon,” said Dinesh Kumar, SHO of Sadar police station.
22-09-2020||Panchkula||Four COVID-19 deaths in 24 hours; Panchkula reports 72 cases||Panchkula reported four deaths and 72 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, the district's death total to 71. The coronavirus tally stands at 5,182. COVID-19 deaths: A 65-year-old woman from Sector 12, an 87-year-old man from Sector 16, a 78-year-old man from Barwala and a 78-year-old man from Sector 19 succumbed to the disease.COVID-19 cases: Among the new patients, 10 were from Sector 21, six from Pinjore, five each from Raipur Rani and Sector 8, four each from Sector 19 and Sector 20, three each from Sector 11, Sector 12 and Sector 2, two each from Bir Ghaggar, the MDC, Sector 4, the MDC, Sector 5, Morni, Sector 14, Sector 15, Sector 4 and Sector 9, and one each from Barwala, Kanouli, Manaktabra, the MDC, Sector 6, Police Lines, Sector 1, Sector 10, Sector 12-A, Sector 16, Sector 18, Sector 25, Sector 26 and Sector 28.While 1,219 cases are still active, 3,892 people have been discharged or cured.So far, Panchkula has conducted 60,126 Covid tests.
22-09-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak youth discharged by court in Sonepat sisters’ case gets call to join duty||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 22Finally, Kuldeep of Assan village in Rohtak district, who had been struggling to get out of the shadow of the Sonepat sisters’ case even after being discharged by two courts, has joined the Haryana Armed Police (HAP) at Madhuban.Kuldeep, one of the three youths of Assan named in the case, had cleared the Group D Services exam and got a letter of appointment with HAP at Madhuban, but his joining had been stalled because of the case.This, despite the fact that the allegations of molestation levelled against Kuldeep and the other youths had been found untrue and they were discharged by the courts of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate as well as Additional Sessions Judge.A news report highlighting the matter was published in these columns recently.Following that, Kuldeep was called to join duty at Madhuban and he joined last evening.“I am thankful to the state government, the authorities concerned at HAP Madhuban and The Tribune for supporting me in the dark period,” Kuldeep said after joining his duty.  Kuldeep’s father Balbir and mother Shakuntala also expressed satisfaction and gratitude. “We are happy that eventually, our prayers have been answered,” they said.
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt transfers 25 IPS and 9 HPS officers||The Haryana government transferred 25 IPS and 9 HPS officers with immediate effect, shifting SPs of seven out of 22 districts of the state in the major shakeup.Among those shifted are SPs of Sirsa, Jhajjar, Charkhi Dadri, Bhiwani, Kurukshetra, Hisar and Karnal.While SP Charkhi Dadri Balwan Singh Rana has been given charge of Hisar district, SP Hisar Ganga Ram Punia has been made SP Karnal, none of the other five officers working as SPs have been given the charge of districts.
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana has fourth highest number of GST evasion cases in India in last 3 years||Haryana has the fourth-highest number of GST evasion cases across the country in the last three years, according to Central GST authorities.As per the figures placed before the Lok Sabha during the ongoing session, there have been 1,708 cases of Goods and Services Tax (GST) evasion in Haryana amounting to Rs 3,182.32 crore, from July 2017 to August this year, which is 3.4 per cent of overall evasion in the country.Delhi tops with 3,182 cases of GST evasion, followed by 2,540 in Maharashtra and 1,739 in Gujarat.However, in the quantum of evasion, many states are ahead of Haryana even as it leads among the neighbouring states. Punjab has witnessed an evasion of Rs 656.27 crore in the last three years while Himachal Pradesh (HP) has Rs 271.36 crore, Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) has Rs 256.27 crore and Chandigarh has Rs 39.90 crore.Ten people have so far been arrested for evasion in Haryana, while six in Punjab have been apprehended so far. No one was arrested in Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and J&K.There have been 20,233 cases of GST evasion worth Rs 93,642.08 crore and 408 people have been arrested since July 2017 in the entire country. The quantum of GST evasion has been the highest in Maharashtra at Rs 20,056.05 crore followed by Rs 14,022.54 crore in Delhi and Rs 8,782.78 crore in Karnataka.No central tax officer is involved in the evasion, informed Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, in a written reply to a question.The House was told that “GST evasion is being prevented/reduced by the use of data analytics, checking E-way bills, and developing specific intelligence”.Recently, the Tax Research Unit of the Excise and Taxation Department Haryana zeroed in on 138 newly registered taxpayers of the state under GST for their suspicious transactions. These taxpayers were identified by the data analytic capabilities of the Tax Research Unit. As many as 69 of the 138 cases were fake or non-existent. The verifications of the records of these entities revealed that these taxpayers had passed on credit amounting to Rs.1,182.23 crore.The Excise and Taxation Department is further digging out the beneficiaries to whom the credit was passed on by these fake taxpayers. These beneficiary entities would also be liable for recoveries arising from fake transactions, the spokesman said.
22-09-2020||Azamgarh (UP)||Palwal pilot dies in private plane crash||
22-09-2020||Gurugram||Day 1: Haryana schools see  thin attendance||The state education department had claimed that over 80 per cent of the parents had consented to send their wards to schools amid the Covid pandemic, but educational institutions in Gurugram and Nuh today reopened to a lukewarm response.The schools opened after six months for “consultation” for classes IX to XII, but just a handful of students came. Several classes saw no students, while some pupils sought guidance only for science and maths. The Covid standard operating procedures are being followed in city government schools, where children are being thermally scanned and made to wash and sanitise their hands. The schools in Nuh, however, are not strictly following these norms, said sources. Despite the Central government instructions, several schools have still not tested their teachers for Covid, especially in Nuh, and reports of those who opted for RT-PCR are still awaited.
22-09-2020||Amidst the ongoing farmer agitation in the country||Decoding farm Bills provisions & apprehensions||The Three Legislations1. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020Status: Passed by Parliament2. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020Status: Passed by Parliament3. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020Status: Passed by Lok SabhaFarmers’ posers to government1  Govt will withdraw procurement of produce and leave it open to private sector. They (corporate houses), in turn, will purchase very little portion of the total produce ‘as per the high standards, which will be manipulated’. Won’t the farmers be paid a pittance for the remaining crop?2  What was the hurry to introduce farm-related measures as ordinances in June amid Covid-19? The issues concerning lakhs of farmers deserved to be brought in as Bills allowing the Opposition a chance to debate before these were passed. Why was the Question Hour done away with?3  The govt is making false claims about continuing with the minimum support price provision. Of the listed 23 crops, the MSP is paid only on wheat, paddy and cotton. Does the govt guarantee purchase of the listed crops on the MSP if farmers do not get the price from traders?4  How will the govt ensure private sector pays the MSP when even the govt is not doing so?5  Barring staged protests in support of the move by farmers in BJP-ruled states, are farmers in the rest of the country unjust in raising their voice against the Bills? Should they not even be given a hearing?6  Why have farmers not been involved in the decision-making process on an issue that affects their lives? Officers from Punjab have said unlike major govt decisions where officials’ views are taken before formulation of policies, they were not consulted7  Why are power and fertiliser subsidies being taken away and farmers being told they will be compensated later? What is the guarantee that farmers will be paid later? Many subsidies like on polyhouses and others have not been paid to hundreds of farmers8  Why is the govt sidelining the arhtiyas? In emergency situations such as marriage/death in a family, banks never give loans. Charging not more than 2 per cent commission, arhtiyas have been the lifeline of the rural economy for centuriesGovernment contentionFarmers’ counter— Analysis package based on inputs from PRS Legislative Research
22-09-2020||Ambala||Wanted criminal held in Ambala||A criminal wanted for robbery and dacoity was arrested after a police encounter in Saha near here on Sunday, the cops have said.In 3-day custodyAccused Gurdeep Singh, alias Deepa, was wanted for robbery and dacoityIn the exchange of fire, he sustained a bullet injury in the kneeA pistol and two cartridges seized from him; sent to three-day police custodyThe accused has been identified as Gurdeep Singh, alias Deepa, of Mahesh Nagar near here. A .12-bore pistol and two cartridges, one of them live, were seized from him.On a tip-off, the police led by CIA-II in charge Inspector Subhash Singh erected barricades at Khudda Adda village on the Ambala-Jagadhari road around 11.15 pm. On seeing Deepa approaching on a motorcycle, the police signalled him to stop but he sped away. After a brief chase, his bike slipped and he started running.The police said he reportedly fired a shot at the police. In self-defence, the police fired back and Deepa sustained a bullet injury in his knee, leading to his arrest.Deepa reportedly confessed to having committed a robbery in Naraingarh on August 7. He was produced before a local court, which remanded him to three-day police custody.
22-09-2020||Karnal||Victim of conspiracy: Expelled BJP leader||Former Sugarfed chairman Chander Parkash Kathuria, who courted controversy after he was found in the apartment of a woman in Chandigarh in May and later suspended from the primary membership of the BJP for six years, on Monday claimed he was a victim of a conspiracy hatched by a nephew of a local Congress leader and some BJP leaders.“The woman, who I visited in Chandigarh, is like my sister. I, along with others, went to her apartment to resolve her matrimonial dispute. My wife knew about it. Before we could start discussing the matter, some people forcibly entered the apartment with the intention to harm me. To save myself, I jumped off the second-floor apartment,” he told the media here.Kathuria said he had recovered from the injuries.On the woman’s complaint, a case was registered against those who had entered the apartment that day.Kathuria expressed dissatisfaction with his expulsion from the party. “The BJP is like my mother. I was expelled from the party without being issued a show-cause notice. This is unjust,” he added.
22-09-2020||New Delhi||Clear garbage near Ambala airbase, IAF tells state govt||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has approached the Haryana Government seeking prompt measures to address the garbage disposal method around the Ambala station.Garbage disposal is attracting birds around the Ambala airbase, which is home to the Rafale fighter jets. The Ministry of Defence told the Lok Sabha on Monday that Ambala requires commissioning of the ‘Under the roof’ (fully covered) scientific solid waste management plant at a distance of more than 10 km from the airbase.Recently, the matter was taken up with the Haryana Chief Secretary. The matter had also been discussed at the Aerodrome Environment Management Committee (AEMC) meetings for providing safe flying environment. Earlier, the Urban Local Bodies Director had written to the Ambala district administration to reduce the presence of garbage around the air base.
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Now, apply by Sept 24 to join college||The Education Department has extended the last date for submission of online applications for undergraduate courses in government, aided and self-financed colleges till the midnight of September 24. The earlier date was September 21.According to an order issued by Ajit Balaji Joshi, Director General (Higher Education), the last date had been extended in view of the large number of applications for undergraduate courses.Earlier, while releasing the admission schedule, the department had fixed October 6 as the date for the start of the 2020-21 academic session.
22-09-2020||Panipat||20-yr-old stabbed to death in Panipat||A 20-year-old youth was stabbed to death in Jagjivan Ram Colony of Panipat late on Sunday night.The deceased has been identified as Samir Ansari. A murder case has been registered against five persons on the complaint of his brother Sanju Ansari.Sanju said Samir had some dispute with local youths Sooraj, Harish, Vicky, Sonu and Kalu over the speed of his motorcycle.He said they had beaten up Samir with lathis but the issue was resolved with the intervention of some local residents. In the evening, Samir had gone to a shop where the youths again thrashed him with sharp-edged weapons and fled.He said they took Samir to the General Hospital, from where doctors referred him to the PGIMS, Rohtak, but they took him to three private hospitals which further referred him. They again reached the General Hospital, where doctors declared him dead.Chandnibagh SHO Ankit Kumar said as per the post-mortem report, Samir had died of an injury with a sharp-edged weapon. The body has been handed over to the victim’s kin.
22-09-2020||Sriganganagar||Sriganganagar philanthropist Bajrang Dass Aggarwal dead||Bajrang Dass Aggarwal (65), popularly known as “Guar Gum King”, died in the wee hours today. He was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram a few days back.He was cremated in Sriganganagar later in the day. His family had moved from Hisar to Sriganganagar in the 1980s to start their business of pulses and processing units.The prices of guar produce and guar gum skyrocketed in 2010. His business spread in Asia and Europe. He entered politics in 2012 and founded the Zamindara Party.In the 2013 Assembly elections, the party fielded candidates from 20 constituencies. His daughter Kamini Jindal was elected from Sriganganagar and Sona Devi Bawri from Raisinghnagar.Aggarwal had established a government medical college in Sriganganagar, for which he donated Rs 100 crore and pledged an equal amount for the equipment. Through a charitable trust in the memory of his father Megh Raj Jindal, he carried out various welfare activities and sponsored gifts to war widows. — OC
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Congress protests across Haryana over farm Bills||The Congress organised protests over farm Bills across the state today. Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda addressed party workers in Sonepat, state unit president Kumari Selja in Jind and Haryana in charge Vivek Bansal in Panipat.Hooda said people of Haryana would not tolerate the attack on rights of farmers and the Congress would protest if any attempt was made to take away their rights.He described the three farm Bills as an attack on the minimum support price (MSP) and mandi system, developed over the last 70 years.“The government made a law to encourage purchase outside the market, but there was no reference to protection under the MSP,” he said.On Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala’s statement that he would resign if MSP was not given, Hooda said anyone who felt that the MSP had not been hit yet should go to mandis and check.“Crops like paddy, millet, cotton, moong and maize are being sold at a much lower rate than MSP. There is no provision in the new laws of having MSP outside mandis,” he said.“Everyone knows that the aim of an open market is to get rid of MSP. If the farmer could get a good rate in the open market, there would have been no need to arrange MSP,” he said.Describing the three farm Bills as an attempt to make farmers slaves of capitalists, Selja said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar did not have the courage to raise his voice before Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Dushyant was not raising his voice in support of farmers.She alleged that the Prime Minister did not believe in dialogue and the way in which these Bills had been passed in the Rajya Sabha was murder of democracy.Bansal said the three laws were like a ‘Tughlaqi farman’ for farmers. “The Prime Minister dreams at night and executes it the next morning,” he claimed.In Jhajjar, former Assembly Speaker Raghuvir Singh Kadian said the names of Prime Minister Modi and Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar would be embossed in black.Capt Ajay Singh Yadav led the protest in Rewari. The protest was led by former MLA Raghbir Singh Tewatia in Faridabad.Mullana MLA Varun Chaudhary, Naraingarh legislator Shalley Chaudhary and state Congress treasurer Rohit Jain were present during the protest in Ambala.
22-09-2020||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra man arrested for wife’s murder||The police have arrested a man on the charge of killing his wife with scissors over a petty dispute in Kanipla village.The suspect has been identified as Raj Kumar and the victim as Manju. She is survived by two minor children, including a 17-year-old daughter.In her complaint to the police, Manju’s daughter reported that her father stabbed his mother in the stomach with scissors on September 16.Manju was taken to the primary health centre in Khanpur Kolian, where she was given first-aid and her wound stitched.She was advised her to visit the Civil Hospital, but she did not. After her condition deteriorated, she was taken to LNJP Hospital on September 18, where she was declared dead.The suspect reportedly confessed that he was an alcoholic and was under the influence of liquor when he stabbed his wife.The scissors used in committing the crime was recovered. Raj Kumar was produced in a local court, which sent him to jail. — TNS
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||28 more succumb in Haryana||With 28 more deaths, the Covid toll in the state went up to 1,177 today. With 1,828 new cases, the total number of cases reached 1,13,075.Panipat and Jind reported four deaths each, followed by Panchkula and Kurukshetra (3 each). Hisar, Sirsa, Yamunanagar and Kaithal reported two deaths each and Rohtak, Faridabad, Gurugram, Mahendragarh, Karnal and Nuh one death each.Gurugram reported a maximum of 314 cases, followed by Faridabad (251), Hisar and Karnal (104 each) and Kurukshetra (99). — TNS
22-09-2020||Mahendragarh||Mahendragarh private schools object to Covid test fee from teachers||Though the state government has allowed private schools to resume for the students of Classes XI to XII on a voluntary basis, the mandatory Covid test for teachers is posing a hurdle.School owners in the district have accused the health authorities of charging fees from teachers for getting the Covid test done for non-medical reasons. So, they have decided not to open the schools in protest against the Covid test fee.“The health authorities have fixed Rs 1,650 for the RT-PCR test and Rs 650 for rapid antigen test for those getting it done for non-medical reasons. Teachers of private schools have also been included in this category. But despite no symptoms, teachers are bound to undergo the test following the government instructions. Hence, charging test fee from them is unjustified,” said Anil Kaushik, president, Progressive Private School Association, Haryana.Kaushik said he wanted to reopen his school hence, a list of teachers was submitted to the Civil Hospital, Narnaul, for their Covid test but a fee of Rs 650 per teacher was sought from them.“Thereafter, I had to drop the plan of reopening the school. Also, no other member of the association is willing to open the school due to the same reason. We have written to the Chief Minister demanding a free test for our teachers just like those of government schools so that they could resume the classes,” he added.Meanwhile, Anshul Pathania, Rohtak CBSE School Association, said private schools were already under deep trouble and the government had added to their agony by slapping Covid test fee on teachers.“Moreover, the Covid test is valid only up to 96 hours hence, every teacher will have to undergo it twice in a week,” he added.
22-09-2020||Karnal||Cops ‘flout’ guidelines, take infected accused to Karnal||A schoolteacher, who has accused an owner of a private school and a tehsildar of raping her, and her husband have claimed that the Kaithal police flouted Covid norms by taking them to Karnal for probe despite testing positive.The couple is facing a cross-FIR of extortion filed by the gangrape accused. The two cases were lodged here, but transferred to the Kaithal police later on the request of Karnal SP Surinder Bhoria“On September 17, we got a call from the Kaithal police to join the probe. In spite of informing the police that we had given samples for the Covid test, they asked us to appear before the SIT two days later,” the victim’s husband said. On September 19, their test reports came positive and they informed the police about it.“Instead of sending us to hospital or recommending home isolation, the police forced us to accompany them to Karnal for the investigation,” the husband claimed.Kaithal SP Shashank Kumar Sawan denied the allegation and said the couple came there on their own volition to join the probe and didn’t inform the police about their Covid status. “I’ve marked an inquiry into the couple’s allegation. Whosoever is found at fault will be taken to task,” he added. — TNS
22-09-2020||Faridabad||Slow revival of non-essential goods industry worries traders in Faridabad||The post-lockdown revival of industrial units producing non-essential goods in the district is poor with their manufacturing level still below 45 per cent of what was before the imposition of the lockdown in March. A total of 24,000 industrial units are functional here.“With more than 90 per cent industrial units having resumed operations, majority of them manufacturing non-essential goods such as electronics, automobiles, refrigerators, clothes, paper products, cement and construction material and service sector are still battling to revive due to lack of demand, raw material, labour and adequate capital,” said Rajiv Chawla, president, Integrated Association of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises of India.He said the revival of non-essential categories had been between 40 and 45 per cent. “Though revival of those producing essential items such as food, beverages, dairy, household goods and medicines have been excellent, others are facing capital crunch in view of the moratorium on loan EMIs coming to an end on August 31.”Seeking extension of the moratorium for six months for non-essential sector, Chawla said the essential goods sector also needed financial support to continue the revival and the momentum achieved so far.Claiming that revival was tough for majority of the units, Col S Kapoor, executive director, Faridabad Industries Association, said it was due to poor demand level, fear of the pandemic and the migrant labour not returning to work.Describing the situation below expectations, Ramneek Prabhkar of Manufacturers Association, claimed that full revival might not be possible without continuation of liberal norms and policies. “Faridabad can also emerge as a toy manufacturing hub if incentives are provided at this point of time,” he said, adding that easy loans were a good bet for revival.
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||BJP releases e-book on social service||The Haryana unit of the BJP today released an e-book, showcasing social service carried out by party workers during the lockdown necessitated by the pandemic.The e-book was jointly launched by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar.Addressing mediapersons, Khattar said the kind of service party workers provided without worrying about themselves during the pandemic was praiseworthy.He said that the government and party worked together to provide relief to the public. Saying the e-book, titled ‘Sewa hi sangathan’, showcased the help offered by party workers, he said it was an interesting concept.Dhankar said the service extended by workers made them stand out among all political parties.The party would soon launch digital books for social service done at the local level in each district. — TNS
22-09-2020||Karnal||Told to verify entries on farm portal, revenue officials fume||Officials of the Revenue Department under the banner of the Haryana Revenue Officers’ Association opposed their duty in verification of entries on the portal of “Meri Fasal, Mera Byora” (MFMB).They handed over a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav for ACS Revenue and Disaster Management Department, demanding not to be assigned the duty of verification as they were already overburdened.“We have been assigned several assignments apart from our revenue-related work. Now, we have been given extra work of verifying entries on the portal of MFMB. Each official has been asked to verify the entries of 40-45 villages, which is a difficult task,” said one of the revenue officials.The association demanded that the Agriculture Department or Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board should be given the assignment to verify the entries.Another official said seven officials had been suspended in Gurugram in violation of Section 7A, under which a property buyer has to take NoC from the DTP. He said the suspension should be taken back as the DTP cannot issue NoC for all properties, which is not a violation.
22-09-2020||Karnal||Two of Panchkula firm robbed of Rs1.25 cr||Four to five car-borne miscreants allegedly robbed Rs 1.25 crore from the driver and cashier of a Panchkula-based private firm dealing in railway parts.The incident took place on Sunday when the duo was returning back to Panchkula in an SUV after collecting payment from a firm in Delhi. The police are still clueless in the case.The Butana police have registered a case against unidentified miscreants and started the investigation in it, said Surinder Singh, Butana SHO.“We are investigating all angles,” the SHO added.In his police complaint, Pawan Bansal, owner of the firm, said that his cashier Dinesh and driver Sunil went to Delhi for collection and on their way back, some miscreants, who came in a car, forced them to stop car near Nilokheri and robbed Rs 1.25 crore.
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||JJP snubbed, Haryana CM denies lathicharge on farmers||In an indirect snub to his deputy Dushyant Chautala, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today made it clear that there was no lathicharge on agitating farmers in Pipli and some cops merely exercised their right to self-defence when some persons on tractors wanted to run them over.Dushyant Chautala, not enjoying the best of relations with Home Minister Anil Vij, had “condemned” the “lathicharge” despite the latter’s repeated denials. His younger brother Digvijay Chautala had, on behalf of the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), apologised for the “police action”.Accompanied by state JJP president Nishan Singh, Digvijay had on September 17 gone to the extent of saying the lathicharge was not on farmers, but on Devi Lal’s family.Khattar, who attended an event organised by the state unit of the BJP today, made it clear that no lathicharge was ordered and the police did not lathiiharge farmers during their protest in Pipli on September 10.“People need to understand what exactly a lathicharge is. When a magistrate accompanying the police issues orders, the police resort to a lathicharge. If a group of protesters attack cops, who in turn use a little force to save themselves, it is exercise of the right to self-defence. In this case, some elements tried to run over the cops by breaking barricades and cops exercised their right to self-defence,” Khattar said.“This was merely a one-off incident and does not come under the definition of lathicharge,” he pointed out. Without naming Dushyant, the Chief Minister said it was not good for anyone to blow small incidents out of proportion.“I can understand that one has to say certain things to please farmers, but that does not mean one should blow small incidents out of proportion,” he added.Asked whether there would be a probe into the “lathicharge”, Khattar said, “What I am doing now before you is a probe. It has been proven that it was a small incident, where some cops exercised their right to self-defence against people on tractors who tried to harm them physically by running them over. There was no lathicharge.”Digvijay had on September 18 claimed that Dushyant Chautala had met Khattar to discuss the issue and a probe would be held into the “lathicharge”.The Chief Minister’s statement today came as loss of face for Dushyant and a shot in the arm for Vij, who had been maintaining throughout that there was no lathicharge.
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Dushyant’s offer to quit on MSP seems rather late||The farmers’ agitation in Haryana on the farm Bills has had the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) on the horns of a dilemma and the leadership has struggled right through the protests to find a politically correct middle path, which remains elusive.Caught in a Catch-22 situation, the party, essentially a Jat-backed outfit, was not sure which way it wanted to swing — go the BJP way and support the government on the farm Bills since it is in alliance with the party or back farmers, its vote bank, on the warpath against the move and the government.Ultimately, Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala’s declaration that he would step down from his post if any attempt was made to play with the MSP seemed too little, too late.Left with little choice after his party was pushed into a corner following Punjab’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s resignation from the Union Cabinet and pressure mounting on the Deputy CM to follow suit and quit the alliance with the BJP, Dushyant chose to take refuge in “ifs and buts”.As farmers hit the road, he chose to stay mum, a move that did not seem to go down well for a party drawing strength from its network spread across rural Haryana, said political observers.The JJP’s stance had already made it the easiest target for Opposition parties, primarily the Congress, which had stood by farmers.Last year, after Assembly election results were out, the JJP drew flak for striking an alliance with the BJP after having fought the election on an anti-BJP card.Just before the first year of being in power draws to a close, it remains to be seen how the JJP will emerge from the farmers’ agitation.
22-09-2020||Faridabad||Agra-Gurugram bridge caves in near Badoli||A bridge built in 1960 on the Gurugram and Agra canals passing near the Badoli village in the city collapsed today. As it was not being used, the incident did not result in any injury or damage.Maintained by the irrigation departments of Haryana and UP, the 10-foot-wide bridge made of bricks was the main connecting point between Badoli and adjacent villages in eastern (Neharpar) area till about two years ago. Though it was officially closed around two years ago, pedestrians, cyclists and two-wheeler riders had been using it often.“We completely stopped any movement on the bridge this morning as we noticed signs of collapse,” said an employee of the contractor engaged in construction of an alternative bridge adjacent to it.He said as barricades had been put to halt the movement, the bridge collapsed around 11.30 am with no loss of life or property.Virender Rawat, Executive Engineer, Irrigation Department, said: “As the department took up the construction of a new double-lane bridge in 2018, the old one had been closed for all.”Claiming that the part of the new bridge on the Gurugram canal had already been constructed, he said the UP Government was still working on the remaining portion on the Agra canal flowing parallel and adjacent to the Gurugram canal.“The piling work done near the bridge perhaps led to its collapse,” he said, adding that it had to be removed any way as it was not being used.
22-09-2020||Panipat||Accused held nine years after murder||The Sonepat police have claimed to have arrested an accused, who was wanted in connection with the case of contract killing of a man of Kharkhoda in Sonepat nine years ago. The police had announced a reward of Rs 25,000 on his arrest.The accused was identified as Deshpal of Garhi Nawabad in Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh. Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said at a press conference that CIA-2 unit in charge Anil Kumar and ASI Dharambir Singh, along with their team, were on patrol on the NH-44 near Bahalgarh when they received a tip-off about Deshpal, following which the team swung into action and nabbed Deshpal.Randhawa said the accused was wanted in the murder case of Ravinder Singh of Ward 8 in Kharkhoda in March 2011 and managed to flee from the spot. The court had declared him a proclaimed offender in 2011. During investigation, it was revealed that Ravinder’s son Vikram had come in contact with Deshpal in an akhara in Delhi. Vikram had promised to give Rs 1 lakh to Deshpal for killing his father Ravinder Singh. After that, Deshpal shot dead Vikram’s father and hid at an akhara in Kolhapur in Maharashtra, the SP added.
22-09-2020||Karnal||Slow server speed, errors in family IDs hamper work||The slow server speed of meraparivar.haryana.gov.in portal and multiple flaws in details of families are hampering the process of updating family IDs under the Parivar Pehchan Patra Yojana.Government schoolteachers assigned the work of updating IDs of students’ families are being forced to do it manually, which, teachers say, has doubled the burden as first they have to note down the data on a form and later update it on the portal.Multiple IDs, incorrect info worries familiesn Many general families have been put under SC/BC category, while the SC/BC families have been shown as generalThe teachers as well the Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) office are receiving complaints regarding multiple errors in the IDs generated so far. Some of the families have been given multiple IDs instead of a single ID for a single family, diluting the purpose of the project.DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said the higher authorities had been informed about the issue of slow server speed. “The process of updating information will last till September 5. However, considering the current flaws, we have requested the higher authorities to extend the deadline so that all errors are corrected,” he added.A teacher assigned the work said in majority of the cases the age of all family members, including children, has been mentioned as equal, while in several other cases wrong addresses and dates of birth have been entered.“The speed of the server is really slow due to which we have to do the work of updating the information manually and it will be entered on the portal once the speed gets back to normal,” said a teacher, adding that they were able to update only two to four forms a day on the portal.Subhash Chand, a resident of Nigdhu, said instead of issuing one family ID for his family, he was given two different IDs. Another resident of the village said he has four members in the family, including two kids, and age of all has been mentioned the same.A woman of Vikas Colony in the city said they were five members in the family, including two kids aging 8 and 12, but her daughter’s age mentioned in the card was wrong. “Her age has been mentioned 41 in the card, while she is just 8 years old,” she added.In many IDs, even children are shown as tax payers with PAN numbers, while in some other cases people are struggling to get their date of birth corrected. Another teacher said many general families have been put under SC/BC categories, while the SC/BC families were shown under general category. “We are three members in our family, but in the family ID I have been shown the only member and my age too has been incorrectly mentioned 40, while I am a senior citizen,” said Dr Gyan Prakash Bhargava, a retired scientist.One of the employees of the ADC office said the slow speed of the server had hampered the process of updating data. “Camps are being organised to update the IDs,” the employee said, adding that they had been receiving complaints related to multiple errors in the family IDs.
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Kaithal to get elevated  rail track||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has approved construction of an elevated railway track in Kaithal on the Kurukshetra-Narwana line. The project will cost Rs 191.73 crore.An official spokesperson said Rs 131.73 crore would be spent by the Haryana Government. He said with this project, three level crossings would be closed.He said the total length of the stretch would be 3.89 km, of which the length of the elevated track would be 2.12 km.
22-09-2020||Gurugram||3 arrested for smuggling phones  into jail in Gurugram||The Gurugram police nabbed three for smuggling mobile phones in Bhondsi jail. The trio in alleged connivance with inmates and officials would throw mobile phones over the jail walls for inmates inside. The police have seized a Honda City car and four mobiles from their possession.According to the police, the crime unit DLF Phase-4 got a tip off that some men were going near Bhondsi jail to throw mobiles over the jail walls. The crime unit put the barricade on the jail road and when their Honda City car was intercepted by the police, they tried to escape, but finally police nabbed the three.The arrested accused are identified as Jaswinder alias Khanu, Sachin and Sahjad, residents of Tauru in Nuh district. The police have recovered four mobile phones from their possession and they confessed that they came to throw the mobile phones over the jail.— OC
22-09-2020||Karnal||Karnal to get 30 water harvesting systems||To recharge water table in Karnal city, the Karnal Smart City Ltd (KSCL), a special purpose vehicle to look after the Smart City project, has started the process to install 30 water harvesting systems in the area. Work on nine water harvesting systems has been started.Karnal block is in dark zone and its ground water is declining every year. As per the report of Ground Water Cell, the water table of Karnal block has witnessed a fall of 12.87 metre in the past 44 years. It was 5.9 metre in 1974, which fell to 11.69 metre in June 2004 and later to 18.77 metre in June 2018.“The water table has been declining due to over exploitation, which is an alarm bell for all. So, we have decided to recharge the water table. We have taken up a project of installing 30 water harvesting systems in the smart city project,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, CEO KSCL-cum-DC.He said these harvesting systems were being installed in government offices, schools, colleges, parks and one in Karnal Municipal Corporation Office. The work on the project is going on in full swing at the offices of Agriculture Department, Animal Husbandry Department, Civil Surgeon Office, Civil Hospital, government schools in Model Town, Daha, Zarifa farm, and Madhuban. He said the project would help in recharging the water table.
22-09-2020||Hisar||Bhiwani cops to be in touch with domestic violence victims||The Bhiwani police have constituted a feedback cell to keep track of women who have suffered domestic violence and harassment in their families and have been rehabilitated following intervention and counselling by the police.Bhiwani SP Sangeeta Kalia who took the initiative stated that the cell would keep track of such women for six months. “The cell will remain in contact with these women and take feedback from them every month for six months. Later, the cell will stay in touch with the women for two years at regular intervals,” the SP said.The SP said the police took the decision after observing that the victim women are returning with complaints against the family members alleging harassment and atrocities. The SP stated that a special team has been constituted in the women police station and a feedback register would be maintained for the purpose of registering the details of the interaction and feedback of the women.
22-09-2020||Ambala||2 more arrested for attack on ADC-led team in Ambala||The district police have arrested two more persons involved in the attack on a team of the local Regional Transport Authority (RTA), led by Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Preeti late Thursday evening.The arrested have been identified as Mandeep Singh, alias Nikka, and Prem Singh, alias Fauji, of Baldev Nagar near here. Both the arrested accused were produced before a local court, which remanded them to one-day police custody. With this, the total arrests in the case have gone up to eight.A team of officials led by Preeti, who is also RTA secretary, was attacked on the Haryana-Punjab border near Panjokhra in the district late Thursday evening.The police had registered a case under Sections 307, 148, 149, 186, 323, 332, 353, 365 and 120B of the IPC against the assailants at Panjokhra police station.While the woman IAS officer had escaped unhurt, her official vehicle was badly damaged and one of her staff members had sustained injuries.
22-09-2020||Faridabad||500 attend workshop||Last date for admission extendedRewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) here has extended the last date for admission to the first semester of bachelor of hotel management and catering technology (BHMCT) course without late fee up to September 30. Dr Deepak Gupta, in-charge, Department of hotel and tourism management of the university, informed that the vacant seats for the course would be filled through open counselling.
22-09-2020||In many residential colonies||Manholes jutting out of roads in Narwana||— Ramesh Gupta, Narwanahope for green, dust-free PanchkulaIf the higher authorities in HUDA, MC, NGT etc. decide to plant grass/ trees/ creepers/ flowers or shrubs on vacant patches of land (including road berms/ sides) to prevent soil erosion and air pollution in the city, it will be nothing less than a miracle. If successful, it will bring such a nice, clean, colourful, green and pollution-free look to the city and a step forward in the Swachh Bharat Mission. Eventually, the same can then be implemented at the national level under the aegis of the NGT so that the entire country becomes clean & green in the real sense. — Ritu Sahi, PanchkulaUrban infra lacking in Ambala CanttThe Haryana Government has regularised a number of colonies in and around Ambala and included them in the ambit of the urban local bodies. However, the work on the urban infrastructure front is lacking and lagging behind. The authorities concerned should wake up and look into its civic problems. — Prof AK Watal, Ambala canttIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
22-09-2020||
    
        
    
||New laws must follow changes on the ground||The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill were passed in Parliament last week amid fierce opposition. It seems that the government brought in the Bills to put in place enabling legislation to effect the big changes in agriculture, diversifying it and marketising it.It is a classic instance of putting the cart before the horse. The advertisement for the two Bills —and the Modi government is a great believer in delivering easy-to-grasp one-line messages — has been that these are meant to make farmers free to sell their produce wherever they want.Of course, this is a dreamland. The truth is that an overwhelming majority of the marginal farmers, owning less than two acres of land in the country, will not ever be able to take their produce to a far-off place where the price is more attractive. What it really means is that the traders from far off places can go to the remotest villages to buy the farmers’ produce without the choking laws restricting the movement of agricultural produce in the country and outside it, and whisk it away to a place where the produce is in demand.The argument that the trader who does not belong to the local market or mandi will offer a better price to the farmer is an assumption, and as assumptions go, remains an assumption. The mechanics of the elasticity of the price for agricultural produce lies in the realm of speculation. It is a perfect case of rational economics, but the reality is nowhere near the idealistic position. But then Prime Minister Modi has never believed in grappling with the untidy and imperfect reality. He has been riding the hobbyhorse of utopianism where a vast and diverse country like India is reduced to a single market. And even when the reform measures did not work, he has moved on to another similar measure instead of pausing for any kind of course connection.This does not mean that there is no need for reform in Indian agriculture, and there is need for farmers to move on to marketable produce other than the staple food grains like wheat and rice they have accustomed to grow. Here too, the reality is not as attractive as it is made to appear by the critics of the new bills. The minimum support price (MSP) is no magic bullet for the farmers. The governments, at the Centre and in the states, are only able to procure 25 per cent of the total produce. The rest of it is in the open market, and the private players are already entrenched in the grain market.There have been fervent pleas by political leaders as well as the experts that the farmers should move away from the staple crops — wheat and rice in Punjab and Haryana, sugarcane in Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra — and that they should turn to other crops including horticulture, but the assured MSP makes it difficult for the farmers to change the cropping patterns. The farmers are the most practicable folk, and they are also flexible. If they think that some other crop will work better, they go for it with enthusiasm. There is no need to persuade them.If the reality on the ground changes, if the farmers realise that the staple crops are not fetching them the money, they would grab the more lucrative options.What the governments needed to do was to offer better incentives to diversify the crop patterns and show the difference in incomes instead of bringing in new laws with false promises. The laws must follow the changes on the ground, and it should not be the case as it is now that laws be made to bring about the desired changes. As a matter of fact, the demand should come from the farmers to replace the old laws with flexible new ones.In India, right from the days of Jawaharlal Nehru, the state took upon itself the burden of playing the mentor and guide to the people. PM Modi is only too keen to play the role of the guru to the people in all the fields possible, right from agriculture to making toys and creating apps. He sees himself as a messiah and more problems arise from this self-perception. That is why, laws made with the best of intentions do not help the people for whom they are intended. A section of the farmers should have complained against the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) and demanded a liberal regime. The initiative for change should have come from the farmers instead of the government pushing something down their throats like an unpalatable medicine, arguing all the while that this is being done for the good of farmers.Let it be clear that if this legislation had been brought by the Congress or any other party, the BJP would have opposed it tooth and nail. And the Congress would have done the same thing that the BJP has done by ignoring parliamentary norms and taking advantage of its numerical majority.There is a need to sort out the political mechanisms. First, the party in power should scrupulously adhere to the procedural norms and the presiding officers have a crucial role to play in this matter. The ruling party should have no say in the matter. If the Opposition wanted a division, the formal voting process through the electronic mode should have been followed. Secondly, the Congress should have supported the Bills because it had mooted them earlier and it should have owned the credit for the legislation.
