22-05-2020||---||Rohtak cops nab 2 wanted criminals after encounter||Rohtak, May 22Two wanted criminals have been arrested by a CIA-2 staff team of Rohtak police after an armed encounter.Two youths, including Manoj alias Sunda and Ravi alias Khaddu of Ritoli village in Rohtak district, were injured in the gunfight and arrested. They have been admitted to the Rohtak PGIMS.Two country-made pistols and five bullets have been seized from the possession of the arrested persons, while their accomplice Sandeep, alias Lambu, of the same village managed to escape.The youths were absconding in three cases of attempt to murder.Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma has appreciated the efforts of the CIA-2 staff team and announced to felicitate its members.
22-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Ailing MDU professors put on duty at quarantine centres||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 22Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) faculty members put on duty at quarantine centres by the district administration include a physically challenged professor and another who is suffering from chronic heart ailment and has recently undergone a bypass surgery.Taking a strong exception to the move, the MDU Teachers Association (MDUTA) on Friday wrote to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar seeking his intervention and urging him to direct the district administration not to issue such orders in future.The letter pointed out that the Rohtak district administration had earlier issued an order to use a ground on MDU campus as a burial/cremation site for the deceased Covid patients – the said order was though withdrawn later.Then, the district authorities ordered to create a quarantine centre on the university campus for Indian students stranded in foreign countries, the letter added.“Now, the district administration has deputed senior faculty members, including those holding crucial decision-making positions at MDU and those suffering from chronic ailments to quarantine centres. Women faculty members have been put on duty at quarantine centres in the evening shift from 5 pm to 11 pm,” said MDUTA president Vikas Siwach.When contacted, Deputy Commissioner, Rohtak, RS Verma said the MDU administration had provided them the list of the faculty members and other employees of the university for being deployed on Covid-related duties, but the list did not mention that certain faculty members/officials were physically challenged or suffering from chronic ailments.“If we come across any such instance, we will do the needful,” said Verma.MDU Registrar Prof Gulshan Lal Taneja could not be reached for his comments despite repeated attempts.
22-05-2020||---||Western Command chief visits Ambala headquarters, reviews preparedness of Kharga Corps||Chandigarh, May 22General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, Lt Gen RP Singh, visited the Kharga Corps Headquarters at Ambala on Friday.He was briefed by the Corps Commander, Lt Gen SS Mahal, on the operational and logistics preparedness of the army’s most potent strike formation, as well as measures instituted to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.He interacted with the troops and commended the ongoing efforts in ensuring force protection and at the same time maintaining a high level of operational readiness.He exhorted all ranks to remain focused on defeating this global pandemic.
22-05-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Zero bookings, sales of vehicles in Gurugram during April||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, May 22While the auto industry may have resumed manufacturing, the retail market continues to be in a slump. In an unprecedented event, Gurugram registered zero bookings or sale of automobiles during April, which otherwise registers a spike in sales owing to Navratri.The car buyers have postponed their delivery date and the bike and car dealers have not seen a single booking for the past two months.Besides, people who had made advanced bookings for delivery in May, have also postponed the delivery while some have even requested cancellation owing to COVID-19 fears. The auto retail outlets had pinned high hopes on lockdown 4.0 for a rush of bookings following two months of abrupt pause. They went ahead starting operations with around 50 per cent staff with elaborate measures such as PPE kits for staff and sanitisation twice a day.However, nobody turned up and those, who made bookings, too, have postponed same till Diwali.The relaxation in the lockdown has failed to induce much trust in buyers currently as they are terrified by the increasing numbers of COVID cases.In a showroom of Bajaj, where 15 to 20 bikes were sold every day during April, not even a single query has been made.  “We have been open since May, 18 but have not sold a single bike. People are scared and making general enquiries on call but nobody is coming. The slump has hit us hard,” said Praveen Kumar, manager of Bajaj showroom. On the other hand, car agencies are also waiting for customers. In normal days, more than five cars were sold per day.“We restarted with all safety measures in the showroom but not a single customer has visited us. Those, who booked their cars before the lockdown, also don’t want delivery now. The situation of the auto market is very bad and reopening costs have doubled our losses,” said Balbir Singh, a senior executive of Maruti agency Prem motors.Meanwhile, the agencies are also facing a lack of mechanical staff as many migrants have gone to their native places. This has majorly hit vehicle servicing.The auto industries namely Maruti, Hero and Honda have started manufacturing hoping for the retail chain to get smooth soon.
22-05-2020||Parveen Arora||Gurugram hotels turn PGs; more to follow suit, seek govt  approval||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 21The lockdown has hit the hotel industry hard, prompting distressed hoteliers to seek a change of business. At least 40 hoteliers have urged the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Haryana (HRAH) to approach the state government for nod to change of land use (CLU).They plan to put out their hotels on rent as paying guest accommodation and office space, besides offering banquet halls and swimming pools to clubs to generate revenue and meet expenses. Some are even planning to sell their property to pay off loans. Sources say some hotels in Gurugram have already turned their properties into PG accommodation, though they are yet to obtain government nod.Sounding an alarm at the predicament faced by the hotel industry, HRAH president Col Manbeer Choudhary says around 40 hoteliers have urged him to send a representation to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for seeking CLU certificate.“We are unable to meet expenses like staff salary, power bills, maintenance, property taxes and others as the industry has been shut for the past two months and revival is nowhere in sight,” he says. Raj Sehgal, a Gurugram hotelier, says this is the first time in 24 years that he has seen such recession. “I am exploring options of renting out property to PGs and commercial space for office to meet daily expenses,” he says.Col Choudhary fears the numbers may grow in the coming days. “The government should waive GST to attract clientele,” he adds.
22-05-2020||---||Fire ravages two jute bag units in Sonepat||Panipat/Sonepat, May 21A major fire broke out in two adjoining jute bag manufacturing units in Nathupur village near Kundli in Sonepat district in the early hours of Thursday. Though no casualty was reported, owners claimed huge loss of manufactured products and raw material.District Fire Officer Rampal said the fire was reported around 4.15 am in Jyoti Packing and Unique Packing Enterprises located in the Industrial Area at Nathupur village. He said 24 fire tenders from Sonepat, Kharkhoda, Rai, Kundli, Gohana, Gannaur, Bahadurgarh and Rohtak battled the blaze in the three-storey complex for 11 hours.“We had to break the walls on both sides of the units to control the fire. There is a paint manufacturing unit adjoining the factories and had the fire spread to it, it would have been tough to control given the highly inflammable chemicals in the factory,” Rampal said.A fireman said there was no hydraulic platform in the district, which made multi-storey buildings inaccessible. “We have asked for improvement in fire infrastructure in the district and have raised the demand for fire tenders and hydraulic platform,” said Rampal. Kashish Aggarwal, owner of one of the units said . “Workers said short circuit caused the fire and it spread to both units. It caused heavy losses of manufactured goods and raw material,” he said. The policer said actual cause would be known after the FSL team’s visit and probe.
22-05-2020||Our CorrespondentKaithal||Kaithal: 2 burnt alive in liquor vend blaze||Two persons were burnt alive and another injured when a fire broke out in a liquor vend in Balu village of Kalayat sub-division of Kaithal district in the early hours of Thursday.The deceased have been identified Om Prakash of Kurar village, a partner in the vend, and Bhagat Singh, a cook from Nepal. Salesman Balinder Singh of Jind was rescued with the help of the police and fire brigade personnel after demolishing a vend wall. The CIA and forensic expert teams have examined the spot. The reason behind the fire could not be ascertained yet, but vend contractor Satpal blamed unidentified miscreants for the incident. In the police complaint, he said miscreants set the liquor shop on fire and locked the main door from outside. Satpal said he and his brother Surinder rushed to the vend after getting the information of the fire around 3 am and also informed the police. Balinder, who was sleeping in a different room in the shop was rescued but Om Prakash and Bhagat Singh were burnt alive. A case has been registered .
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Jind: A first,  grid-connected biogas power plant||Haryana’s first grid-connected 1.2 MW biogas-based power plant has been commissioned at a cost of about Rs 14 crore in Morkhi village in Jind. The plant will have an annual power generation of 85 lakh units. Minister of Power and Mor Bio Energy Private Limited and the power would be purchased by the Haryana Power Purchase Centre at the tariff to be decided by the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission.The minister said a three-day trial run from March 11 to 15, 2020 was done at 80 per cent capacity by the department. The main feed material of this plant is poultry litter and cow dung. It consumes nearly 180 tonnes per day of bio-degradable waste and apart from electricity it produces nearly 15 tonnes per day of organic fertiliser, he added. — TNS
22-05-2020||---||Over 4K leave for Bihar in 3 trains||Chandigarh, May 21Three Shramik trains left from Haryana for Bihar with about 4,000 migrant labourers today. An official spokesman said a Shramik train carrying 1,212 migrants left from Ambala for Muzaffarpur.Another train carrying 1,400 labourers left Faridabad for Barauni and the third carrying 1,450 migrants left Hisar for Kishanganj in Bihar.Before boarding the trains, health check-up was conducted and social distancing ensured inside train compartments.Migrant labourers were also sent by 400 buses to their hometowns across Uttar Pradesh.
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Selja slams BJP over FIR against Sonia||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja said the FIR registered by a BJP worker against Indian National Congress chief Sonia Gandhi reflects a new low in the politics of vendetta by the saffron party.She said today when the entire nation was remembering the supreme sacrifice of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, exhibiting another example of the BJP’s skewed thinking, the ruling party had lodged a malicious FIR against Sonia.“No one had imagined that in a bid to distract attention from its failures on all fronts, the BJP will stoop to such low levels.” She said the Congress strongly condemns this.Selja said the entire nation was fighting a battle against Covid with complete solidarity and the Congress, under the leadership of Sonia, was continuously working to extend all possible help to the people. The BJP has been completely baffled by the exemplary relief work being carried out by the Congress workers on the directions of Sonia. — TNS
22-05-2020||Sushil Manav||At 8.33%, Rohtak fatality rate highest in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21In Haryana, 17 out of 22 districts have less than one active Covid case per lakh population while Rewari has one case per lakh population.Four districts have more than one case per lakh population with Gurugram reporting the maximum at 6.6 cases, Sonepat 3.92 cases, Jhajjar 3.87 cases and Faridabad 3.56 cases per lakh population.As per the parameters set by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on May 17 for categorisation of districts into red, orange and green zones, districts with more than 15 active Covid cases per lakh population are to be considered critical while the desirable figure is zero case.“The MHA had prescribed six different parameters -– total active cases, active cases per lakh population, doubling rate (calculated over 7-day period), case fatality rate, testing ratio (number of tests per lakh population) and sample positivity rate (confirmation rate) -– for categorisation of districts,” said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, Haryana.Claiming that the figures show that Haryana has been managing the Covid situation well, Arora added that the parameters would provide the authorities a tool to analyse how various districts are moving. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced on Tuesday that all the districts of Haryana, except for the containment zones, would be considered as orange zone.As per the figures released by Arora on Wednesday, Gurugram topped the table with 100 total active cases, followed by Faridabad 64, Sonepat 58 and Jhajjar 37.In doubling rate (calculated over 7-day period), Ambala has the best record where cases have doubled in 209 days, followed by Palwal 95 days, Panipat 93 days, Nuh 63 days, Panchkula 39 and Sirsa and Fatehabad 37 and Jind has a doubling rate of 31 days.As per the parameters set by the MHA, doubling rate of less than 14 days is critical and the desirable doubling rate is more than 28 days.Seven districts of Haryana had critical doubling rate with Rewari having the worst at four days, Rohtak five days, Charkhi Dadri seven days, Mahendragarh nine days, Kaithal 10 days, Faridabad 11 days and Kurukshetra 12 days.In case fatality rate, Rohtak 8.33 per cent and Panipat 7.89 per cent are higher than MHA’s parameter of 6 per cent for critical districts. The desirable case fatality rate set by the MHA is lower than 1 per cent. In Haryana, the case fatality rate is zero in 16 districts where no death has been reported while it is 5.56 per cent in Karnal, 4.76 per cent in Ambala, 4.08 per cent in Faridabad and 0.75 per cent in Sonepat.The MHA parameter for testing ratio (number of tests per lakh population) is critical if it is less than 65 while the desirable ratio is 200 tests per lakh population.In Haryana, 18 out of 22 districts have testing ratio of more than 200 with Gurugram (613) being the highest followed by 574 in Panchkula, 475 in Rohtak and 419 in Faridabad. While no district of the state is in the “critical” category, Yamunanagar with 197, Kaithal 179, Sirsa 103 and Bhiwani with 100 tests per lakh population have conducted lower number of tests than the parameter for desirable set by the MHA.In the sample positivity rate, the MHA’s parameters consider more than 6 per cent as critical and less than 2 per cent as desirable.While no district of Haryana falls in the “critical” category, only four districts of Haryana – Sonepat 2.8 per cent, Jhajjar 2.63 per cent, Gurugram 2.41 per cent and Charkhi Dadri 2.03 per cent have sample positivity rate of more than the desirable rate of 2 per cent.
22-05-2020||Tribune. News Service||Offices of govt schools to open in Haryana||Chandigarh, May 21The Haryana Government has decided to open the offices of all government schools across the state, so that the administrative work that had been delayed due to the lockdown can be carried out.An official spokesperson said the Directorate of School Education had directed all officials concerned to open all offices on time at government schools and other educational institutions.He said following the guidelines issued by Health and Family Welfare Department, Haryana, the school principals had been instructed to maintain hygiene while following social-distancing, use of face masks, sanitisers etc. The state government has also given a one-time amount of Rs 2,500 to Rs 4,000 to all schools for purchasing soap, sanitisers, face masks, hand-wash, toilet cleaners etc, he added. He said if a school principal needed support to distribute mid-day meal, text-books or to perform any other task of the school, then he could call another teacher.He said for the new academic year, all government schools were instructed to plan the first meeting of the members of the School Management Committee within a week to plan admissions, to ensure 100 per cent enrolment, transition and dropout rate to zero.
22-05-2020||---||As Covid casualties rise, Vij orders audit of deaths||Chandigarh, May 21With a rise in Covid deaths, Health Minister Anil Vij today ordered an audit of all casualties in the state due to the virus. Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, nodal officer for Covid, will investigate all deaths due to the virus, including those in the past.“I am worried about the deaths. I have ordered an audit of all Covid casualties. Dr Dhruv Chaudhary will analyse the reasons of death. He will look into whether the patient was properly attended to during hospital stay and the kind of treatment offered,” said Vij.“Dr Chaudhary will also hold a video-conference with Covid hospitals everyday and enquire about critical patients,” he stated.The state health bulletin showed 15 deaths till Thursday — six in Faridabad, three in Panipat, two in Ambala and one each in Rohtak, Gurugram, Sonepat and Karnal.The 15th patient was a 33-year-old man, who was on ventilator and was suffering from fever, cough and shortness of breath. A resident of Sector 53 in Gurugram, he died at the PGIMS in Rohtak.A 50-year-old man from Jind, who tested positive on Tuesday and was admitted to the civil hospital in Agroha, died on Wednesday night.He was admitted to a private hospital on May 14 and later tested positive for Covid. He had been suffering from lung cancer, but his death was yet to be counted in the state health bulletin.
22-05-2020||Kurukshetra||No holy bath, ‘pind daan’ in Kurukshetra today||With a large number of devotees expected to reach Kurukshetra to take a holy dip and offer ‘pind daan’ at Brahma Sarovar, Sannihit Sarovar and Saraswati Tirtha on ‘amavasya’ on Friday, the administration has banned the activities.The district administration had recently granted permission to priests to perform ‘pind daan’ and other post-death rituals in Kurukshetra.“A large number of people from nearby districts may arrive on Friday to perform ‘pind daan’ and take a holy dip. To stop further spread of Covid, a ban has been imposed on these activities at Brahma Sarovar, Sannihit Sarovar, and Saraswati Tirtha,” said Deputy Commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata. — TNS
22-05-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Trip home cut short, migrants accuse bus driver, three others of cheating||Around 28 migrants hailing from Bengal have moved the police accusing four persons, including a bus driver, of duping them of Rs 1.4 lakh on the pretext of sending them home. An FIR has been registered at Bajghera police station.The migrants claimed that Azad Ali, Sultan Ali, Kaba and Rafeek were told that the bus had a permit but they were made to get off the bus by the police in the wee hours today. The driver – who had a valid movement pass — was allowed to leave with the bus.“They took Rs 5,000 per person from us and got a total of Rs 1.4 lakh. The bus driver said he was allowed to ferry people home on the bus. Trusting him, we gave him money and boarded the bus from Sarai Alavardi. At 3 am, we reached Dwarka expressway. There, the police stopped the bus and made us get down saying we were travelling illegally. They said that the driver had a movement pass but no permission to ferry passengers. He was allowed to leave and is not contactable,” read the complaint filed by Mahabul Haq, one of the migrants.Social worker Jai Singh Punia, who saw the migrants stranded on the road, called up the police and they soon arrived at the spot.A case has been registered against four persons under Sections 420 (cheating), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC and Section 51-B of Disaster Management Act at Bajghera police station.“The migrants who live across the city consist primarily of maids. Being out of work, they were going back and were duped. We are conducting raids to nab the accused,” said the investigating officer.
22-05-2020||Ambala||Work begins on bank square at Ambala Cantt||After remaining stuck for almost six months, the construction work at the much-awaited bank square in Ambala Cantonment has begun. The work has been allotted to a Chandigarh firm for Rs 87.12 crore.Earlier, two tenders for Rs 106 crore were allotted to a private firm in September and another for Rs 94 crore was cancelled in December.The bank square was planned in 2016 but even after four years, the project remains in limbo. A private firm, which was allocated the first tender, had begun the construction work but following some shortcomings the tender was cancelled.Confirming the development, MC executive officer Rajesh Kumar said the work was allotted after re-opening the tender and nod from the local government department. Officials said the firm had formally begun the construction work after getting the work order.
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||2 die, tally crosses 1K mark in Haryana||With 38 more persons testing positive for Covid — 27 from Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat alone — the Covid tally in Haryana shot up to 1,031 on Thursday. Two deaths were reported from Gurugam and Jind, though the state health bulletin is yet to record the latter.Jind victim’s 80 c0ntacts tracedOf the state’s 1,031 patients, 64 per cent are from the NCR districts of Gurugram (239), Faridabad (181), Sonepat (150) and Jhajjar (91). Health Minister Anil Vij said, “The map of areas in NCR, where the cases are coming, shows that they touch Delhi. That is why we have sealed the borders.”A 33-year-old resident of Sector 53, Gurugram, who was on ventilator and suffering from fever, cough and shortness of breath, died at PGIMS-Rohtak. The health authorities clarified that two more Gurugram residents had died at PGIMS since yesterday, but not due to Covid.A 50-year-old man from Jind who tested positive on Tuesday and was admitted to the civil hospital in Agroha died on Wednesday night. He was admitted to a private hospital on May 14 and later tested Covid-positive. He was suffering from lung cancer.Among the 12 fresh cases reported in Gurugram today, four are from Sector 10A, two each from Dundahera, Krishna Colony and Jawahar Nagar and one each from Chandra Lok and Sector 54.Eleven cases were reported from Faridabad, including four women. Two of the women were from Bharat Colony and work in a private factory, while the other two are NIT residents. One is the wife of a Covid patient and the other an old age home worker.At Sonepat, with the testing positive of three nurses working at BPS Government Medical College for Women, Khanpur Kalan, now 16 staff members have been infected. Staff nurses had alleged inadequate protective facilities during duty and non-duty hours and had protested on Tuesday too. They had also alleged that the PPE kits given to them were of poor quality and were difficult to wear even for three hours.In Panipat, a 36-year-old woman and her two children, who were close contact of a Covid-positive vegetable vendor in Samalkha, also got infected. A 30-year-old man who had come from Delhi two days ago also tested positive.In Kurukshetra, two youths aged 25 and 27 from Ajrana Khurd village who returned from Andhra Pradesh on Monday tested positive.A 31-year-old man of Solo village in Karnal tested positive, taking the number of cases to 21 in the district. He came from Delhi on May 20 and his sample was taken the same day.A 34-year-old woman schoolteacher of Sector 2 in Rohtak, who is suffering from cancer, was found Covid-positive. She was undergoing treatment at Balaji Action Cancer Hospital in Delhi and later went to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram. The patient has now been sent to the PGIMS isolation ward.A cancer patient from Sector 2 of Panchkula tested positive, taking the district tally to 26. The 55-year-old’s whereabouts are not known. “He went to Delhi for cancer treatment on May 16. His sample was sent for testing and he was found Covid-positive on May 17. His family alerted health officials on May 21,” Panchkula CMO Dr Jasjeet Kaur said.Meanwhile, 33 patients were discharged from hospital in the last 24 hours which took the number of cured cases to 681 and the recovery rate to 66.05 per cent.Covid patient tests +ve for 7th timeHisar: A Covid patient from Dharoli village of the district has again tested positive on Thursday. He earlier tested positive for Covid on April 25. Health officials said he had been tested for the eighth time. Barring the fourth report, which was negative, the youth has been testing positive for Covid. TNS
22-05-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Month on, 1,013 Jamaatis sent home in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21Over a month after being traced and tested for Covid in Haryana, most of the Tablighi Jamaat attendees from other states have left for their homes. They were sent back on buses and trains being run for migrants.Bringing the first spike in Haryana’s Covid cases last month, as many as 1,013 of 1,023 Jamaatis from Bihar, Rajasthan, Telangana, Kerala and Uttar Pradesh have been sent to their respective states along with migrants.Confirming this, the nodal officer for the transportation of migrants, ADGP (CID) Anil Rao, said those left behind include some against whom cases were registered for violating Section 144 of the CrPC. Of the 10 Jamaatis left behind, six have cases registered against them. They, too, have been granted bail by the court and are free to go back. But they are likely to return to their native states after attending the next court date due in their cases. The remaining four are individual cases belonging to Assam and Kerala and will be put on the train as and when possible.Haryana had traced 1,636 Tablighis during the first phase of the lockdown. Of these, 107 were foreign nationals, 1,023 belonged to other states and 508 to Haryana.According to information, FIRs were registered against 29 of them. They had attended the Tablighi event in Delhi that triggered a spurt in cases or of trying to resist being quarantined or isolated.So far, Haryana has sent over 2 lakh migrants to their native places in buses or trains. While 57 trains have so far left carrying, on an average, 1,400 migrants each, taking them to Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, as many as 4,600 buses have proceeded to various destinations in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan in the last few days.Each bus had a limit of 30 occupants on an average. As many as 11,000 Haryanvis have been brought back from other states.
22-05-2020||Karnal||Cong sets up helpdesk for migrants on NH-44||Congress workers, led by Assandh MLA Shamsher Gogi, have set up a helpdesk on the National Highway-44 to assist migrants and send them to shelter homes.“On Congress state chife Kumari Selja’s directions, we have set up this helpdesk for migrants near Sector 9 along the national highway. We are giving them masks and water bottles too,” Gogi said.He said as soon as the migrants come to them, they inform the SDM to shift them to the shelter homes. — TNS
