22-08-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Couple murdered in Sonepat village; ‘honour killing’ suspected||Tribune News ServicePanipat, August 22An 18-year-old girl and a boy of Guhna village in Sonepat district were reportedly murdered and the bodies were thrown into the minor canal. Suspecting it to be ‘honour killing’, police have registered a case against unknown persons under the sections of murder.The police have got information about the bodies being found in a canal near Jhajjar. A police team along with relatives of the boy and girl went to Jhajjar to identify the bodies.According to information, ASI Puran Singh, in his complaint to Mohana police, said that he was patrolling near Tihara village turn when he received a tip-off that a boy and a girl of the village were on the run since August 10 and the family members had nabbed them from near Safidon in Jind district around 4-5 days ago.The family members had allegedly murdered the two and to threw the bodies into the Rithal minor.Following the complaint, the police registered a case under various Sections of IPC, including murder, and began a search operation to recover their bodies in the canal with the help of divers.As per the sources, a video of their marriage in a temple also went viral on social media. It also came to fore that the girl attained the age of 18 on August 4 and she left the home along with the boy on August 10.SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said: “We have registered a case against unknown persons under Sections 302, 201, 120 B and 34 of IPC on the tip off about the alleged murders of Guhna village. The incident was reported 4-5 days ago.”“The bodies were fished out from the canal near Salhawas village in Jhajjar district on Saturday evening and we are trying to get them identified from their family members. The team is on the spot,” he added.Investigation is under way, the SP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/couple-murdered-in-sonepat-village-honour-killing-suspected-129851
22-08-2020||---||Karnal woman held for ‘accepting Rs 7.25 lakh’ for withdrawing gang rape case||Karnal, August 22A Karnal schoolteacher has been arrested for allegedly accepting Rs 7.25 lakh from a colleague for withdrawing her complaint of gang rape against the owner of the school and the Tehsildar, the police have said.  Her husband has also been arrested, the police added.The Karnal Police claimed to have arrested the schoolteacher on Friday evening from Sector 12.The duo was produced in the court on Saturday and police sought a two-day remand, claiming that they have to recover Rs 6 lakh from the woman which she had taken from the owner of the school earlier. However, the court denied their plea and sent the two to judicial custody.The woman denied the allegations and blamed the police and the gang-rape accused of implicating her in a false case.She further alleged that a son of an MLA from the district was also involved in the conspiracy. The schoolteacher said she did not accept any money from any person.The counsel for the woman, meanwhile, blamed the police for shielding the gang-rape accused, saying that the police have arrested the victim to weaken the gang-rape case, which was registered two-and-a-half months back.The counsel alleged that the police failed to arrest the gang-rape accused in the last two-and-a-half months and pointed out that the court had also “pulled up” the investigating officer for not applying proper procedure in the arrest.The counsel also said the police did not get the colour-coated currency notes from the victim.Superintendent of Police Surinder Singh Bhoria while confirming the arrest claimed that the woman had demanded Rs 15 lakh from the owner of the school.The SP also said proper procedure was followed while arresting the duo.He, however, refused to comment on the allegations levelled by the woman and said police wanted to take her on two-day police remand as we had to recover Rs 6 lakh from her, but the court sent her to judicial custody.“After getting the copy of the order, we will approach the court again for remand,” said Bhoria.The woman had earlier accused the school owner and the Tehsildar of raping her. The owner of the school though got a counter FIR registered against her for blackmailing; following which the SP had constituted two SITs to investigate both the cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-woman-held-for-accepting-rs-7-25-lakh-for-withdrawing-gang-rape-case-129840
22-08-2020||---||Haryana IG arrested for assaulting 2 Pinjore women||Panchkula, August 22Police have arrested controversial Haryana Inspector General (IG) Hemant Kalson for allegedly assaulting two women after trespassing into their houses at Pinjore in this district on Friday evening.Earlier, he was booked as two FIRs were registered against him. He will be produced in a court. The two incidents took place at Rattpur Colony of Pinjore town.While the first FIR was registered against Kalson under Sections 323 and 452 of the IPC, the second was lodged under Sections 323, 452, 509 and 510 of the IPC.In the first FIR, the woman complainant alleged that Kalson forcibly entered her house on Friday evening and started beating up her daughter while she herself was taking a bath. Upon hearing the noises, she intervened and saved her daughter, she said. She told the police that Kalson bragged that he was (CM ML) Khattar’s man; hence, nobody could touch him.  The complainant said she also made a video of the incident. In the second case, a male complainant alleged that Kalson knocked at his door at around 9.30 pm. He alleged that when his wife answered the door, Kalson, who was in an inebriated state, pushed her away and hurled abuses at her. When he intervened, Kalson slapped and kicked him besides threatening to shoot him, he claimed.Not new to controversyThe 55-year-old police officer, currently IG, Home Guards, Panchkula, has been in controversy in the past too.Kalson on July 27 this year had allegedly abused a Pinjore woman, following which a case was registered under Section 509 of the IPC against him on August 2.In April 2019, he was placed under suspension for firing in the air while being on election duty in Tamil Nadu.In September 2018, he was assaulted by passers-by in a road-rage incident. Kalson was behind the wheel, accompanied by a friend. They were on their way from Pinjore to Panchkula when an SUV crossed their vehicle at a high speed. He allegedly chased the vehicle and forced the driver to stop it. No FIR was registered in the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-ig-arrested-for-assaulting-2-pinjore-women-129793
22-08-2020||Sunit Dhawan||COVID upsurge now likely in non-NCR cities of Haryana, caution experts||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 22Medical specialists engaged in management and control of COVID-19 in Haryana opine that the prevalence of the pandemic has begun to subside in the National Capital Region (NCR) cities, including Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat, and an upsurge in COVID cases is now expected in the non-NCR cities of the state.“An upsurge has been observed in Rohtak, Panipat, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Ambala, Panchkula, Hisar, Bhiwani, Rewari and Mahindergarh in the recent days and is likely to continue for the next few weeks,” says Dr Dhruva Chaudhry, Senior Professor and head of the Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine at Rohtak PGIMS. He is also the State Nodal Officer for COVID-19.Professor Chaudhry points out that around 10 per cent of the COVID-19 samples are testing positive as of now, which indicates that the COVID-19 cases in Haryana may reach a peak in September.Prof (Dr) VK Katyal, head of the Department of Medicine at Rohtak PGIMS, observes that community transmission of coronavirus was on and the state might reach the peak of COVID-19 cases within a month or so. Dr Katyal is also the convenor for COVID-19.“The number of COVID-19 cases is likely to come down in Faridabad, Gurugram and Sonepat and go up in the cities located on the G.T. Road, apart from Rohtak-Bhiwani-Hisar belt,” he maintains.The experts have cautioned the people to step out of their homes only if it is extremely necessary, avoid going to crowded markets and public places, wash their hands frequently, maintain personal hygiene and physical distance and seek medical advice if they have symptoms like cough, fever or breathlessness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-upsurge-now-likely-in-non-ncr-cities-of-haryana-caution-experts-129789
22-08-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Four of family drown in canal in Sonepat||Tribune News ServicePanipat, August 21Four members of a family drowned after their car fell into the western Yamuna canal near Nahra-Nahri bridge on Friday late night.The deceased have been identified as Sadhuram (56) of Bindroli village in Sonepat district. His wife Seema (46), his two sons Monti (17) and Dhruv (15). The deceased’s nephew, however, was able to escape and fell on the roadside in an unconscious condition. He has been admitted to the hospital.As per the police, Sadhuram was a transporter in Mehrauli, Delhi. He, along with his family members, had left for Bindroli village on Friday late night.When they reached near Nahra-Nahri bridge, their car collided with a truck coming from the opposite side. Trying to avoid the crash, the car lost control and fell into the western Yamuna canal.Commuters informed the police about the crash. Kundli police reached the spot and the dead bodies of all four family members were fished out from the canal along with the car.The police have sent the dead bodies to the mortuary at general hospital for autopsy and began a probe into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-of-family-drown-in-canal-in-sonepat-129761
22-08-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram locals seek action against ‘callous’ officials||Gurugram, August 21It took two days for the district authorities to drain out rainwater from roads and residential localities following heavy rainfall on Wednesday. Residents have demanded that the responsibility must be fixed.Several of them have approached the administration against builders and even municipal officers, accusing them of “callous attitude”. They have demanded strict penalties against officers, who, they said, were responsible for the mayhem on roads. Officials failed to respond on time, residents alleged.Looking into reasons: officialWith torrential rain falling throughout on Wednesday, the city was inundated. I admit the situation was bad in many areas. The civic body is looking into the reasons behind waterlogging. Builders have been asked to send reports. - Vinay Pratap Singh, MC CommissionerSatish Ohri, an 83-year-old resident of Sushant Lok, said: “Without doubt, the Municipal Corporation is to be blamed. More than 100 calls were to the MC, but none was answered. My wife is wheelchair ridden. For 12 hours, we were subjected to harassment. We want officers to be punished.”The MC has, meanwhile, sought a status report from all zonal officers on reasons behind waterlogging, the response time and lapses.Vinay Pratap Singh, MC Commissioner, said: “With torrential rain falling throughout, the city was inundated. I admit the situation was bad in many areas. The civic body is looking into the reasons behind waterlogging. Builders have been asked to send reports.”Meanwhile, two buildings in Sector 27 tilted to one side following heavy rainfall on Wednesday. The district administration has dismantled one of them. The other building, which is four-storey high, has been given support with the help of automatic cranes. The disaster management team has sealed the entire area. Earlier, a building in Sector 46 had also tilted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-locals-seek-action-against-callous-officials-129465
22-08-2020||Karnal||Arhtiyas protest Centre’s new ordinances||Arhtiyas of various grain markets of the district on Friday observed a daylong strikeand protested at the Mini-Secretariat against the Centre’s farm-related ordinances. They kept their shops closed and handed over a memorandum to the SDM for the Chief Minister and Prime Minister.Claiming the three new ordinances were anti-farmer, Haryana Arhtiyas Association state chief Ashok Gupta said these ordinances would lead to losses to the farming community as well as arhtiyas and labourers.“The Centre has taken this step in haste, which will cause losses to farmers, arhtiyas, munims (clerks of arhtiyas), and labourers. It will create unemployment,” he said.Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association, said if these ordinances were not taken back, they would hold a national-level protest with the help of arhtiyas of the other states.Meanwhile, Bajrang Das Garg, state president, Haryana Pradesh Veopar Mandal, led the protest in Jind and said these ordinances would ruin the future of farmers and arhtiyas.In Hisar, Garg claimed that grain markets across the state remained closed today on the call given by Haryana Pradesh Veopar Mandal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arhtiyas-protest-centres-new-ordinances-129466
22-08-2020||Gurugram||Reward for info on three ‘killers’||The police have claimed to have identified three of the six accused in the triple murder in a gang war at Basai village on Thursday. The police announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh each for information on the three suspects, Pawan Nehra, Raju and Amit Kala, purportedly members of Hari Om gang. The police registered an FIR and set up four raiding parties. The victims were members of Jony gang and had a tiff over a plot. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/reward-for-info-on-three-killers-129467
22-08-2020||Hisar||2 robbers nabbed after chase, third commits suicide||The police of Friday foiled three robbers’ bid to loot cash and jewellery worth Rs 25 lakh from a financier’s residence in Tohana of Fatehabad.The police along with the help of villagers nabbed two of them whilethe third accused committed suicide. They were chased by Lohakhera villagers when they were trying to escape by snatching a motorcycle of a youth.The accused have been identified as Pawan of Tohana and Ajay of Jinds’ Narwana. The body of the third accomplice, Robin, was found lying in fields with a gunshot mark in the head, indicating that he had shot himself to death, a police spokesperson said.Fatehabad SP Rajesh Kumar rushed to the spot and started the investigation into the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-robbers-nabbed-after-chase-third-commits-suicide-129468
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court refuses to postpone PTI exam||Expressing satisfaction over the arrangements for conducting examination for the post of physical training instructor (PTI), the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that it does not find any justification to direct its postponement.“Public interest for conducting the examination on the scheduled date far outweighs the convenience of the petitioners. The unfortunate circumstances of some petitioners cannot be a ground to postpone the examination, wherein about 9,500 candidates have to appear,” Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal ruled.Justice Grewal noted that the arrangements in view of the pandemic included maintenance of social distancing, sanitisation and transportation. Justice Grewal referred to the Supreme Court judgment dated August 17.Among other things, the SC had asserted: “In our opinion, though there is a pandemic, life has to go on as the careers of students cannot be put on peril for long and full academic year cannot be wasted.”Justice Grewal was hearing a petition by Rekha Rani and other petitioners against Haryana and other respondents. They had challenged the order dated June 30, whereby the respondents were conducting the examination.The counsel for the petitioners contended that some petitioners were suffering from chronic diseases, while three of them were Covid positive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-refuses-to-postpone-pti-exam-129469
22-08-2020||Panipat||Sonepat administration plants 1 lakh saplings in a day||The Sonepat administration on Friday claimed to have achieved the target of planting one lakh saplings under the project “Paudharopan Mahaabhiyan” here.Sonepat MP Ramesh Kaushik inaugurated the drive by planting a sapling on the campus of the Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University of Technology, Murthal.Shyam Lal Poonia, Deputy Commissioner, congratulated officials of several departments for the feat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-administration-plants-1-lakh-saplings-in-a-day-129471
22-08-2020||Sushil Manav||Linking Devi Lal to Partap Singh Kairon killing absurd, says patriarch’s family||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21Former Deputy PM Chaudhary Devi Lal’s family has rejected as “absurd” and “politically motivated” a new controversy linking the family patriarch in any manner to the assassination of former Punjab CM Partap Singh Kairon in a book authored by his son Gurinder Singh Kairon.Ranjit Singh, Devi Lal’s sonNo personal enmityTo suggest that my father had any personal enmity with Kairon is completely absurd.Their RivalryBook ‘Partap Singh Kairon: A visionary’, co-authored by the late Punjab CM’s younger son Gurinder, highlights the rivalry between Kairon and Devi Lal and also raises a question mark on the “closeness” between the latter and Daya Singh, one of the assassins of KaironThe book ‘Partap Singh Kairon: A visionary’, authored by the late Punjab CM’s younger son jointly with Punjab University historian M Rajivlochan and his civil servant wife Meeta Rajivlochan, highlights the rivalry between Kairon and Devi Lal and also raises a question mark on the “closeness” between the latter and Daya Singh, one of the assassins of Kairon.Abhay Chautala, Devi Lal’s GrandsonInfluence on SC?How could Chaudhary Devi Lal’s influence work on the Supreme Court of India?Kairon, who was Chief Minister of undivided Punjab for eight years (1956-64), was shot dead with three others on February 6, 1965 on Grand Trunk Road near Rai (Sonepat) while he was on his way from Delhi to Chandigarh.While three of the four assassins Sucha Singh, Baldev Singh and Nahar Singh were awarded capital punishment in 1970 and hanged to death, the fourth assassin Daya Singh could only be arrested in 1972 and was awarded death sentence in 1978.The death sentence was later converted to life term by the Supreme Court in April 1991 when Devi Lal was Deputy PM of the country.“How could Chaudhary Devi Lal’s influence work on the Supreme Court of India?” asks Abhay Singh Chautala, Devi Lal’s grandson and an INLD MLA from Ellenabad.“Our family never had any kind of relations with Daya Singh. After all, Daya Singh was not a political person. Chaudhary Devi Lal was known for keeping political differences aside from personal relations. Old-timers know it well that he and Kairon enjoyed good relations at a personal level,” maintains Abhay Singh, whose father Om Prakash Chautala, too, has served as CM of the state.Terming this as a political conspiracy to malign Devi Lal’s family, Abhay Chautala adds that Gurinder Singh Kairon must have been fed by his (Chautala) family’s political opponents.Ranjit Singh, a Cabinet Minister in Manohar Lal Khattar’s government, who is third of Devi Lal’s four sons, said, “I was studying in Government College, Chandigarh, in 1962, when my father, as a recognised Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Assembly, submitted a memorandum to the President against Kairon’s corruption. On his complaint, an SR Das Commission of Inquiry under a retired Supreme Court judge was constituted. Kairon had to resign after the commission submitted its report. But this was all political enmity. To suggest that my father had any personal enmity with Kairon is completely absurd,” says Ranjit Singh.Ravi Chautala, son of Devi Lal’s second son Partap Singh, however said Daya Singh came in touch only when his grandfather was jailed during Emergency in Rohtak where Kairon’s killer was also lodged.Daya Singh is from Manaksar village of Rajasthan and was a frequently visited Chaudhary Devi Lal because he served my grandfather inside the jail during Emergency.“Daya Singh, now in his 80s, is still in touch with me,” Ravi Chautala adds.Devi Lal, who was the CM of Haryana twice from 1977 to 1979 and then again from 1987 to 89, served as Deputy PM of the country from 1989 to 1991 under VP Singh and Chandra Shekhar. Devi Lal died on April 6, 2001.The book records that Gurinder Singh, the younger son of Kairon, made a plea before the government for a fresh probe into the murder of his father.He also stated in his plea that Daya Singh’s death sentence had been commuted at the intervention of Devi Lal and noted that the closeness of the two indicated an underlying conspiracy.The government, however, refused to pay any attention to this plea for a CBI probe, the book further records.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/linking-devi-lal-to-partap-singh-kairon-killing-absurd-says-patriarchs-family-129472
22-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Curb harassment of witnesses in civil cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 21The Punjab and Haryana High Court has called for effective steps to curb harassment of witnesses in civil cases following unnecessary adjournments, putting off cross-examination of witnesses and long adjournment for cross-examination.WHAT HAPPENS OVER TIMEThe witnesses are harassed and tired out by seeking repeated adjournments and intimidated or bribed and thereby won over by the opponent during the period of long adjournments. - Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi, Punjab and Haryana High CourtJustice Arun Kumar Tyagi made it clear that the anxiety of a trial court to dispose of a case in an expeditious manner was appreciable, but anxiety could not be allowed “to extend to the limit of doing injustice by closing evidence in a mechanical manner without considering the reason for absence of the witness and giving reasonable opportunity to secure his presence”.Justice Tyagi was hearing a petition filed by the Gurugram Municipal Corporation for quashing an order dated January 22 passed by a Civil Judge (Junior Division) in the civil suit “Roshni versus CRO-cum-Tehsildar, Gurugram, and others”, whereby evidence of a defendant in a land matter was closed.Justice Tyagi was told that the witness of the defendant was present for cross-examination on August 21, 2019, and September 25, 2019, but was not cross-examined by the plaintiff’s counsel.Justice Tyagi was also told that the witness could not appear on January 22, on which date evidence of the defendant was closed by a court order.Justice Tyagi noted that harassment to witnesses by unnecessary adjournments, deferment of cross-examination and giving long adjournment for cross-examination had been deprecated by the Supreme Court and High Court in numerous criminal cases.“The reasons for taking effective steps for curbing the same are equally applicable to civil cases. The witnesses are harassed and tired out by seeking repeated adjournments and intimidated or bribed and thereby won over by the opponent during the period of long adjournments,” Justice Tyagi observed.Justice Tyagi stated that nothing in the impugned order showed neglect, misconduct and mala fide or dilatory tactics on the defendant’s part.Justice Tyagi pointed out that once the witness appeared for cross-examination on two dates and it was deferred on a request of the plaintiff’s counsel, his evidence could not be closed without reasonable opportunity for securing his presence.Justice Tyagi added that the impugned order to close evidence suffered from material illegality and was liable to be set aside as the defendant was entitled to an opportunity to conclude the evidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-curb-harassment-of-witnesses-in-civil-cases-129473
22-08-2020||Chandigarh||Bill for 75% quota to be tabled this session: Dushyant||The government will introduce a Bill in the coming Assembly session to give 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs to the state’s youth, days after a proposed ordinance on it failed to get the governor’s assent.Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya recently sent the ordinance approved by the Haryana Government for the President’s consideration, an official said.Bills proposing 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs to the state’s youth and reserving 50 per cent of seats for women in Panchayati Raj Institutions will be introduced in the upcoming monsoon session of the Haryana assembly, said Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala here on Friday.The session begins on August 26.40 questions chosen through lucky drawAfter 32 legislators submitted 280 questions for the upcoming Monsoon Assembly Session, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta chose 40 questions, with 20 questions each for August 26 and August 27, through a lucky draw.Besides the Speaker, Congress MLA Amit Sihag and BJP MLA Harvinder Kalyan also participated in choosing questions through the draw.Among the 280 questions submitted, 180 were starred and 100 were unstarred.According to the Speaker, due to Covid, 20 questions have been fixed for each day. “In today’s draw, questions were selected for August 26 and August 27,” he said. — PTI, TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bill-for-75-quota-to-be-tabled-this-session-dushyant-129474
22-08-2020||---||Covid test rates  fixed||Chandigarh, August 21Haryana has fixed rates of all types of tests for Covid to be charged by private labs.While the rates for RT-PCR, the gold standard test for coronavirus, was already fixed by the government in June, the Health Department has now fixed rates for rapid antigen tests and IgG-based Elisa testing too. In his orders issued today, Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, Haryana, has also directed the labs conducting such tests to adhere to the SOPs in this regard.“As per the advice of experts and after taking into account the cost of kits and consumables and on the basis of precedents in other states, the government in exercise of powers bestowed under the Epidemic Act, 1897, directs that no private lab shall charge any amount more than fixed today,” said the order.As per the order, the rate of RTPCR is already fixed for Rs 2,400, rapid antigen testing will cost Rs 650 and IgG-based Elisa testing for antibodies has been fixed at Rs 250 per test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-test-rates-fixed-129475
22-08-2020||---||1,203 cases, a new record in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 21With 1,203 cases, a new record in new patients in 24 hours, the Covid tally in the state reached 52,129 today. Seven deaths pushed the toll to 585.Two deaths were reported from Kurukshetra and one each from Panipat, Karnal, Palwal, Faridabad and Bhiwani.Panipat led in the number of fresh cases with 132, followed by Faridabad (127), Gurugram (120), Rewari (111) and Ambala (98).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-203-cases-a-new-record-in-haryana-129476
22-08-2020||Kurukshetra||Webinar on education policy||GJUST off-campus placement driveHisar: Two students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology have been selected in the off-campus placement drive of Rewari-based Lumax Industries Ltd. The drive was organised by the Training and Placement Cell of the university. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar and Registrar Prof Harbhajan Bansal congratulated the students. Placement cell director Pratap Singh said in 1980s and 90s, when the automotive industry was taking shape in India, a huge opportunity arose and Lumax took a firm hold of this opportunity. It developed a strong workforce of 9,000 workers in 29 modern manufacturing locations across seven states. This manufacturing strength is backed by four research centres and one design centre in Taiwan. He said after face-to-face interview in Bawal, Rewari, two students got selected with the annual CTC of Rs. 2.75 lakh per annum. The drive was handled by Guruvachan Singh, senior manager, HR and Placement Director, administration, Lumax Industries Ltd, expressed thanks to Prof Pankaj Khatak and Prof Deepak Kedia for guiding and motivating the students. Aditya Vir Singh, Assistant Director, said Aarti from BTech ECE, and Abhinish Kumar from BTech Mechanical, both of 2020-batch, were among the selected students.Saplings planted at DAV PG CollegeKarnal: In continuation to the drive launched by the Haryana Higher Education Department, DAV PG College conducted a plantation drive at the college campus, under which staff members and the principal planted saplings of various plants. Principal RP Saini exhorted the staff to plant saplings to increase green cover in their area. He said it would help in protecting the environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/webinar-on-education-policy-129711
22-08-2020||For the last few days||No lifting of garbage in Karnal||Shakti Singh, KarnalCyclists not using dedicated tracksThe pink-coloured cycle tracks laid at a cost of lakhs of rupees on some roads in Kaithal are seldom used by cyclists. These tracks were laid following the government decision to promote safe cycling on busy roads. However, there are not many cyclists who use these dedicated tracks. Also, at many places, these tracks are being used as parking places by people coming to banks, hospitals and shopping centres. Thus, the money spent on this project seems to have gone down the drain.Satish Seth, KaithalMonopoly of WiFi service providersWith transition to online learning and working from home amid the Covid pandemic, a stable high-speed WiFi connection has become the need of the hour. This paradigmatic shift has increased and exposed the monopoly of WiFi service providers. In the absence of reputed and promising Internet service providers in Tohana, consumers have no substitutes available and are forced to pay exorbitant prices and also bear the impolite behaviour of these market dictators. Price cap stipulations for broadband services, encouraging big and reputed firms to invest in small cities and towns, pro-competitive policy reforms in this sector are necessary to safeguard consumer interests and promote consumer welfare in the long run. The authorities concerned must take necessary actions at the earliest.Kalyani Tehri, TohanaWaste collectors troubling Kaithal localsResidents of Kaithal’s Friends Colony have been suffering due to unprofessional attitude and misbehaviour by waste collectors. They have stopped visiting the locality regularly, just twice a week. They have even started asking for extra money from each house. If any resident argues about the money demand, they stop collecting the waste of that house. The authorities need to look into the issue to set it right and the municipal councillor of every ward of the city should take note of this kind of situation.Kapil Sharma, KaithalWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-lifting-of-garbage-in-karnal-129717
22-08-2020||---||Haryana shops, offices shut on weekends||Chandigarh, August 21Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij today said all offices and shops in the state, except those providing essential services, will remain closed every Saturday and Sunday in view of the sudden rise in Covid cases over the past few days.Hours after Vij posted a tweet about the weekend shutdown, Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora issued a formal order. The number of positive cases in Haryana has crossed the 51,000-mark while around 600 people have succumbed to the virus. The state had on Thursday registered its highest single-day spike of 996 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-shops-offices-shut-on-weekends-129525
