22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt asks 2,949 waitlisted Group D candidates to join service||There is finally some good news for the 2,949 waitlisted Group D candidates with the BJP-JJP government asking them to join government service.The Haryana Service Selection Commission (HSSC) has now allocated departments to Group D candidates, which comprises several posts, including peons, beldars, malis and chowkidars.These candidates have been advised to join their respective departments on June 24.Chairman of the HSSC Bharat Bhushan Bharati told The Tribune that keeping in view the vacancy positions in the government departments and after intense parleys with about 178 departments, the commission had allocated departments to the waitlisted candidates.All these are waitlisted candidates of the biggest recruitment drive in the state’s history in which the Haryana Government had recruited 18,216 Group D employees before the 2019 parliamentary and Assembly elections through the HSSC.While a majority of the selected candidates had joined the service, a substantial number of posts remained vacant on account of non-joining, unwillingness and resignation of the selected candidates.With a view to give candidates their choice postings, the Haryana Government resorted to re-allocation of departments among the selected candidates.However, scores of candidates left the government jobs even after re-allocation of departments after joining the service.This, the sources said, forced the Haryana Government to absorb the waitlisted candidates in the government service.In fact, the absorption on the vacant posts was the major demand of waitlisted candidates in the run-up to the 2019 parliamentary and state Assembly elections.
22-06-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Interstate gang busted, 14 luxury vehicles recovered in Gurugram||In a major success, Haryana Special Task Force busted one of the biggest inter-district vehicle robbery scam on Monday.The accused would steal luxury cars and then to legitimise the stolen cars would get them registered in RTAs across the state in connivance with officials.According to STF, the officials would get these cars registered on numbers of the cars destroyed in accidents etc.The team claims over 200 cars were registered fraudulently this way.The team has nabbed three employees of RTA, Meham, along with one of the key members of the gang and seized 14 luxury cars worth Rs 5 crores.“This is a major racket transcending borders. We have nabbed three conniving officials. The arrested accused men were produced in a local court today and STF has taken them on four days remand. More than 12 members of the gang are still absconding while we will take two on production warrant soon from Chandigarh,” said inspector Satish Deshwal, the investigating officer of STF.Prior to this, two members of the gang were apprehended by Chandigarh Police.The arrested accused were identified as Praveen Kumar, Anil Kumar, Krishan Kumar and Sombir.Praveen was arrested with a stolen Fortuner car and he led police to the other three who are RTA, Meham, employees.Praveen has according to a senior investigator revealed that their gang has been active since 2017 in stealing luxury vehicles from Delhi, UP and Rajasthan.“They would legitimise them by getting them registered in Haryana in Meham, Nuh Mahendergarh and Gurugram and sold them as second-hand cars,” said an official.Accused Anil Kumar was MRC clerk in Meham authority and expert in duplicate RC transfer.He would work for gang part-time every Sunday to earn extra money.Sombeer and Krishan Kumar were computer operators with Meham authority and were helping the gang with backlog entry.
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Maximum temperatures hover below normal in Haryana, Punjab||The maximum temperatures hovered below normal limits in Haryana and Punjab on Monday, with common capital Chandigarh recording a high of 34.5 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said here.The maximum temperature in Chandigarh was three notches below the normal, it added.Ambala in Haryana recorded a high of 34.8 degrees Celsius, down three notches against the normal. Hisar recorded a high of 35 degrees Celsius, six degrees below the normal. Karnal recorded a high of 34 degrees Celsius, three below normal.Amritsar in Punjab registered a maximum of 37.5 degrees Celsius, one degree below the normal.Ludhiana and Patiala also recorded below-normal maximum temperatures at 34.9 degrees Celsius and 35.5 degrees Celsius respectively.According to the Met Department forecast for Punjab, light to moderate rain or thundershowers are likely at a few places on Tuesday, at most places on Wednesday and at many places on Thursday.The forecast for Haryana said light to moderate rain or thundershowers are likely at a few places on Tuesday and at most places on Wednesday and Thursday. PTI
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records nine coronavirus deaths, 390 new cases||Haryana reported nine new coronavirus deaths and 390 new cases with a span of 24 hours, the state’s health department said on Monday---a development that takes the state tally to 11,025 with 169 deaths.Five of the nine deaths were from Faridabad, an official bulletin said. Gurugram reported two other deaths, Jhajjar and Rewari each reported a death.Rewari district reported its first COVID-19 fatality.Gurugram and Faridabad, both districts that fall under the national capital region, together account for some 66 per cent of Haryana’s death toll and over 60 per cent of the state’s cases.  Haryana now has 4,940 active cases, and 5,916 COVID-19 patients have been released from hospitals after recovery.Faridabad (176), Gurugram (85), Rohtak (31), Bhwani(19), Rewari (22) and Panchkula (9), all recorded new cases. PTI
22-06-2020||Tribune Reporters||Make yoga part of life: CM Khattar to people||Chandigarh, June 21On the occasion of the International Day of Yoga on Sunday, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar performed yoga at his home here and greeted the people of Haryana on this occasion. He practiced yoga for an hour in the morning and performed various yoga asanas. This year, amid the Covid pandemic, the theme of the day is “Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family”.Later, speaking on the occasion, Khattar said the state government had been organising the International Day of Yoga event at a large scale every year since 2015 under which district-level programmes were also organised apart from the state-level programme wherein scores of people used to collectively perform yoga and also inspired others to adopt yoga in their life. But this year, due to the Covid pandemic, instead of organising programmes and events people have been urged to practice yoga at their homes as this is the only effective way through which we could defeat the pandemic.‘Har ghar yoga campaign’ by NSS, NCC unitsKaithal: The International Day of Yoga was observed by the NSS, NCC units and the Sports Department of RKSD College here under the ‘Har ghar yoga campaign’ on Sunday. The volunteers performed yoga at their homes with their families and registered themselves on the portal of Higher Education, Haryana, by filling their details and uploading their yoga photographs. Principal Sanjay Goyal played the lead role and he himself performed yoga at his residence with his family.200 from JC Bose university take part in yoga sessionFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, here observed the International Day of Yoga online on Sunday. About 200 participants performed yoga in the session arranged by the university on the digital platform following the Common Yoga Protocol issued by the Ministry of AYUSH. The event was organised by the office of Dean, Student Welfare, with the help of the Alumni Association and technical support provided by university’s Community College for Skill Development (CCSD).Kurukshetra varsity VC congratulates peopleKurukshetra: Kurukshetra University Vice-Chancellor Dr Nita Khanna while congratulating everyone on the International Day of Yoga said, “Yoga is our ancient tradition based on scientific concepts. The entire world is following yoga for maintaining healthy body and sound mind. The credit for bringing this heritage of our country to international fame goes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Yoga today is accepted as a global mantra of healthy life.”Sainik School cadets made aware about yogaKarnal: The International Day of Yoga was celebrated at Sainik School, Kunjpura, under the slogan “Yoga at home, yoga with family”. An online yoga session as conducted for the cadets, through which the cadets were made aware about yoga postures, pranayam and meditation. They were also trained to lead a stress free life and rejuvenate the natural phenomenon.Over 72,000 participate in online session
22-06-2020||Rohtak||Needy to get smartphones for e-classes in Rohtak||The district administration has initiated an exercise to arrange smartphones for the underprivileged students to enable them to attend online classes being conducted by schools.The first meeting of a committee, constituted by the Deputy Commissioner, was organised here. District Revenue Officer Poonam Babbar, chairperson of the committee, said she had been told that there were around 5,000 students of Class I-XII in Rohtak who required smartphones to attend online classes, but couldn’t afford the same.“The Deputy District Education Officer, who is also a member of the committee, has been asked to identify the students of Class IX-XII who need smartphones for attending e-classes in the initial phase,” she maintained. — TNS
22-06-2020||---||Take action against ‘safe house’ in-charge, Yamunanagar SP told||Yamunanagar, June 21An Additional Sessions Judge (Duty Judge) has directed Superintendent of Police, Yamunanagar, to take action against the in-charge of the ‘safe house’ at Yamunanagar for not producing a runaway couple in court on time.Runaway couple not produced on timeDr Abdul Majid, Additional Sessions Judge, district court, Jagadhri, issued this direction on June 19 while hearing a petition filed by a runaway couple for police protection.As per the ASJ’s order, the runaway couple was produced before the court by an Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Amardeep at 10.50 am on June 19 despite the fact that the advocates, public prosecutor and respondents had been waiting for the presence of the couple since 10 am.The order further said that it had also been noticed on June 18 that the runaway couple had been produced before the court in late hours. So it appeared that it had become a habit of the in-charge of the safe house to produce the couple in late hours intentionally.“Therefore, I direct the Superintendent of Police, Yamunanagar, to take appropriate legal action against the in-charge of the safe house, Yamunanagar, under intimation of this court, who is not present today (June 19) in the court as to why he intentionally caused delay in the proceedings of the court on account of late production of the runaway couple,” reads the order.On the other hand, the runaway couple withdrew their petition filed seeking police protection. They said that that now they had no threat from respondents number 3 to 7 (family members).“In view of the above, instant petition stands dismissed,” reads the order.
22-06-2020||
||MLAs nominated to Privileges’ Committee||Chandigarh, June 21 Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Friday nominated 10 MLAs to serve on the Committee of Privileges to examine Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the state Assembly. MLA Kamal Gupta has been nominated as chairperson while MLAs Kuldeep Bishnoi, Kiran Choudhry, Harvinder Kalyan, Seema Trikha, Aseem Goel, Satya Parkash, Varun Chaudhary, Amarjeet Dhanda and Sombir Sangwan are nominated as members of the committee.
22-06-2020||ibune Reporters||Clamour gets louder over transfer certificate order of Haryana government||Kaithal, June 21Representatives of the Private Schools’ Association are strongly opposing the state government order on no requirement of a school leaving/transfer certificate for students switching to government schools.In a memorandum submitted to local BJP MLA Lila Ram, the association has urged the government to immediately withdraw this illegal and illogical order.Association district president Parma Nand Goel and district chairman Balinder Sandhu said after this order, the students studying in private schools could get admission in government schools even without clearing out standing arrears in their current institutions.Association state secretary Varun Jain and former president Rajesh Munjal said private schools were already suffering a lot due to the non-payment of fee by students and now the managements were finding it difficult to meet even the day-to-day running expenses. “Moreover, the schools are under pressure to pay salary to the staff. In such a situation, how can they pay salaries and meet other expenses when their arrears are not paid by the students.”They said they had been cooperating with the government on all important issues but this notification was unreasonable, so it should be withdrawn immediately.Memo submitted to Education MinisterYamunanagar: The Federation of Private Schools’ Welfare Association, Haryana, met Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar in Jagadhri on Sunday.A delegation of the association led bychief Kulbhushan Sharma submitted a memorandum of their demands to the Education Minister and sought a solution.Kulbhushan said they had sought the rollback of the order on no requirement of school leaving certificate to take admission in government schools as such decisions had put the existence of private schools in danger.He said private schools were holding online teaching classes but had not pressurised the parents for depositing the fee of previous years and that of April to June 2020.“Now, if they don’t charge fee from students, they will soon become bankrupt. It will adversely affect the study of lakhs of students. Besides, the private schools will not be able to give salaries to its six lakh teachers,” he added.He said if the government didn’t give a relief package, most of the private schools of rural and urban areas would be on the verge of closure, putting jobs of six lakh teachers at risk.Parents demand CAG audit of pvt schoolsChandigarh: The Haryana School Parents’ Welfare League has written to the CM, demanding audit of the private schools’ finances by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) to determine whether charging hiked fee from students during the Covid crisis was justified or not. The forum alleged that school funds were diverted by the owners to other heads for their personal benefits. “In such a scenario, only a CAG audit can bring out the truth about the schools’ financial position and their justification for charging fee even during the Covid crisis,” the letter read. TNS
22-06-2020||ithal||2 ‘extort’ Rs1.5L from Kaithal trader, held||The Kalayat police have arrested two persons, including a woman, for allegedly extorting Rs 1.5 lakh from a businessman after hatching a conspiracy to involve him in a criminal case. The police have recovered Rs 10,000 of the total extorted money. The woman was sent to judicial custody by a court here today and the man was taken on a day’s remand for further interrogation and recovery of a mobile phone used by them in making a video of the victim. SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said here today that the police have arrested Meena Devi (40) of Karnal and her accomplice Vinod of Saga village in Karnal and recovered Rs 6,000 and Rs 4,000, respectively from them. The woman and her accomplice were into the profession of matchmaking. The businessman of Kalayat town came in contact with them as he was interested in finding a suitable match for his brother-in-law.  On June 4, 2019, he was asked by the duo to accompany them to Taraori in Karnal to meet the proposed bride, the businessman alleged. While they were sitting in a room, a girl on some pretext entered the room and all others — except the girl and the Kalayat businessman — rushed out. Meanwhile, two armed men arrived and they forcibly asked both of them to disrobe and made their video, the businessman alleged. Then, they asked the victim to arrange Rs 10 lakh and threatened to kill his son if he revealed anything to anybody. Then, they set him free.  The victim contacted his relative over the mobile phone and arranged Rs 1.5 lakh. The accused collected this money from Kalayat. He then promised to arrange more money.  After that, the victim lodged a complaint at Kalayat police station. After a probe, the police nabbed the duo. —OC
22-06-2020||Hisar||Sonali approaches panel against khap||With the Binain khap seeking withdrawal of the criminal case against market committee secretary Sultan Singh in an assault case involving Sonali Phogat, State Commission for Women member Suman Bedi said the BJP leader had approached the panel with the panchayat’s videos, seeking action against its members.“The panel has forwarded the complaint to the Hisar police for necessary action,” she said. The khap, after meeting the duo, had claimed that Sonali was at fault and Sultan was innocent. The khap demanded her arrest and withdrawal of the criminal case against Sultan.Sonali was reportedly upset over the stand of the khap panchayat. In a video message, she said it was a shame that they were siding with such a person. — TNS
22-06-2020||Ravinder Saini||Rohtak cloth market sees 70% dip in sales||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 21Shouri cloth market, one of the biggest in Asia, has witnessed 70 per cent drop in sales after the lockdown due to Covid and inadequate transportation facility.The market, established in 1951, has over 1,200 shops of wholesale and retail and clothes are supplied to Rajasthan, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and across Haryana from here. Traders from Ahmedabad, Surat, Mumbai, Bhilwara, Jaipur, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh also buy clothes from here.Double whammyAround 30% shops in the market pay rent. Many traders have taken godowns on rent as well. They are facing a double whammy. Cloth traders are under acute stress. The state government must come forward to bail them by providing monetary help. — Rajeev Malhotra, president, Rohtak Wholesale Cloth Mercantile Association“June is considered the peak season due to summer vacation as women, along with children, come to their parents’ house and buy clothes. But this time, women are not coming to their parents’ house due to Covid fear,” said Karan Kochar, a trader. He said most of the customers belong to rural areas but are unable to come as trains and buses are not plying.Sachin Malhotra, another trader, said restrictions on gathering in marriages, other functions and Covid fear among customers were the factors leading to 70 per cent fall in sales.“Clothes with embroidery were in high demand before the lockdown and more than 200 embroidery machines installed in the market hardly fulfilled the demand. But for the past three months, all these machines are lying unused,” said Sachin, adding that there was no hope of business coming back on track in the next 2-3 months.Pramod Sehgal, who supplies clothes to various districts of the state, said those having rented shops at the market had been hit hard. “They are compelled to pay hefty rent while the market is struggling for customers. Some of them will haveto vacate the shops if the situation does not become normal soon,” he added.
22-06-2020||Sonepat||Man booked for ‘murdering’ wife in Murthal||A woman was poisoned to death allegedly by her husband in Murthal village of the district on Friday. She has been identified as Monika.Her brother Narender of Moi village has accused Monika’s husband Sandeep of murdering her, the police said.In his police complaint, Narender said Monika got married to Sandeep in 2011. They have two daughters.He said Sandeep had been torturing Monika for not giving birth to a son. “On Friday evening, Sandeep informed him that Monika had consumed poison and she was being brought to the Civil Hospital. She succumbed in the hospital, he added.Investigating officer Rajbir Singh said a case under Sections 302 and 328 IPC was registered against Sandeep. No arrest has been made. —OC
22-06-2020||Mukesh Tandon||SIT arrests inspector of Excise Department||Tribune News ServicePanipat, June 21In a major breakthrough in the high-profile liquor theft from a sealed godown in Kharkhoda, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) has arrested an inspector of the Excise Department. This is the first arrest of an Excise Department officer in the high-profile liquor theft case.The accused arrested has been identified as Inspector Dheerender of the Excise Department and he was posted at Fatehabad presently.The SIT arrested him late on Saturday night and produced him in court on Sunday. The court has sent him to two-day police remand.Dheerender has been arrested on the basis of the disclosure of liquor smuggling kingpin Bhupender Singh of Sisana village, said sources.Dheerender was reportedly facilitating kingpin Bhupender Singh in his illicit liquor supply without hindrance, sources said.Superintendent of police (SP) Jashandeep Singh Randhwa said Dheerender’s role came to the fore during Bhupender’s interrogation. He facilitated Bhupender’s liquor smuggling in lieu of heavy bribe from him, the SP added.Besides, it was also revealed during the probe that after seizing illicit liquor, he kept it in Bhupender’s godown and gave its keys to Bhupender’s kin. He had also given a clean chit to Bhupender in a case of liquor smuggling and also did not impose fine on him after seizing a big stock of illicit liquor, the SP added.During the probe, it was revealed that after seizing illegal liquor, officials of the Excise Department used to hand over the keys of the godown to a close relative (brother-in-law) of Bhupender. His brother-in-law was also accused in several excise cases.Notably, the high-profile liquor theft from the sealed godown in Kharkhoda came to light after Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhwa directed the verification of the godown and a shortage of 5,697 boxes was noticed.The SIT also found connivance of police officials with Bhupender. The police have also registered cases against police officers, including two inspector-rank officers, in this regard.
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana deploys final-year MBBS students||Haryana has deployed final-year MBBS students of government and private medical colleges in various districts for Covid management. A total of 1,106 students of 11 medical colleges have been assigned duties and asked to report to the Civil Surgeons of the districts concerned by June 22. The orders issued by the Director General of Medical Education and Research state 204 PGIMS (Rohtak) students have been deployed in Rohtak, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Rewari and Fatehabad. A total of 100 students of the BPS college at Khanpur Kalan will perform duties in Sonepat and Jind, 103 students of SHK college at Nalhar in Nuh, Palwal and Mahendragarh, and 100 students of Maharaja Agarsen college at Agroha in Hisar and Sirsa. As many as 79 students of Kalpana Chawla college at Karnal have been assigned duties in Karnal and Jhajjar, 101 students of the ESIC college at Faridabad in Faridabad and 150 students of the MM institute at Mullana in Ambala, Panchkula and Yamunanagar. Gurugram's SGT college students (96) have been deployed in Gurugram, two students of the NC college at Israna in Panipat, 150 students of Adesh college at Kurukshetra, Panipat and Kaithal and 21 students of World Medical College at Jhajjar in Jhajjar. — TNS
22-06-2020||---||412 new Covid cases, 11 deaths in Haryana||Chandigarh, June 21The spike in Covid cases and deaths continued in Haryana today with the state reporting 412 new cases and 11 deaths taking the number to 10,635 cases and 160 deaths.State trackerTotal persons under surveillance 96,271Currently under surveillance 41,046Persons completing surveillance 55,225Samples for testing 2,17,797Negative samples 2,01,984Results awaited 5,178Positive cases 10,635Cured 5,557Total deaths 160While the state health bulletin reported five more deaths in Gurugram (total 65) and Faridabad 4 (56), one death each was reported from Panipat and Palwal. However, The Tribune reporters reported one death each in Rewari and Sonepat also.Gurugram continued to lead the state’s case tally with 4,427 followed by Faridabad (2,237) and Sonepat (866).The death tally due to Covid in Faridabad district rose to 56 today with four more patients dying due to the infection. This was the seventh consecutive day of casualties. A total of 28 patients have died in the past week. The tally of positive cases also surged to 2,237 with the addition of 136 new cases today.The victims who died included a 40-year old woman from Rahul Colony, a 50-year-old man from Dabua colony, a 66-year-old person from AC Nagar and a 70-year-old resident from NH-2 of the NIT area here.Covid infection combined with comorbidities is being claimed to be the main reason behind the deaths. The localities from where the fresh cases have come during the past 24 hours include Ballabgarh, Old Faridabad, NIT, Jawahar Colony, AC Nagar, Bharat Colony, SGM Nagar, Dabua Colony, Sanjay Colony, Adarsh Nagar, Kheri Kalan village, Sector-3, Sector-15, Sector-16, Sector-23, Sector-19, Mahaveer Colony and Panhera Khurd village.Panipat reported its sixth Covid death on Sunday. SL Verma, Civil Surgeon, said the deceased had been identified as a 40-year-old woman of Ekta Vihar. She had been referred to Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women at Khanpur Kalan from a private hospital on Saturday. But the doctors at the medical college declared her dead and collected samples for Covid testing. The reports came positive on Sunday. She had a fever of history and also had a paralysis attack.Besides, seven more persons tested positive in the district taking the tally to 134 positive cases.With the death of a 56-year-old resident of Chidana village at BPS Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, late last evening, the number of deaths increased to 11 in Sonepat district.A 61-year-old woman hailing from Mehlavaas village died at a private hospital after she tested Covid-positive on Sunday. Dr Vijay, Nodal Officer for Covid, informed the woman was suffering from multiple diseases and was admitted to the hospital on Friday. The tally of positive cases in Palwal rose to 261 with four new cases in the past 24 hours. Two fresh cases each have surfaced from Hodal and Palwal.Meanwhile, Mahendragarh reported nine new Covid cases on Sunday, taking the district count to 193. All are the primary contacts of Covid patients. Two are from HUDA sector (Narnaul) and one each from Sagarpur, Shyampura, Patikara, Shekhpura, Khera, Silarpur and Shyam Colony (Narnaul).Ambala reported four new Covid cases, including a 40-year-old man from Kajiwada, a 14-year-old girl, a 42-year-old woman from DWS colony and a 24-year-old youth from Lal Kurti in Ambala.In Karnal, four persons, including a 27-year-old woman of old Nilokheri and her seven-year-old son, were reported Covid positive, taking the district’s tally to 221.Kurukshetra reported two new cases while Kaithal reported one case.
22-06-2020||ibune News Service||Solar eclipse: Saints take holy dip in Brahma Sarovar, Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, June 21Saints and scholars took a holy dip in the Brahma Sarovar and gathered at the prayer ghats of the sarovar to perform an ‘anushthan’ (ritual) on the occasion of the three hour, 26 minute-long annular solar eclipse from 10.20 am to 1.47 pm in Kurukshetra on Sunday. Along with the saints, several senior and local BJP leaders also reached the Brahma Sarovar to pay obeisance.Karshin Peethadheeshwar Guru Sharnanand said, “This kind of solar eclipse has been seen after thousands of years. Before this, after leaving Braj, Lord Krishna had met the people of Braj in Kurukshetra on the occasion of one such solar eclipse.”Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who attended the ritual through the digital medium, said, “Due to Covid, a fair couldn’t be organised in Kurukshetra, but the ‘anushthan’ has been organised for the welfare of the world and the country. The Vedas and mantras are capable of turning all negative energies into positive ones and I pray that the impact of Covid ends soon.”Kurukshetra BJP MP Nayab Saini, Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha and local leaders were also present.AAP leaders tried to reach Brahma Sarovar but they were taken to Babain police station and then released later in the evening. They have accused the government and administration of discrimination.The Department of Science and Technology had placed a telescope at Bhor Saidan village of Kurukshetra for scientific study as it was the main centre of the annular solar eclipse. Another telescope was placed at Brahma Sarovar.
22-06-2020||Parveen Arora||Karnal youth turn street wall into canvas||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 21Amid the Covid pandemic, more than 20 youths of Sector 13 have decided to utilise their time by beautifying their locality. They turned a 100-feet wall in their locality into a canvas and started painting graffiti depicting various social messages like save the environment, stay healthy, yoga and others.“During the lockdown, we had the option to either kill time by playing online ludo or to do something creative. So my friends in the locality and I came together and held several rounds of discussions. We decided to make our street smart so that it can motivate and educate others too. We also discussed the idea with our parents and elders,” said Satyam Sharma, one of the members of the group.To overcome the problem of finance, they contributed their pocket money and the remaining help was extended by the parents, he added.“We zeroed in on a 100-ft long wall having 11-ft height along the street for beautification. We picked up our brushes and painted the wall with various social messages. Most of the youths used paints available at their homes. We have completed half of the task and the remaining part will be done by the end of this month,” said Bhumika, another group member.Sanskar, another member, said that it was a challenge for them but everyone has been working hard on the assignment given to him or her by spending time on it early morning, evening and till late night.“This period has taught us a lot and made us learn how to work hard collectively. Besides, it made us develop patience for long and difficult projects,” said Raghav, adding that it would be a pleasure for them if someone follows this step in another locality of the city.Besides, they have a plan to make their street smart by hanging speakers and hooters on it. In the morning and evening, spiritual songs would be played through speakers. In any medical emergency and theft, an individual can blow the hooter by pressing a button at his residence.To make the vicinity neat and clean, they have plans to install dustbins and regular door-to-door collection of garbage, said Nandini, another member, adding that they have plans to plant ornamental plants outside each and every household. Reflectors would also be installed on the road to prevent accidents, she added.Shivam Kabir, Arjun, Divya said that they would also install CCTV cameras in their locality for security. Apart from them, Daewansh, Shayna Dhaiya, Arshika Goel, Akshay Bajaj, Pranav Gupta, Sanya Bajaj, Anshika Gupta, Kripansh Bansal are contributing to beautifying this street.The residents of the locality praised their efforts. “It is a motivational step taken by the youths of our locality and other should follow them,” said Rajesh Sharma, a resident.
22-06-2020||Our Correspondent||ATM uprooted in Gannaur||Sonepat, June 21A gang of thieves uprooted an automated teller machine (ATM) of Bank of Baroda, carrying Rs 53,000, and took it away in a Mahindra jeep on the intervening night of June 20 and 21.The ATM was installed at the railway road in Gannaur town. The machine sans cash was later found from the jeep abandoned near Sanpera village.The incident was captured in a CCTV camera installed outside a shop near the ATM cabin.Rajesh Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Gannaur police station, said that after receiving the information regarding the incident, a police team reached the spot. “The incident was captured in a close circuit television (CCTV) camera. On the complaint of the bank manager, a case has been registered,” he said.According to the SHO, the jeep, which was used to commit the crime, was stolen from Samalkha in Panipat a few days ago. The accused will be arrested soon, he added.
22-06-2020||
||Nine Jamaatis likely to walk free today||Ambala, June 21 Nine members of the Tablighi Jamaat, who are lodged in the Central Jail here, are likely to be released on conditional  bail on Monday. Eight of them are from Nepal and one from Sri Lanka. They got conditional bail from an Ambala court on Friday. A case had been lodged on the complaint of an inspector that some persons had come from Delhi and abroad to a mosque in Ambala Cantonment for religious purposes in violation of terms and conditions of the lockdown. An instant first information report (FIR) had been lodged and the accused arrested. Their counsel had argued that they had been implicated falsely as they came to Ambala on March 10, much before the lockdown was imposed. The counsel also said that the authorities concerned were informed about their arrival.  According to their counsel, the accused were quarantined on March 30. They had been following the directions of the authorities concerned, but were arrested on May 1, he added.
22-06-2020||
||Palwal teen reports rape, one booked||Palwal, June 21 The police have registered a case in connection with the alleged kidnapping and rape of a teenager in the district. A hunt has been launched to arrest the culprit, though no arrest has been made so far. According to the complaint lodged at the women  police station, the accused took the 17-year-old from her house and took her to a village under the Hathin subdivision, where he raped her on the night of June 18. The accused took her gold earrings while fleeing. The accused, identified as Javed of a neighbouring village, was known to the victim. He had purportedly promised to marry her soon.
22-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pay loan EMIs till June 30||The Haryana Government has announced that the farmers, who have taken loans from Haryana State Cooperative Agriculture and Rural Development Bank Limited that offers 50% interest benefit on timely repayment, can now pay easy monthly installments (EMIs) till June 30.  Those who couldn’t pay their installments within the stipulated period till March 31 will be benefitted. An official spokesperson said the date of paying the installments has been extended till June 30. — TNS
22-06-2020||Nitin Jain
||In absence of migrants, labourers charge more in Ambala||Tribune News Service Ambala, June 21 With the paddy transplantation already in progress, the acute shortage of migrants has almost doubled the wages of local labourers in Ambala district. Farmers, big, marginal and small, are facing hardship in the absence of migrants, who used to take care of the entire paddy operations, right from its transplantation to harvesting. After winding up the wheat harvesting and sale process without the migrant labourers, the local farmers are facing another challenge of paddy transplantation without the migrants. In Ambala district, over 2.15 lakh acres of area is put under the paddy cultivation every season. “While there is no migrant labour, local labourers are not only asking double the prevalent wages, but also throwing tantrums during the paddy transplantation,” said  progressive farmer Swaran Singh, owning over 20 acres in Chandpura. Panjokhra’s Ajmer Singh said they used to pay Rs 3,000 per acre to the migrants till last year for the paddy transplantation, but the locals were demanding up to Rs 6,000 for the same job with other additional facilities like food. “We are trying to bring the migrants from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, but to no avail,” said Shamsher Rai of Dhanora. Some farmers have even sent advance payments through banks to their known migrant labourers in their native villages, but so far, their wait continues.
22-06-2020||Karnal||Blood donation camp||Crop diversificationKaithal: A total of 4,163 farmers in the district have got themselves registered under the “Mera Pani, Meri Virasat” scheme. They will grow maize and other crops on 9,568 acres. To save underground water, farmers in Guhla and Siwan blocks will be provided 100 per cent subsidy on machinery for micro-irrigation. Deputy Commissioner Sujan Singh said the crop record of these farmers for last year should be verified and the process completed with GPS location.10 isolation centresSonepat: The district administration has taken over 10 hostels — seven at the DCR University of Science and Technology in Murthal and three at the BPS Women University in Khanpur Kalan — to use these as Covid care isolation centres. Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Punia said around 25,000 people had called up on the toll-free number 1950 since its introduction in April.
22-06-2020||Hisar||Book, film review competition||Webinar on online resourcesKarnal: KVA DAV College for Women organised a webinar on "Open educational resources: Library lead the way" in collaboration with the Haryana Library Association (HLA). Resource persons of the webinar were Dr DV Singh, former librarian, Delhi University, New Delhi and Dr Chetan Sharma, deputy librarian, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra. Principal Sujata Gupta apprised the achievements of the college and thanked the HLA for their collaboration. She motivated the listeners to use online educational resources to achieve their academic and research goals. She opined that with the help of online education resources students can excel in life and in present scenario it can be used as an opportunity to overcome the fear of the Covid pandemic. Dr Singh spoke on the use of different software and how to use them sensibly, while Dr Sharma's presentation comprised different types of open education resources and their usage.Dr Arya promoted to DirectorHisar: Dr Virender Singh Arya has been promoted as Director, Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC). Earlier, he was working as acting Director of Haryana Space Applications Centre, Hisar since December 2018. He did his under graduate in BSc (hons) Agriculture, Post-Graduation, Doctorate of Philosophy in Soil Sciences with UNDP fellowship from Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (CCS HAU), Hisar, and Post Graduate Diploma, Remote Sensing in Agriculture and Soils from Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS), Dehradun.343 additional seats sanctionedSonepat: All India Council for Technical Education has sanctioned 343 additional seats in different graduation and post graduation courses at the DCR University of Science and Technology, Murthal, from this academic year to meet the growing demand of the students. According to Vice-Chancellor Rajindra Kumar Anayah, 60 seats each had been increased in three graduation courses of Computer Science Engineering, Electronic and Communication Engineering and Mechanical Engineering taking the total numbers of seats to 120 in each course. Besides, other 163 seats had been increased in different dual degree and post graduation courses. He said the number of courses in the university had now increased to 37, including nine of graduation, six of dual degree and 22 of post graduation.Virtual placement driveHisar: Despite the ongoing pandemic, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar, enabled virtual placements for its 20 students. The students have been selected in the virtual campus placement drive of Delhi based AVM Healthcare Pvt Ltd organised by the Training and Placement Cell of the university. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, and Prof Harbhajan Bansal, Registrar, congratulated the selected students and appreciated the efforts made by the Training and Placement Cell. Pratap Singh, director placement, said the drive was conducted online on Zoom video conferencing application. In all 43 students participated in the drive. After giving two rounds of online face to face interviews, 20 students were selected.Interview skills discussedHisar: As fifth edition of its "Weekly live webinar series on life skills" programme, Training and Placement Cell organised a live webinar on the topic "Acing virtual interviews". Renowned motivational speaker NLP Coach and soft skill expert having industry experience of three decades Abhijit Bhattacharya from Bangalore interacted with more than 70 students on a meeting held on Zoom video conferencing application and with more than 100 students on YouTube live as key note speaker. Partap Singh, Director Placement, presided over the programme. Speaking on important points to be taken care during interviews, Bhattacharya said interviewee should carefully listen to the questions of interviewer, give answers clearly with confidence, honestly admit if you don't know the answer and in the end thank the interviewer.
22-06-2020||A vacant site of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) in the centre of Sector 13 near Kalra Market has turned almost into a garbage dumping ground||Vacant land becomes dumping ground||Sagar Nagpal, Sector 13, KarnalUnscheduled power cutsRESIDENTS of Dev Nagar, Sonepat, are at the receiving end amid frequent power cuts for the past one week. According to the local residents, despite lodging several complaints on toll-free helpline of the electricity corporation, there has been no solution to the problem. Balraj, Ramesh, Kavita, Dev Nagar residents, SonepatLack of law and order in jailsTHIS is a matter of great pity that phones are being seized from Punjab and Haryana jails. This week, in all six phones were seized from the Amritsar jail. This year, 140 phones have been seized so far from the jails. It seems there is no law and order in the jails. How do prisoners manage to get mobile phones inside the jails? Hardcore elements and dreaded gangsters use mobile phones from inside the jails and threaten people to follow their orders or face the music.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramReduce footfall in govt officesAMID the Covid scare, the Centre, states and judiciary should ensure reduced footfall in government offices and courts. For bailable offenses, accused should be granted bail on personal bonds only after taking their Aadhaar cards, reducing the presence of sureties and their identifiers. District courts should have the facility of e-filing of cases and video-conferencing. Arms and driving licences must be renewed without police verification.Shakti Singh, KarnalGurugram needs attentionAS the Covid situation turns explosive, a panic wave is gripping the people. Two hundred cases in Gurugram are equivalent to 2,000 cases in Delhi where the Union Home Minister had to call special meetings. There is no such urgency visible in Gurugram. People do not know what the administration is doing. Gurugram has only one CMO to take care of 20 lakh population. Unlike Delhi, there is no big government hospital.Prof RN Malik, GurugramNo receipt of mail to DelhiTHE postal services in Panchkula are being managed at the whims and fancies of the bosses heading the organisation. The receipt of mails for Delhi and Mumbai has been stopped without any notification in newspapers or elsewhere. Staff doesn't know for how long will it continue. There are plenty of mails for Delhi and people are suffering enormously.Group Captain SK Goswami, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
22-06-2020||Parveen Arora||Units sealed for 14 days, bizmen claim Haryana Covid norms violated||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 21Contrary to the guidelines issued by the Haryana Government, which direct sealing of a particular section of the industry for two days in case a worker tests positive for Covid, the district administration is sealing the entire unit for 14 days.Two industrial units — both rice mills — had been shut in the district after one worker tested Covid positive in each unit. One of these has reopened after completing the 14-day shutdown while the another was still sealed.The industrialists alleged the authorities had been adopting different yardsticks for industries and government offices. Vijay Setia, former president, All India Rice Exporters’ Association, said due to the shutdown of these units, mill owners were facing losses.“It’s not right to seal the whole industry. This is brewing resentment among industrialists and it is difficult to run the industries in such circumstances,” said Manoj Arora, president, HSIIDC Welfare Association, Karnal.Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds Industries portfolio, admitted closing the entire unit for 14 days was against the state’s policy.“I have spoken to Karnal Deputy Commissioner. There was some miscommunication. He has assured the units will be opened forthwith,” Chautala said. Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, Karnal, said he would check if any unit had been sealed against the guidelines and would order its reopening.What government guidelines say…The state had on June 11 instructed all Divisional Commissioners and DCs that only the particular area of the industry where a worker is found Covid positive should be sealed and not the entire unit
