22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana initiates process to omit word ‘Punjab’ from its laws||Nearly 55 years after it was carved out as a separate state, Haryana has initiated the process to omit the word Punjab from its laws.The state government has constituted a committee to remove Punjab from nearly 237 Acts on the initiative of state Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta.Most of the acts are related to revenue and police departments and have the word Punjab in them, according to officials.Haryana was carved out as a separate state from undivided Punjab on November 1, 1966 under the Punjab Reorganisation Act.Haryana had adopted various acts which were already in force in undivided Punjab to run its administration. It was then resolved that the new state would be governed by the laws applicable in Punjab and it could make necessary amendments as per its requirements after two years.While a majority of the acts were amended over the years, Gupta had last month mooted the proposal to omit Punjab from the remaining acts.“Haryana is gearing up to do away with the name of the state of Punjab from its laws. The state government has constituted a Committee in this regard after the initiatives of Vidhan Sabha Speaker, Gian Chand Gupta,” a state government statement said here on Thursday.The committee constituted under the chairmanship of the legal remembrancer and administrative secretary of the law and justice department will review and examine the amendment of the subtitles of the acts, it said.The state government has informed the Haryana Vidhan Sabha Secretariat regarding the constitution of the committee which will submit its report to Haryana chief secretary, Vijai Vardhan, within a month.According to the order issued by Vardhan, the members of this committee will include the officer on special duty (OSD), law and justice department, deputy secretary of department of political and parliamentary affairs and OSD (rules) of general administration department.“Haryana had inherited the laws which were in Punjab’s name and the governance in Haryana has been based on these laws for the last over 54 years. The people of the state have been demanding to change the laws and add the name of Haryana,” the statement said. Gupta had held a meeting with the officers of the state government and of the Vidhan Sabha Secretariat at the state Assembly Secretariat on September 24, in this regard. The Speaker had instructed the chief secretary to formulate a plan to omit Punjab from all the state laws and the decision to constitute the committee was also taken in the meeting. — PTI
22-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||Will bring private member Bill against three agri laws in Assembly session: Hooda||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 22Former Haryana chief minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday said the Congress would bring private member Bill against three newly-enacted agricultural laws in the coming session of Vidhan Sabha commencing from November 5 in order to protect farmers’ interest in the state.Hooda accompanied by Rohtak MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra was interacting with mediapersons at District Bar Association here on Thursday. He was here to call upon the advocates for throwing their weight behind the Congress in Baroda bypolls to ensure its win.“The Congress has vowed not to let the BJP government execute the three agricultural laws in the state as these will entirely ruin the farmers who are already struggling to earn livelihood due to erroneous policies of the state government. The farmers across the state are on the warpath against the laws but the government is adopting an adamant attitude,” he said.Commenting over Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit to Rohtak, Hooda said it seemed that Khattar had already accepted his party’s defeat in Baroda bypoll as he was roaming here and there instead of campaigning in poll-bound assembly segment.   “Khattar is holding a meeting with his party leaders and workers in Rohtak today, which shows that he is afraid of going to Baroda. He has known that people of Baroda have made up their mind to teach the BJP a lesson by ensuring defeat of its candidate,” said the former CM.Hooda claimed the Congress would register one-sided victory in the polls and that the BJP did nothing for the growth of Baroda during past six years while the Congress government had brought many projects to ensure overall development of the region during its two stints from 2005 to 2014.
22-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||Two private hospitals in Rewari under scanner for 11 Covid deaths||Tribune News ServiceRewari, October 22Two Covid-designated private hospitals here have come under the scanner of district administrative authorities following the death of 11 Covid patients there during the past five months.Eight of the deaths have been reported in one of the hospitals while the number of total deaths due to Covid is 34 in the district.Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh has constituted a five-member committee to inquire the cause of death of the patients, treatment extended to them in the hospitals and fee charged by the hospitals from their kin.The committee would be headed by Chief Executive Officer of Zila Parishad, Trilok Chand as representative of the DC, while Civil Surgeon Dr Sushil Mahi and three other doctors would be its members. The committee has been directed to submit its report within the next three days.Sources said the issue of 11 deaths in the private hospitals was discussed at a meeting of the Covid Management Committee held at mini secretariat here on Wednesday. Some officials raised eyebrows over it and demanded to find out exact reasons responsible for that stating that the figure comprised one-thirds of the Covid toll in the district.ADC Rahul Hooda urged the DC to get inquired all deaths reported in two private hospitals due to Covid by forming a committee.“The purpose for setting up the inquiry panel is to ascertain the treatment extended to the Covid patients in the hospitals and government norms were followed or not while charging medical bills from the patients’ kin,” said Yashendra, adding that it would also help the administration in monitoring private hospitals treating the Covid patients.Dr Vijay Prakash, Nodal Officer (Covid), said only four out of 34 deaths had taken place at Covid ward of local Civil Hospital while others (except 11 at two local Covid designated hospitals) had occurred at PGIMS Rohtak, AIIMS Jhajjar and private hospitals in Gurugram and Delhi.He maintained 7,056 people had so far tested Covid positive in the district and 6,500 of them had recovered.
22-10-2020||Deepender Deswal||Can’t walk on Hisar’s  stretches at Satrod village, Mill Gate||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 21Residents are inconvenienced due to the pathetic condition of streets and roads in several localities of Hisar town. The roads are so bad in certain localities of the town, including Satrod village, Mill Gate and Shiv Nagar, that people cannot walk on these.Karambir Singh, municipal corporation member of Ward 11, which is part of Satrod village, complained that almost all streets are in poor condition in the ward area. “The situation is so bad that in case of any medical emergency, the ambulance or any vehicle cannot enter the residential area to help the patient. The roads are broken and construction material is lying scattered on the pathways”. He further said Satrod village was included in the MC about 11 years ago. “We expected development of the village after inclusion in the MC, but things have not changed since then”, said Singh.He said he had been demanding the construction of streets for over a year. He said the work was supposed to be completed by March this year, but the contract for completion was extended by one year due to labour shortage after the lockdown during the Covid pandemic. The area with a population of about 30,000 suffered daily on account of poor condition of roads, he said.Virender Singh, a businessman, residing in the Mill Gate area said, “The authorities seem to be least concerned about the plight of residents. It is daily harassment as I return home in the evening and the stretch from Shiv Dharamshala to a private school does not exist. Other roads of the area too are in pathetic condition, he said.The residents said vehicles often got stuck in the mud-filled potholes. “We have to park our vehicles at a location away from home as it is not possible to drive the car home due to bad shape of the roads”, said a resident in the Satrod locality.The municipal corporation (MC) authorities said the work for sewerage, water supply and construction of roads and streets have been going on in certain wards, including the Ward 11 under the Amrut Scheme. “At present, the work on sewerage system is almost complete and the work for laying the water supply line is going on. The construction of roads will be taken up after the completion of sewerage and water supply line work”, said an official.Situation badThe situation is so bad that in case of any medical emergency, the ambulance or any vehicle cannot enter the residential area to help the patient. The roads are broken and construction material is lying scattered on the pathways — Karambir Singh, MC member, Ward 11Commuters sufferThe authorities seem to be least concerned about the plight of residents. It is daily harassment as I return home in the evening and the stretch from Shiv Dharamshala to a private school does not exist. Other roads of the area too are in pathetic condition — Virender Singh, resident, Mill Gate areaWork to begin soonAt present, the work on sewerage system is almost complete and the work for laying the water supply line is going on. The construction work of roads will be undertaken after the completion of sewerage and water supply line work — An official, MC
22-10-2020||Parveen Arora---||State-run child care institute at Madhuban housed in ‘congested’ building||Tribune News Service Karnal, October 21 As many as 27 orphans, in the state government-run child care institute (CCI) Haryana Rajya Bal Bhawan in Madhuban, are living in a ‘congested’ makeshift building near National Highway 44, which lacks a boundary wall.  In the absence of a boundary wall, the children wander near the NH, which poses a serious threat to their lives. A couple of them had also tried to escape, but were caught by the staff, said the sources.  In March, The Tribune had highlighted the issue that the state-run CCI’s building was in dilapidated state, after which the district authorities had ordered to shift the children to another building, and the government had also approved the renovation of the old building, which was declared ‘unsafe’ by the condemnation board. The children were shifted to the makeshift building by the authorities.  According to sources, the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) had directed the officials concerned to shift the children to a ventilated building with immediate effect. One of the children, on the condition of anonymity, said the new building was congested and lacked a boundary wall. Amit Kamboj, Manager, CCI, Madhuban, said, “We have sent a proposal for the boundary wall to the higher authorities, which we expect will be approved soon.” Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “The issue came to my notice and I have assigned the duty to the Zila Parishad CEO to look for another suitable building for the children.”
22-10-2020||---||Public dealing staff to be shifted every six months in Ambala||Ambala, October 21The Ambala administration has come up with an e-transfer policy to further improve the public delivery system. It has prepared an online software to transfer employees working on posts with public dealing.Brainchild of Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ashok Kumar Sharma, the new policy was put to use last week. It entails reshuffling employees on seats with public dealing every six months.These include land and vehicle registration, issuance of driving licence and character certificate and other important services involving public interface.The DC said five options were sought from each employee and these were fed in the software, which randomly picked the new place of posting. The development comes close on the heels of the district topping in the state in online delivery of public services under Antyodaya Saral.
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||ULB Department’s website shut, residents suffer||The website for online approval of building plans, from all urban local bodies of Haryana, has been shut for at least 10 days.  At present, the residents are not able to apply for fresh approvals or get a nod for their earlier applied applications. “There is no option of offline submission of file. Residents are harassed. It is also leading to a loss of lakhs to the government,” said RTI activist PP Kapoor of Panipat. He had submitted a complaint to Urban Local Bodies Minister Anil Vij.  An official at the department said the matter was in their notice and a consultant was called on Tuesday. He added that they had been assured that the matter would be sorted out within two days. He said that it was wrong to say that the website had been shut for two months.  When contacted, Vij said, “The website has been shut for some time. It is managed by HATRON. The concerned officials are sorting out the matter.” As per an RTI information procured by PP Kapoor, dated September 3, M/s Capricot was taking care of the website and the process for blacklisting the firm was on. “The website has been shut for 10 days. There were some problems for the last two months. A new bid was floated by HATRON, but it could take three to four months. If the issue is not resolved, we will go in for manual system and take action against the vendor,” said Amit Agrawal, Director, Urban Local Bodies. — TNS
22-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||Self-financed colleges in Haryana suffer as DHE yet to refund admission fee||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 21Self-financed degree colleges across the state are at the receiving end as the Department of Higher Education (DHE) has not refunded the fee to them even several days after the deposition of fee by the students figured in the first and second merit list for the admissions to first year of undergraduate courses.The colleges are finding it difficult to pay staffers’ salaries and bear other expenses. The students are now bound to deposit admission fees online to the DHE due to Covid pandemic.Kuldeep Arya, Secy, Haryana self-financed college associationRestore old systemIt is for the first time that students on getting admission are depositing fee online to the DHE’s account and then the DHE has to refund the fee to the colleges. Earlier, a challan was generated by the DHE to submit the admission fee and the students deposited the fee to the college concerned. So, we are demanding the restoration of the earlier system.“As per guidelines, the DHE was to refund the admission fee to all government-aided and self-financed colleges across the state within 48 hours along with a list of students. Last date for deposition of fee by students for first and second merit list was October 8 and October 14, respectively but the DHE has not yet refunded the fee to any college,” said Kuldeep Arya, secretary, Haryana Self-Financed College Association.He said the delay in refunding the fee had put the colleges in trouble as they were unable to pay the salary of their teaching and non-teaching staff and bear other daily expenses too. A majority of the college owners had taken hefty loans for developing infrastructure hence they had been waiting for the fee to repay the loan. Despite repeated attempts neither Director General (Higher Education) nor the Deputy Director could be contacted.
22-10-2020||---||Rs 7.11 lakh looted from bank at gunpoint||Jhajjar, October 21Five masked miscreants robbed Rs 7.11 lakh at gunpoint from a branch of Punjab National Bank (PNB) in Machhrauli village here today.The accused fled on two motorcycles but the incident was captured on CCTV cameras. The police have started investigation after booking a robbery case but nobody was arrested till filing of this report. The miscreants broke into the bank around 11 am when more than 10 customers were present at the branch. Wearing black masks and holding guns, four of them entered the branch after snatching the gun from the security guard. They fired some rounds into the air and decamped with the booty. In the CCTV footage, the robbers were seen forcing the customers to sit on the ground by pointing gun at them. SP Himanshu Garg along with two DSPs and other police officials rushed to the spot. “The robbers will be arrested soon and the robbed cash will be recovered from them,” the SP added.
22-10-2020||---||Haryana BJP chief Dhankar takes on Punjab for passing ‘restrictive’ farm Bills||Chandigarh, October 21Haryana BJP chief OP Dhankar today criticised the Punjab Government for passing “restrictive” farm Bills in its state assembly and said farmers, instead of being free, would find themselves in a bind.Addressing a press conference here today, Dhankar said the provision of punishing a trader or a company with imprisonment and fine would be to the disadvantage of the farmer and could be open to misuse.“If a farmer decides not to sell all his produce and decides to hold on to it for a better price and the market falls, any buyer taking the produce would either have to buy it at the MSP or face punishment. In such a situation, the farmer will be stuck with his stock,” Dhankar said.He added that either the government should open shops where it can be the last buyer of such leftover produce or this would go against the farmer. “If the Punjab Government does not make a provision of such shops, that means the government is only making empty promises. Also, it is against the farmers’ interest,” Dhankar stated.Maintaining that a lot of buying and selling was trust-based, he said the traders, sometimes, picked up the produce and released payments to farmers well beforehand. “The farmer, in such a case, can easily claim he was compelled to sell his produce. So, the Bills from Punjab have opened the possibility of registration of FIRs,” he claimed.Further, he said the Punjab Government had not taken any responsibility for buying of produce other than wheat and paddy. “The Punjab CM has passed a law for something that is purchased by the Centre. Punjab gives nothing for purchase of wheat and paddy, which is procured by the Centre. The Bills are silent on the purchase of crops such as maize, bajra and mustard, which the state government should purchase just like neighbouring Haryana buys these. The government has chosen to stay silent on this issue,” he added.PM’s effigy burntKurukshetra: Farmers under the banner of the BKU (Charuni) held a demonstration in Shahabad on Wednesday in protest against the three controversial farm laws and ‘false’ cases registered against BKU leaders. They also burnt an effigy of PM Modi. Rakesh Bains, BKU leader, said: “The government has been trying to suppress the voice of farmers.” TNSInd MLA hails AmarinderChandigarh: Independent MLA Balraj Kundu on Wednesday appreciated Punjab for passing "pro-farmer" Bills, which made the purchase of produce below the MSP punishable, and urged Haryana to introduce a Bill on similar lines in the Assembly session scheduled to start on November 5. “The Punjab Government understood the concerns of farmers and drafted the Bills in a manner that the three Central laws are bypassed,” he told the media here. TNSKhattar dares Punjab, Rajasthan on MSPChandigarh: Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday challenged Punjab and Rajasthan to procure all crops, including maize, bajra, mustard and sunflower, on MSP. On the three Bills passed by the Punjab Assembly, Khattar said mere passage of the Bills would not benefit farmers and these governments should demonstrate their resolve to improve farmers’ lot by procuring crops on MSP. tns
22-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||Young lives at risk, Mahendragarh private schools hold classes||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, October 21Private schools in the district have been putting the lives of children at risk by conducting elementary classes in violation of Covid guidelines.This violation came to the fore on Tuesday when education officials raided a school following complaints. They found a local school conducting a class for Class II, wherein at least 25 students were present.Sources said this was not the only school in the district flouting norms as several others in Narnaul, Nangal Choudhary, Ateli and Kanina blocks had been conducting elementary classes.As per guidelines, only students of Classes IX to XII were allowed to come to school to clear their doubts. There was no order on regular classes for these students.Ashok Sharma, Block Education Officer, stated that a private school was found to be conducting elementary classes.“We have put the school on notice for violating Covid guidelines. Three others have been served notice for not maintaining social distancing in classes,” he added.Sunil Dutt, District Education Officer, said he raided four schools in Narnaul on Tuesday, but the other complaints were not found to be true.“As per orders, no school can conduct regular classes. Students of Classes IX to XII can come to school to clear their doubts,” he added.Some parents had been mounting pressure on schools not conducting elementary classes to restart these like other schools.“Parents are demanding elementary classes. Some of them have threatened to shift their children to other schools if classes are not conducted,” said Anil Kaushik, president, Progressive Private School Association, Narnaul.“I am a law-abiding citizen and have appealed to other schools not to conduct classes in violation of guidelines,” he added.
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||14 more die; 1,193 fresh cases in Haryana||The Covid tally in the state reached 1,53,367 on Wednesday with the addition of 1,193 fresh cases. With 14 more deaths, the toll reached 1,674. Gurugram reported a maximum of 304 cases, followed by Faridabad (187), Hisar (104) and Rewari (68). — TNS
22-10-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Ambala distillery supplied liquor to dry states: Accused||Tribune News ServicePanipat, October 21The NV Distillery chairman, who was arrested recently, has revealed that liquor smuggling trade was spread not only in Haryana but in other states as well, especially at places where it was prohibited, at high profit.Sonepat cops to question chairman“We will move court for a production warrant to arrest him in the cases registered in Sonepat,” he saidAs per the police record, maximum illegal liquor cases recovered from the godown in Kharkhoda were of NV DistilleryDuring preliminary investigation, chairman Ashok Jain said he had established his first distillery in 2008 at Badholi village in Naraingarh, Ambala, and in 2012 the second one in Sandharsi village of Rajpura, Punjab, and another one in Naraingarh and was making spirit in the distilleries to make wine marked Crazy Romeo, Party Special, Imperial Blue of the IMFL and “rasila santra” of country-made liquor.Jain said in connivance with his managers he had started huge production of liquor and supplied to other states without permit of the Excise Department to earn profit.The liquor was illegally supplied in containers, trucks and other vehicles of vegetables, fruits and other goods to other states, especially Bihar and Gujarat, where sale of liquor was prohibited, sources said.DSP Headquarters Satish Vats said the chairman had disclosed during investigation that he was supplying liquor to other states without valid permit of the Excise Department.Two employees of NV Distillery — Umesh and Shashi Kumar Mittal — had been arrested in an alleged liquor smuggling case registered in Kurukshetra and two others — Kirti Narayan and Shashi Kumar Mittal — were arrested in the cases registered in Panipat.Meanwhile, the Panipat police arrested liquor smuggling kingpin Bhupender Singh Dahiya of Sisana village in a four-year-old case registered in the Chandnibagh police station with the support of the Sonepat police.A team of the CM flying squad had raided L-1 in sector 29 in July 2016 and found 18,000 cases of illegal liquor from the adjoining godown.Godown owner Dharmender of Sisana village was arrested and later it was disclosed that he was working for Bhupender. “The actual owners of the godown were Bhupender Dahiya, Narender of Sheharmalpur village and Ashok Bhandari of HP,” said Virender Singh, incharge, CIA-2. Narender and Ashok are yet to be arrested.
22-10-2020||---||CM: Government job for kin of 50 deceased Haryana cops by November 1||Chandigarh, October 21Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced on Wednesday that one family member each of 50 police personnel would be provided government job under the ex gratia scheme of the state government by November 1.He also announced that the family members of SPO Kaptan Singh would be provided Rs 30 lakh as ex gratia on a par with ex gratia being given to the family of Constable Ravinder Singh. Both personnel had lost their lives in an attack by anti-social elements during night patrolling.Khattar was speaking on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day at Police Lines in Panchkula today. He paid homage to martyrs by laying a wreath at the War Memorial.He said only 50 cases of ex gratia were pending. “I have talked to DGP Manoj Yadava in this regard and decided to give a government job to one family member each of the 50 police personnel under the ex gratia scheme by November 1,” he said.The state government had implemented a new ex gratia scheme for state government employees. Under this scheme, in case of death of an employee before the age of 52 years, one family member would be provided a government job.Khattar paid tributes to 264 martyrs of the Central Armed Police Forces, including two from Haryana Police, who had sacrificed their lives during the last one year.He said Rs 30 lakh was provided as compensation to the next of kin of deceased personnel under an agreement of accidental insurance death cover.He said the Haryana Police had increased accidental insurance death cover for its pensioners from Rs 17 lakh to Rs 30 lakh. He said more than 2,500 police personnel had been infected with Covid while performing their duties, six of whom had lost their lives.Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta was present on the occasion. Paying rich tributes to martyrs, DGP Yadava said their supreme sacrifice for maintaining the unity and integrity of the country could never be forgotten.
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Nod for integrated waste management project||In a bid to further strengthen waste management system in the state, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday approved the Integrated Solid Waste Management Cluster Project. Under the first phase of the project, solid waste management plants will be set up in four clusters.Phase 1 to have four clustersThe CM directed the officers of the concerned departments to strengthen door-to-door collection of waste under the projectThe Chief Minister gave the approval while presiding over a meeting of Cabinet Sub-Committee on Infrastructure of Integrated Solid Waste Management Cluster Projects in Haryana held here.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, Urban Local Bodies Minister Anij Vij and Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma, who are members of this committee, were also present at the meeting.The Chief Minister directed the officers of the concerned departments to strengthen door-to-door collection of waste under the project.He also directed that apart from cities, possibilities of implementing the project at village level should also be explored, so that waste management could be also be ensured in rural areas in a systematic manner.Urban Local Bodies Department Additional Chief Secretary SN Roy said under the project, a provision had also been made for lifting of roadside waste. — TNS
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||1.75L tonnes of stubble bought in Haryana||Around 1.75 lakh tonnes paddy stubble has been purchased this year by biomass plants and it has been proposed to purchase 8.58 lakh tonnes stubble during the entire season in the state.This was revealed here today during a review meeting chaired by Chief Principal Secretary to CM DS Dhesi.The government has already made provisions to allocate Rs 152 crore to provide machinery for stubble management at subsidised rates of up to 80 per cent through the custom hiring centres. Besides, 50 per cent subsidy for such machines will be provided to each farmer. A provision of Rs 216.21 crore has been made this year for it.At the meeting, it was informed that 24,705 stubble management machines, including straw balers, hay-racks and super cutters, were made available last year, whereas the bills of about 13,000 machines have been uploaded this year. In addition to this, the number of custom hiring centres will increase from 1,031 to 3,831.The compensation of about Rs 1,000 per acre for stubble management is already being provided to farmers.In addition, a memorandum of understanding has been signed with the Indian Oil Corporation, Panipat, to set up an ethanol gas plant. Along with this, 66 MoUs have been signed so far with other oil companies for compressed biogas plants, which will generate a total gas capacity of 353.56 tonnes gas per day.It was also informed that photos related to stubble burning are taken from Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSEK) twice a day. — TNS
22-10-2020||tish Sharma---||Rs 1,000 per acre incentive for not burning crop residue||Tribune News Service Ambala, October 21 Jagroop Singh, a farmer from the district’s Ugara village, is elated as he is set to get Rs 1,500 per acre, including Rs 1,000 incentive announced by the state government, for crop residue that he decided not to burn. He had sown paddy over 20 acres. Ugara, along with Bara village, was selected for a pilot project, as per which paddy straw was to be sold to a private company, which, in turn, would sell it to Naraingarh sugar mill for power generation. “Initially, some villagers objected to the pilot project. It was only after the private company assured them of buying stubble for Rs 500 and the government announced an incentive of Rs 1,000, villagers decided to think seriously on not burning the stubble,” said Jaswinder Singh, a representative of the Ugara sarpanch.  There is nearly 500-acre land in Ugara village and about 70 per cent of it has been harvested. Vikas Beghal, the sarpanch of Bara village, said: “If farmers burn the straw, FIRs are registered against them. So it is prudent to sell off the stubble. This serves two purposes: one, environment is not harmed and, two, farmers can earn some money.” As per a government order, an incentive of Rs 1,000 per acre (Rs 50 per quintal considering 20 quintal crop residue from one acre) will be given on ex-situ measures. To avail the benefit, farmers need to register on the Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department’s portal. The incentive will be released on furnishing the proof of sale of bales to the industry.  Deputy Director (Agriculture) Girish Nagpal said: “Farmers in Ugara and Bara villages had agreed to sell paddy straw to a firm. So, the government announced an incentive of Rs 1,000 per acre. Farmers will also be provided with incentive if they store stubble bales in the space provided by the gram panchayat.”
22-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Adult can’t consummate marriage with minor: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 21A person aged more than 21 years is not entitled to consummate his marriage with a minor girl and sexual acts with the child will amount to rape under Section 375 of the IPC, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled.Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi also made it clear that the court could order keeping the minor girl in a home set up for children in need of care and protection if she expressed the desire not to go with her parents or her relatives and in-laws did not come forward for her custody on the condition of keeping her separate from her husband and not allowing him to consummate the marriage.The ruling came in a case where a husband was seeking directions to Bal Kunj at Chhachhrauli in Yamunanagar to release his wife from its “illegal custody”. Directions were also sought for quashing the order dated July 15 passed by the Bilaspur Judicial Magistrate First Class, whereby his wife was ordered to be lodged there “against her wishes”.Referring to the Supreme Court judgment in Independent Thought’s case, Justice Tyagi asserted that a husband would be guilty of rape under Section 375 of the IPC, punishable under Section 376 of the IPC, if a girl above 15 years, married before attaining the minimum marriageable age of 18 years, was subjected to intercourse with or without her consent. In case of penetrative sexual assault more than once, he would be guilty of aggravated penetrative sexual assault under Section 5(l) of the POCSO Act.
22-10-2020||Yamunanagar||Raid on desi ghee godown in Yamunanagar||A team of CM flying squad raided a godown of a desi ghee trader in Ashok Vihar Colony here on Wednesday.The team, joined by the officials of the District Health Department and the Excise and Taxation Department, took samples of the ghee and sent them for examination in a laboratory.Sources said the firm had been dealing in sale of desi ghee and other edible items for long. “Besides collecting seven samples, the record of sale and purchase of the product was also matched by the team,” said the sources.Sub Inspector Dinesh Kumar said the trader could not produce proper bills and failed in providing information about the stock at the spot.“Samples have been taken, further action will be taken after the arrival of the report from the laboratory,” Kumar. — TNS
22-10-2020||In Sector D||Gaping manholes in Defence Colony||Colonel RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttPunish manufacturers of polythene bagsLast week, officials raided the premises of shopkeepers dealing in wholesale business of polythene bags of all sizes. A huge stock running into many quintals was found from a number of shops. It was confiscated and shopkeepers were duly fined. Instead of taking action against shopkeepers, the manufacturers of such bags should be arrested.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaFix uniform timings for everyoneDuring the ongoing pandemic, there is no uniform timings for work in government and private offices. There is no schedule for lunch hours. Timings differ in departments, government hospitals, schools, banks, insurance companies, tehsils and many sectors.This has led to the harassment of the public. The government should step forward and fix timings and schedule for work in offices, schools, hospitals so that things gets easy for everyone.Righav Sagar, Shahabad MarkandaWhen will new bus shelter become operational?The MC, Panchkula, has razed all old local bus shelters in different sectors and replaced them with new "smart" design, as per the decision taken about two years ago. The same were to be equipped with electronic display boards to display the estimated time of the arrival of buses, space for ATM kiosks with security guard, water dispensers, CCTV cameras and small eatables counter. However, the new bus shelters are incomplete and only the civil work has been completed so far. Is there any hope for an early completion of the work? Are the authorities listening?Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
22-10-2020||Kurukshetra||KU alumnus lauded for Nobel Prize||Date for form submission extendedRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University has extended the date for submission of online application for admission to various post-graduate (PG) programmes, LLB (hons) three-year programme, and certificate/diploma programmes in the University Teaching Departments (UTD), and Centre for Professional and Allied Studies (CPAS), Gurugram, for the upcoming session up to November 10. MDU Registrar Prof GL Taneja said the details of the programmes and admission process were available on the MDU website www.mdu.ac.in.Financial relief for YMCA studentsFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, here has provided financial relief of up to 100 per cent in tuition fee to the students facing financial hardship in the wake of Covid pandemic. As many as 153 students have availed the benefit under the policy for financial support to economically weaker and needy students introduced by the university in August. Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar said in view of the difficulties faced by students and their parents, due to the pandemic, the university took the initiative to frame a policy to provide financial relief to students of the university and implemented the same in true letter and spirit so as to cover maximum students under the policy. The financial benefits of over Rs 15 lakh have already been provided to students under the policy.Online training eventKurukshetra: Professor MM Goel, retired from Kurukshetra University, said, “To develop competence with morality, opulence, victory and empowerment, we need real education as proper, productive and practical use of hands, head and heart with common sense approach.” He was addressing the participants of online short-term training programme on “Moral values and professional ethics” sponsored by AICTE at Panipat Institute of Engineering and Technology, Samalkha. His topic was ‘Ethical challenges for teachers’. To be bilingual in teaching online and offline is a challenge for the present breed of teachers, Prof Goel believed. He said educational values were in transitional mode and new values had to emerge with minimum political interventions. To face challenges, a teacher needs confidence, courage and convictions for educational values in addition to morality, credibility and accountability, said Prof Goel.3-day virtual training programmeHisar: Assistant Director (Horticulture) of Saina Nehwal Agricultural Technology Training and Education Institute of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University here, Dr Surender Singh said along with adoption of traditional farming, farmers could also do mushroom farming so as to earn more profit. Besides this, unemployed youth can also start their own business after getting training about modern techniques required to do so. Dr Singh said this while addressing trainees in Hisar at the inauguration of a three-day online training programme organised on the subject of ‘Mushroom Production Technique’ held on Wednesday.
22-10-2020||---||3 of Lawrence Bishnoi gang held by Chandigarh Police||Chandigarh, October 21Three alleged members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, who provided shelter to gangster Monty Shah in Rajasthan, have been arrested by the local police. The suspects also helped Monty escape from Hanumangarh, Rajasthan, before the UT police conducted a raid to nab him.A team, led by Inspector Baldev Kumar, SHO of the Sector 34 police station, nabbed the suspects, identified as Deepak Wadhwa (28) and Parwinder Wadhwa (26), brothers, and Virender Soni (26), all residents of Hanumangarh, on the intervening night of October 20 and 21.Police officials said the suspects were the sleeper cell of the Bishnoi gang, who provided harbour to Monty Shah and also helped him by providing a motorcycle to evade arrest in Rajasthan.“They are key members of the Bishnoi gang and were involved in providing shelter, arms and ammunition and vehicles to shooters of the Bishnoi gang,” said a police official.Monty had fired gunshots to threaten deceased Sonu Shah’s brother Parveen Shah and his associate Tirath, who is key witness in the Sonu Shah murder case.The police said the suspects had provided a vehicle and ammunition to Monty to fire at Tirath and Parveen Shah. Recently, the police had announced a reward of Rs50,000 for provided information about Monty.
