22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to distribute 1 crore face masks: Khattar||With the sudden spoke in coronavirus cases in the state, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday warned the people to use face masks to contain the virus and said the government would distribute one crore masks among the public.Ruling out the imposition of the state lockdown again, Khattar, in a televised address, said a fine of Rs 500 would be enforced strictly on those who were found violating safety norms in public places.Requesting the public to keep six-seven masks in their pockets, he said: “One should offer a mask to those who are not wearing it.” He said the second round of sero survey to assess the spread of the virus has revealed that 14 per cent of the state’s population has already been infected.“This means more than 37 lakh people having gone undetected for the disease,” the Chief Minister added. — IANS
22-11-2020||Panipat||Former councillor Harish Sharma's body recovered from canal in Sonepat||A National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team on Sunday fished out the body of former councillor Harish Sharma's from Delhi Parallel canal near Khubru jhal in Sonepat district.The administration sent the body to the mortuary at a general hospital at Sonepat for postmortem examination.Enraged over the incident, hundreds of people kept the body of former councillor Harish Sharma on NH-44 on Panipat-Delhi lane and refused to cremate him till their demands were fulfilled.The people demanded a criminal case registered against Panipat SP Manisha Chaudhary, then police post in charge; SI Baljeet Singh, ASI Mahavir Singh and others.The people also demanded their arrest.Sharma had jumped into the canal on Thursday morning allegedly due to harassment by the police.The police caned-charged protesters late evening near Tehsil camp chowk on NH-44, leaving some people, including Ram Rattan Sharma, former district president of Aam Aadmi Party, injured. Around 10 others and a scribe of national daily also sustained injuries.While people raised slogans against the police, Ram Rattan Sharma alleged that the police caned-charged people to silence their voice as they were protesting in support of their leader and former councillor Harish Sharma.Even some gunmen of VIPs sustained injuries. The police also allegedly broke glasses of an office on the road where Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma, MLA Pramod Vij, former transport minister Krishan Lal Panwar and other prominent people were holding a meeting with victim’s family members.
22-11-2020||Ravinder Saini||Sealing notices to 500 building owners over Rs 20-crore tax dues||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 21The Municipal Corporation Rohtak has served sealing notices to owners of 500 buildings for not paying property tax despite repeated requests. They have been asked to deposit the tax before November 24 or face action.The authorities have also written to the Deputy Commissioner urging him to appoint Duty Magistrates and the Superintendent of Police to provide police force for carrying out the sealing operation from November 24.Sources said property tax of more than Rs 20 crore was due on the owners of these buildings. Earlier, show cause notices were also issued to them to clear their dues by October 31 but they didn’t pay any heed.“This is the first phase of the sealing operation under which notices have been issued to those building owners who are supposed to deposit over Rs 1 lakh property tax. All preparations have been made to initiate the operation from November 24. All such buildings will be sealed randomly as they have been given ample chance to clear the dues,” said Municipal Corporation Rohtak Commissioner Pradeep Godara.Godara said under the second phase, sealing notices would be served on those against whom property tax between Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh was due. Show cause notices had already been issued to them for not paying property tax, he added.Zonal Taxation Officer Jagdish Chander said all these building owners were top defaulters against whom the arrear of property tax for more than one year was also due. Besides, a total of Rs 21 crore was also to be paid by the government departments. The Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) was to pay property tax of more than Rs 2 crore, he said.Police force sought for sealing opThe authorities have also written to the Deputy Commissioner urging him to appoint Duty Magistrates and the Superintendent of Police to provide police force for carrying out the sealing operation from November 24
22-11-2020||---||Gurugram to identify superspreaders||Gurugram, November 21With the Covid crisis going virtually out of hand in Gurugram, the city health authorities have now turned to identify and isolate the super-spreaders in the city.Having tested 10,000 people today, the health authorities will randomly conduct 6,000 tests from tomorrow. In addition to holding camps on city borders, the authorities have identified 20 areas in the city, including crowded markets which are believed to be key infectivity pools.“We are taking a target-driven approach in the Covid crisis management. We are identifying the super-spreaders targeting geographical, professional and social profiles which have reported the highest infectivity in the past 15 days. We will be holding testing camps here and doing random sampling. We have been conducting regular camps at all borders also,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav.With 939 cases, the city has reported the highest-ever single-day spike, leading to panic.The city reported around 8,000 fresh cases in the past 15 days and the majority of patients have had a history of visiting or staying at the identified key hotspots.The health authorities have also moved the administration seeking stricter penalty for mask violation on the lines of Delhi. Similar penal action is also being sought for crowding.Meanwhile, the city is abuzz with rumours of compulsive random testing but health authorities claim that they are putting up camps for voluntary free testing at the moment.
22-11-2020||
||Record 35K samples taken in single day||Chandigarh, November 21 Haryana today took a record 35,037 samples for Covid, the highest samples taken on a single day with 10,200 taken from Gurugram district alone. Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, said that the government has set a target of 30,000 tests for the state every day.  “At present, we are concentrating on increasing testing in Gurugram, Faridabad, Hisar and Rohtak where the cases are much higher,” he added. He said that of the 10,200 samples collected from Gurugram, 5,700 were for RTPCR tests while 4,500 were tested by random antigen test. He said that Gurugram is the highest-testing district in Haryana with total tests at 4,52,860 out of 31,41,508 samples tested across the state so far.  Among other districts, Faridabad tested 2,588 samples, Jhajjar 1,509, Rohtak 1,494, Sonepat 1,479, Ambala 1,435, Jind 1,291 and Hisar 1,186. Among the districts with low number of tests today are Panipat 881 and Rewari and Panchkula 891 each.
22-11-2020||Sushil Manav
||ED seeks CLU details during Manesar acquisition||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, November 21 The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has sought details of CLUs (change of land use) granted by Haryana Town and Country Planning Department during land acquisition proceedings in the Manesar land case adding that the entities involved have been conclusively found to have indulged in criminal activities and “proceeds of crime” stand generated. In its affidavit filed before the Supreme Court on Friday, the ED has also prayed that details regarding 268 acres, 2 kanal 15.5 marlas of land with the names of owner having possession and the present status be made available from the state government, the Haryana State Infrastructural and Industrial Development Corporation (HSIIDC) be directed not to grant any refund to any entity without NOC from ED, clarification regarding issuance of land acquisition orders and also issuance of CLUs and rejection licences be supplied. The ED has filed its affidavit in response to the affidavit furnished in the court by the HSIIDC earlier this month. During a hearing held on November 17, the ED was told to file its reply by November 23. The apex court is hearing the prayer seeking clarification whether its March 12, 2018 judgment in the Manesar land case would also cover land parcels purchased prior to the date of Section 4 notification of Land Acquisition Act on August 27, 2004, but transferred by the landholders during the August 27, 2004 to January 29, 2010 period by way of collaboration agreements in favour of other parties and whether they will form part of the deemed award ordered by the top court in its verdict. The SC had restrained creation of fresh third-party rights on 268 acres which was once sought to be acquired for creating an industrial township in Manesar by the HSIIDC but was dropped out of the total 688 acres from the acquisition by the Congress government on August 26, 2007.  The ED affidavit submitted by Anup Singh Rauthan, Deputy Director (Legal), said that the SC judgment issued on March 12, 2018 had directed that the award deemed to have been passed on August 26, 2007 with respect to land covered under declaration under Section 6 (688 acres) and also for the land which was transferred by landholders during period from August 27, 2004 to January 29, 2010.
22-11-2020||
||Ensure mask norm obeyed, officers told||Ambala, November 21 State Home Minister Anil Vij on Saturday said, “There are only two ways to control Covid cases. One is to impose a complete lockdown and the other is to ensure strict implementation of mask-wearing, and I prefer the second option.” He said, “We don’t want people to become unemployed by imposition of lockdown but to strictly adhere to instruction such as wearing of face masks. I have asked Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police to ensure that people wear masks and issue challans to the violators who are found roaming without masks.” Vij was speaking after inaugurating the construction work of fire station building in Sadar zone in Ambala Cantonment.  The new building of the fire station will come up at a cost of Rs 11.39 crore, the existing building of which is in a dilapidated state. Also, there have been incidents of plaster falling and roof leakage during rains.  In his address, Vij said the services of fire department were crucial. He said, “These employees and officers should get better and state-of-the-art facilities. A multi-storey fire station will be built on 3,219 square-meter area. There will be a garage to park seven fire brigades. The fire station will include a store, locker room, table tennis room, kitchen, watch room, waiting area, toilet, garage and two restrooms on the ground floor. On the first floor, space will be available for the offices of the fire station officers and toilets. There will also be an elevator facility in the building.” The minister also said a four-storey residential complex would also be built there for the employees and officers.
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||25 casualties, 2,666 cases in Haryana||With 25 deaths and 2,666 cases, the Covid tally in the state jumped to 2.15 lakh on Saturday.Five deaths alone were reported from Faridabad, followed by four from Bhiwani, three each from Gurugram and Hisar, two each from Rohtak, Jhajjar, Fatehabad and Charkhi Dadri and one each from Jind and Sirsa.So far, 2,163 people have died of Covid in the state with 1,901 having co-morbidities. The active cases in the state are 20,325. The maximum cases today were recorded from Gurugram at 939 followed by 630 from Faridabad, 179 from Hisar, 110 from Sonepat, 101 from Rohtak and 81 from Sirsa. — TNS
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||2 Waqf Board officers caught taking bribe||The State Vigilance Bureau (SVB), Haryana, has caught Alokpanth, Estate Officer, and Naseer, Rent Collector, of Waqf Board, Rohtak, red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 50,000.A bureau spokesman said that Harish Kumar, a resident of Meham, submitted a complaint to the Vigilance Bureau that he had applied for taking a 220 sq yard plot on rent under the Waqf Board.Initially, these officials demanded bribe of Rs 1.6 lakh but after negotiation, the deal was struck for Rs 50,000.On receiving the complaint, a criminal case was registered. The team of Vigilance Bureau carried out a raid and caught accused Naseer and Alokpanth red-handed in the presence of Duty Magistrate Suresh Chander, Naib Tehsildar, Rohtak. Both the accused were produced in court. — TNS
22-11-2020||---||Women activists hold protest against 3 farm laws in Rohtak||Rohtak, November 21Expressing solidarity with agitating farmers, women activists under the aegis of Janwadi Mahila Samiti on Saturday came forward to resist the three farm laws. They staged a day-long dharna at Ambedkar Chowk here. They demanded that the government should annul these laws.“The three laws will not only ruin the farmers but will also adversely affect the system of food security. These will also spoil the public distribution system meant for poor people. Hence, the government should cancel these laws,” claimed Jagmati Sangwan, national vice-president of the samiti.Sheela Devi, while presiding over the dharna, said the report of United Nations Organisation revealed that over 10 lakh children had lost their lives in India due to malnutrition. In the given situation, it was the responsibility of the government to ensure food to every citizen. But the three farm laws were posing a serious threat to food security, she added.Raj Kumar Dahiya, another woman activist, demanded that the government should strengthen the public distribution system, curb rising inflation and include the names of every poor person in the BPL list.Farmers take out bike rallyAmbala: Farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) took out a bike rally in Ambala to motivate farmers and other people to join the Kisan Yatra, which will start from the Shambhu Border on November 25 for Delhi.The farmers started the bike rally from Panjokhara, and covered the villages of Shahzadpur and Naraingarh block.BKU (Charuni) spokesman Rajiv Sharma said, “Farmers will start a Kisan Yatra on November 25 and reach Delhi on the November 26 rally and hold protest against the three farm laws. The farmers of four districts, including Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra and Panchkula, will gather at the Shambhu border and start the Kisan Yatra while the remaining will join on the way.”
22-11-2020||---||Three days on, Panipat ex-councillor untraced||Panipat, November 21Even after three days, the jumping of senior BJP leader and former councillor Harish Sharma into a canal reportedly to commit suicide due to the alleged pressure of the police has been puzzling the SIT, his family members and people of Textile City.The investigation being conducted by the SIT could not be concluded till Saturday evening and the SIT may seek more time for it. The Home Minister has directed the SIT to submit a report within two days.DIVERS CALLED FROM K’SHETRAThough the police and administration continued search operations to trace the BJP leader on the consecutive third day on Saturday, no clue was found till the late evening.The administration has called special divers from Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) and a team of divers from Patiala in Punjab.The SIT also collected footage of CCTV cameras installed on buildings near Harish’s house on Saturday.The police had booked former councillor Harish Sharma, his councillor daughter Anjali Sharma along with eight other persons allegedly for selling crackers and assaulting policemen on Diwali night.After four days of lodging the FIR, the former councillor jumped into the canal on Thursday morning. His friend Rajesh Sharma, president of Depot Holders Association had also jumped into the canal to save him but he drowned. Divers had fished out Rajesh’s body on Friday.The SIT constituted by Home Minister Anil Vij and headed by ADGP Sandeep Khirwar, IG Rohtak range, along with members SP Rohtak Rahul Sharma and ASP Gohana Udai Singh Meena have been camping in Panipat for the past two days to investigate the incident.Pramod Vij, MLA, said that Harish was a fearless leader and he was never bothered about anyone. Whatever has happened would be clear after the SIT’s investigation, he said.SIT chief ADGP Sandeep Khirwar said that the investigation into the incident is under way. We are putting in our best efforts to search the former councillor, the ADGP said.
22-11-2020||---||Official thrashed by Sonali Phogat demoted||Hisar, November 21The state government has reverted secretary of the marketing committee Sultan Singh to the post of assistant secretary after an inquiry found him guilty of misconduct and dereliction in performing official duty.In another incident, Sultan Singh had landed in a controversy when he was allegedly thrashed by BJP leader Sonali Phogat in full public view at a grain market in Balsamand village of the district in June. The police had registered criminal cases against Phogat and Sultan Singh. The matter is in court now.The Chief Administrator (CA) of Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board issued the orders of his reversion to the post of assistant secretary for the next five years.“Charges of misconduct and dereliction of official duty have been levelled against him at various occasions in his career earlier also. Such an official has no right to remain in government service and is liable to be dismissed. But the earlier disciplinary proceedings should not affect the fate of the present disciplinary proceedings as the same will be against the principle of natural justice. Therefore, taking a lenient view in the matter, he is awarded punishment of reversion to the post of assistant secretary,” mentioned the order by the Chief Administrator.
22-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||Rapped by HC over bail order, judge apologises||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 21Less than two months after a judicial officer was rapped for passing an order that did not meet the requirement or criteria for granting anticipatory bail, the Judge apologised before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.“The Additional Sessions Judge (Fast Track Court), Panipat, has given an explanation that the error was committed due to a bona fide and inadvertent mistake and has also submitted his unconditional apology for the same,” Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted. Accepting the apology, Justice Sangwan noted that further action was not called for.THE CASE FILEThe Bench also took note of an affidavit filed by the Panipat Superintendent of Police, stating that Section 376, read with 511 of the IPC, on rape and another offence was deleted and Section 354 of the IPC on outrage of modesty was added, based on the statement made by the complainant before a medical officer. She had stated that rape was not committed, but an attempt was made.Justice Sangwan confirmed the interim anticipatory bail granted earlier to the complainant’s brother-in-law. The case has its genesis in an FIR registered on August 8 for rape, criminal breach of trust, subjecting a married woman to cruelty and other offences at the Samalkha police station in Panipat.The complainant, among other things, had alleged that her husband and in-laws were not satisfied with the dowry and had been demanding more. It was further stated in the FIR that the petitioner-brother-in-law used to harass her.Taking up the matter, Justice Sangwan had, on the previous date of hearing, directed the judicial officer to submit an explanation as to how the main accused-husband was granted bail without reference to the allegations of entrustment and demand of dowry against him, while observing that the allegation of attempt to rape was not against him.
22-11-2020||---||Finally, door-to-door garbage collection begins in Ambala||Ambala, November 21Finally, the door-to-door garbage collection has begun in Ambala City. It was made possible after the state government approved the tender and the local civic body allotted the work to a private agency in the city.The work was allotted at the rate of Rs 2,250 per tonne of garbage, which was approved by the Department of Local Government.As per the approved rate, the Municipal Corporation will pay Rs 11.5 crore per annum to the contractor as the city generates 140 tonne garbage on a daily basis. The work will also include segregation and transportation of garbage, a senior officer said here on Saturday.Stalled since September 2019He said the civic body would charge Rs 60 per month from the residents of 90,000 residential and commercial buildings in the city, which would work out to be Rs 6.5 crore per annum. The rest of Rs 5 crore payment to the contractor would be borne by the MC from its own sources.“We want the city to be clean and green so that it could be ranked among the cleanest cities in the country during the next Swachh Bharat Survekshan,” said local MLA Aseem Goel, who formally launched the project.The work had been stalled since September last year after the contractor had left the job alleging non-payment by the civic body.For the past over a year, the MC had failed to resume the process after a row with the contractor while the local opposition leaders, supported by the residents, were alleging serious irregularities in the whole process.Ever since the MC-run system had collapsed, the private cleanliness workers were collecting garbage from door-to-door and charging the residents at their own will in the absence of any regulation. The charges ranged between Rs 100 and Rs 150 per house.After the contractors had stopped the work in September 2019, the MC had in January floated fresh tenders to hire new agencies for door-to-door garbage collection but except two old firms no other bids were received.In the absence of any regulated door-to-door garbage collection system, the local residents were either forced to pay exorbitant charges or dump their daily waste at public places following which insanitary conditions prevailed in the twin towns.District Bar Association president Rohit Jain, who had also dragged the civic bodies to the court for insanitary conditions, said the door-to-door garbage collection system had collapsed and dumped garbage was not being lifted for days.In their petition filed under Section 22 of the Legal Services Authority Act 1987, a group of lawyers had sought directions to the respondents for taking appropriate steps to keep the environment pollution-free by restraining the employees and contractual staffers of MC from burning the garbage, including polythene, thermo-coal and waste of gardens and ensuring proper solid waste management and disposal within Ambala district.
22-11-2020||---||Government mulls law to end child labour, begging||New Delhi, November 21The Haryana Government is contemplating enactment of a law to eradicate child begging and child labour from the state.The idea for the proposed law is being pushed by the Haryana State Council for Child Welfare (HSCCW) and is backed by Chief Minister ML Khattar.The Haryana’s Governor and Chief Minister are respectively ex-officio president and vice-president of the HSCCW.The honorary general secretary of the HSCCW, Krishan Kumar Dhull, said here that the Chief Minister took a meeting of officials of five departments with regard to the proposed law before the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic.This was followed up with RK Khullar, the then Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, taking meeting with the officials of the departments.These departments are related to women and child development; labour; education; health and social justice.Dhul said, the HSCCW would follow up the efforts soon. “One line of thinking within the government is to make the police in districts the nodal authority to implement the law. The HSCCW will be designated as the overall executive authority on account of its special mandate to ensure welfare of children,” Dhull said, and added the body also had the requisite trained man power and logistics.The authorities in the state feel the law is imperative in the context of reports that children from low-income group are exploited and pushed into begging, and harnessed into commercial labour.Generally, the victims are children of migrant labourers. Inter-state gangs among others are at the bottom of the racket of using children for begging. They first train the victims in the the art of beggary and allocate areas for their operation.The malaise has expanded to many cities and towns of the state, but is conspicuous in Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat, Ambala and Hisar.The area in which they operate include public places, including bus stands, markets, road-crossings and places of worship.In case of child labour, the victims are made to work in shops, tea-stalls, road-side dhabas, hotels, and brick-kilns.The HSCCW is of the view that crime of children labour is pronounced in Mewat, Jhajhar, Fatehabad and Kaithal. “The worrying part is that parents of the victims collude in the two categories of malaise due to their economic hardships,” Dhull said.The HSCCW has launched a campaign to dissuade such errant parents with regard to the crime .The campaign includes visits by its teams to vulnerable locations and identification of susceptible children.
22-11-2020||---||Submit poor man’s disability report, PGIMS director told||Rohtak, November 21The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) has directed the Rohtak PGIMS Director to get a destitute and physically challenged man of Rewari district examined and submit a report regarding his disability to the Commission.In a recent order passed by Haryana Human Rights Commission chairperson Justice SK Mittal and member Deep Bhatia, the PGIMS director has been directed to get the man’s medical tests done free of cost.Sher Singh of Rewari had requested the authorities concerned for medical treatment and financial assistance. The Rewari Deputy Commissioner sought a report about his disability fromThe Civil Surgeon referred him to Rohtak PGIMS to get his disability assessed and get a medical disability certificate. The man went to the PGIMS where he was told to get his MRI (Brain and Cervical Spine) done.Sher Singh could not get the said tests done due to his poverty and disability.As a result, the assessment of his disability could not be done.After making rounds of government offices and hospitals for issuance of disability certificate, the hapless man lodged a complaint with the Haryana Human Rights Commission.
22-11-2020||---||Man robbed of cash, phone in Ambala||Ambala, November 21A man was allegedly robbed of his mobile and cash after he gave lift to a stranger in the Shahzadpur area of Ambala district on NH-344 on Friday.The victim has been identified as Sushil Kumar, a resident of Saharanpur of Uttar Pradesh.Sushil in his complaint stated that he owned a mobile repairing shop in Mohali and on Friday evening he was on his way back home in his car.At around 5:30 pm when he reached near Kadasan village bus stop, two youth who were wearing khaki-coloured pants and black jacket asked for a lift. One of them sat in the car and after travelling about 1 km, he said he had forgotten his arms with the other person and asked Sushil to park the car alongside the road.“Meanwhile, the second man reached the spot. The person sitting in the car attacked me with a knife and I received an injury on my hand. They snatched my mobile and Rs 13,800 cash from me and fled on a motorcycle”, he added.A case was registered against two unidentified miscreants under Section 34 and 379-B of the IPC at the Shahzadpur police station on Friday.The SHO, Shahzadpur, Chander Bhan, said, “The recordings of nearby CCTV cameras are being examined. Sushil is out of danger and was discharged from the hospital.”
22-11-2020||Yamunanagar||Man gets 11-yr jail for sexual assault on teen||Payal Bansal, Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ), District Court, Jagadhri, awarded 11-year imprisonment to a convict for kidnapping and sexually abusing a teenager.The ASJ, who delivered the judgment on Thursday, also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on the convict, identified as Man Mohan of Radaur town. According to information, the victim (17 and a half years old), a Class XII student, had gone to her school on January 30, 2019. But when she didn’t return, her family lodged a kidnapping case against an unknown person. The girl was recovered from Ladwa town of Kurukshetra district on February 4. — TNS
22-11-2020||---||Few acquittals don’t wipe away criminal’s past: HC||Chandigarh, November 21In a significant ruling liable to change the way bail pleas of accused in criminal cases are dealt with, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that acquittal in some cases does not mean that the “shady criminal past of a criminal gets washed away”.The assertion came in response to a contention that an accused, allegedly involved in several criminal cases, had been acquitted in three matters. Justice HS Madaan asserted the petitioner was said to be a habitual criminal. According to the counsel, the petitioner had been acquitted in three matters. But it did not mean that he had been given a clean chit. ‘Petitioner a habitual criminal’Justice Madaan added that the prosecution was required to prove its charge against the accused beyond a shadow of reasonable doubt as per criminal jurisprudence applicable to our judicial system. But many a times, criminals, including ones indulging in heinous crime, managed to go scot free for technical reasons following faulty investigation in some cases as the investigating agency failed to collect proper evidence to connect the accused with the offence.Several times, influential and hardened criminals managed to influence vital prosecution witnesses. They turned hostile during the trial and did not support the prosecution story. Resultantly, the criminal escaped conviction.The accused in the case was seeking pre-arrest bail in an FIR registered on May 29 for wrongful restraint, criminal intimidation and other offences under Sections 341, 386, 506 and 34 of the IPC at Model Town police station in Panipat.Taking up the matter, Justice Madaan said pre-arrest bail was a discretionary equitable relief to be granted in “very exceptional cases” and not in routine. The provision was meant to protect the innocent from harassment and inconvenience. It was not a shield for the criminals to enable them to avoid interrogation by the investigating agency.The petitioner was involved in cases of heinous crime like murder, snatching, attempt to murder, dacoity and was found in possession of illegal weapons etc. Regular bail in some of the cases did not show his innocence in those matters. Dismissing the plea, the Bench asserted, “Such a criminal is certainly not entitled to discretionary equitable relief of pre-arrest bail.”
22-11-2020||---||For early tracing, Karnal turns focus to villages||Karnal, November 21Aiming at early tracing of Covid patients, the Health Department has started village-level camps for testing people.The department has constituted teams at the level of the primary and community health centres to cover all 434 villages in the district. Besides, four mobile vans have been deputed in the far-flung areas along the Yamuna and other parts of the district.So far, the department is collecting samples at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Civil Hospital; Polyclinic in Sector 16; and urban dispensaries in Sector 13, Sector 6 and Ram Nagar in the city.“We have started village-level testing camps, which will help in the early tracing of the Covid patients as well as in curbing the spread of the dreaded virus,” said Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon.Dr Sharma said they would start random sampling in schools from Thursday to test students and teachers. In coming days, random sampling will be conducted in banks, restaurants, hotels, markets and other public dealing places.He said so far, as many as 9,038 people had tested positive in the district, of them 8,473 patients had recovered and 441 were active. As many as 124 patients have succumbed.
22-11-2020||---||Man held for smuggling liquor||Ambala, November 21The district police have arrested Manoj Kumar of Ambala City in a case of liquor smuggling and claimed to have recovered 11 bottles of illicit liquor from his possession, the officials said here today.
22-11-2020||Ambala||Ambala woman arrested with two stolen ACs||The district police have arrested a woman of Ambala Cantonment in a case of theft and claimed to have recovered two stolen air-conditioners from her possession, the officials said here today.According to the police, the accused was intercepted on a tip-off at a check-post near Preet Nagar in Mahesh Nagar near here when she was transporting the stolen articles in an e-rickshaw. During preliminary interrogation, the accused confessed that the air-conditioners were stolen from a locked house in Mahesh Nagar. The arrested woman was produced before a local court, which remanded her to 14-day judicial custody, the officials added. — TNS
22-11-2020||Deepender Deswal||Covid-19: 100 deaths in 35 days, Hisar dist Haryana’s new hotspot||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 21Hisar witnessed 100 deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 35 days, indicating a higher mortality rate as compared to state’s worst-affected districts of Faridabad and Gurugram.The first Covid death was reported in Hisar on June 11. The number of casualties touched 100 on October 16. Since then there has been a sharp upswing with the toll touching 200 on Friday.The total number of deaths is higher in Faridabad (290) and Gurugram (256), considered Covid hotspots in the state. But in the last 35 days, Hisar witnessed 100 deaths, Gurugram 66 and Faridabad 52.‘Late reporting to blame’It seems that patients are seeking treatment at later stage of the disease, which has resulted in a higher number of casualties. —Priyanka Soni, DCHisar also saw a high number of cases in the last about one month. With a total of 14,342 cases as on November 20, the district stands third in the state after Gurugram (42,632) and Faridabad (35,613). It was previously at number 9 with 7,950 cases as on October 16.A Civil Hospital official claims that a number of ventilators are lying defunct in the hospital. “The doctors and paramedics are finding it difficult to manage Covid wards. Patients often complain of negligence on part of the staff,” the official said. Priyanka Soni, DC, however, claimed that there was no shortage of ventilators and other facilities.
