22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 10 COVID-19 deaths, 534 fresh cases||Haryana on Tuesday reported 10 more COVID-19 fatalities, taking the death toll to 2,842, even as 534 fresh cases pushed the state’s tally to 2,58,731.According to the state health department’s daily bulletin, the fatalities included two each from Rewari and Jhajjar districts and one each from Gurgaon and Faridabad districts.Among other districts to report new cases included Gurugram (92) and Faridabad (69).The number of active cases in the state were 5,387, patients discharged so far are 2,50,502, while the recovery rate was 96.82 per cent. --- PTI
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||SYL water issue: Abhay Chautala says Haryana should block borders with Punjab||INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala on Tuesday said Haryana should block its borders with Punjab, stopping the movement of people and goods, till the neighbouring state gives its share of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) water.The Indian National Lok Dal leader said they will support the ML Khattar government if it decides to force Punjab over the demand.“Let the government take the decision today. We will support them till the time we do not get our rightful share of water. We will not allow anyone to enter through Haryana’s borders with Punjab,” Chautala told reporters here.“We will stop the movement of goods going into that state from here till we get our share of water. Let them make a decision,” the Ellenabad MLA said.He said that over the years, the INLD has been constantly making efforts so that Haryana gets its “rightful share of water”.He recalled that three years ago, his party workers had blocked all entry points to Punjab “to make them realise that if they stop our share of water we will not allow them to enter Haryana”.Chautala, the younger son of INLD president and former Chief Minister OP Chautala, said the BJP has been in power for six years in Haryana but it never showed any seriousness on the SYL issue.He said that amid the protests of farmers against the Centre’s new farm laws, the state BJP leadership was raising the SYL issue “to divide the peasants but that is not going to happen. Farmers will make the Centre repeal the agri laws”.Chautala claimed that some BJP leaders from the state were now enacting a “drama” of staging “upwas” (fast) demonstrations in support of SYL.“Why did they not think of sitting on ‘upwas’ all these years even though the Supreme Court had ruled in Haryana’s favour on SYL. Now they only want to divert the attention of people. BJP’s mindset has always been to create a divide among people and keep the issues to linger on,” he said.“Had the chief minister been so concerned on the water issue, why would he allow his government to scrap Dadupur Nalvi canal project, on which Rs 340 crore had already been spent and which would have been particularly beneficial to help irrigate lands in Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar,” the INLD leader said.He questioned why Haryana BJP president OP Dhankar, who was agriculture minister in the previous term of the Khattar government, did not show concern on SYL then.“Earlier, when we used to raise the SYL issue, they would say that the matter was pending before the Supreme Court. But now when the apex court has ruled in our favour, why is this government doing drama of ‘upwas’. Governments don’t sit on ‘upwas’, they take decisions,” he said.Opposing the SYL canal project, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had recently warned that “Punjab will burn” if the state is forced to share water with Haryana.SYL has been a contentious issue between the two states, with the Punjab portion of the canal still incomplete. The construction began in 1982.Punjab has been demanding a reassessment of the Ravi-Beas river waters’ volume, while Haryana has been seeking completion of the SYL canal to get its share of 3.5 million acre-feet (MAF). Chautala asserted that the party is “solidly behind farmers” fighting against the three laws. Responding to a question, Chautala said he will not take another minute to resign as a legislative assembly member if farmers make such a demand.                 “Chaudhary Devi Lal’s blood runs in my veins, I will not take a minute to resign..,” he said.Asked that couple of Independent MLAs had withdrawn support to the Khattar government while many JJP legislators too had openly come out in support of the farmers, he claimed the coalition government will not last long.“This ‘jugad’ (arrangement with MLAs from JJP, Independents supporting it) will not work. Even some of the BJP MLAs are upset with the government…This government will fall like Bansi Lal-led dispensation,” he said. — PTI
22-12-2020||New Delhi||Cold wave returns to northwest after brief respite, says IMD||After a brief respite Cold Wave to Severe Cold Wave conditions are returning  to Northwest, the IMD has said. There will be a fall in minimum temperature  by 1-3°C over some parts of plains of northwest and central India during the next three days.Cold wave conditions at isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, and West Uttar Pradesh from Tuesday, with severe cold wave conditions at isolated pockets over same region on December 23 and 24 are expected, says the IMD.No significant change in minimum temperature over some parts of west India in the next two days and rise by 2-3°C thereafter for three days is likely while no significant change in temperatures over remaining parts of the country during next 2-3 days, it said. Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions at isolated pockets are also very likely over Odisha,  east Uttar Pradesh, Gangetic West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Telangana; Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Bihar over next couple of days, the weather office said. Cold day conditions at isolated pockets are also very likely over Bihar in the next three days and over east Uttar Pradesh during the next two days, it added. Moderate to dense fog in the morning hours at isolated pockets is very likely over Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on December 23 and dense to very dense fog in the morning hours at isolated pockets over same region during December 24-26. Dense fog in the morning hours at isolated pockets very likely over northern parts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Assam and Meghalaya during next three days and over Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during next two days.Ground frost conditions at isolated pockets very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab during next 3 days and over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, East Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan during next two days.
22-12-2020||---||Protesting farmers show black flags to Haryana CM Khattar during his Ambala visit||Ambala, December 22A large number of farmers showed black flags to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar when his convoy was passing from Aggarsain Chowk in Ambala City on Tuesday.The farmers tried to block the convoy. However, the police managed to get the farmers aside and provided a safe passage to the CM’s convoy.Also read: Shiv Sena takes a dig at Modi over his gurdwara visit amid farmers' stirAlso read: Farmer union leaders to meet, discuss plan of actionAlso read: Armed with revolutionary poem by Pash, Faridkot farmer cycles 400 km to Tikri borderSome farmers even wielded sticks on the vehicles.Khattar is here to address public meetings in support of BJP’s mayoral and ward candidates in the Ambala Municipal Corporation election.The agitating farmers said that they would continue to protest till the farm laws were withdrawn.
22-12-2020||---||JJP MLA bats for repeal of laws, better farm reforms||Hisar, December 21 Ramkumar Gautam, Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) MLA from Narnaund, has advocated for better agricultural reforms to ameliorate the condition of farmers, who, he said, have been suffering losses for decades. “The Centre should immediately repeal the three new laws and introduce better ones after having consulted representatives of farmers’ organisations who are spearheading the agitation,” Gautam told the media here on Monday. He is among the five JJP MLAs who have come out in support of farmers protesting at the Delhi borders for more than 25 days. The JJP, an ally of the BJP, has 10 MLAs.  Gautam said, “Businessmen and their families enjoy the luxuries of life. They own a fleet of cars and their children live a blissful life. Farmers, on the contrary, struggle hard to earn basic needs. They never gets an opportunity to experience the joys of life. Their children remain unemployed and, as a result, get addicted to drugs.” The country would be stronger if farmers were in better condition, he said.  On the contentious Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal, Gautam urged the state government to discuss the matter with farmers’ outfits of Punjab and Haryana, and chalk out a roadmap. “Punjab has been denying Haryana its due share of SYL waters. As Haryana farmers have welcomed their Punjab brethren with open arms, it becomes imperative on Punjab to respond in the same vein and give Haryana its share of water,” he added.
22-12-2020||sar||Dharna at Reliance fuel station in Ratia||Farmers have started an indefinite dharna at the Reliance fuel station in Ratia on Monday. They pitched tents and forced the fuel station operators to shut the premises.  Farmer leader Mandeep Singh said the farmers would convene a mahapanchayat at the grain market in Fatehabad on Wednesday to decide the further course of action.  He further said the farmers would submit a memorandum to BJP’s Fatehabad MLA Dura Ram and urge him to withdraw support from the state government.  “The BJP has been trying to create division among farmers of Haryana and Punjab by flagging the SYL canal,” Singh added. — TNS
22-12-2020||---||Farmers on relay fast at Singhu, Tikri||Sonepat, December 21Eleven farmers sat on relay fast at the Singhu border on Monday over the three farm laws. The Former MLAs’ Association extended support to the farmers.Former MLAs led by Nafe Singh Rathi and Birender Singh Kadyan reached the Singhu border and demanded that the farmers’ demands should be met as soon as possible.Sukhwinder Singh, a youth from Ludhiana who had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi with his blood, reached the Singhu border.Jhajjar: Sixteen protesting farmers — 11 from Punjab and five from Haryana — sat on relay fast at the Tikri border on Monday.
22-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||28 students test positive in Jhajjar||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 21In all, 28 students have tested positive for Covid in the district in the past two days. A majority of them are either asymptomatic or have mild infection, hence they have been advised to stay in isolation at home.The students got their test done from government health centres to get a medical certificate for attending classes in schools.As per the directives of the Education Department, a medical check-up of the students is mandatory before joining the school. A written consent from parents is also required.Classes for Class X and XII students are being conducted in government and private schools across the state from December 14 for three hours daily — 10 am to 1 pm — while the sessions for Class IX and XI students restarted today. However, their attendance was found below expectation on the first day.“Many parents are not ready to get medical check-up of their children done. Hence the students’ strength is not encouraging. But it is likely to rise in the coming days as we are motivating the parents to send their wards to the schools,” a teacher said.
22-12-2020||Sushil Manav||Anil Vij infection hit Covaxin trials: Experts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21Health experts associated with clinical trials of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate Covaxin admit that Covid infection to Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij days after getting the first shot has created apprehensions and adversely impacted trials.However, the experts maintain that Covaxin being a “killed vaccine” is perfectly safe and infection to the minister has nothing to do with the vaccine jab.“Killed vaccine, also known as inactivated vaccine, consists of virus particles grown in culture and then made to lose their disease-producing capacity. In contrast, live vaccines use antigens which are alive but attenuated,” explained Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, head of pulmonary and critical care department at the University of Health Sciences in Rohtak, heading clinical trials in the state.POOR RESPONSE NO HINDRANCEEven if there are less volunteers from one state, they can be added from some other state. It is for the first time that Haryana has participated in any clinical trial of this dimension. The first two phases have been hugely successful. —Amneet P Kumar, DG, Medical EduDr Chaudhary said it was unfortunate that people were not coming forward in as good numbers as expected. He said he understood that people were apprehensive after Vij contracted Covid nearly two weeks after getting the jab.He added that people should understand that vaccine trials were “randomised double blind placebo controlled” trials, which meant that neither the volunteer nor those administering the vaccine knew who got the vaccine and who got a placebo.He said “un-blinding” would be done from computers only after trials were completed and presence of antibodies in volunteers checked.He said many volunteers getting Covaxin jabs during trials were doctors and healthcare workers, who would not have volunteered for trials had there been any problem with the vaccine.Amneet P Kumar, Director General, Medical Education and Research, Haryana, said less number of volunteers from Haryana would not hinder clinical trials.“Clinical trials are being conducted across the country. Even if there are less volunteers from one state, they can be added from some other state. It is for the first time that Haryana has participated in any clinical trial of this dimension. The first two phases have been hugely successful,” she said.As far as infection to the minister was concerned, he got the jab on November 20 and was to be given the second dose on December 18, but contracted the virus on December 5.“All those who get the vaccine are told not to lower guard. Nearly 100 mediapersons assembled near Vij when he was getting the dose. He then travelled to Panipat, where he attended some social gathering. He was in the same car with Panipat MLA Pramod Vij, who later tested positive for Covid. The vaccine has nothing to do with Vij’s infection,” Dr Chaudhary added.He said the results of Covaxin across the country were positive and permission for its emergency use was likely to be granted by regulators.
22-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||Public servants must serve, not rule: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21In a stern warning to public servants, the High Court has told them that they were engaged for the service of the public and not to rule over them. The ruling came in a case where the sanction of building plan was sought, but officials of a municipal committee “sat over the file and did not respond in time”.Justice Kshetarpal asserted, “compassionate empathy” was required to be one of the traits or qualities of everyone manning a public office. The Constitution of India emphasised that the public servants, and other persons working in such offices, were required to treat everyone equally, irrespective of caste, creed, religion or economic condition. “The persons holding such offices are required to be more sympathetic and compassionate, while dealing with downtrodden and uneducated persons,” Justice Kshetarpal maintained.Empathy requiredCompassionate empathy is required to be one of the traits or qualities of everyone manning a public office. The Constitution emphasises that the public servants are required to treat everyone equally, irrespective of caste, creed, religion or economic condition. —Justice Kshetarpal, High CourtHe also made it clear that the entire emphasis of the Haryana Municipal Act, 1973, was to encourage residents to erect buildings after getting the plan sanctioned. If some building had been erected or re-erected in its violation and such construction was found within the permissible limits, it was required to be regularised or compounded. “The objective is not to demolish the buildings, which are permissible to be constructed in accordance with the rules framed there-under.”Section 201 of the Act stated that no person would erect, re-erect or commence the process without sanction of the building plan from the committee concerned. The proviso to Section 208 of the Act made it clear that the Municipal Committee may accept composition fee prescribed in the rules, instead of requiring alteration or demolition of any such building. In exercise of powers under the Act, the state government had notified the Haryana Municipal Building Bye-laws, 1982, and the Haryana Building Code, 2017, he stated.
22-12-2020||Nitish Sharma||HDF releases manifesto,  offers doorstep services||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 21The Haryana Democratic Front (HDF), led by former minister Nirmal Singh, released its manifesto for the corporation elections on Monday. The HDF is offering doorstep services, mayor window to establish direct contact with public, a special window for women and old aged, and simplified system to obtain NOCs, besides rebate in house tax, making Ambala stray animal free, improved drainage system, dispensaries at ward level, beautification and CCTV cameras at sensitive places.Party general secretary Chitra Sarwara said: “The HDF has released its manifesto today. We have not made big and unrealistic promises but tried to address the small issues. We have paid attention towards the problems that people face and have also chalked out a plan to generate income sources for the corporation.”No unrealistic promisesWe have not made big and unrealistic promises but tried to address the small issues. We have not made big and unrealistic promises but tried to address the small issues. —Chitra Sarwara, Party General SecretaryIn another development, Veena Dhal, who filed her nomination as an Independent mayoral candidate, has extended her support to Haryana Jan Chetna Party (V). She said Venod Sharma had always helped the people of Ambala and had got a lot of work done. She would campaign for HJP (V) candidate Shaktirani Sharma.Meanwhile, HJP (V), Ambala Vikas Manch and Haryana Democratic Front, have claimed to have the support of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the elections.Former Anandpur Sahib MP and senior SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra, along with a few local leaders, has extended his support to the Ambala Vikas Manch, SAD leader and former SGPC member Gurdeep Singh Bhanokheri extended his support to HDF, while senior SAD leader Sukhdev Singh Gobindgarh extended his support to HJP (V).However, SAD state president Sharanjeet Singh Sotha said, “No support has been extended by the party to any candidate or party in the Ambala Municipal Corporation election. There are no directions from the party high command in this context so far and the leaders have extended their support at their individual level. SAD has nothing to do with the support extended by the local leaders.”
22-12-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Sonepat Mayor post prestige issue for BJP-JJP, Cong||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 21Sonepat mayoral poll has become a prestige issue for the ruling BJP-JJP coalition as well as for the Congress. The city is considered the bastion of former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and the sitting MLA is of Congress while the BJP wants to get back its hold by winning the mayor’s seat. Notably, the BJP lost the Sonepat seat in the Assembly poll last year.Pertinently, Sonepat will get its first mayor after five years of the constitution of the MC. The pitch for mayoral elections has ready been set and candidates have been fielded for the posts of mayor as well as councillors by all parties.War over leadership hots upAs many as 2,48,099 voters in 20 wards would cast their vote on December 27 and the result would be announced on December 30. As many as 10 candidates are in fray for the mayor’s post while 110 candidates are contesting for the posts of councillor.The BJP has fielded Lalit Batra for the post while the Congress has given the ticket to youth face Nikhil Madan, Dharambir Saroha is BSP’s candidate, Dharambir Singh is from Loktantra Suraksha Party (LSP) while Sandeep Malik, Dharambir Fauji, Rajesh Kumar, Satbir Verma, Sandeep Rana and Sushil Kumar are in fray as Independent candidates. Though there are 10 candidates in fray for the post, the main contest is between BJP-JJP and Congress, a political analyst said.Winning the election is a prestige issue for the BJP because two-time MLA and Cabinet leader Kavita Jain had faced a defeat in the bypoll held in October last year and Congress candidate Surender Panwar had won the elections. The BJP is trying to come out from the setback and get its hold back on Sonepat city, the analyst said.On the other hand, the sitting MLA at former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s bastion belongs to Congress. Also, the morale of the party workers is high after winning the Baroda bye-poll recently.
22-12-2020||---||HJP chief, mayoral candidate booked for spreading rumours||Ambala, December 21Local BJP leader and corporation election convener Sandeep Sachdeva today accused Haryana Jan Chetna Party (V) chief Venod Sharma of spreading rumours of Sachdeva joining his (Sharma’s) party.A case has been registered against Venod Sharma, his wife and mayoral candidate Shaktirani Sharma, and Hiteshi news portal under Sections 66 (D) and 67 of the IT Act, and 505 (1) of the IPC at Sector 9 police station in Ambala City.Sandeep Sachdeva alleged that fake news was circulated on the social media that unhappy on being denied mayoral ticket by the BJP to his wife, Sandeep had quit the party and joined HJP (V). His photograph and the post were mentioned in news published on a news portal. On Sunday, the HJP (V) claimed that BJP worker Sandeep Sachdeva had joined HJP (V).Sandeep said: “I was seeking ticket like any other party worker but it is the prerogative of the party whether to give the ticket or not. I have made a complaint with the Election Commission in this regard and also sought action against the HJP (V). I have given a complaint to the Superintendent of Police as well.”In his complaint, Sachdeva alleged that to gain political benefits and advantage his wife Shaktirani, Venod Sharma shared a post of a person named Sandeep Sachdeva joining the BJP and spread the rumour that BJP worker Sandeep Sachdeva has joined the HJP.On the other hand, HJP (V) spokesperson refuted the allegations and claimed that along with the release issued by the party, a video and photograph of Sandeep Sachdeva, who had joined the party, was also released.Fake NewsSandeep Sachdeva alleged that a fake news was circulated on the social media that unhappy on being denied mayoral ticket by the BJP to his wife, Sandeep had quit the party and joined HJP (V). His photograph and the post were mentioned in the news published on a news portal. On Sunday, the HJP (V) claimed that BJP worker Sandeep had joined HJP (V)
22-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Killed driver to frame rival, admits gangster||Gurugram, December 21In what brings to fore the ugly facet of Gurugram’s underworld, noted gangster Binder Gujjar has reportedly confessed getting his loyal driver killed to frame his arch rival, slain gangster Sandeep Gadoli. The murder, which shook the entire city in 2015 and intensified the Gadoli-Gujjar rivalry, is back to haunt Gujjar.Lodged in a Mumbai jail for allegedly orchestrating the ‘fake’ encounter of Gadoli in a Mumbai hotel, Gujjar has been brought to the city on a five-day transit remand by the STF. While the authorities are yet to officially announce anything, a senior investigator revealed that Gujjar, on the very first day of investigation, confessed to ‘sacrificing’ his loyal driver of years to get Gadoli trapped in the police net.
22-12-2020||---||Man kills brother in Hisar village||Hisar, December 21A man was hacked to death with an axe by his brother in Kandul village near Uklana town in Hisar district on Sunday. The victim has been identified as Jagshir Singh.The police have registered a case on the complaint of the victim’s wife Deena Devi against Mehbub, the younger brother of the victim.The complainant said that her husband and brother-in-law were having a dispute over some domestic work. When their feud turned violent, she tried to intervene but her brother-in-law brought an axe and hit her husband on his head. He died on the spot. Mehbub fled from the spot after the crime. The police said that they were trying to arrest Mehbub.
22-12-2020||Sonepat||Relief to people on enhancement issue soon: CM||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said a big relief on enhancement issue would soon be given to the people. He said a new proposal to provide a relief to the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) sectors’ residents had been made ready, the file for which had been prepared and it would be launched soon.He was addressing public meetings at Sonepat in support of BJP-JJP coalition candidates for the post of councillors and mayoral candidate Lalit Batra. He held programmes at around 20 places in the city today.CM Khattar said the BJP government had given relief to the people twice in the state and also made a formula of recalculation. But, some political leaders showed dissatisfaction and now a new fresh proposal had been prepared.On the farmers’ protest, CM Khattar said only farmers of Punjab were sitting at dharna and they were fed up with the Punjab Government. Haryana’s farmers are getting full MSP on their products due to which the farmers here are not involved in the movement, he said.Khattar said the complete Opposition especially Congress was provoking farmers for protest. He said Congress wanted to bring these laws but didn’t bring and now when the BJP brought them in favour of farmers, they started doing politics over it.He said, the Sonepat MC had become strong in the past five years and development works worth crores had been done in the city. Appealing the people to vote in favour of the BJP candidates, the CM further said with the BJP government at the Centre, state and the civic body, the development works will be made at full pace in the city. — TNS
22-12-2020||Mumbai||Sonali Phogat to enter Bigg Boss||Actress-politician Sonali Phogat will be the latest celebrity to enter Bigg Boss house. As a participant of the controversial show, she promises a lot of entertainment and positivity. “I have been a big fan of ‘Bigg Boss’ for long. The scale of the show is huge. I know so many people who watch it religiously. How can I refuse this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity?” said Sonali, on entering the ongoing season 14 of the show. — IANS
22-12-2020||Karnal||Continuous ration supply from Karnal||The farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws is getting support from residents of the district. They are not only offering langar on the National Highway-44 to farmers going to or returning from the Delhi borders, but also supplying food items and ration to those protesting at Singhu.“For the past 15 days, we have been holding langar near Karan Lake with the help of residents of Darar, Kurali and Salaru villages. No one should go hungry while passing through Karnal,” said Deepak Waraich, a resident of Darar village.Langar is offered round the clock and it will last till the protest continues. — TNS
22-12-2020||---||After 3 months of spike, state reports sharp decline in cases||Chandigarh, December 21The weekly trend of new cases of Covid in Haryana shows that the number of new infections last week were as low as the ones witnessed during the last half of July and the first half of August.Also, the 5,252 fresh cases recorded from December 14-20, which is daily average of 750 cases, are almost one-third of the number of cases witnessed during second and third weeks of September and December.Even the active cases of Covid in the state have come down to less than one-third of those on this day in September and November.11 more dieMuch to the relief of people, not only there is a decline in the number of new infections, but the number of deaths has also come down. As many as 333 people died in the first 20 days of this month as compared to 738 during the same period in September.The last two weeks of July saw 4,924 and 5,168 new cases, while 5,116 and 5,518 fresh cases were reported in the first two weeks of August.In contrast, the second and third week of September saw 17,092 and 17,616 new cases, while during the second and third week of November, 17,070 and 17,626 new cases surfaced.On December 20, the number of active cases in the state stands is 5,888 against 21,411 on September 20, 10,078 on October 20 and 20,150 on November 20.Asked whether this is due to nationwide phenomenon of decline in cases, Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, said the virus behaviour had been changing ever since the first case was reported in March, but people should keep in mind that they should not lower the guard.“As far as Haryana is concerned, we have not reduced our testing,” Arora added.POSITIVE TURNMonth CasesSept 21,411Oct 10,078Nov 20,150Dec 5,888
22-12-2020||Rohtak||Cops crack murder case, arrest suspect from Bihar||The police claimed to have solved a murder case after 11 months with the arrest of a prime suspect from Muzaffarpur in Bihar.As per the police, the deceased, who was also a resident of Bihar, had embezzled Rs 10 lakh of a liquor contractor for whom he used to work, following which the liquor contractor allegedly got him killed.The CIA 2 and cyber cell wings of the Rohtak police finally zeroed down on the prime suspect Ramvivek Rai in Muzaffarpur district and arrested him.Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma has felicitated the joint investigation team with a commendation certificate.“The arrested person has been brought to Rohtak on transit remand. He was produced before a local court on Monday which sent him in police custody for five days,” said DSP Sajjan Singh.The body of Ram Niwas Singh was found near Kharawar bypass in Rohtak district on January 24.The investigation revealed that Niwas used to work for a liquor-contractor Narayan Singh. He allegedly embezzled Rs 10 lakh of his employer and moved to Delhi.“Narayan Singh has asked his accomplices to shoot Ram Niwas,” said the DSP. He said the arrested person was being interrogated. — TNS
22-12-2020||Kurukshetra||Wi-Fi systems to play live ‘aarti’ throughout year||The tourists and devotees visiting Kurukshetra will now be able to listen to the Gita Maha-arti, on the stretch from Gita Dwar Pipli to Kurukshetra University, throughout the year, for which Wi-Fi sound systems have been installed at five chowks in Thanesar.On a call of the district administration and the Kurukshetra Development Board, various social organisations and private institutions came forward for the project and got the systems installed at five strategic locations to broadcast the audio sermons of Gita and Maha-arti from the Brahma Sarovar. The expenses on the installation and their maintenance are being borne by the institutions.The systems have been installed at the Geeta Dwar Pipli, Brahmanand Chowk, Mohan Nagar Aggrasain Chowk, Rotary Chowk and Ahluwalia Chowk in main market of Thanesar. During the Gita Mahotsav, the aarti of Brahma Sarovar is being broadcasted live and even after the mahotsav the daily aarti will be played through these audio systems.DC Sharandeep Kaur said: “Due to Covid, the Mahotsav is being organised online. The administration has been making efforts to do something new this year and at the same time we are also trying to give the best in minimum budget. With the help of religious and social organisations, we planned to install Wi-Fi audio systems so that people could listen to the Maha-aarti while being at homes, work place and public places.”“Under the first phase, Wi-Fi audio systems have been installed at five places, and social organisations and institutions of the city have contributed in this project. These organisations, by supporting the Kurukshetra Development Board, have given a unique gift to the city. The cost of these systems has been borne by the organisations and institutions and no money has been spent by the government and the administration. The social organisations and the district administration will also collaborate in making the city more beautiful,” she added. — TNS
22-12-2020||---||In a first, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra to be mapped for groundwater||New Delhi, December 21In a first-ever initiative, parts of Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra districts will be searched through Heli-borne geophysical survey and other scientific studies to map groundwater resources.To this effect, a MoU has been signed between the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) of Jal Shakti Ministry and CSIR - National Geophysical Research Institute of Ministry of Science and Technology and Earth Science on Monday.It was signed in the presence of Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Minister of Jal Shakti, Rattan Lal Kataria, the MoS for Jal Shakti, Social Justice and Empowerment, and Dr Harsh Vardhan, Minister of Science and Technology, Earth Sciences, Health and Family Welfare.“The MoU shall enable the CGWB to leverage high-end technology, like heli-borne geophysical survey, for mapping nearly 2,500 sq km area of Haryana, encompassing Ladwa, Babain, Shahbad, Thanesar, Pehowa, Jagadhri, Radaur, Mustafabad and Chhachchrauli,” said Kataria, who represents the Ambala parliamentary constituency.The survey would enable CGWB to identify aquifers and generate related data in a short time period and help finalise groundwater management plan. The old approach of drilling borewells to explore possibility of obtaining potable water would now be substituted by heli-borne survey. Hence, more and more area can be mapped with near perfection accuracy. “A lot of quality data shall be generated, which would then be used for effective planning,” Kataria said.He said that the water level in north Haryana region was witnessing depletion at an alarming rate owing to the use for farming, industry and supply towards drinking water.
22-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Haryana CM Khattar holds 3 meets in Rewari, but no word on AIIMS project||Tribune News ServiceRewari, December 21Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit to Rewari has left local residents and the AIIMS Sangharsh Samiti disappointed as he did not talk about the much-hyped AIIMS project while addressing three poll meetings here on Sunday.“Since the AIIMS project is the biggest issue of Ahirwal these days, we were hopeful that the CM would say something conclusive during his poll meetings to clear the deck for setting up of the AIIMS project that has been put on the back burner for several years now. The CM should now make it clear why the project is being delayed when villagers are ready to provide the land,” said samiti chief Sheotaz Singh.Residents of Majra and Bhalkhi villages have offered over 300 acres for the project and a committee of the Central Government has also found the proposed site suitable but the deadlock between the villagers and the government continues over the land compensation.The villagers want to sell their land at Rs 50 lakh per acre, while the government is not ready to pay them more than Rs 30 lakh per acre, sources said.The nation’s 22nd AIIMS project was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Kurukshetra in February 2019. Initially, the project was to be executed at Manethi village but the non-availability of adequate land forced the authorities to shift it to Majra and adjoining Bhalkhi village.Parveen Kumar, a shopkeeper, said the CM’s silence over the AIIMS project had left everyone disappointed. “He talked about future developmental plans for the district but did not mention a word about the AIIMS project,” he added.Ved Prakash Vidrohi, spokesman for the Congress’ state unit, said the non-committal attitude of the CM towards the AIIMS project was a clear indication that the project was not on the priority list of the BJP government. Rajendra Nimoth, a social activist, said the CM had shocked everyone by not saying a word about the project.
22-12-2020||Faridabad||Aspiring cop duped of Rs 5.5L, youth arrested||A youth has been arrested for duping a local resident of Rs 5.5 lakh on the pretext of getting him a job in the Delhi Police Department.The accused, identified as Suraj, was nabbed after 10 months of a complaint filed by Deepak, who hailed from Shamli in UP and was currently residing in Ballabgarh to prepare for competitive exams. In his complaint filed in February, he had said that Suraj, whom he befriended on Facebook, had taken Rs 5.5 lakh from him online with a promise of getting him employed with the Delhi Police and had even sent him an admit card, which was later found fake.Suraj, who hails from Champaran district of Bihar, was nabbed from Betia a couple of days ago by a police team that raided his place after receiving a tip-off. “He has been remanded in police custody. He will be interrogated in connection with the money and about other accused, if any, involved in the case,” a police official said. — TNS
22-12-2020||Gurugram||Suspecting affair, man kills wife||The Gurugram police have nabbed a security guard for allegedly strangling his wife to death suspecting her of having an illicit relationship. He was produced in a city court and sent to judicial custody.According to the police, the accused identified as Ranjit Kumar (23) of Madhepura in Bihar lived with his wife Sudha Kumari (21) in Aliyar village near Manesar. They had a two-year-old daughter, who lived with Sudha’s mother, while the couple lived here in a rented accommodation. Ranjit was working as a security guard and his wife Sudha as a helper in a factory in IMT, Manesar.He suspected his wife’s character and it was on Saturday night when he allegedly strangulated her. Though he rushed her to a hospital and said that she had committed suicide, the post-mortem revealed that she was gagged to death. He was arrested on Monday. An FIR has been registered against the accused. — OC
22-12-2020||jhajjar||5-year-old raped, killed in Jhajjar||The five-year-old daughter of a labourer from Madhya Pradesh was allegedly raped and murdered by a 27-year-old man residing in the same locality here on Sunday night.Vinod alias Munna, already booked in eight cases, was arrested after the body was found in his house. Jhajjar SP Rajesh Duggal said a case had been registered.“A police team entered the house by breaking open the main door. The girl was found dead inside. The cause of death will be known after postmortem examination,” the SP said, adding that Munna was in police remand.Local residents took out a candlelight march on Monday evening, demanding capital punishment for the accused.They disrupted vehicular movement by sitting on the road for over an hour. The police persuaded them to lift the blockade by assuring them of filing challan in court at the earliest. — TNS
22-12-2020||THE so called ultramodern bus queue shelters||Bus queue shelters a dismal show||Government insensitivity behind farmers’ stirTHE incident of suicide by a Sikh preacher in solidarity with the farmers' protest has added to the number of sacrifices for the cause. Many of them have died due to the freezing cold and others in road accidents. Against all odds, farmers have been protesting continuously against the three farm laws. However, double standards of leaders of all political parties have exposed their lack of commitment towards the farmers. It is absurd and ironical that the ruling government is treating the farmers as outsiders and not citizens. I am of the considered view that in the interest of all, the government should keep its stubborn attitude at bay and accept the demands of the agitating farmers at the earliest. —Indu-Gopal Mittal, PanchkulaDeath of preacher unfortunateAMID the farmers’ protest, death of a Sikh preacher Baba Ram Singh is very unfortunate. Preachers are guides of humanity and their support is needed especially in such a time when the human values are crumbling. Educational institutions too have become result oriented. In the modern times, people remain so much busy and occupied by materialistic things that they forget the real purpose of life. Thus, preachers are the ones who awaken people from their slumber and uplift them spiritually. One thing that we need to think over is that what was that which Babaji could see and not our government. The government seriously needs to look into the issue and accept the farmers’ demand before more lives are lost for this reason. —Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaSmart initiative to check Traffic rules violationIT is a matter of great satisfaction that the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has started installing 315 red light violation detection (RLVD) cameras at 29 locations across the city. The cameras will be used for traffic violation purposes and to keep a check on violators who cross the red lights by violating traffic rules. As a matter of fact, 60 RLVD cameras have so far been installed and work on installing the remaining cameras is ongoing. Based on the image or video, the software will automatically generate an e-challan and send an SMS, along with the evidence, to the registered owners of the vehicles, which is a good move. —Subhash C Taneja, GurugramWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
22-12-2020||Faridabad||Lecture series on Gita Jayanti||National Mathematics DayFaridabad: The Department of Mathematics of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, in collaboration with the Haryana State Council for Science, Innovation and Technology, will conduct expert talks and various competitions to commemorate the 133rd birth anniversary of Srinivasa Ramanujan, celebrated as National Mathematics Day every year. Ramanujan was one of the greatest mathematicians of India, and his work has had a fundamental role in the development of modern mathematics. The competitions being organised include poster making, debate and PPT presentation.Mechanical engg alumni interactionHisar: The Department of Mechanical Engineering, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised a one-day mechanical engineering student alumni interaction programme. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, was the chief guest for the programme. Registrar Dr Avnesh Verma and Dean Prof Saroj Dahiya joined the meet as distinguished guests. Various distinguished alumni interacted with the students and guided them. The VC said the university focused on the relationship between alumni and the university. He also added that mechanical engineering was the backbone and core branch of engineering and other engineering branches were dependent on it.Alumni association holds meetYamunanagar: Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, held the first meeting of its newly registered alumni association in which Gurdial Singh Nimar (president), Sukhchain Singh (vice-president), Kiran Vadhan (secretary), Poonam Bhandari (joint secretary) Sanjay Verma (finance secretary), Dr Subhash Chikara, Hazara Singh, Yashpal, Dr Amit Joshi, Dr Rajesh Bhardwaj, Jaspreet Singh and others participated. Principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang welcomed everyone and gave detailed information about the activities of the college. Sardar Bhupinder Singh Jauhar of the management committee expressed the hope that the association would help students in placements.
22-12-2020||Chamkaur Sahib||Sukhbir: BJP trying to divide Punjab, Haryana farmers on SYL||While no political conferences were held at the three-day Shaheedi Jor Mela this year due to Covid, prominent personalities, including SAD chief Sukhbir Badal, ex-MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, ex-Cabinet minister Daljit Singh Cheema and SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur, paid obeisance at Gurdwara Katalgarh Sahib here today.Talking to the media, Sukhbir said the BJP was raising the SYL issue now to create division among farmers of Punjab and Haryana, who were agitating in Delhi. He said farmers, especially from Haryana, were aware of the BJP tactics and had completely ignored it.Sukhbir alleged that instead of solving the farmers’ issues, the NDA government was adopting coercive methods to suppress the stir. The IT raids on arhtiyas was also to suppress the stir. “I have warned the Centre that the more it tries to suppress the ongoing stir, more it will be strengthened,” he added.Replying to a query over new invitation of talks, he said, “The Centre is trying to tire out farmers by starting a dialogue again. This is a futile exercise when the farmer bodies have already rejected the laws.The PM should call an emergency Parliament session and repeal the laws.” — TNS
