23-04-2020||Gurugram||Doctor couple goes beyond duty to unite a Yemen youth with family||Going beyond the call of duty, a doctor couple managed to unite a Yemen national with his family beating all odds.While due to his hyper-anxious behaviour, the Yemen youth was taken to be a psychiatric patient, government hospital emergency in charge Dr Yogender Singh and his wife Dr saroj coordinated with Delhi Police and managed to get the youth across to the embassy and then his family.It all started on April 18 when a call was made on centralised ambulance number about a ‘corona suspect’ foreigner lying on road near Kadarpur village.He was immediately rushed to civil hospital and attended by Dr Yogender.Though he tested negative for Covid but preliminary medical investigation revealed that the unidentified foreign national had recently undergone major neurosurgical surgeries.He was restless and would not have any food but only tea and biscuits and would jabber all day long in his mother tongue which nobody could understand.“He refused to let anybody come near and ran helter-skelter and not cooperate making all consider him as a psychiatric patient. We tried getting language translators but they could also not help us with his jabbering. We intimated local police and civil administration but he or his family or associates could not be traced. I had feeling that he was too scared and wanted to say a lot but couldn’t. We asked him to write and it took two days for us to get him to say something and finally he wrote on a paper,” says Dr Yadav.An Urdu translator identified words as a dialect of Arabic and using google the hospital translated it to ‘Yusuf of Yemen’.Dr Yadav tried calling on all numbers available for Yemen embassy but it went unanswered and he sought help from his wife Dr Saroj employed in a CGHS dispensary.Screening the patients list, she got in touch with SHO Greater Kailash, who reached out to embassy which was closed.A guard shared number of one of the officials and he was contacted and after two days Yusuf’s family was traced.It was revealed that he had lost his passport and was on medical tourism here when got stuck in lockdown. The family had even raised a missing complaint.The family has issued a letter of thanks to Delhi Police and doctor couple saying if they had not tried Yusuf would have been stuck in a psychiatric ward forever.“At this moment corona warriors are not just helping patients but everybody in every kind of need. The efforts taken beyond duty are surely lauded and saluted,” said DC Amit Khatri.
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt sends 31 buses to bring back students stuck in Kota amid lockdown||The Haryana Government on Thursday sent 31 state transport buses to bring back over 800 students of the state who are stuck in Rajasthan’s Kota due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to control the spread of coronavirus.The students from Haryana, who were preparing for various competitive examinations, have been stuck at the coaching hub of Kota due to the lockdown.“Thirty one Haryana Roadways buses have gone to Kota to bring back the students,” Haryana’s Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma told PTI.He said the buses from the Rewari and Narnaul depots of Haryana Roadways have been sent to bring back the students.Nearly 850 students are expected to travel back to their homes in the buses, officials said. PTI
23-04-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Robot helps deliver meals, medicines in COVID ward at Gurugram hospital||A Gurugram government hospital has deployed a robot to tend to COVID patients—from fetching meals to distributing medicines, the robot is being seen as a major asset in COVID management.A private company 'Hi-tech robotics' has provided the robot to the civil hospital in sector 10 to substitute doctors and paramedics to some extent in COVID wards. Robots are currently successfully deployed in AIIMS, Jhajjar and ITBP centre. Developed on leisure guided technology, the robot can comprehend five commands at a time and can work for 10 hours at one go. The robot was successfully tested for distributing food and medicine to patients and for sanitization of wards."The robot is working on the base of mapping and program setting in it and ensures social distancing. We have provided it free of cost to hospital as our COVID contribution," said Ajay Sehrawat, an engineer of robot manufacturer company."We have started using it after testing on a trial basis. We hope it will help us to manage patient care better," said CMO Dr J S Poonia.
23-04-2020||Gurugram||Truck with migrants intercepted near Gurugram, 3 arrested||Three truck drivers were arrested after they were intercepted attempting to transport migrants from Ludhiana to Uttar Pradesh at the Gurugram-Jhajjar border  on Thursday.The migrants have been shifted to relief camps and an investigation has been initiated.Migrant labourers across the country have been rendered jobless by the ongoing lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus and have been desperately trying to reach their hometowns.While a group of 76 migrants, including two children, were hustled together in a truck, another 72 migrants were found at a field along the KMP, where they had been dropped by a vehicle and were waiting for another.All of them have been shifted to relief camps while three truck drivers have been arrested for violating the ongoing lockdown and trying to transport 76 migrants from Ludhiana to Gorakhpur.Two separate FIRs has been registered at Farrukhnagar police station.The truck drivers identified as Gurucharan Singh, Gurusevak Singh and Harvinder Singh, all residents of Ludhiana confessed to transporting the labourers to make a quick buck. They had reportedly charged all Rs 2,000 per head to hide them in their truck. The migrants claimed they were too desperate to get back to native villages and got to know about the drivers through word of mouth."To escape the lockdown truck drivers pasted a paper on the front like pass saying "COVID-19, Agriculture Farmer Pesticide" and also covered the truck with tarpaulin. It was on KMP near Gurugram Jhajjar border that when the truck neared the 72 others hiding in fields came out and Naaka police got alert. We rounded those nad frisked truck and found 76 others. Two FIR's have been registered. The migrants are shifted to nearby relief camps ", said Deepak Saharan, DCP, Manesar.
23-04-2020||---||4 Sonepat people test coronavirus positive; 2 areas sealed||Panipat, April 23The district administration sealed Gur Mandi area and Saraswati Vihar Colony of Sonepat after four people test positive from these areas.Rohtak coronavirus positive man’s wife also tests positiveRohtak: The wife of the Covid-positive man of Kakrana village in Rohtak district also tested positive. The village has been sealed. The DC and SP took stock of the situation.Second positive case in Himachal’s SirmaurSolan: Sirmaur district reported second Covid-19 positive case with one Sadik, 57, testing positive in a report received on Wednesday night.He was one of the close contacts of the earlier positive case detected in the district, who was undergoing treatment at ESIC hospital at Katha near Baddi.Sadik was also shifted to ESIC Covid hospital at Katha for treatment. He is a resident of Gurumajra in Nalagarh but had gone to Sirmaur, said Sirmaur SP Ajay Krishan Sharma.During his earlier sample taken on April 7, he was found negative.As many as 34 Tablighi Jamaat members, including the recent case, had been put in a special quarantine facility at Taruwala near Paonta Sahib since April 4. The remaining 33 reported negative during the second sample report received on Wednesday night.
23-04-2020||Faridabad||Mosques to remain shut for Ramzan||Challans worth Rs 1.14 cr issuedYammunanagar: The police have issued 2,409 challans and imposed a fine of Rs1.14 crore to traffic rule violators during lockdown period in Yamunanagar district. Besides, 509 vehicles were impounded on the charge of violation of traffic rules during this period. District police spokesman Chamkaur Singh said 47 FIRs were registered under various Sections of the IPC on the charge of violation of lockdown and 95 persons were arrested in this connection. According to information, the district police are conducting evening domination and regular checking of vehicles in the district is being done. TNSKorean firm to supply rapid testing kitsChandigarh: The Haryana Government has cancelled the order of two Chinese firms to supply 1 lakh Covid rapid testing kits. Health Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday said a South Korean firm had been given order to supply these kits. The Korean firm had already supplied 25,000 kits being manufactured at its plant in Manesar at almost half the price offered by the Chinese firm, he asserted. Vij claimed that the recovery rate of Covid patients in Haryana was around 57 per cent as against 16 per cent in the country. TNSMaruti provides 2L surgical masksGurugram: Maruti Suzuki India Ltd’s car seat manufacturing joint venture Krishna Maruti Ltd handed over the first batch of 2,00,000 surgical (3 ply) masks to the Gurugram administration. They have committed to supplying 1 million masks each to the Haryana and Gujarat Governments for frontline workers. “We had committed to supporting the government with protection gear and masks even though the test specifications and process technology were not known,” said Kenichi Ayukawa, MD-cum-CEO, Maruti Suzuki India. “We are now planning to import some machines and manufacture N95 masks,” said Ashok Kapur, chairman, Krishna Group. TNS
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Women groups help fight Covid||The role of 40,144 women self-help groups (SHGs) in Haryana has been praiseworthy during the lockdown implemented to tackle the Covid pandemic.Not only have they prepared more than 17 lakh protective face covers and masks, 12,849 PPE kits, 225 protective kits and 35,000 sanitisers of 100 ml each in the state but also earned income for themselves.An official spokesman said 113 women SHGs from 34 cities of the state had prepared 3,26,013 protective face covers and 225 protective kits. He said that these urban groups have also earned about Rs 4.4 lakh from the sale of these items.Similarly, 40,031 SHGs formed in the rural areas of the state had prepared 13,98,605 masks, 12,624 PPE kits and 35000 sanitisers of 100 ml each. Apart from this, these groups have also prepared 82,657 food packs and have earned about Rs 1.25 crore, he added. — TNS
23-04-2020|| ---||15 arrested for lockdown violation, 12 FIRs lodged||Faridabad, April 22 The police on Wednesday arrested as many as 15 persons on charges of violation of the lockdown in the district. A total of 12 FIRs were registered.  A spokesperson of the department concerned said though the accused were released on bail, the police booked them under Section 188 for disobedience of the regulations.  He added while around 270 vehicles were challaned by the police, a total of 13 vehicles were impounded on Wednesday.  A fine of Rs1.46 lakh was imposed on the lockdown restriction violators. A total of 583 FIRs have been registered for violations since the imposition of the lockdown, it is added.
23-04-2020||---||Five more patients discharged||Faridabad/Palwal, April 22  With four more patients discharged this morning, the total number of cases discharged after recovery has gone up to 26 in Faridabad. A total of 43 positive cases have surfaced in the district till date. “All 124 samples whose report was received last night have been found negative,” said Dr Ram Bhagat, Deputy Civil Surgeon.  He said the report of another 114 samples is awaited. As many as 514 persons are still under surveillance, he added. Meanwhile, around 15,000 persons have been provided healthcare and screened for Covid symptoms through the mobile dispensary service launched recently in the district. Sector-3 was taken out of the containment zone after no fresh case was reported in the past week. In Palwal district, the total number of patients discharged after recovery so far has also gone up to 26. One patient was discharged last night. The district has reported a total of 34 positive cases. No new case has been reported here since April 18 when two persons had been found positive.
23-04-2020||---||10 new cases, curbs eased||Chandigarh, April 22Ten Covid cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours even as the Department of Revenue and Disaster Management on Wednesday allowed more activities and businesses to operate during the lockdown.Four cases each were reported from Sonepat and Gurugram and one each from Ambala and Rohtak. With this, Haryana’s Covid tally touched 255. Eleven persons were cured and released from hospital in the past 24 hours. So far, 144 persons have been cured and the state’s recovery rate is 56.5 per cent. The total number of tests conducted crossed 15,000 in the state. So far, 15,561 samples have been tested, with 13,397 returning and 1,914 results awaited.In a major spike for Sonepat, four more persons, including a staff nurse at a government hospital in Delhi, tested positive for Covid taking the district’s tally to 13. Three residents of Gur Mandi area — a 60-year-old woman, her 29-year-old son his 30-year-old friend — tested positive. One of the men was a tailor and the other a carpenter, but they did not go to work after the lockdown. However, they came in contact with a neighbour, who had attended a marriage in Delhi recently. A 35-year-old staff nurse of Sonepat’s Saraswati Vihar colony posted in Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital in Jahangirpuri of Delhi tested positive too. She had recently worked in the isolation ward.In Gurugram, two paramedics working at Medanta Hospital and a woman tested positive. The woman is an employee of IDBI Bank in Bhiwadi (Rajasthan) and had come in contact with her branch manager, who had earlier tested positive earlier. A city resident who had come in contact with an infected person was the district’s fourth case.In Rohtak, a man from Kakrana village in Rohtak district undergoing treatment for cancer at a Delhi hospital tested Covid-positive in the National Capital. The 58-year-old was then referred to PGIMS-Rohtak. His wife, brother and a driver who took them to the Delhi hospital and lab have also been admitted to the isolation ward of PGIMS and their samples sent for testing.Meanwhile, in directions issued to all administrative secretaries, divisional commissioners and deputy commissioners, for agriculture and horticulture, facilities for export or import such as pack houses, inspection and treatment facilities for seeds and horticulture produce; farm-related research establishments and inter and intra state movement of planting materials and honey bee colonies and honey and beehive products has been allowed. Among commercial establishments, operation of shops selling educational books and electric fans has been allowed.
23-04-2020||Mukesh Tandon---||‘Shoddy’ relief operations, Panipat Municipal Corporation Commissioner stripped of duty||Tribune News Service Panipat, April 22 The work of food distribution and other vital Covid-related relief operations was taken away from the Panipat Municipal Corporation Commissioner for reportedly failing to perform his duties properly. The HCS officer has refuted the allegations. The action was taken by HVPNL Managing Director cum nodal officer (Covid) of Panipat district Mohammad Shayin after he received a number of complaints against Commissioner Om Prakash. “The Panipat Municipal Corporation was entrusted with food distribution and other relief operation works during the Covid-19 pandemic. Om Prakash, Commissioner, Panipat Municipal Corporation, failed miserably to perform his duties and resultantly given the district a bad name,” read the letter. “All relief works related to Covid-19 pandemic will now be looked after by Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC), Panipat, Preeti.” According to sources in the MC, the government had ordered a survey to collect data of the needy in all 26 wards and uploading of data on the government server so dry ration could be distributed on their doorstep. Some complaints reportedly reached the nodal officer that needy people were being left out by MC officials and others were added due to pressure from some local councillors. The survey and uploading of the data was also not reportedly completed in the fixed time-frame due to which dry-ration distribution was delayed.  Om Prakash retired as Commissioner, Panipat Municipal Corporation, in January, but the state government reappointed him on the same post in February. Rubbishing the allegations, he said he had an impeccable service record in his 34-year career. “Almost 90% survey work in all 26 wards has been completed, while data of 13 wards has been uploaded. Data uploading is delayed due to technical problems in the government server and slow network speed,” he said.  He also claimed that distribution of food among the needy had been carried out with the support of NGOs and social organisations and there was no complaint.
23-04-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Edusat channels evoke poor response in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 22The state Education Department’s move to telecast Edusat programmes for the first time is getting little response. The telecast of teachers’ lectures for all classes through Edusat started on four TV channels on April 15. However, less than 20 per cent have watched it so far, as per the report compiled by the department on April 21.Government school teachers contacted their students to know how many of them watched the programmes. As a result, just 17.4 per cent students i.e. 3.58 lakh of as many as 20.60 lakh, have watched these programmes so far.For Classes I-V, the response rate is 16 per cent while it is 19 per cent for Classes VI to VIII and 18 per cent for Classes IX to XII.One of the poorest responses have come from Faridabad, where none of the 44,110 students of Classes I to V watched the programmes. Also, just 1 per cent of 26,502 students of Classes V to VIII and 3 per cent of 28,928 students of Classes IX to XII tuned in to the channels. In Jind, 1 per cent of 1.1 lakh students of Classes I to XII watched the channels.In Bhiwani, 2 per cent students of Classes I to V watched the programmes, while it is 3 per cent for Classes VI to XII. In Karnal, the response is 1 per cent for Classes I to V, 3 per cent for Classes VI to VIII and 6 per cent for Classes IX to XII.Fatehabad, Panchkula, Hisar and Sirsa are also on the lower side.When contacted, Principal Secretary, School Education, Mahavir Singh said, “There is no other way to teach students at home than through TV. Government school students don’t have gadgets like smartphones and Internet so online classes are not an option. It is for the first time that Edusat programmes are being telecast on TV. The penetration will rise.”Power cuts, no phones other hiccups“In some districts, there is no power during the day and hence no option of watching TV. The telecast has to be streamlined as it is still not as per the time table. We have tried using WhatsApp for education but many school students don’t have personal phones. They rely on their parents’ phones, who usually go out these days for wheat harvesting,” said Kulbhushan Sharma, president, Haryana Adhyapak Sangh.“Besides relying on TV, we are using WhatsApp groups to interact with students,” said Dharampal, Block Education Officer, Nilokheri, and ex-president of Haryana School Education Officers’ Association.Better feedback from Sonepat, Jhajjar
23-04-2020||---||Rs288-cr grant released to  civic bodies||Chandigarh, April 22 To combat the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, an amount of Rs288.92 crore has been released by the government as a grant to 87 municipalities in the state. An official spokesman said, at present 22,439 sanitation workers were working across the 87 municipalities. Apart from this, 2,911 vehicles are also engaged in this work. The spokesman added that currently 615 km of roads were being cleaned daily by more than 25 mechanical sweeping machines in the state and 95 to 100 per cent of the garbage was being lifted daily. So far, chemical spray has been done in 1,875 public places and 1,359 community and public toilets. The spokesman said the district administration was coordinating with the staff of municipalities, elected members, local welfare organisations and other social organisations to ensure supply of essential commodities like vegetables and ration to the residents. So far, 5,28,285 families have been supplied ration for one week. Also, food has been provided to 90,68,128 persons so far. For this work, 556 community kitchens, in collaboration with the district administration, have been set up in the state.
23-04-2020||Parveen Arora||7,500 fake distress calls over ration flood Karnal helpline||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 22The district helpline number (1950) is flooded with fake distress calls made by persons who demand ration for the purpose of hoarding. The helpline number has received around 15,250 calls so far since March 30, out of which around 7,500 were found to be bogus, while around 4,500 were genuine and ration kits were given to them and the remaining 3,250 were related to inquiries about other facilities such as telemedicine, movement pass and others.The district authorities have formed 20 committees, comprising of local councillor, staff members of Municipal Corporation, members of social and religious organisations for the distribution of ration as well as giving feedback to the authorities.After receiving a call at helpline number, the monitoring committee sends a concerned team to the caller to verify the facts.“I personally visit houses, from which we receive calls at helpline number. After complete verification like whether they have sufficient ration or not, or they got ration from depot holder, we provide them ration to avoid doubling the distribution of ration to one person,” said an official who is engaged in the task of distribution of relief material. “During the drive, several houses having sufficient material were found demanding kits,” he said. “We receive calls from people, claiming that no relief material has been sent to their colony, but after verification it is found to be a fake distress call,” said a councillor of the Karnal Municipal Corporation.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said people should understand the situation and avoid making such calls as it wastes a lot of time and energy of the administrative machinery.“We want every deserving person should get ration, for which we have established a centralised ration distribution place from Shri Krishna Parnami Public School and 20 teams are working for distribution of ration,” he added.Over 15,000 calls received since March 30The helpline number received as many as 15,250 calls so far since March 30, of which around 7,500 were found to be bogus, 4,500 were genuine and ration kits were given to them, and the remaining 3,250 were related to inquiries about other facilities such as telemedicine, movement pass, etc.
23-04-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Awareness, coercive action help Rohtak contain Covid||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 22Despite its proximity to Covid hotspots like Delhi and Gurugram in the national capital region (NCR), the prevalence of the pandemic in Rohtak has been under control so far with two cases having been reported from the district.A 72-year-old woman of Rohtak, who was suffering from renal failure, hypertension and diabetes and also tested positive for Covid, had died at a Delhi-based hospital recently.A 58-year-old man of Kakrana village, who has been undergoing treatment for cancer at a Delhi-based hospital, has tested positive as per a report of a private lab.“Effective sanitisation, strict enforcement of lockdown, mass awareness and coordination with voluntary social organisations, market associations and other NGOs have played an instrumental role in containment of Covid cases in the district,” said DC-cum-District Magistrate RS Verma, adding that the police also played a vital role in restricting unnecessary movement of vehicles and pedestrians.SP Rahul Sharma maintained that apart from educating the people about the significance of staying at home and not venturing out unless direly required, coercive action is also being taken to ensure efficient implementation of the lockdown.“As many as 285 FIRs have been registered and 440 persons arrested for the violation of lockdown provisions and related offences so far. Besides, 8,400 vehicles have been challaned and 780 impounded during the lockdown period,” he said, adding that fines amounting to Rs 2.5 crore had been imposed on the violators.Civil Surgeon Dr Anil Birla pointed out that regular monitoring, surveillance and home-quarantine of the persons having a recent history of foreign travel and reaching out to the residents by mobile medical teams for screening, health check-up and provision of medicines were being carried out in the district.The authorities of the PGIMS are also playing a key role in management and control of the Covid pandemic. The virology laboratory at the institute has been testing the samples of suspected cases of Covid from 11 districts of Haryana round-the-clock while an isolation ward has also been created to lodge and treat patients tested positive.2 cases reported
23-04-2020||Jhajjar||Rao reviews arrangements in Rewari||Union Minister Rao Inderjit accompanied by state Cooperative Minister Banwari Lal held a meeting with district administrative officers at PWD rest house here on Wednesday to review the procurement of rabi crop and the steps taken to contain the spread of Covid in the district.The minister appreciated the district administration for taking effective steps to keep Rewari safe from Covid.He also showered praise on social outfits for helping the needy in this time of crisis by providing them food and other essential commodities.Rao directed the authorities to inform farmers well in time about bringing their produce to the mandi so that they don’t have to face any problem in selling the produce. — TNS
23-04-2020||---||Will procure every single grain: Deputy Chief Minister||Chandigarh, April 22Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said the state government had given permission to industries for starting operations in the state by accommodating labour on the premises and maintaining social distancing. He said liquor vends would be opened in the state in keeping with the directions of the Centre.Addressing a press conference, Dushyant said while maintaining social distancing, the procurement was on in the state. He said the state government had already accepted most of the demands of the arhtiyas. He said therewas not any limit fixed by the government for bringing wheat to the markets.He said the state government had neither cancelled any licence of the arhtiyas nor made any kind of pressure. He said Punjab and Haryana were the only states where wheat procurement was being carried out on a massive level.Under fire for trying to open liquor vends mid-way through the lockdown, Dushyant said the government would await the Centre’s directions and decide to open vends based on the decision taken by the states. “The police have done a good job in checking bootlegging. The Excise Department has conducted raids, we are keeping an eye on stocks with the licencees and 12 of them have been issued notices for any shortage. We will even ban them if they are found to be involved in any irregularities.”On resuming of industrial operations, Dushyant said the construction units, which have a workforce of 31,000, had also been accorded permission to start the operations with the strict compliance of social distancing, and ensuring regular sanitisation of premises, hand washing facilities, masks and accommodation to the workers. It has also accorded permission to brick-kilns that follow the NGT guidelines, he said.He said small industries, which have up to five labourers, were being given permission by the BDPOs, while the SDMs were giving nod to industries with workforce up to 25 and larger units by the DC. He also urged the Centre to announce special package for labourers in the state.
23-04-2020||Sushil Manav ---||Panchayats, farmer bodies to replace striking arhtiyas||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 22 Now, panchayats andfarmer producer organisations (FPO) will also act as commission agents for the procurement of crops in Haryana and earn money for them in the process. With arhtiyas trying to disrupt the procurement of rabi crop by resorting to strike in some districts of the state, the Haryana Government has decided to get tough with them and started giving trading licences to panchayats and FPOs for the smooth procurement of wheat. Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Haryana, said: “Panchayats have enough labour for MGNREGA works. In view of the traders’ strike, some divisional commissioners and deputy commissioners have roped in panchayats to step in as commission agents. Similarly, some FPOs, which are basically bodies for marketing of farmers’ produce, have also come forward for this purpose.”  Kaushal, who along with ACS, Food and Supplies Department, PK Das held a virtual meeting with arhtiyas from across the state, said most of them had assured him that they were not supporting the strike. “Their main grouse was that they are not being involved in the issuance of schedule of farmers to be called to the grain markets on a given day. We have addressed this demand and now the market committee officials will prepare a schedule by taking their union leaders into confidence,” Kaushal added. He said the procurement was going on smoothly and by 5 pm on Wednesday, 2.57 lakh MT of wheat had been procured. “With 1.03 lakh MT procurement on the first day and 1.83 lakh MT on Tuesday, a total of 5.43 lakh MT of wheat has been procured so far,” Kaushal said, adding this was more than the normal period. Most of the striking arhtiyas are from Rohtak, Sonepat, Jind and Panipat districts, who are opposing the e-procurement policy of the government. They are also opposing the condition that only those farmers who have registered themselves on “Meri Fasal Mera Beyora” portal be allowed to sell their crops. Cong expresses concern Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday said he had discussed the “crop purchase crisis” with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and the latter had assured its early resolution. Hooda alleged that the speed at which the government was buying the wheat in the state, it would takeat least 3 to 4 monthsand the process would go on till August. “The purchase of mustard is even slower and less than 15 per cent of the yield has been purchased in a week. The farmer is worried on how they will sow the next crop,” he added. State Congress president Kumaro Selja and AICC communication incharge Randeep Singh Surjewala too expressed concern over the arhtiyas’ strike and allowing panchayats to purchase wheat. Selja said for years, the purchase and payment of the crop of farmers had been done through ahrtiyas and it was being sold in the mandis at an open price. “Farmers, traders and arhtiyas are repenting the day they voted for the BJP. CM, Manohar Lal Khattar, and Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala are making all efforts to break the bond between farmers and arhtiyas,” Surjewala said.
23-04-2020||---||Glitch removed, Karnal commission agents call off stir||Karnal, April 22Hours after arhtiyas announced boycott of wheat procurement due to non-display of names of registered farmers on e-kharid portal, they resumed buying on Wednesday after resolution of the issue following a meeting with Karnal Subdivisional Magistrate (SDM) Narender Pal Malik.“We have called off our strike as the technical snag in the portal was fixed by the authorities. The names of the registered farmers were not being displayed on the portal, forcing us to announce the strike on Tuesday evening,” said Rajnish Choudhary, president of the Karnal Arhtiyas Association.Till Tuesday evening, Karnal had procured around 7 lakh quintal of wheat, which is 25 per cent of the state’s total procurement that stands at around 28 lakh quintal. Around 3 lakh quintal more wheat was procured at 172 purchase centres till 12pm on Wednesday, taking total procurement to 10 lakh quintal in the district, said Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav. He maintained Karnal has been leading the in the state in wheat procurement.The issue raised by the arhtiyas has been resolved and they restarted procurement on Wednesday morning, Yadav said. The state government has started the portal for registration of farmers who have not registered themselves and it will continue till the procurement process lasts. “Farmers can also go to their respective market committee to get themselves registered. We have set aside fixed for farmers who could not bring their crop to purchase centres on fixed days due to reasons like non-harvesting, non-availability of transport and others,” said the DC.Meanwhile, a delegation of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) led by state president Rattan Mann met the DC and demanded offline pass facility at market committee offices for farmers who have harvested their crops but have not being registered so far, so that they can sell their produce timely. They also demanded that Food Corporation of India (FCI) start the procurement process.The DC assured themthat other procurement agencies have been assigned at two purchase centres where the FCI has not started procurement.
23-04-2020||Satish Seth ---||Kaithal farmers rue delay in weighing of packed grain||Kaithal, APRIL 22  Farmers complained of inconvenience on Day 3 of wheat procurement due to delay in weighing of packed wheat even as mandis in Kaithal district were flooded with arrivals.      A farmer from Garhi said he received a message to bring his crop to the mandi on Tuesday, but no one turned up to purchase it even on Wednesday.  “I slept in the mandi on Tuesday to watch over my heap of grain and will have to do so again today,” he said. Raghbir, also from Garhi, was luckier. He got his crop to the mandi on Tuesday and it was purchased on Wednesday. Farmers, including one from Patti Khot area, said there was no smooth system in place for crop purchase. “We are physically in mandi but mentally in our fields as part of our crop is lying there. Rains during harvesting season have poured misery.” Some commission agents too aired their grievances. They said bardana (gunny bags for packing wheat) was in short supply, hence the slow pace of procurement.  District Food and Supplies Controller (DFSC) Virender Singh said the administration was making efforts to ensure smooth wheat procurement. Bardana has to be supplied by respective purchase agencies and could not be supplied to commission agents in one go, he added.
23-04-2020||Karnal||7 Karnal village panchayats donate Rs3 crore to fight Covid||As many as seven gram panchayats of the district have joined hands with the state government to fight Covid pandemic and contributed a sum of Rs3.09 crore to the CM relief fund. They handed over a cheque to Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav.The DC said out of these seven panchayats, five were from Assandh block and one each from Nissing and Gharaunda blocks. The panchayat of Thal village led by sarpanch Gurjant Singh contributed Rs 1crore, Moond village sarpanch Veena Devi also contributed Rs 1 crore, he said, adding that Bilona panchayat sarpanch Balwinder Singh gave a cheque of Rs 5,21,000, Mamta Devi, sarpanch of Ganatehri village, gave a cheque of Rs 21 lakh, sarpanch of Bahri village gave a cheque of Rs 21lakh.Pingli panchayat led by sarpanch Sohan Lal gave Rs 11 lakh from panchayat funds and Rs 21,000 as personal contribution. Bastara village sarpanch Mewa Singh gave a cheque of Rs 51 lakh. —TNS
23-04-2020||Saurabh Malik ---||First time since lockdown, High court  hears case from its premises||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 22 In what is being construed as the first step towards regular functioning of the justice delivery system, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday heard a case from its premises for the first time after the imposition of the Covid lockdown almost a month back.  Even though the lawyers appeared before a Division Bench through videoconferencing from their offices, Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh heard the case this morning from the High Court committee room. The availability of high-speed internet connectivity and formal milieu of the courts lent a touch of regularity to the hearing. Available information suggests the exception may become the norm and the process of hearing cases may gain momentum in the coming days with other Judgesfollowing suit. “Hearing a case from a Judge’s camp office is one thing. Coming to the High Court for hearing a matter is another. It not only re-enforces the semblance of regularity, but also generates a sense of determination to deal with the matters more effectively. The coming days may see a substantial number of Judges disposing of nearly two dozen cases daily,” says a senior High Court functionary. As of now, the chamber of each Judge is equipped with videoconferencing facility and they may not even have to go to the committee room for hearing matters. The High Court is currently working in restricted mode following the Covid outbreak and is hearing urgent matters only throughvideoconferencing.  The High Court on March 17 also imposed restrictions on the functioning of the subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, making it clear that only urgent matters such as bail and stay would be heard.  All other matters were required to be adjourned. The restrictions have been extended till May 1 by the High Court for itself and the subordinate judiciary. The case before the Bench was regarding the extension of furlough granted earlier to a murder convict. At the time of hearing, a computer operator and a judgment writer were present in the room but at a distance from the Judges. The Bench was told that petitioner Amit was convicted vide on January 10 for murder and other offences under Sections 302, 307, 341, 506, 148, 149 of Indian Penal Code and the provisions of the Arms Act before being sentenced to life imprisonment. He was granted furlough for 21 days vide order dated April 2 by RohtakDivision Commissioner.  At the outset, the State counsel apprised the court that it was decided on April 20 that parole/furlough granted convicts would be extended by another three weeks. In such eventuality, petitioner would be required to surrender on May 16. “In view of statement, grievance of petitioner stands redressed,” Justice Gupta asserted on behalf of the Bench.
23-04-2020||---||15 men assault doctor in Pinjore||Panchkula, April 22A doctor of the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, here was allegedly assaulted by around 15 men at a “theekri pehra” at Pinjore this evening.The victim, identified as Dr Ashok, who is deployed at the Covid control room at the Mini-Secretariat in Sector 1, told the police that the incident occurred when he was on his way to drop his children at his in-laws’ house in Surajpur.“I have recently shifted to a health sub-centre in Burj Kotian for stay. It was my night shift. So, my children had to be dropped at my in-laws’ house in Surajpur. I was stopped by some locals, including a resident named Jarnail Singh, who dragged me out of my car and threatened to kill me,” Dr Ashok told the police.The police have registered a case against Jarnail Singh under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Pinjore police station.On April 11, a staff nurse of the Civil Hospital was allegedly assaulted by some youths guarding an entry point to Billah village near Ramgarh. On April 9, ASHA workers alleged misbehaviour while conducting a survey at Indira Colony.
