23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Six deaths, 1,096 fresh virus cases in Haryana||Haryana on Sunday registered another spike of 1,096 coronavirus cases as the fatality count reached 603 with six more deaths.During the past few days, the state has reported a sharp spike in cases. So far, 54,386 people have contracted the infection.Of the six fatalities, two took place in Ambala while one each in Hisar, Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Kaithal, according to a state Health Department bulletin.Among the districts which reported fresh cases were Panipat (134), Gurgaon (113), Ambala (97), Hisar (96), Kurukshetra (75), Sonipat (66), Karnal (51), Rewari (45) and Panchkula (40), the bulletin said.The state has 8,961 active cases as of now while 44,822 have been discharged after recovery.As of Sunday, the state's recovery rate was 82.41 per cent. The infection doubling rate was 33 days, the bulletin said, adding that 38,039 are being conducted after every 10 lakh population.The state has a fatality rate of 1.11 per cent. PTI
23-08-2020||---||Faridabad records 98 new COVID-19 cases, two more deaths||Chandigarh, August 23Faridabad added 98 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the district tally to 11,723 while two more deaths were also recorded in the past 24 hours.With two more deaths, the death tally due to COVID in the district has risen to 162.Meanwhile, the tally of recovered patients has also moved to 10,858 with 79 patients discharged today.The patients who died today include a 79-year-old man from Jawahar Colony and a 90-year-old man of Raja Garden locality here. Both patients were suffering from co-morbidities.With a total of 703 Active cases, three of the 39 critical patients are on ventilator while 440 are under home isolation.
23-08-2020||Panipat||Woman arrested for brutal assault of elderly mother-in-law in Sonepat; video goes viral||Sonepat Police have arrested a woman and her mother for abuse after a video showing her beating an elderly woman went viral on social media, officials said.The video shows the woman, whom police identified as Saroj, physically assaulting an elderly woman, allegedly her 82-year-old mother-in-law Sukhdei. The incident allegedly occurred in Sonepat’s Sector 23.  Both women are believed to have fled once they learnt about the First Information Report against them, but were arrested later.Saroj’s children are believed to have captured the videos on mobile phones. Police have identified the second woman as Mamta. Sources said Saroj was an ANM in the health department at RCH dispensary on Kakroi road.Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa claimed that police registered a case after a video of the incident, which relative is believed to have leaked on social media, went viral.The Tribune is not embedding the video with the story because of the disturbing content.Station House Officer City Inspector Sandeep said the elderly woman’s son, who they identified only as Rammehar, had said in his complaint that his wife and mother-in-law after that the physical abuse had been going on for some time now.Bharatiya Janata Party’s Delhi spokesperson Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga reposted on Saturday night asking for more information. Actors Diljit Dosanjh and Sonam Bajwa retweeted the video calling for action.  Dosanjh tagged Haryana Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Sandeep Singh in his tweet.The suspects have been booked under sections 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.
23-08-2020||Panchkula||Haryana IG held for assault||Haryana Inspector General (IG) Hemant Kalson was arrested today for allegedly assaulting two women in Pinjore. Two FIRs have been filed in the case — one under Sections 323 and 452 of the IPC and the other under Sections 323, 452, 509 and 510. He was sent to judicial custody in the second case.In controversy againOn Aug 2, 2020, Kalson was booked for ‘abusing’ womanIn April 2019, was suspended for firing into the air while on election duty in TNIn Sept 2018, he was allegedly involved in a road rage caseIn the first FIR, the complainant alleged that Kalson forcibly entered her house on Friday evening and beat up her daughter, bragging that he was close to the powers that be and that nobody could touch him. The complainant said her son had video-recorded the incident.In the second FIR, the complainant alleged that Kalson arrived at his house in an inebriated state, pushed his wife and abused her. When he intervened, Kalson kicked him and threatened to shoot him, he alleged.
23-08-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Student-teacher ratio high at secondary level: Report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 22The required student-teacher ratio in government secondary schools, according to the Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA) framework, should be 30:1. But it is 51:1 for languages, 102:1 for mathematics, 165:1 for social studies and 237:1 for science.Besides, 636 posts of teacher and 867 of Headmaster are vacant at the secondary level.This and many other facts came to light in the minutes of a meeting of the Project Approval Board (PAB), which has cleared the annual work plan and budget for 2020-21 for Haryana. The meeting took place in May, but the minutes were made public recently.The PAB claims the state has 2,237 surplus teachers at the elementary level, while 2,959 posts are lying vacant.Dr Mahavir Singh, Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) School Education, said, “The state government had reduced the student-teacher ratio from 30:1, which is mandatory under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, to 25:1 so that guest teachers could be accommodated. That is why the PAB’s evaluation shows that some schools have more than the required number of teachers. The reality is different. There are no surplus teachers at the elementary level.”On the recruitment of teachers, he said about 3,000 posts are locked in a legal battle.As for the 21 District Institutes of Education and Training in the state, only 163 posts of faculty out of 525 (25 posts per DIET) are filled. The PAB said the posts needed to be filled on priority as it was impacting the Performance Grading Index of Haryana. The Ministry of Human Resource and Development evaluates school education in states and UTs through this index.The situation with regard to Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBVs) is equally bad. “In all, 3,825 (51.13 per cent of the total) seats are lying vacant in 46 KGBVs. Besides, 26 KGBVs are yet to be started,” the PAB said in the minutes of the meeting.The KGBVs are residential schools for girls from disadvantaged groups for Classes VI to XII.On sports and physical education, the PAB pointed out that the “grant has not been utilised by the state for the past two years”.In 2019-20, more than 6,000 children were found to be out of school. “The state should develop a mechanism to track out-of-school children once the identified ones are enrolled in classes according to their age,” the PAB said.A budget of Rs 1,510.88 crore has been approved for Haryana for 2020-21, out of which Rs 825.38 crore will be provided by the Centre. Last year, the budget was of Rs 1,299.78 crore.Poor state of affairs
23-08-2020||Panipat||4 of family drown in Sonepat canal||Four members of a transporter’s family drowned after their car fell into the Western Yamuna Canal near Nahra-Nahri bridge in Sonepat district late on Friday. The deceased have been identified as Sadhuram (56) of Bindroli village in Sonepat district, his wife Seema (46) and two sons Monti (17) and Dhruv (15). Sadhuram’s nephew was able to get out and was found on the roadside in an unconscious condition. He has been admitted to the hospital. As per the police, Sadhuram was a transporter at Mehrauli, Delhi. He, along with his family members, had left for Bindroli village late on Friday. When they reached near Nahra-Nahri bridge, their car lost balance due to the high beam of a truck coming from the opposite side. To avoid a collision, the car swerved and fell into the canal. Commuters informed the police about the crash. The Kundli police reached the spot. Inspector Ravi Kumar, SHO, PS Kundli, said that the bodies of all four family members were fished out from the canal along with the car. No criminal case has been registered, the SHO said. The bodies were handed over to the victim’s kin after the post-mortem examination, the SHO said. — TNS
23-08-2020||Yamunanagar||Immigration fraud: Yamunanagar man duped of Rs15.65L||A man was allegedly duped of Rs 15.65 lakh on the pretext of sending his son to Canada.On the complaint of Vijay Kumar of district’s Sadhaura town, a case was registered against Ravinder and Vishal, both residents of Kurukshetra, along with Raminder Singh and his wife Saloni of Ludhiana on the charge of cheating and other offences at Sadhaura police station on Friday.The complainant said he wanted to send his son Karan to Canada.He said one day, he along with his wife had gone to Kurukshetra and they met Ravinder and Vishal at their office there. “Later, the duo arranged our meeting with Raminder and Saloni. All of them assured us about sending our son to Canada,” Kumar said.He alleged that they took Rs 15.65 lakh from them in instalments in 2019, but didn’t send their son to Canada.“They sent the visa document of Canada on our WhatsApp number. When we went to the Embassy of Canada to ascertain the genuineness of the visa document, it turned out to be fake,” the complainant added. Kumar said when they demanded their money back, the accused threatened them of dire consequences. — TNS
23-08-2020||Parveen Arora||Covid casts shadow on Ganesh Chaturthi||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 22The Covid pandemic has cast its shadow on Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. While the sculptors are waiting for devotees to purchase idols of Lord Ganesh, the sale of flowers has also witnessed a drastic fall in comparison to last year.As per the artistes, due to the Covid pandemic, several restrictions have been imposed and mass gathering is not allowed. They said that earlier, they used to get orders in bulk, but now they haven’t received any big order.Moreover, artistes from other states like Rajasthan, Bihar, UP and MP have come here in very small numbers this year to sell idols. Only a few stalls were seen in the city in comparison to last year when stalls were there in every nook and corner.Ramesh, a flower seller, said that earlier, they used to get orders of flowers in large numbers, but now, they are getting very few customers prior to the festival.“People are turning up in very small numbers here due to Covid. I used to bring 500 idols from Rajasthan every year, but this time, I have brought only 100 idols,” said Parkash, an artiste from Pali in Rajasthan who is waiting for customers on the footpath near Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra Chowk, Sector-12.Till last year, he used to get orders from the residents of Karnal a couple of months prior to Ganesh Chaturthi, but this time, nobody has ordered in advance, he added.Another artiste Akash of the city said due to several restrictions, they were witnessing a fall in sales.
23-08-2020||---||Woman ‘accepts’ Rs7L to withdraw rape case, held||Karnal, August 22The Karnal police arrested a woman school teacher from Sector-12 late on Friday allegedly for accepting Rs 7.25 lakh from a staff member of the same school for withdrawing her complaint of gang rape against the owner of the same school and a Tehsildar. Her husband was also arrested.They were produced in court on Saturday afternoon. The police demanded two-day police remand, claiming that they have to recover Rs 6 lakh from the woman. She had allegedly taken this amount from the owner of the school earlier, but the court denied it and sent them to judicial custody.The woman denied the allegations and blamed the police and those accused of trapping her in a false case. She also alleged that a son of an MLA of the district was also involved in this conspiracy. She said that she did not accept any money from anyone.Vinay Bansal, counsel of the woman, also blamed the police for shielding the gang-rape accused and said that the police have registered this case and arrested the gang-rape victim to weaken the gang rape case, which was registered around two-and-a-half months back.He alleged that the police did not arrest the gang-rape accused in the past two-and-a-half months. He said that the court had also “pulled up” the investigation officer for not applying proper procedure in the arrest. He said that the police did not get the currency notes colour-coated.SP Surinder Singh Bhoria confirmed the arrest and said that she has demanded Rs 15 lakh from the school owner. The woman and her husband were arrested.He denied the allegations and said that proper procedure was followed during the arrest. He refused to comment on the allegations levelled by woman.“After getting the copy of the order, we will approach the court again for remand,” he said.The woman teacher had earlier accused the owner and Tehsildar of raping her. The school owner had got registered an FIR against her for blackmailing him. The police had registered a gang rape case against the owner of the school and Tehsildar along with a case against the woman for blackmailing the school owner. The SP had constituted two SITs to investigate both cases.
23-08-2020||---||Miscreants open fire at Rohtak liquor contractor’s house||Rohtak, August 22In a dispute over the illegal supply of booze, a group of more than 10 persons opened fire at the residence of a liquor contractor in Behalba village here on Saturday.Two of them also fired several rounds inside the house. The liquor contractor and his family members climbed atop roof to protect themselves and hurled stones on the assailants in retaliation.The confrontation continued for more than 15 minutes and the sound of gunshots shook the village. One of the villagers also captured the video of the incident on his mobile phone. The video later went viral on the social media showing the assailants firing on the house of the liquor contractor.“Ram Kumar and his family members are indulged in the illegal sale of liquor in the village. This morning, Ram Kumar’s grandson Vicky carrying illegal liquor on a motorcycle was passing outside our house. My brother Balwan asked him not to sell illegal liquor. Later, Vicky along with another man came back and assaulted Balwan and my nephew Rahul with a farming equipment, stating that no one can stop him from selling liquor and they will do it as usual,” said Balraj in a police complaint.He said a number of villagers assembled at the spot. Vicky and his accomplice escaped the spot leaving the motorcycle behind. After sometime, 10-11 persons came there in two vehicles and two of them started firing on their house with an intention to kill them. “We all climbed on the rooftop and started pelting stones on the assailants in defence. Some of the assailants also suffered injuries,” Balraj added.Deepak Rathi, a social activist, claimed that illegal liquor was being sold in grocery shops and houses in the village hence, stringent steps were needed to check the trade otherwise such incidents would continue to happen.In all 11 persons have been booked under various Sections of the IPC and the Arms Act, said Naveen, SHO, Meham police station.
23-08-2020||Faridabad||Two accused of looting ATMs arrested||A crime branch team of the local police nabbed two ‘criminals’ who had escaped from the Maharashtra Police custody a few days ago. The accused are wanted in ten cases of ATM loot in Haryana, UP, Delhi and Maharashtra.  Identified as Nisar and Irfan (aged between 33 and 35 years) hailing from Palwal district, the accused had fled from the custody of a team of Maharashtra Police from Badarpur border on the night of August 18, while they were brought to the district jail at Neemka.  The Maharashtra Police had taken their custody on production warrant in connection with a loot incident there. The accused specialised in ATM loot which was done with the help of a gas cutter. The local police had arrested three criminals, including these two, in July in connection with three incidents of ATM loot in the district. Besides, cash over Rs 3 lakh, the cops recovered two cars, a gas cutter machine, two gas cylinders and an iron rod from their possession. “A team of the crime branch  arrested the two accused in Industrial Area, Sector 58, on Friday after a tip off. They were remanded to judicial custody by the local court. — TNS
23-08-2020||---||Sonepat couple killed, thrown into canal||Panipat, August 22An 18-year-old girl and a boy of Guhna village in Sonepat district were reportedly murdered and their bodies were thrown in the minor canal. The police suspect it to be a case of honour killing and have registered a case against unidentified persons under the Sections of murder.The police got information about the bodies being found in a minor canal near Jhajjar. A police team, along with relatives of the boy and girl, went to Jhajjar to identify the bodies.According to the information available, ASI Puran Singh — in his complaint to the Mohana police — said that he was patrolling near Tihara village turn.He received a tip-off that a boy and a girl of the village had been on the run since August 10 and the family members had nabbed them from near Safidon in Jind district around 4-5 days ago.The family members had murdered them and thrown the bodies in the Rithal minor.Following the complaint, the police registered a case under various Sections of the IPC, including murder, and began a search operation with the support of divers.As per sources, a video of their marriage in a temple had gone viral on social media. The girl had attained the age of 18 years on August 4.SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said that we have registered a case against unidentified persons under Sections 302, 201, 120 B and 34 of the IPC.
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Two of CM’s staff among 1,161 positive||With 12 deaths and 1,161 fresh cases, including two of the CM’s staff at his residence in Chandigarh, the Covid tally in the state has reached 53,290 on Saturday.Three deaths were reported from Yamunanagar, two from Kurukshetra and one each from Sonepat, Rohtak, Panipat, Panchkula, Jhajjar, Sirsa and Jind.Among the casualties were a 62-year-old female from Bhatia Colony in Faridabad, a 40-year-old male doctor from Ismailabad, Kurukshetra, who was suffering from kidney related ailment, and a 38-year-old woman from Indra Colony, who was also suffering from some kidney related ailment and hypertension.Maximum fresh cases came from Yamunanagar (157) followed by Gurugram (102), Faridabad (97), Karnal (91), Ambala (90) and Panipat (78). — TNS
23-08-2020||rugram||Despite protests, most Gurugram non-essential stores remain closed||Weekend lockdown was successful in Gurugram as even amid protests a majority of the non-essential shops remained shut on Saturday. The police were out in the markets and ensured that the orders are fully complied with. Meanwhile, traders staged protests the entire day demanding the rollback of the order. They even burnt an effigy of Home Minister Anil Vij to protest against the decision. The liquor vends, however, remained open the entire day and many witnessed huge rush as well. A salesman at a vend said they had not receive any order of the lockdown from the Excise Department. “Since when has liquor become an essential commodity? They are allowed to function but we are not. Vij has become a Tughlaq, who issues orders at his whims and we are being forced to shut shops,” read a statement by the Sector 14 Market Association. “We are still struggling to get out of the Covid blues and earn only during the weekend. But now they want to snatch even this from us. They need to rollback the draconian order, “said Sadar bazaar trade association.  Meanwhile, DC Amit Khatri has issued a warning saying the infection had increased by almost 2 per cent since the last one week and had asked the residents to keep their guard on. — OC
23-08-2020||Hisar||Case registered for poaching blackbuck in Hisar||A blackbuck was poached at Hisar’s Rawatkera village on Friday night.A case was filed under the Wildlife Protection Act. On Saturday morning, villagers found a badly injured blackbuck in fields. They called up the police and wildlife officials who rushed to the spot.The autopsy revealed that the animal suffered multiple injuries due to splinters of a bullet. An investigation has been started. — TNS
23-08-2020||---||Interstate gender test racket busted, 4 held||Faridabad, August 22A joint operation by the officials of the district Health Department and the Delhi Government on Saturday led to the arrest of four persons involved in a racket of illegal prenatal sex determination.The team recovered an amount of Rs 32,000 from the accused. A case under the PNDT Act has been lodged.A spokesperson of the district Health Department said the raid was conducted after information that some persons had been involved in sex determination in a New Delhi colony and had been charging a huge amount from customers belonging to other states.One of the members of the raid team contacted a tout posing as the kin of a patient and fixed the deal at Rs 85,000 for the test. The touts, including two women, met the decoy patient at a spot in Delhi and took her to a private diagnostic centre in an auto-rickshaw to Hari Nagar, where a woman doctor revealed the sex of the foetus immediately after an ultrasound test and without filing the mandatory form.The team arrested the touts and recovered an amount of Rs 32,000 paid to them as advance, said Dr Randeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, who said the rest of the money would also be recovered. He said two of the accused were reported to be working as paramedics in a government hospital in New Delhi. The team was busy in legal formalities when the report last came in. The accused are yet to be identified.
23-08-2020||---||Haryana approves Rs 5L in advance for Olympics qualifiers||Chandigarh, August 22The Haryana Government approved a scheme to give an incentive amount of Rs 5 lakh in advance to the players who have qualified in the Olympic and Paralympics games, so as to help them to do advance preparations before these competitions.Expressing gratitude towards, CM Manohar Lal Khattar, Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Sandeep Singh said earlier the players were given an incentive amount of Rs 15 lakh after they had played Olympics and Paralympics.While at the time of preparing for these competitions, players remained in great need for this incentive as during the preparations a healthy diet and many other things are needed, which cost a lot. The outstanding amount would be made available to them after they come back from the Olympics.The Sports Minister said the state government would bring many other new schemes for the players before the games to be held next year, which would help thousands of them.
23-08-2020||Chandigarh||Vends allowed to open, Selja asks if liquor an essential item?||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja today questioned the state over allowing liquor vends to function on weekend, despite its order a day before that only those shops dealing in essential items and services would be allowed to open.  “Is liquor an essential item?” asked Selja.  “The Haryana Government has failed to deal with Covid. It has decided to close all offices and shops, except those dealing in essential goods and services, on the weekend. But on the other hand, it is surprising that liquor shops have been allowed to function,” she said.  Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, who holds the portfolio of Excise and Taxation, replied, “You must ask her (Kumari Selja) about Punjab where they have a government. The Punjab Government has officially issued an order for opening vends by putting it under essential items. Haryana hasn’t even issued an order regarding it. “In the state, it is left to the DCs to take a call on it. If it is in market area, it is closed. For standalone liquor vends, there was liberty earlier too from the MHA. Kumari Selja must look into the record of Congress-run states and then comment about Haryana,” he said. — TNS
23-08-2020||---||Confused over lockdown days, Yamunanagar traders open shops||Yamunanagar, August 22Traders of Bilaspur on Saturday protested in front of the local police station after the cops allegedly misbehaved with them over the opening of shops.According to information, some of the traders had opened their shops on Saturday morning following a misunderstanding that business establishments in the district would remain closed on Sunday and Monday instead of Saturday.Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar had issued an order on August 20 issuing directions that shops and business establishments would remain closed in the district on every Sunday and Monday as before the outbreak of Covid, Jagadhri always remained closed on every Sunday and Yamunanagar on Monday.However, the Deputy Commissioner issued a fresh order the next day directing that the shops and business establishments of the district would remain closed on Saturday and Sunday as per the guidelines issued by the Haryana Government.However, after getting information on shops being opened, several police personnel reached the market in the morning and allegedly misbehaved with the shopkeepers.Angered with the behaviour of the policemen, the shopkeepers gathered in front of the police station here and raised slogans against the police. Later, Balbir Singh, Additional SHO of Bilaspur police station, pacified the shopkeepers and asked them to follow the guidelines issued by the government to stop spread of Covid.
23-08-2020||Ambala||Ambala IAF station gets letter warning of multiple blasts||The Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Ambala has received a suspicious letter warning of multiple bomb blasts at various locations, including Delhi, Ayodhya, Ambala and Punjab.Last month, the first batch of five Rafale jets arrived at the IAF station in Ambala.As per information, a woman, who claimed to be a spy, wrote that she has got information that there will be blasts on August 15, 17, 21, 25 and August 29 in Delhi, Ayodhya, Ambala and then Punjab. In the letter, the woman has shared the names of some men, including some belonging to Yamuanangar and Jalandhar, and their mobile numbers. They’ve been funded by Pakistan. She has also mentioned that several officials are involved with them.DSP, Ambala Cantonment, Ram Kumar said: “There were some names in the letter and we have written to the authorities concerned, including in Yamunanagar and Jalandhar, for further verification. Such letters have been received in the past too.”SP Abhishek Jorwal said: “The Air Force officials have shared a letter received through post… As per the Postal Department, most probably the letter was posted from Ambala. However, it is not clear from which letterbox it was posted. Verification has been done on the basis of the letter.”The SP said, “The letter was received at Air Force station but no threat was given to blow up the airbase. The wife of the Jalandhar-based man belongs to Ambala while the Yamunanagar-based person had an affair with an Ambala-based woman. It seems that this letter was an attempt to harass some people.”“A case has been registered against six persons under Sections 121A and 124A (sedition) IPC and the matter is being probed. The letter was received at 7 wing of the Air Force station,” said Ambala Cantonment police station SHO Vijay Kumar. — TNS
23-08-2020||Rewari||4 booked for minor’s rape||The police have booked four persons on the charges of abducting and raping a minor girl hailing from a village under the Kosli area.The girl went missing under mysterious circumstances on August 18. The police later booked a case of abduction on her father’s complaint and started a probe. On Friday, the police recovered the girl from Alwar (Rajasthan) and arrested two of the accused.In her statement, the girl said the accused took her to Alwar in a car where two others were already present. All the four then raped her. The police said efforts were on to arrest the other two accused. — TNS
23-08-2020||Ambala||Six arrested for assault||The police have arrested six persons in separate cases of assault and criminal intimidation, said the officials. All the arrested accused were sent to 14-day judicial remand by the local courts, the police added. TNS1 more held in arms caseThe police have arrested Sanjeev Kumar of Naraingarh near here in a case of illegal arms and ammunition, said the officials. The arrested accused was remanded to 14-day judicial custody by a local court. TNS2 held with stolen scooterThe police have arrested two persons - Johny and Sagar of Ambala Cantonment - in a case of vehicle theft and claimed to have recovered a stolen scooter from their possession, the officials said here on Saturday. Both the arrested accused were produced before a local court, which remanded them to 14-day judicial custody, said the police. TNSTwo POs arrestedThe police have arrested two proclaimed offenders - Ashok Kumar and Parvinder Kumar - who were wanted in separate criminal cases registered against them, said the officials. Both the arrested accused were sent to 14-day judicial remand by the local courts, the police added. tns
