23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt issues guidelines for salons, beauty parlours, other shops in the state||The Haryana government on Saturday issued detailed guidelines for salons, beauty parlours and sweet shops to take safety measures against the coronavirus.These outlets should provide services with complete safety measures, use disinfection and sanitisation after each service, and should not allow a person with fever, cold, cough and throat pain, the guidelines said. The clients and the staff inside these shops will have to wear masks, it added.Barber shops, except those in containment zones, have started to reopen during the fourth phase of lockdown.“Hand sanitisers shall be made available at entry and all staff shall wear face mask, head cover and apron at all times and compulsorily,” the government said in a statement.Disposable towel/paper sheets shall be used for each client and all equipment must be sanitised after each use. Staff should sanitise their hands after every haircut/shave etc.Appointments or token system should be adopted to stagger client entry and adequate spacing of at least 1 metre shall be maintained for seating. All common areas, floors, lifts, lounge area, staircase and handrails must be disinfected with one per cent sodium hypochlorite solution minimum twice daily.Carpets and floor area should be cleaned frequently, the guidelines said.Sharp waste which includes blades, disposable razors etc. should be collected in puncture-proof, leak-proof white container with 1 per cent sodium hypochlorite solution. The container once 3/4th filled should be handed over separately to municipalities for disposal.The staff and helpers should be educated to use face masks and cough etiquette and if they are found to be symptomatic for COVID 19, they should be immediately referred to the health department.Posters will have to be displayed at the entrance about cough etiquette and social distancing.The sweet shops will not be allowed to serve sweets/food inside the shop. Customers can take away packed items and the facility of home delivery can also be provided to them.Marriage/banquet halls can be opened with a maximum number of fifty guests at any time. However, they have to obtain prior permission for organising marriage functions in their premises from the Deputy Commissioner or any other officer authorised by him.Every marriage/banquet hall owner shall deploy guards at the entry point with sanitisers and thermal scanners. It shall be ensured that no person is allowed to enter without thermal scanning, sanitization and mask. — PTI
23-05-2020||Gurugram||Man shoots himself over Gurugram flyover, critical; pregnant wife wounded||A man shot himself in an SUV on the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway while driving his pregnant wife back from a maternity clinic late on Friday night, police said on Saturday.Ravi Kumar, 34, and his seven months pregnant wife Riya were having an argument when he stopped his car on Rampura flyover and shot himself, sources said.The man had lost his job during the lockdown and the couple were worried about financial security.   The bullet exited his head and hit his wife sitting on the passenger seat, police sources said.  Some passersby spotted the couple and took them to a hospital immediately.They are both at Safdarjung Hospital currently.Ravi Kumar is still critical. His wife, who is recovering, gave her statement to the Delhi Police on Saturday, who then forwarded the case to Gurugram Police.Deputy Commissioner of Police South Zone Deepak Sehrawat said. “According to Riya, Ravi’s job loss brought him under depression and that they were having too many arguments lately. They were returning from a routine check-up when they had another argument. He pulled out a gun from his pocket in a fit of rage and shot himself”.
23-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Quarantine duties of ailing MDU professors cancelled||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 23The Rohtak district administration has amended its order which asked for deputation of Maharshi Dayanand University professors at various quarantine centres.As per the amended order, physically challenged and ailing professors have been exempted from the duty.     The move follows a news report published in the online edition of The Tribune on Friday, which pointed out that a physically challenged professor of MDU and another professor suffering from chronic heart ailment had been put on duty at quarantine centres by the district administration.Besides, certain women faculty members of the university had also been told to report for duty at the quarantine centres from 5 pm to 11 pm.“After the issue was raised by The Tribune, the authorities concerned immediately modified the said orders and cancelled the duties of the ailing professors and evening/night duties of women faculty members,” said Vikas Siwach, president of the MDU Teachers Association.Siwach, who is also the president of the Haryana Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations, however, said they would meet the Haryana Chief Secretary, Additional Chief Secretary (Higher Education) and Principal Secretary to Chief Minister soon to apprise them of their concerns.
23-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana HC cancels summer vacations for itself, lower courts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 23Two months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court went into restricted functioning mode following the Covid outbreak, it has decided to cancel the summer vacations for itself and the subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The cases would continue to be heard in the High Court through videoconferencing during the period.This is the first time in recallable past that the vacations have been cancelled, even though the High Court has been taking a break from the summer holidays to a limited extent for adjudicating appeals pending in criminal matters only.An order passed on behalf of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha Saturday said it was notified for general information that the ensuing summer vacations in the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh from June 1 to June 26, both days inclusive, stood cancelled.The order added the court would continue to function with the present arrangement of filing, listing and hearing of the cases through video conferencing, subject to the roster being prepared by the Chief Justice.It was further notified that the ensuing summer vacations in the subordinate courts in the states of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh from June 1 to June 30, both days inclusive, also stood cancelled and the courts would function with the present arrangement of hearing of cases.The order comes at a time when the total pending cases in Haryana is 8,92,041, while no less than 6,46,342 cases are awaiting adjudication in Punjab. Even a small Union Territory like Chandigarh has 49,268 cases pending.National Judicial Data Grid figures reveal more than 5.6 lakh cases are pending in the High Court alone. It is suspected that many of the petitioners in these cases are no more there to pursue their grievances. When some of these cases are suddenly listed, the counsel are often at a loss in the absence of complete records or instructions.Even though the High Court has been making concerted efforts to bring down the pendency, the number of old pending cases has been piling up progressively; and with the Covid lockdown and shortage of Judges, the piles are unlikely to shrink easily. The High Court, as of now, has 55 Judges against the sanctioned strength of 85. Three Judges are scheduled to retire this year upon attaining the age of superannuation.
23-05-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||66 rapes, 142 molestations, rise in dowry deaths in Haryana during lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 23There is no letup in crime against women even during Covid lockdown in Haryana. The state, which is infamous for atrocities against women (as it had third highest rate in crime against women in 2018 in the country, as per the NCRB report), has recorded 66 rapes, 62 cases of abduction and 142 incidents of molestation in April this year.The crimes have happened despite there being restrictions on movement of people and strict surveillance. Though, it is still lower than the monthly average of last year in the state but as far as dowry deaths are concerned there is a rise.The state has recorded 27 dowry deaths in April, while the monthly average for the last year was 20.7 (as per information uploaded on Haryana Police’s website). It is a rise of 30.4 per cent. Even during April 2019, lesser cases were recorded (22).Crime against womenAmong 66 rapes, there are 17 gangrapes, 45 rapes and four incidents of elopement with rape in the state. Nuh is the worst among all districts as it has recorded 19 incidents, with eight gangrapes, 10 rapes and one case of elopement with rape.In one of the incidents in Panipat, a 21-year-old woman alleged that she was gangaped by four men, after luring her for help in crossing Yamuna to enter UP. Her husband was in UP. In Jind, three youths, including a 16-year-old, allegedly gangraped a 14-year-old girl in a school building.In 142 incidents of molestation, Nuh and Rohtak are the worst with 16 cases each. As many as 62 incidents of abduction of women have taken place. Here too, Nuh leads with 16 cases, followed by Kaithal with eight incidents.Five cases of sexual harassment have also been recorded with two each in Hisar and Jhajjar, and one in Fatehabad.There are 90 cases of dowry disputes (Section 498-A of the IPC) with 27 alone from Nuh, followed by 11 in Gurugram.Dowry deathsNuh also recorded five incidents of dowry deaths (Section 304-B of the IPC) which is the highest among all districts while two cases each are registered in Faridabad, Panchkula, Panipat, Palwal, Rewari and Yamunanagar.“Despite such difficult circumstances due to Covid when people are struggling to get even food, crime against women in Haryana is a constant factor. It is a serious issue,” said Prof Rajesh Gill, author of ‘Gender, Culture and Honour: a Gender Audit of Punjab and Haryana’, and faculty member at Department of Sociology, Panjab University (PU).On dowry deaths, she said, “There used to be space for women. But due to lockdown, families have come together. It is the women on whom the whole burden lies -- from taking care of house to cooking food. There is frustration, too much proximity between family members and men have nothing to do, which are the reasons for domestic violence and dowry deaths. Alcoholism in men is also one of the contributing factors.”“Women are suffering as they are constantly locked with their perpetrators during lockdown. We have specifically started a WhatsApp number (95600 80115) for complaints about crime against women, specifically domestic violence, during lockdown,” said Preeti Bharadwaj, Vice Chairperson, Haryana State Commission for Women.“In dowry disputes, we have been helping aggrieved women to take legal or police help, if she needs. Or we try to counsel husbands. However, we always try for an amicable settlement,” said Priya, who is a counsellor at Haryana Women Helpline-181.   Crime against Women in AprilRapes/Gangrapes-66Kidnapping/Abduction-62Molestation-142Dowry cases-90Dowry deaths-27 Sexual harassment-5
23-05-2020||Rohtak||Rohtak University to act over inquiry report after 3 years||The authorities at University of Health Sciences (UHS) here, would soon take action over the inquiry report of a four-year-old nursing admission case that put a senior professor of Department of Community Medicine in the dock for issuing relieving and sanction letter allegedly "without his entitlement" to a staff nurse for two-year study leave to pursue M.Sc Nursing (Psychiatry).The inquiry report, which was lying in cold storage, would be discussed at the next meeting of the university’s executive council (EC) following the direction of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in this respect.“A meeting of the Executive Council will be convened after the end of the lockdown period. The inquiry report will be placed before it to take further action,” said Dr HK Aggarwal, Registrar, UHS.Sarita, the staff nurse at Pt BD Sharma PGIMS Sharma here, had opted two-year M.Sc Nursing (Psychiatry) in the category of the in-service candidate after qualifying the entrance exams in 2016.Three other staff nurses of the PGIMS also got admission in the same category.The inquiry report exposed that reliving and sanctioned orders were issued to the four nurses under different terms and conditions for pursuing the course.Three of them were granted a study leave with half pay while the order for study leave without pay was issued to Sarita on account of being as a non-in-service candidate.However, she had got admission in-service category and also deposited the admission fee, said the report.As per rules, candidates under the in-service category are bound to deposit a bond for pursuing the course whereas such condition does not apply on non-in-service candidates hence Sarita was issued different sanctioned letter to protect her from depositing the bond, said sources.The case exposed when the principal of the Nursing College objected over Sarita's sanctioned letter stating that ‘she had taken admission under the category of in-service candidates, not non-in-service category’.The principal also informed the then medical superintendent of the PGIMS in this respect.Later, the matter was inquired by Dr RB Singh, Additional Chief Vigilance Officer, PGIMS, in 2017 on the directives of the Vice-Chancellor.“Gross discrimination and favouritism were done in the case. Prof RB Jain, who was working as Deputy Medical Superintendent (DMS) at that time, had signed relieving/sanctioned orders of the nurses with different terms and conditions despite the fact that their cases were absolutely similar in all aspects. It also raises a serious question over the integrity of Dr Jain and his PA Surender Dua in dealing the case on wrong grounds while keeping the authorities concerned in dark," said the inquiry report.Sourced said the university authorities had later sent the case to the PGIMS authorities in 2017 for further action, but it was put in the cold storage.The case again came to the limelight last year when a senior professor of the PGIMS sought information under the RTI Act about the action taken over the inquiry report.“But, the file was not found in the record. The Registrar then taking a serious note of the 'negligence' ordered to fix the responsibility of those officials responsible for missing of the file but neither the FIR has been lodged nor any action has been taken against any official yet,” the sources added.
23-05-2020||---||4 more test positive in Karnal, total active cases up to 12||Karnal, May 23Four persons, including three from a single family, tested positive for Covid-19 here on Saturday, taking the total number of active cases in the district to 12.   Three members of a family in the Chaman Garden locality of the city reported positive for the virus. The trio had returned from Delhi on May 15.A 28-year-old man also tested positive for coronavirus in the district. However, his wife’s sample has turned out to be negative. The couple had recently returned from Noida.
23-05-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Covid untouchability bars maids in Gurugram||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, May 22Maids are at loggerheads with local resident welfare associations (RWAs) over conditions imposed to resume work, leaving residents in the lurch.While RWAs are busy chalking out strategy for staggered resumption of work by maids, the latter have approached the local administration and the CM, accusing housing societies of harassment. Seeking intervention, hundreds of maids in a letter to the CM and DC have alleged RWAs were imposing “irrational” conditions on them to resume work.“For the past two months, we survived on food from community kitchen. I spent entire savings on medicines for my husband, who is diabetic. Our landlord is seeking rent and I have two children to feed. I need to get back to work, but the RWA has asked me to get tested for Covid, which costs Rs 4,000. They have threatened to blacklist me if I raise a complaint,” said Anjum, a maid in the Golf Course Road area.A memorandum by the Gharelu Kamgar Union claimed RWAs had imposed ‘discriminatory’ conditions that had nothing to do with safety protocol mandated by the MC. While most RWAs were insisting on tests, some had barred them from using parks, benches, lifts and water coolers. Maids alleged use of force by guards besides being asked to pay for sanitisation measures at society gates. The president of a Sohna road society RWA said: “Most maids come from Covid-hit zones and residents are not willing to let them in. So we asked them to get a Covid-free certificate.”
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Eight babus to make scheme on paddy diversification a success||Amidst lack of clarity among farmers, the Haryana Government has intensified efforts to make crop diversification scheme ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ a success. The government wants to first diversify around 1 lakh hectare area, currently under paddy, to other crops such as maize, cotton, bajra or pulses under the scheme.Cong protests curbs on cultivationAICC communication in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala criticised the BJP-JJP government in Haryana for imposing restrictions on paddy cultivation at a symbolic dharna in Shahabad on Friday morning. He was accompanied by former Shahabad MLA Anil Dhantori and other activists. “The BJP government is trying to destroy farmers and has also imposed a ban on cultivation of paddy on panchayati land. The decision will hit the rice industry too,” Surjewala said.Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department, on Friday allotted the eight targeted blocks to five IAS officers and three director general-level officers for “supervision, information, education, communication and monitoring” of the scheme.IAS officer A Sreenivas has been allotted Shabad block and J Ganesan Kurukshetra district. Maniram Sharma has been allotted Siwan block of Kaithal, Shakti Singh Sirsa block of Sirsa and Sanjeev Verma Ratia block of Fatehabad.Among the non-IAS officers, Manoj Kumar Bansal, MD of HARCO Bank, has been allotted Pipli block of Kurukshetra, Dr Arjun Singh Saini, Director General, Horticulture, will look after Ismailabad block of Kurukshetra while BS Sehrawat, Mission Director of Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture, will look after Guhla block of Kaithal.“There are three components of the scheme. The first being about the above eight blocks where the water table has gone dropped 40 metres or more. Paddy is grown on 1,79,951 hectares in these blocks. Our target is to persuade farmers to diversify at least 50 per cent of this land. The second component is about 12 blocks where the water table has fallen beyond 35 metres. Here, sowing of paddy will not be allowed on panchayat land which is 7,200 hectare. The third component of the scheme is about paddy being grown in the rest of the state. The government will provide similar incentives to farmers there if they diversify to other crops,” said Kaushal.The incentives for the of farmers include payment of Rs 7,000 per acre in lieu of diversification, free seeds, government procurement of alternate crop grown, 85 per cent subsidy for installation of drip irrigation and payment of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojna premium by the government.‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’, though touted as optional, provides for not procuring paddy crop of farmers not opting for it. Farmers operating their tubewells with 50 hp motors will not be allowed to grow paddy at all.Gurjeet Singh Mann, a progressive farmer from Kirpal Patti village of Sirsa, said the sudden announcement of “ban on cultivation of rice” has sent a chill down the spine of many farmers. “Firstly, the scheme was announced too late when cotton sowing season is already over. Secondly, the Rs 7,000 subsidy is not at all lucrative when compared to the higher income farmers get from paddy. The other crops being suggested are mostly unsuitable for areas where rice is grown traditionally, mainly because of agronomy and climate,” he said.Mann said that in the light of the ongoing pandemic, farmers want ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ postponed for at least a year and an increase in the incentive amount to Rs 21,000. The Opposition parties, Congress and the INLD, have already opposed the scheme and have termed it “anti-farmer”.
23-05-2020||Palwal||2 held for gangrape||The police arrested two youths on Thursday in connection with the abduction and gangrape of a 19-year-old. The accused were identified as Akash and Mohan. The police were on the lookout for a third person involved in the crime.The girl knew Akash, who called her on the pretext of marriage. the girl was taken to a jungle and allegedly gangraped by the trio. The accused were remanded in police custody for four days. — TNS
23-05-2020||Rohtak||Rape accused kills self||A 31-year-old prisoner, Pramod, who was lodged at the Sunaria jail in Rohtak district and undergoing trial for a minor’s rape, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in the wee hours of Friday morning. A resident of Ferozepur village in Sonepat district, Pramod had been shifted to Sunaria jail on March 14 for psychiatric treatment. A case against him was registered at Khakhauda police station. — TNS
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 5 for OPD card at civil hospital, most tests free in Haryana||The Haryana Government has notified new fees and charges for treatment at government hospitals.According to the Health Department notification, the OPD card for the civil hospital will cost Rs5 per year but will be free at other dispensaries. Similarly, indoor admission card will cost Rs10.While general bed for indoor patient will now cost Rs10, Rs250 will be charged for private room. An amount of Rs500 per day will be charged for availing ICU services.However, BPL families, victims of domestic violence and sexual assault, social security pension beneficiaries, freedom fighters and Ayushman Bharat PMJAY card holders are exempt from payment of these charges.Medico-legal report with now be available on payment of Rs250. Similarly, the service entry medical for Group A and B officers of the Haryana Government, Central Government staff and private sector employees will cost Rs500. It will be Rs200 for Group C and Rs100 for Group D employees. The medical examination for arms licence, driving licence and for admission to school or college will cost Rs100.The notification said most diagnostic tests, including blood sugar, blood culture, urine culture, liver function test, stool analysis, X-ray, ultrasound, ECG and lipid profile, will be free of charge. However, some of the tests, if available at government hospitals, will be charged. These included HbAIC (Rs100), mammography (Rs100), bone density test (Rs300), TMT (Rs300) and colour doppler (Rs150).
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Gurugram man 16th casualty||With 37 new cases, Haryana’s Covid tally reached 1,067 today, with a rise of 3.6%. The cases were reported from Gurugram (11), Mahendragarh (10), Kurukshetra (5), Faridabad (4), Karnal and Rewari (2 each) and Sonepat, Sirsa and Rohtak (1 each).A 75-year-old Gurugram man died of Covid at the PGIMS in Rohtak, the 16th casualty in the state. Among the 11 cases in Gurugram, four are from Bhoda Kalan. Among the 10 cases in Mahendragarh, four are from Bajad Gujarvas Mahasar village.The five cases in Kurukshetra include a man (32) from Kheri Dabbalan village, a 60-year-old man from Bakali village, a 40-year-old man from Gharaula village and two men aged 46 and 47 from Ladwa.The four cases in Faridabad include a 40-year-old bank employee in Sector 16 working in Delhi, a 50-year-old from the NIT area having travel history to Mumbai, a 31-year-old resident of Ballabgarh having history of travel to UP and a 48-year-old woman suffering from anaemia and kidney ailment, who was shifted to the ESI Medical College and Hospital.A man aged around 60 years and a 16-year-old tested positive in Karnal. The teenager had come from Delhi. A 28-year-old man of Naya Baans village in Rohtak, working at a fire station in Delhi, tested positive. A 25-year-old man of Rai in Sonepat tested positive.Panchkula removed one case from its tally as he was untraceable so far. A total of 25 patients were cured, taking the tally to 706, with a recovery rate of 66.17%.
23-05-2020||Rohtak||Aid for patient after husband dies of Covid||Good Samaritans from Rohtak have come forward to help a 29-year-old woman from Gurugram, Ishrat Khatoon, who recently lost her husband to Covid and is admitted to the PGIMS after she too tested positive.Ishrat’s husband Mohammad Raja used to work as a delivery salesman with a food chain in Gurugram, while she works as a cook in houses.PGIMS Covid control room incharge Dr Varun Arora said local industrialist Rajesh Jain donated Rs1 lakh for Ishrat, while certain faculty members and alumni of PGIMS, scribes and civil society were also pitching in. — TNS
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Going Rajasthan way, Haryana to bring in ordinance||The Haryana Government is working on an ordinance to enforce wearing of masks, social distancing and a ban on spitting in the open on the lines of the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, promulgated earlier this month.The Tribune has learnt that the Home Department is already in the process of preparing a draft for the proposed ordinance on the lines of the Rajasthan ordinance.Home and Health Minister Anil Vij has confirmed that the state plans to bring in an ordinance to impose penalties on those violating instructions to prevent Covid spread and instructions have been issued to the department to come out with a draft.The Rajasthan ordinance provides that any person not wearing a face mask or face cover (covering nose and mouth properly) in the public and at the workplace will be liable to pay a penalty of Rs200.The ordinance also provides that the sale of any item by a shopkeeper to a person not wearing a face mask or face cover will attract a fine of Rs500.Any person found spitting in a public place will attract a penalty of Rs200. Those found consuming liquor in a public place will be fined Rs500.Any person found selling ‘paan’, ‘gutka’ or tobacco will be fined Rs1,000. The ordinance says a person not maintaining social distancing (at least 6 feet from the other person) in a public place will be fined Rs100.Organising a marriage function or gathering without prior information in writing to the SDM or not maintaining social distancing during such a function will attract a penalty of Rs5,000. Organising a marriage function with more than 50 persons will attract a penalty of Rs10,000.The Rajasthan ordinance authorises police officials not below the rank of Head Constable to act in respect of any offence committed under the ordinance.According to sources, the ordinance is being drafted on Vij’s initiative. He has told Vijai Vardhan, Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department, to examine the Rajasthan ordinance for issuance of a similar notification by Haryana.The sources have said major paperwork for the proposed draft has already been done and it is likely to be brought in soon.
23-05-2020||Karnal||Migration sparks workforce shortage in industry||The migration of workers to their native places has created a shortage of skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers in Karnal’s industrial sector.The industries dealing in pharmaceuticals, agricultural implements, rice and print and packaging are the worst hit. In the absence of manpower, these are facing problems in delivering orders on time.Industrialists say around 25% of the workforce has gone to their native places, hitting the production. They are approaching local labour for work, but to no avail.There are around 300 rice mills, including around 100 exporters, giving jobs to over 40,000 workers. The exporters are worried overtimely delivery to various countries.There are around 100 agricultural implement units in the district, providing jobs to around 3,500 persons. Industrialists say they are getting orders, but lack of manpower has become a hurdle in smooth operations.“The lockdown has badly affected the industry. A number of workers have gone to their native places. We need extra manpower in the sowing season, but migration has added to our woes. We have approached local contractors, but they are unable to provide labour,” said Ravinder Dhall, president, Karnal Agricultural Implements Manufacturers’ Association (KAIMA).Som Sachdeva, patron of KAIMA, said they had approached the GM of the District Industries Centre (DIC) and the ITI Principal, but to no avail. “We have now contacted the District Employment Officer to provide labour to meet the demand of agricultural implement industry,” he added.“Migration of labour has hit the pharmaceutical industry. We are getting orders, but are unable to meet the demand in the absence of labour,” said RL Sharma, chairman, Karnal unit, Haryana Chamber of Commerce and Industries.Anil Kumar, GM, DIC, said around 25% workers had migrated back due to which production at several industries had been affected.
23-05-2020||---||Sarpanch’s husband shot in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, May 22Five persons allegedly shot dead the husband of sarpanch of Bal Chhappar village in Yamunanagar district on Friday.The police said the issue of building a stadium over the panchayat land could be the reason behind the murder. The deceased has been identified as Rachchh Pal Singh (45) whose wife Satnam Kaur is the sarpanch of the village.On the complaint of the father of the deceased, Jagdish Singh, a case was registered against three persons, Sukhvinder Singh, Virender and Bhagat Singh, all residents of Bal Chhappar village, and against two unidentified persons under Sections 302 (murder), 120-B (hatching a criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Chhappar police station on Friday.The complainant said the gram panchayat wanted to develop the piece of panchayat land as a stadium for the youth of the village. Therefore, he along with his son Rachchh Pal Singh and some other persons had gone to the said piece of land at about 10 am.He said five persons, including Sukhvinder, Virender, Bhagat Singh and two other persons came there. “Suddenly Sukhvinder Singh opened fire on Rachchh Pal Singh. He fell down on the ground. He was rushed to a private hospital, where he was declared brought dead,” alleged the complainant. He said the assailants escaped from the spot on their vehicles after committing the crime.Satpal Singh, SHO, Chhappar police station, said nine bullets hit the body of Rachchhpal Singh. He said the gram panchayat wanted to develop the piece of panchayat land of the village as a stadium, but some people of the village were opposing the proposal of the sarpanch.
23-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Caterer ends life in Gurugram||Gurugram, May 22A caterer, hailing from Rajasthan, committed suicide on Friday claiming that he was left penniless during the lockdown. According to the suicide note, he had lent around Rs 12 lakh to four colleagues who too could not return it and thus he was left with no money to buy food. The police have booked four persons for abetment of suicide.According to the police, the deceased was identified as Sachin Sharma (38) of Jaipur, who was working as a caterer in Gurugram for the last some years. He was living with his family in Laxman Vihar, Phase 2 and committed suicide in his house.On being informed, a police team reached the spot and recovered a suicide note in which he had alleged his four colleagues of not returning Rs 12 lakh that he had lent to them and that he was left with no other option than to end his life.Saroj, wife of the deceased, told the police that her husband was depressed as all business was stalled and his colleagues were also not able to return his money.As per the complaint of Saroj, an FIR has been registered against four persons under Sections 306 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code.
23-05-2020||Faridabad||NCW seeks report on ‘sexual harassment’ of hospital staffer||The National Commission for Women (NCW) has taken cognisance of an alleged incident of sexual harassment at a private hospital here last month.It has sought an action taken report into the matter. The local police and district administration are unaware of the reported incident.The NCW, in its order issued today, asked Sangeeta Rai Gupta, director of QRG Enterprises Limited, running the QRG Central Hospital here, to report if any internal committee was inquiring the complaint lodged by a woman employee against a doctor.It asked the hospital management to take action against the accused if found guilty and submit an action taken report to the NCW at the earliest.The complainant had posted the complaint on Twitter recently and attached an e-mail, claiming that the hospital authorities had failed to take action against the doctor, while she was demoted.DC Yash Pal Yadav said said he would inquire at his level. Police PRO Sube Singh said the nearest police station had been told to look into the incident.
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||PIL: Reopen places of worship||A lawyer today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking directions to the State of Punjab, Haryana and Union Territory of Chandigarh to open all places of worships such as mosque, gurdwaras and temples.This, petitioner Mubeen Farooqi said, could be done from the eve of Eid-ur-Fitr and the martyrdom day of Sri Guru Arjun Dev. — TNS
23-05-2020||Ambala||Train leaves for Bihar with 1,600 migrants||Toddler found dead in village water tankHisar: A toddler was kidnapped and found dead in a water tank at Saump village of Charkhi Dadri district on Thursday. The police said Rakshit, the toddler, went missing from his home on Thursday evening. His family informed the police about the incidence and a hunt was launched. However, late in the night, the body was recovered from a water tank in the neighbouring house. TNS
