23-09-2020||---||Protesting Punjab farmers on their way to Delhi stopped at Haryana border||Ambala, September 23The police had to use water cannons and mild force to stop protesting Punjab farmers from entering Haryana after sealing the inter-state border on the National Highway-44 here this afternoon.Led by the Bains brothers – Simarjit Singh and Balwinder Singh – of the Lok Insaaf Party and riding motorcycles,  the farmers protesting against the controversial Farm Bills cleared by the Parliament recently were stopped at the Shambhu border. The agitating farmers were on their way to New Delhi.On receiving the information, heavy police force blocked the highway by erecting barricades at the inter-state border and stopped the protesting farmers, led by the Bains brothers, from moving ahead.The busy highway remained blocked for vehicular traffic for a couple of hours and long queues of vehicles could be seen stranded on the arterial road, which connects major parts of Punjab with Haryana and Delhi.As the protesters, wearing white kurta-pyjamas and carrying black flags, remained adamant on crossing the barricades to gain access into Haryana, the heavy police force deployed on the spot used water cannons and mild force to disperse them.Raising slogans against the Union Government, the agitators kept trying to break the police barricading but in vain. On their part, policemen kept warning the protesters against moving forward and asked them to get back or face action.Ambala Range IGP Y Puran Kumar said the protesters were not allowed to enter Haryana in view of the prohibitory orders in place to maintain law and order situation.Meanwhile, the protest caused great hardship to the commuters with several stranded travelers, including women, aged and children, seen walking on foot through the Ghaggar riverbed to reach Ambala for their further journey.On Sunday, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar leading the farmers on tractors to Delhi in protest against the farm legislations was denied entry to Haryana and stopped at the inter-state border in Sadopur near Ambala.
23-09-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Admission of 49 homeopathy students cancelled after studying for 3 years||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 23The admissions of as many as 49 students of the 2016-17 batch studying at JR Kissan Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital in Rohtak for three years were abruptly cancelled last year.While the authorities concerned cite an order of the Supreme Court on being asked about the cancellation of admissions, the affected students have been running from pillar to post for the last 10 months.After having knocked at all possible doors, the hapless students are now sitting on dharna on the premises of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS) in Rohtak for a week.“We had duly cleared the entrance exam and got admitted to the college after undergoing the counseling process. We studied for three years and cleared the exams of the first two years. However, a few days prior to our third-year exams in 2019, we were abruptly told that our admissions had been cancelled,” the protesting students said while talking to The Tribune at the dharna site.Inquiries made into the matter revealed that the Union Ayush Ministry had turned down a proposal to increase the number of seats pertaining to the 2016-17 batch at the college.The college authorities approached the High Court, which allowed them to continue the classes of the 49 students admitted to the college in that batch.In the meanwhile, the college, which was earlier affiliated with UHS, Rohtak, was shifted to Shri Krishna Ayush University, Kurukshetra. The authorities of Ayush university then moved the Supreme Court, which set aside the High Court’s order, thus rendering the admissions of the 49 students cancelled.    The director of the college, Amarender Singh, said the Central authorities concerned had authorised the Haryana Government to decide the matter.“We appeal to the state government to adopt a sympathetic approach regarding the matter as the future of 49 students is at stake,” he stated.It may be pertinent to mention here that the Haryana Government has constituted a committee comprising the additional chief secretaries of the departments of Health and Medical Education and Research to decide the matter.  The UHS Registrar, Dr H.K.Aggarwal, who is also a member of the committee, said a meeting of the committee had been convened at Chandigarh to deliberate over the matter.
23-09-2020||Panipat||Police use water cannon in Panipat to stop Haryana Youth Congress ‘tractor rally’ to Delhi||Haryana Police used water cannons on Wednesday to stop Haryana Youth Congress (HYC) activists from heading toward Delhi as protests intensified against the three controversial farm Bills.Police stopped hundreds of protesters heading toward Delhi in tractors on a flyover on national highway-44 in Samalkha of Panipat district, leading to a clash. Police claimed that the repeated entreaties to retreat went unheard. Some protesters even tried to jump over barricades set up to stop the rally from moving forward, police said, prompting them to use water cannon to disperse the swelling crowd.  “Some activists have been detained to deal with any untoward situation and were released later,” DSP (Headquarter) Satish Kumar Vats said.Protesters were responding to HYC’s call to rally against the three Bills and had gathered at the Panipat grain market. The crowd primarily comprised farmers, arhtiyas and farm labourers.The three controversial Bills---The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill,  the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill---passed recently by Parliament has drawn protests both inside and outside the legislature.Farmers and critics of the Bill fear that the Bills, which the government claims are major reforms to the sector to offer better prices to farmers, as means of eliminating the Minimum Support Price---the fair price system through which farmers are minimum price for their produce regardless of various market fluctuations.Their fears are primarily founded on the Bills’ move to allow farm trading beyond APMC’s reach, which farmers say could be detrimental to their interests and expose them to exploitation.Youth Congress national president Srinivas BV called the Bills “anti farmer decisions” and said that the protests will intensify.HYC state president Sachin Kundu said the way the central government had the three Bills passed was “anti-democratic”, and that the three Bills could aggravate farm distress and lead to more suicides among farmers.“These agricultural ordinances were a direct attack on the Mandi system,” he said.The Bills has became a major flashpoint in Parliament as well: protests over the manner in which the Bill was passed led to suspension of eight Rajya Sabha Members, and led several major opposition parties to walkout of the House and eventually decide to boycott proceedings unless the suspension was revoked.
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to open colleges, universities with trial run on September 26||The Haryana Government on Wednesday decided to open colleges and universities for students for guidance with a trial run to start from September 26.The Department of Higher Education has told the colleges and universities to complete COVID protocols and inform by September 25, via email, so that trial run can be done on September 26.“Since it has been decided by the state government that the students of the first and second year of undergraduate classes and first year of postgraduate classes are to be promoted to the next level, it is imperative that the classes for the new session be started accordingly.Subsequently, the universities and colleges were conveyed to start online classes for students as per a fixed time table. Now, admission for the first-year undergraduate classes will also be started for new students in due course,” said a letter dated September 22 issued by the Director-General of Higher Education, Haryana.The letter said that the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) guidelines stipulate that all educational institutions will remain closed till September 30 for students and regular class activities.Further, the MHA guidelines said that students of 9th to 12th class are allowed to visit schools with effect from September 21 for taking guidance from teachers with the consent of their parents.Keeping these guidelines in view, the universities and colleges may also be allowed to open for students for seeking guidance from teachers in a staggered manner, said the orders.As per the schedule prepared by the department, BA 1st year students will visit colleges and universities between 9 am to 12 noon on Mondays and Tuesdays, B Com and BSc 1st year students between 12.30 PM to 3.30 pm on Mondays and Tuesdays, BA 2nd year students on Wednesdays and Thursdays between 9 am and 12 pm, B Com 2nd and B Sc 2nd year students between 12.30 pm to 3.30 pm on Wednesdays and Thursdays, BA 3rd year students between 9 am to 12 noon on Fridays and Saturdays and B Com final and B Sc final between 12.30 pm to 3.30 pm on Fridays and Saturdays.The universities and colleges have been asked to prepare their time tables according to this schedule.Along with regular interaction, teachers will continue their online classes. For this, the principals will make proper and systemic time table which will be duly notified to all the students.“All protocols recommended by the MHA and the Ministry of Education for sanitization, social distancing, hand wash with soaps, clean toilets etc shall be followed in true spirits,” said the order by the Haryana’s higher education department.
23-09-2020||Ambala||Three nabbed for robbery||The police have arrested Shubham, Jagjit Singh and Gaurav of Naraingarh in a case of robbery and assault. Rameshwar Dass had reported that he was robbed of cash and gold ornaments at a temple. TNSOne caught with drugsThe police have arrested Goldy of Saha, near here, and claimed to have recovered 506 grams of marijuana from his possession. A local court ordered his release on bail. TNSJuvenile held for rapeThe police have arrested a juvenile on the charge of raping a minor. A local court sent the accused to an observation home. TNS
23-09-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana 4th in GST evasion, 1,708 cases in 3 yrs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 22Haryana reported the fourth highest number of GST evasion cases in the country over the past three years, according to Central GST authorities.As per figures placed before the Lok Sabha, the state saw 1,708 cases of GST evasion, involving around Rs 3,182.32 crore, from July 2017 to August 2020, which is 3.4 per cent of the overall evasion in the country.Delhi tops the list with 3,182 cases, followed by Maharashtra (2,540) and Gujarat (1,739). Punjab witnessed GST evasion worth Rs 656.27 crore, followed by HP (Rs 271.36 crore), J&K (Rs 256.27 crore) and Chandigarh (Rs 39.90 crore).Ten persons have been arrested in this connection in Haryana and six in Punjab. No arrest has been made in Chandigarh, HP and J&K so far. There have been 20,233 cases of GST evasion involving Rs 93,642.08 crore and 408 arrests made since July 2017 across the country.The quantum of GST evasion has been the highest in Maharashtra (Rs 20,056.05 crore), followed by Delhi (Rs 14,022.54 crore) and Karnataka Rs 8,782.78 crore.
23-09-2020||Kurukshetra||KU VC launches exam software||Demands of teachers metKurukshetra: KU Vice-Chancellor Dr Neeta Khanna, taking two historic decisions, on Tuesday has fulfilled the very old demand of SFS and contract teachers with immediate effect. Dr. Khanna has fulfilled the demand of contract teachers and their honorarium has also been increased to Rs 57,700 with immediate effect. KU spokesperson said that SFS had cleared the way for their promotion by fulfilling the very old demand of teachers. As per the notification released on Tuesday, SFS teachers who complete the API score can send their applications to the establishment branch by October 15 for promotion to the post of Associate Professor as per the Career Advancement Scheme.Last date for admission extendedKarnal: Dr Chander Shekhar, Principal, Dyal Singh College, Karnal, said the Director, General Higher Education, Haryana, had extended the date for admission in various undergraduate courses to September 24. The college is running many useful, relevant and job-oriented courses according to the present day requirements. The college is running BA Hons, political science, BCom vocational (taxation) and MSc forensic science (5 years integrated course). In these courses, students are regularly placed in Kurukshetra University merit and they have a bright future. He further stated that the admission to these courses would make the students 'Aatamnirbhar' and ready to appear in various competitive exams and help them in their day to day business also. The Principal said especially political science (Hons) course was very attractive among civil services aspirants. It helped them not only as an optional subject, but for preparing general studies papers and interview.Webinar on entrepreneurshipFaridabad: A national-level webinar on "Post Covid-19 era: Challenges and opportunities for women entrepreneurship" was organised by Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, under the banner of the Entrepreneurship Club. The chief guest of the programme was Dr Krishan Kant Gupta, Principal of Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, while the keynote address was given by Jaya Goyal, chairperson, women entrepreneur cell, and the guest speaker was Prof Anjana Garg, former chairperson, department of public administration, MD University, Rohtak. Sharing live stories of many women entrepreneurs who just started their business on a very small level and gradually became big entrepreneurs, she discussed business ideas on plantation, mehandi art, stitching, papad, mangodi, tiffin service business, washing car and mobile repairing etc. More than 200 participants, including students, academicians, industrialists and others attended it.
23-09-2020||A few years ago||Public toilets in Narwana Unclean||Cyber fraud cases on the rise in PanchkulaDespite best efforts by the Panchkula police, cyber frauds continues to see steep rise. In September alone, about six cases of online frauds have been reported from sectors 7,12,14 and in the recent incident an unknown person took out Rs 41,600 in an online bank fraud. The spurt in cyber crime has instilled fear among residents. I suggest that cyber cell should launch a special campaign to educate people about Dos and Don'ts.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Sunil Jakhar writes to Haryana CM, protests blocking of march||The Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) has lodged a protest with the Haryana Chief Minister over blocking of passage to a farmers’ rally organised by the Punjab Youth Congress (PYC) on Sunday.In a letter to CM Manohar Lal Khattar, PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar said the PYC had announced the protest for September 20 against the “anti-farmer” laws brought in by the Central Government.As part of this, a tractor rally started from Punjab and was to reach Delhi passing through Haryana. But the Haryana Government did not allow the Youth Congress workers to head to the national capital by stopping it at the Ambala border in an “undemocratic” manner.Jakhar said the Haryana CM, if he looked within, would agree that the “black laws” would have a detrimental impact on farmers both of Punjab and Haryana. — TNS
23-09-2020||---||Vardhan to head search committee for RTS chief||Chandigarh, September 22The Additional Chief Secretary and Financial Commissioner, Revenue and Disaster Management, Vijai Vardhan, will head the three-member search committee to shortlist names for the appointment of the Chief Commissioner of the Right to Service (RTS) Commission.TVSN Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) and BK Kuthiala, Chairperson, Haryana State Higher Education Council, will be the other members of the committee constituted under the Haryana Right to Service Act, 2014.Official sources said the search committee would shortlist the names of candidates, three times the number of vacancies, and forward these to the statutory committee mandated to recommend the name for final selection.Meanwhile, the state government today also constituted the statutory committee comprising Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar.
23-09-2020||Palwal||Two booked  for murder||A day after a man was found dead on a roadside here, the police on Tuesday booked a murder case against two men after the deceased’s family protested.  The victim was identified as Arjun (28), a resident of Linepar Mohalla here. His family accused the police of dilly-dallying in registering a case. It was only after members of Arjun’s family placed his body on the Palwal-Sohna road and blocked traffic for two hours that the police swung into action.  The blockade was lifted after the police assured Arjun’s family of arresting the culprits soon. The deceased’s brother Dhara alleged Arjun was beaten to death by two men known to him on Sunday.  “One of the accused has been identified as Yogesh. It seems Arjun was killed because of an old enmity,” the police said. — TNS
23-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court: No premature retirement without look at service record||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 22In a significant judgment on weeding out “deadwood” from government service, the High Court has ruled that the state government has an absolute right to retire an employee in public interest, but such an opinion is required to be based on subjective satisfaction and the employee’s performance during his entire service, especially the record of the last 10 years before the passing of compulsory retirement order.BENCH FINDINGS The ruling by the Bench of Justice Daya Chaudhary and Justice Meenakshi I Mehta came on an appeal against Haryana and other respondents by Naib Tehsildar Hawa Singh Bhambhu through VK Jindal and Akshay Jindal. He had challenged the order dated April 1, retiring him prematurely on attaining the age of 55 years. The matter was placed before the Division Bench after a single Judge dismissed his plea.Referring to Haryana’s premature retirement policy, the Bench asserted that its objective was providing clean administration, improving efficiency, strengthening administrative machinery at all levels and weeding out deadwood where integrity was doubtful.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Chaudhary asserted that the competent authority was required to ensure application of mind to the employee’s record for objective analysis to see whether he was fit to be continued in service. The Judge stated it was also to be seen whether extension in service on attaining the age of 55 years or completion of 25 years of qualifying service was in public interest.Referring to a plethora of Supreme Court judgments, the Judge added it was not disputed that sometimes non-communicated service record could also be taken into consideration. It was, in fact, held that communication of adverse remarks was not necessary while considering the case for an employee’s retention in service beyond 50 or 55 years. While passing the impugned order, the entire service record, including ACRs, had been scrutinised and taken into consideration.Justice Chaudhary asserted that there was no adverse entry in the appellant’s service record regarding his work and conduct and even his integrity was not doubtful. As such, conclusion could not be drawn that it was not in public interest to keep the appellant in government service.
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Court notice to Red Cross||The High Court has put the Indian Red Cross Society on notice over a petition alleging that a general secretary was granted extension till his superannuation in violation of rules. The notice by Justice Anil Kshetarpal came on a petition filed against the Indian Red Cross Society, general secretary DR Sharma and other respondents by Sumer Singh. The notice was accepted by the Additional Advocate-General. The case would come up on October 5. The plaintiff’s counsel contended that relevant rules made it clear that there was no provision for grant of extension after completion of the initial term of three years.   The counsel added that the respondent’s appointment as general secretary of the Haryana State Red Cross branch was illegal, arbitrary and unconstitutional. — TNS
23-09-2020|| ---||Pilot, who died in UP crash, cremated||Palwal, September 22 The mortal remains of a 30-year-old trainee pilot, Konark Saran, who was killed in a private plane crash in Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh on Monday, were cremated here on Tuesday.  His body was brought to his house in Adarsh Colony here on Tuesday morning. Konark was undergoing training at the Indira Gandhi National Flight Academy. The four-seater TB-20 aircraft crashed at Faridinpur village in Azamgarh district. The reason for the crash is said to be bad weather and lightning. The news of his death led to a pall of gloom in the colony and his paternal village of Alhapur, as a large number of family members, friends and nieghbours reached his house to express their grief.  Konark did BTech from Thapar University, Patiala, and got enrolled in the Indira Gandhi National Flight Academy for pilot training about two years ago.
23-09-2020||Our Correspondent---||On way home with family, Gurugram woman molested||Gurugram, September 22 A Sector 91 resident was allegedly molested on the road while returning from a function in Delhi with her family in a car. The victim, who works as a school coordinator, alleged that two unidentified men targeted her when her husband stopped the car and stepped out to urinate. “It was around 10.30 pm when we reached under the flyover of Hero Honda Chowk. My husband stopped the car and stepped out. In the meantime, two men came in a car from behind and stopped near our car. One of them came out and molested me after opening my car door. When I opposed, he tried to kidnap my daughter. They fled when my husband came running to help us,” the woman said in her complaint. Following the complaint an FIR has been registered against two unidentified men under Sections 354, 365 and 511 of the IPC at Sadar police station. “The complainant noted the number of the accused’s car and we are trying to trace the owner. No CCTV footage was available at the spot, but we will nab the accused soon,” said Dinesh Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station.
23-09-2020||Sirsa||Govt shying away from talks with farmers: Selja||State Congress chief Kumari Selja said the raise in MSP of crops was a cruel joke on farmers as it was the lowest hike in the last eight years. Interacting with mediapersons during a dharna by farmers and arhtiyas in Sirsa, Selja said the BJP government was shying away from a direct dialogue with farmers. “If the government is honest about its policy making for the farming community, why does the PM announces revision of MSP on his Twitter handle?”  She pointed out that various sections of society, including farmers, labourers and arhtiyas, had been opposing the Bills. “The way the government has got the Bills passed in the Rajya Sabha amounts to murder of democracy. The scrapping of the  Agricultural Produce Market Committee indicates the end of the MSP system,” Selja added. — TNS
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Hooda: MSP hike  insignificant||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has said the new minimum support price (MSP) rates are insignificant compared to those offered during the UPA regime.He said the rate of wheat had increased by 127 per cent during the UPA regime. “And now, the hike has come down to just 5 per cent and only 2.6 per cent this time.”“Also, the rate of paddy was hiked by 14 to 15 per cent every year during the UPA regime, which has come down to just 6 per cent a year during the present regime. It has not been given to most farmers. By implementing the new laws, the government wants to hand over farmers to private agencies,” he stated.Hooda said farmers, traders and the Opposition had been demanding a start to paddy procurement from September 15. “The government had announced a start to procurement from September 25, but was now saying purchase would start from October 1,” he said. Hooda said this change suggested that the government’s intention was to gradually eliminate the MSP and mandi system.Dalal hails increaseHaryana Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister JP Dalal welcomed the Centre’s move to increase the MSP of kharif and rabi crops before the sowing season.He said with this step, the farmer would have an option to decide in advance as to which crop he wanted to sow before the season starts, which would fetch him more price.Dalal said the positive results of this decision taken in the interest of farmers could be seen now. According to the recommendation of the Swaminathan Commission report, not only the MSP of the crops is rising every year, but the crop area is also increasing continuously. — TNS
23-09-2020||Sushil Manav||Hopes & fears arising out of farm Bills||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 22Of the three controversial farm Bills passed by the Parliament, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill has angered farmers the most as they apprehend that the minimum support price (MSP) regime would be dismantled once it is implemented.Their apprehension about the Bill — the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill — is related to the MSP. They fear corporates will enter the market by virtue of this legislation and exploit them.The third Bill — the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill — is hardly being talked about.Inderjit Singh, Vice-President, Akhil Bharatiya Kisan SabhaCorporate strategyInitially, the corporate houses are likely to offer a handsome price to farmers, even higher than the MSP. Hence, arhtiyas will lose business and this will give the govt an excuse to absolve itself of the responsibility of paying the MSP. Once this happens, the corporate will exploit farmers.Inderjit Singh, vice-president of the Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha, however, maintains the third Bill is equally damaging as it is aimed at benefitting corporate houses, but its “dangers” have been eclipsed by the other two Bills.Agriculture experts say the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill nowhere states that the present system of the MSP would be discontinued after the implementation of the legislation.“The Bill provides for an alternative platform where farmers can sell their produce outside the mandis notified under the state Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act. The alternative platform could be any trade area such as a cold storage, a warehouse, a factory premises or even a farm. Selling produce in such trade areas will be exempted from market fees, which is levied on procurement in mandis. Having said that, nothing stops farmers from selling their produce in mandis,” an expert said.The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill provides for a national network on farming agreements that empowers farmers to engage with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters and large retailers for farm services and sale of future produce at a mutually agreed remunerative price.However, farmers, particularly in Haryana and Punjab, are not impressed. They say the present system has worked well for them over the years.“A farmer with a meagre landholding cannot think of transporting his produce to other districts or states to get a better price. For him, the present system of receiving the MSP and of borrowing money from arhtiyas for seed, pesticides and other inputs works well,” Inderjit Singh said.Arhtiyas, too, favour the present system as they get 2.5 per cent commission on the MSP. They will lose their commission if farmers decide to sell their produce outside the mandis.As far as entry of corporates into the field is concerned, both farmers and arhtiyas are wary.“The corporate houses won’t mind suffering initial losses to eliminate their competitors. They are likely to offer a handsome price to farmers, even higher than the MSP. Hence, arhtiyas will lose business and this will also provide the government an excuse to absolve itself of the responsibility of paying the MSP. Once this happens, the corporate will exploit farmers at their own will, as hapless farmers won’t have any alternative,” Inderjit Singh said.
23-09-2020||---||Cut in market fee on paddy, cotton to 0.5%||Chandigarh, September 22The Haryana Government has reduced the market fee on all varieties of paddy (except PR) and cotton from 2 per cent to 0.5 per cent.According to an order issued by Sumedha Kataria, Chief Administrator, Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board, the reduction will be applicable on basmati 1509 and sarbati varieties of paddy and cotton (both ginned and unginned).Govt wins over arhtiyasThe state government has won over commission agents, who were so far agitating along with farmers.Ashok Gupta, president of the Haryana State Arhtiyas Association, said: “The government has addressed our concern by reducing market and rural development fees from 2 per cent to 0.5 per cent on non-MSP crops and by giving farmers the option of receiving payment directly from procurement agencies or arhtiyas.”
23-09-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||CCTV cameras nail Faridabad  traffic offenders||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, September 22The traffic police, which has taken over the control of the Integrated Command Control Centre (ICCC) set up under the Smart City project, has issued as many as 563 postal challans in the past two months here.The traffic violations have been captured in the CCTV cameras installed under the project. To date, the police have been issuing challans manually and after intercepting the offenders on roads.Rajesh Duggal, DCP (Traffic)Cameras come in handyIt’s the first time that CCTV cameras have been used to detect the traffic rules violations. The facility is not only meant to regulate traffic, but will also be helpful in keeping a tab on crime and related activitiesRevealing that as many as 700 cameras have already been installed at 71 intersections under the project, a spokesperson of Faridabad Smart City Limited (FSCL) said these had come in handy for the traffic police in detecting violations and issuing postal challans. He said these cameras were part of the Red Light Violation Detection (RLVD) system installed at various points. Theses cameras are monitored through the ICCC in Sector 20.“The RLVD system captures the vehicles violating red lights with the images of number plates and generates an alert, which is passed on to traffic police control room,” he said, adding that a total of 1,600 cameras were proposed to be installed in the next six months. The traffic police issue challan after identifying the vehicle registration number online for such violations, it is added.DCP (Traffic) Rajesh Duggal held a meeting with the officials of the ICCC here on Tuesday. Challans are being sent to the offenders through the postal system for red light jumping, no seat belt, wrong side driving and no helmet violations, etc.
23-09-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Acquitted Rohtak boy finally called to join police duty||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 22Finally, Kuldeep of Assan village in Rohtak district, who had been struggling to get out of the shadow of the Sonepat sisters’ case even after being discharged by two courts, has joined the Haryana Armed Police (HAP) at Madhuban.Kuldeep, one of the three youths of Assan named in the case, had cleared the Group D Services exam and got a letter of appointment with HAP at Madhuban, but his joining had been stalled because of the case.Read also: Despite acquittal, sisters’ case haunts Rohtak youthKuldeep’s ParentsPrayers answeredWe are happy that eventually, our prayers have been answered.This, despite the fact that the allegations of molestation levelled against Kuldeep and the other youths had been found untrue and they were discharged by the courts of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate as well as Additional Sessions Judge.A news report highlighting the matter was published in these columns recently.Following that, Kuldeep was called to join duty at Madhuban and he joined last evening.“I am thankful to the state government, the authorities concerned at HAP, Madhuban and The Tribune for supporting me in the dark period,” Kuldeep said after joining his duty.Kuldeep’s father Balbir and mother Shakuntala also expressed satisfaction and gratitude. “We are happy that eventually, our prayers have been answered,” they said.
23-09-2020||Our Correspondent---||In Gurugram, burglars dressed like women strike||Gurugram, September 22 A gang of thieves dressed like women struck at a computer shop in Bhargava palace here on Monday night and decamped with 25 laptops, the police have said. The footage of the CCTV camera installed at the shop showed five men wearing “salwar-kameez” and carrying iron rods breaking the shutters of the shop at the shopping complex. Security guard Sandeep saw them and raised the alarm, but the miscreants overpowered him and tied him before fleeing. The guard later confirmed that the thieves were dressed like women. “I heard some noise in the basement. When I went there, I was shocked to see women in one of the shops. They hit me before decamping with laptops,” the guard said. A few days ago, residents of Sirhail village raised the alarm as a man wearing woman’s clothes was caught on a CCTV camera wandering suspiciously. Subsequently, the entire village was alerted. The police are trying to verify whether or not it could be a group of eunuchs. “Miscreants use different tricks to commit crime. The police are conducting raids to nab the accused,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.
23-09-2020||---||Juvenile among four held for attack on ADC||Ambala, September 22 The district police have arrested four more persons, including a juvenile, involved in the attack on a team of the local Regional Transport Authority (RTA), led by Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Preeti, late Thursday evening. Those arrested have been identified Gagandeep, alias Gagan, and Gurwinder Singh of Baldev Nagar near here, Kulwant Singh of Janetpur village near here and a juvenile. With this, the total arrests in the case have gone up to 12. Notably, RTA Secretary-cum-ADC Preeti-led team of officials on duty was attacked on the Haryana-Punjab border near Panjokhra in the district last Thursday evening.
23-09-2020||---||29 die of virus; 1,795 new cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, September 22With 1,795 fresh cases, the total number of Covid cases went up 1,14,870 today. The death toll reached 1,206 with the addition of 29 deaths in the last 24 hours.Gurugram reported the maximum number of cases (372), followed by Faridabad (191), Karnal (146), Jind (131) and Hisar (119).Panchkula and Gurugram reported four deaths each, Ambala and Sirsa three each, Faridabad, Hisar, Karnal, Jind and Yamunanagar two each and Rohtak, Panipat, Bhiwani, Fatehabad and Kaithal one death each.
23-09-2020||Ambala||Woman dies in mishap||A woman was killed while her son was rescued after the car they were travelling in fell into Janusi head canal in Ambala City late Monday night. The deceased has been identified as Pinki (58) of Ismailabad, while her son as Sukhbir.As per the information, Sukhbir’s father Kuldeep Singh suffered heart attack on Monday night and he was taken to a private hospital in Ambala City, where he was declared dead. Around 11.30 pm, when Suhbir and his mother were returning the car fell into the canal. — TNS
23-09-2020||---||5 Haryana IAS officers empanelled for Central posts||Chandigarh, September 22Five IAS officers of the Haryana cadre and one from Himachal Pradesh are among the 51 officers of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) empanelled for Additional Secretary level posts at the Centre. The appointment committee of the Cabinet approved their empanelment today.The officers from Haryana are Sudhir Rajpal of the 1990 batch and Deepti Umashankar, Neerja Sekhar, Sukriti Likhi and V Umashankar, all from the 1993 batch.Kamlesh Kumar Pant, an IAS officer of the 1993 batch of Himachal Pradesh cadre, is also among the officers empanelled.
