23-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||‘Violation of accused’s rights’: Haryana panel on ‘misuse’ of Sections 399, 402||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 23The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) has taken cognisance over The Tribune story on the misuse of Section 399 and Section 402 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) (for making preparation for dacoity) by Haryana Police, and called for a report from DGP on “whether the police have assessed the reason for a large number of acquittals of the accused by the courts and whether they have issued any guidelines or instructions to the Investigating Officers in this regard”.Tribune reports “Bulk of ‘dacoity plan’ cases fall flat in Haryana courts”, dated July 19, and “FIRs under Section 399, 402 nailing dacoity plotters show a pattern”, dated July 20, reflected on poor conviction rate under Section 399/402 of IPC, and how the FIRs across Haryana have same pattern of the police overhearing dacoity plan of the accused and trial courts declaring that it is unbelievable.The Commission has taken cognisance of the July 20 new report. It observed that as per the news report, “similar versions have been put forward by the prosecution that on the receipt of secret information the police party had reached the spot and had overheard the accused planning for dacoity”.In its order, dated July 21, it cited that in one of the cases the prosecution story was that the police party reached the spot after 20 minutes of secret information that the accused were planning to commit dacoity. And the court commented that it was impossible to believe even after 20 minutes of secret information, the accused were still making the plan.  The Commission has also asked from DGP “whether the police authorities had held any seminar, etc., to make aware the police officers so that the prosecution may be able to bring home the guilt to the accused beyond any reasonable doubt”.It observed that in the majority of cases, accused are acquitted by the various courts which is a violation of human rights as they have “to undergo mental agony and harassment on account of registration of the criminal case and then on account of the protracted trial”.The Commission added that Haryana Police should have formulated some guidelines and provide training to Investigating Officers for collecting evidence to prove a particular offence.“Continuous failure of the police to prove the guilt against the accused shows inefficiency in conducting the investigation by the police,” said the order, and added that the acquittal of the accused in such like cases reflected towards filing of cases for malicious prosecution.“False implication of a person or facing a protracted trial or harassment or mental pain in a false case is also violation of human rights of an accused.”The next date of hearing is October 7.
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 6 more COVID-19 deaths, another big spike of 789 cases||Haryana on Thursday reported six more deaths due to COVID-19 as the infection tally rose to 28,975 with another big spike of 789 fresh cases, the state health department’s daily bulletin said.The worst-hit districts in the National Capital Region—Faridabad and Gurugram — reported three and one fatality, respectively, while one death each was reported from Sonipat and Jhajjar districts.The COVID-19 death toll in Haryana has now risen to 378. Gurugram has reported 119 fatalities while Faridabad has 117. These two districts have reported 8,266 and 7,073 coronavirus cases, respectively.Among the districts which reported fresh cases were Faridabad (220), Gurugram (139), Ambala (88), Sonipat (78), Rewari (48), Panipat (38), Rohtak (33), Panchkula (22) and Charkhi Dadri (17), according to the bulletin.On July 17, Haryana had reported the highest single-day spike of 795 cases while 724 cases were added on July 22.Active cases in the state are 6,348 while 22,249 have been discharged after recovery.The state’s recovery rate on Thursday was 76.79 per cent while the rate of doubling of infection was 23 days. — PTI
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt makes PMFBY voluntary for farmers||The Haryana Government has decided to make the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) in the state voluntary for farmers, an official said here on Thursday.“Getting insurance of crops under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana in Haryana will now depend entirely on farmers’ wish,” a spokesperson of the state’s agriculture and farmers’ welfare department said.The spokesperson added that the state government has now decided to make the scheme completely voluntary for the convenience of the farmers, and a notification has also been issued in this regard.He also said farmers having Kisan Credit Cards (KCCs) can also give a self-declaration in their banks if they do not need crop insurance.Besides this, farmers who want to change their crops mentioned in the scheme can also give an application in the banks, he said.The spokesperson said the PMFBY for kharif was implemented in 2016-17 to protect crops from natural disaster and other risks.The state government has now notified the scheme from kharif 2020 to rabi 2022-23.He said farmers who have taken crop loan through bank and do not want to enrol for this scheme will have to submit a declaration in the bank.The spokesperson also said a farmer has to submit a declaration to opt out of the crop insurance scheme to the concerned bank manager before July 24, 2020.Besides this, farmers who do not have a KCC can also get their crops insured with the necessary documents through the common service centres or banks.To get the insurance, farmers will have to submit a copy of land proof, Aadhaar card, bank copy, rent agreement, photograph and crop-sowing certificate. PTI
23-07-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Palwal doctor allegedly honey trapped, commits suicide||A 31-year-old doctor from Palwal allegedly committed suicide after allegedly being honey trapped and threatened with a rape complaint.Identified as Narender of Chajjunagar village, the deceased consumed poison after being unable to take their blackmailing anymore.An FIR of abetment to suicide was registered at Chandhut police station against three persons, including two women.According to the complaint filed by his wife Brahmwati, he called his elder brother Kailash after consuming poison who then informed her.Narender was found unconscious in a nearby field and was rushed to a private hospital where he died.“He had told his elder brother that two women and a man identified as Rakesh, resident of village Karimpur, had trapped him. They were taking cash from him threatening to file a rape case. He had run out of money and could not bear the blackmail and thus consumed poison. His brother called me and I with family members went looking for him and found him in the fields,” deceased’s wife told police.An FIR was registered following her complaint under Sections 306, 34 of IPC at Chandhut police station.“We are investigating the matter and trying to trace the accused. Family has alleged honey trapping and blackmail,” said Deepak Gehlawat, SP, Palwal.
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19 hits Punjab and Haryana HC as secretary of judge tests positive||COVID-19 has hit the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The secretary of a High Court judge has tested positive for COVID-19, sending waves of apprehensions among the technical and other staff involved in the process of hearing cases through videoconferencing.Describing the development as “alarming”, a senior officer said the judge and others may now have to be tested for the virus, adding that a substantial number of High Court officers and officials, involved in the day-to-day functioning of the virtual courts, came in contact with the secretary during the past few days.The development has once again indicated the impracticality of permitting physical functioning at the level of the High Court and the lower courts.Available information suggests around 70 officers and staff members have been quarantined after July 13 till date across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.Prior to it more than 500 judicial officers, their families and staff in the two states and Chandigarh had been quarantined.Among the judicial officers tested positive for Covid were a district and sessions judge and three additional district and sessions judges.Confirming the information, High Court’s Registrar Vigilance-cum-PRO Vikram Aggarwal said Yogesh, secretary in the Court of Justice Alka Sarin, was tested positive for COVID-19.The health authorities were tracing all contacts. Based upon the findings, the judge, the officials posted in the court and officers who visited the court during the past few days would be tested or quarantined.The High Court and the district judiciary went into restricted functioning mode in March-end following the COVID-19 outbreak.In an attempt to prevent the period from turning into denial of justice phase, the High Court cancelled its summer vacations for itself and the subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The High Court is currently functioning at almost two-third its strength through videoconferencing.    As of now, the High Court and the subordinate courts are primarily conducting virtual hearings.But at times circumstances warrant the production of the accused before the courts or interaction between the judicial officers and lawyers, increasing their exposure to risk.Another officer further adds the court administration is in regular touch with medical and other experts. They are of the opinion that the opening of “physical” courts should not be allowed at the present stage following the upward swing in the number of COVID-19 cases after the relaxation in the lockdown.
23-07-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Bhondsi jail deputy superintendent nabbed with drugs, SIM cards||Gurugram, July 23Leaving Gurugram police red-faced, a DSP posted at Bhondsi prison was arrested with drugs and mobile SIMs allegedly meant for supply to jail inmates. On suspicion, police had put deputy jail superintendent Dharmbeer Chautala’s phone on surveillance some days ago.A phone conversation lent weight to suspicion of Chautala supplying drugs and mobile SIMs to jail inmates. A raid was conducted at his home and police team recovered 230 gm of drugs worth Rs 10 lakh and 11 mobile SIM cards. Sub-inspector Raj Kumar, head of crime unit, Sector 39, got a tip-off that a man allegedly came to supply mobile SIMs and drugs in jail. A special crime team led by Sandeep Malik, ACP, Sohna, tracked the man to DSP Chautala’s house and the duo was caught red-handed.The supplier was identified as Ravi alias Goldy, native of Lucknow and presently living in Wazirabad village. “During initial interrogation, the accused revealed that they used to provide 4G SIMs to the inmates so that they could run WhatsApp and other social media apps on phone. They would charge Rs 20,000 for each SIM from inmates. They would also steal drugs seized by police and supply these to inmates. The team has recovered both articles from his house. Police are questioning the duo,” said police commissioner K K Rao.Chautala had earlier been dismissed on similar charges, but got it reinstated using his “connections”, police said.
23-07-2020||Kurukshetra||Tea seller’s Cibil score shows loans worth Rs 50 crore; bank officials claim technical error||Rajkumar, alias Raju, (47) who sells tea at Ahluwalia chowk in Kurukshetra got the shock of his life when he applied for a loan of Rs 50,000 in a small finance bank but it got rejected as he already had loans worth over Rs 50 crore against his name as per his Cibil score.Rajkumar, a resident of Dayalpur village, said, “I sell tea at roadside and due to lockdown my business got badly affected so to resume my work I decided to get a loan of Rs 50,000 for which I had applied. But it was rejected as according to the bank official there were already nearly 16 loans worth over Rs 50.76 crore.“I was amazed as I had only one Mudra loan limit of Rs 20,000 from the SBI bank and I had never applied for any other loan. They showed me my Cibil score in which the loans were shown while I have never taken any of those loans. I failed to understand that when I have not taken any loan, then how the bank has given the loan in my name, and I was never approached by anyone.”Rajkumar, who has been selling tea from the last 17 years, said, “There were different loans, including personal loan, commercial loan and two-wheeler loan, which were issued on different dates including some by PNB. I had an account in PNB. I met the bank officials and they have told me that due to some technical issues the loans were reflected in my Cibil score while there was no such outstanding against my name and they have assured me that the error will be rectified within 10-15 days. The biggest loan was of over Rs 50 crore which was given in 2013.”Meanwhile, Chief Lead District Manager PNB Hari Singh said, “There are no such loans of Rs 50 crore against Rajkumar. There are different ways to generate Cibil score including through entering the PAN card and Aadhaar card. Every person even can’t understand the Cibil report. There are possibilities that while generating the score data of different people having similar names could have been included. We have asked the Cibil agency to clarify the entire matter within a week and all the entries of loans wrongly shown in his account would be removed.“We have checked his statements and there is a loan of just around Rs 3 lakh in different accounts for which I have sought a clarification from Rajkumar. A vehicle loan has reflected and he has claimed that he has never taken a vehicle loan so we have informed the deputy commissioner about the same.”
23-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||Man attempts suicide during Dhankar’s Padbhar Grahan Samaroh in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 23High drama was witnessed during the Padbhar Grahan Samaroh of the newly appointed state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar outside the party headquarters at the HUDA complex here on Thursday as a man attempted suicide by cutting off nerves of his both legs with some sharp-edged object.The man identified as Rajvir of Kansala village started crying and raised slogans against police authorities after severing the nerves, said sources.    On hearing the cries, police personnel on duty reached the spot and rushed Rajvir to PGIMS.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, BJP in-charge for state affairs Anil Jain, former BJP state chief Subhash Barala, former minister Ram Bilas Sharma and several other senior leaders of the party were present in the function when the incident took place.It is learnt that the police also recovered a suicide note from Rajvir.Pertinently, Rajvir had made a similar attempt outside the SP office here some months ago, and Thursday's incident is being seen in light of the previous episode.Jai Narayan, SHO, Arya Nagar Police Station, said he was standing on the other side of the programme venue when the incident took place. “We immediately took the man to the PGIMS for treatment. His condition is stable. It is matter of investigation as to why he took this step,” said the SHO.
23-07-2020||New Delhi||Sense of despair among Congress workers over treatment meted out to Pilot, Scindia: Kuldeep Bishnoi||Haryana Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi on Thursday said there was a sense of despair among party workers over the treatment meted out to young leaders such as Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sachin Pilot, and also urged the leadership to promote mass leaders in every state in the war against the BJP.Taking on the old guard, he asked the Congress leadership to give other responsibilities to those who have been occupying high positions for 35 years and have never contested elections.Bishnoi, who is son of former Haryana chief minister Bhajan Lal, triggered speculation when he posted a picture of himself with Scindia and Pilot on Twitter.“Many congratulations @JM_Scindia. A well deserved one,” he said along with the picture, on a day when Scindia took oath as Rajya Sabha member of the BJP.Many congratulations @JM_Scindia. A well deserved one. 👍 pic.twitter.com/wbWk8zfVzG  He also congratulated former Congress leader Priyanka Chaturvedi, who also took oath as a Shiv Sena member of Rajya Sabha on Wednesday.“Sincere congratulations @priyankac19 on your hard-earned success. Best wishes for a bright future,” Bishnoi added.Sincere congratulations @priyankac19 on your hard-earned success. Best wishes for a bright future. https://t.co/vmP3BtLa0W  While Scindia has quit the party, Pilot has raised a banner of revolt against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot in Rajasthan and is on the verge of quitting, even though he has claimed that he is not joining the BJP.“Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sachin Pilot are very good friends and their leaving the party is hurting the Congress a lot. The treatment meted out to them by the party, there is a sense of despair among the party workers. I am a Congressman by birth and will never quit it,” Bishnoi said in a video posted on Twitter.He asked the BJP not to spread rumours about him as he was still the same person.“I want to tell the high command to bring mass leaders forward as they are the people who can give a fight to the BJP. Those people who have been occupying high posts for 30-35 years, who never fought elections, they should be given other responsibilities as we are headed towards a big war,” he said, while taking a swipe at the old guard within the Congress.His remarks brought to the fore the rift between the old and the young within the Congress.Bishnoi has been disgruntled for some time now. He earlier formed his own Haryana Janhit Party and was a part of the NDA, but later quit them and is now in the Congress. He has been a two-time MP from Hisar and Bhiwani and is currently an MLA representing Adampur constituency in Haryana. PTI
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to introduce 50 pc quota for women in Panchayati Raj Institutions||The Haryana Government on Thursday announced a 50 per quota for women in the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs).Announcing this here, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the Panchayat and Development portfolio, said a Bill to amend the Panchayati Raj Act would be brought in the forthcoming Monsoon session of the Haryana Assembly.Chautala said 50 per cent quota for women formed a part of the common minimum programme (CMP) of the BJP-JJP Government.“The proposal would formally be brought before the Haryana Cabinet for approval soon,” he added.
23-07-2020||---||6 youths from Haryana's Fatehabad killed as car collides with truck in Rajasthan||Hisar, July 23Six youths, including two brothers hailing from Kirdhan village in Fatehabad district, were killed in a road accident when their car collided with a truck near Jhareli village in Nagaur district in Rajasthan on Wednesday evening.The news has sent shockwaves in the village as six youths aged between 35 and 40 have died in the mishap. The victims were going to Jodhpur when their car collided with a marble stone-loaded truck. Both vehicles skidded off the road after which the truck fell on the car.Four of the victims have been identified as Mahender, Vinod, Rajbir, Radheshyam while the bodies of two others are yet to be identified.
23-07-2020||Hisar||After Sonali Phogat, Jind BJP leader booked for assaulting MC official||A BJP leader was on Thursday booked for assulting an executive officer (EO) of the Jind Municipal Corporation.The leader, Jawahar Saini, is the husband of the MC chairperson Poonam Saini.Police said that SK Chauhan, EO, had lodged a complaint that Saini and MC member Harinder Saini visited his house on July 17, and asked him to sign certain documents and bills. The complainant said that he refused to sign the papers as they were not in order. Chauhan alleged that the duo tried to force him to sign the papers at gunpoint. The accused also made casteist remarks against him, Chauhan said in the complaint.Jind Civil lines Station house officer, Rajpal Singh, said that police have registered a case under sections 186 (Obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and started investigating the matter.However, Chauhan demanded that relevant sections of the SC/ST Act also be added to the FIR as the accused had used casteist language. Another BJP leader, Sonali Phogat who was the party candidate from Adampur assembly segment in Hisar during the 2019 state elections, kicked off a row after she assaulted a Market Committee secretary in a grain market in Balsamand village of Hisar on June 5. She is facing assault charges as the incident was captured on a mobile phone and the video has since gone viral on social media.
23-07-2020||Ambala||In-laws booked for man’s murder||A 33-year-old man, who was allegedly thrashed by his in-laws yesterday, died while undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital, Ambala City, last night.The deceased has been identified as Rinku, a resident of Naggal. A case has been registered against Raju, Rinku’s brother-in-law, his mother-in-law Sulochna, Tarsem and two other men under Sections 148, 149, and 302 of the IPC at the Naggal police station.In his complaint to the police, Nacchatar Singh, a resident of Naggal, alleged that his brother Rinku got married to Baljit Kaur, a resident of Patiala, nine years ago and they had two children. Yesterday, they had some dispute following which Baljit called her brother, mother and some other relatives, who thrashed Rinku.The suspects managed to flee from the spot. Rinku was rushed to the Community Health Centre, Chaurmastpur, from where he was referred to Ambala City where he died while undergoing treatment. — TNS
23-07-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Norms violated, four Kundli developers face Rs48.4 cr fine||Tribune News ServicePanipat, July 22A joint committee, formed last year to look into the violation of environmental norms by four developers while constructing flats in Kundli of Sonepat district, has submitted its final report to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) recommending recovering Rs 48.4 crore as environmental compensation from them.The four developers are TDI Infrastructure Limited, CMD Built-Tech Private Limited, Parker Estate Development Private Limited and Narang Constructions and Financiers Private Limited. The residential projects under question are situated at Sectors 58 to 64 in Kundli.The Kissan Udey Samiti had, in 2018, filed an application before the NGT, accusing the developers of not providing proper sanitation and sewerage system in the residential buildings, and thus violating environmental norms.The next year, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) inspected the projects and found out that the flats were constructed without obtaining the green nod and the consent to expansion (CTE). Also, the projects were found lacking a system to collect, segregate and dispose of solid waste.After the HSPCB submitted its report, the NGT Bench headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goyal had, on October 23 last year, ordered that an interim compensation of Rs 22.5 crore be recovered from the four developers.The Bench also constituted a joint committee, comprising representatives of the Central Pollution Control Board, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and IIT-Delhi, to suggest a realistic compensation to be recovered.The joint committee, in its report to the NGT, has recommended that Rs 34.53 crore be recovered from TDI Infrastructure Limited, Rs 3.65 crore from CMD Built-Tech Private Limited, Rs 4.7 crore from Parker Estate Development Private Limited and Rs 5.5 crore from Narang Constructions and Financiers Private Limited.Bhupender Singh Chahal, Regional Officer, HSPCB, Sonepat, said the next hearing into the matter had been fixed for August 25.
23-07-2020||Hisar||2  of Lawrence Bishnoi gang arrested||The murder of two liquor contractors near Sangaria border in Dabwali subdivision in Sirsa on Monday night has turned out to be the handiwork of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang.The Rajasthan Police have nabbed two persons, identified as Ankit and Rahul in Hanumangarh, who confessed to their involvement in the double murder.The liquor contractors — Mukesh Godara, a resident of Bharukhera village, and Prakash Punia, a resident of Chautala village in Sirsa — were shot dead by a group of assailants at a liquor shop near Sangaria border in Sirsa.Police sources said the victims were targeted to avenge the double murder that occurred during the students’ union elections in Sangaria town in 2014.Two persons, Sandeep, a resident of Jandwala Bishnoian, and Amandeep, a resident of Saktakhera village in Sirsa district, were shot dead by some assailants. Amandeep was a relative of Lawrence Bishnoi while Sandeep was a relative of Rahul.Sources said Prakash Punia has tried to put pressure on Rahul to change his statement in court in the 2014 double murder case which led to a scuffle about two months ago. — TNS
23-07-2020||---||Rohtak Zila Parishad chief on indefinite  dharna to get village road built||Rohtak, July 22Unable to get a small stretch of road between Bohar and Bhalauth villages on the Rohtak-Sonepat highway built, local Zila Parishad (ZP) chairman and BJP leader Satish Kumar sat on an indefinite dharna along with the sarpanch and other residents.The road has not been constructed for years despite concerted efforts and letters to the state, district and department authorities. Residents of these villages as well as commuters travelling on the Rohtak-Sonepat road have to face grave inconvenience due to the potholes, which have worsened due to heavy downpour.“The road is in a miserable condition for nearly four years. Accidents take place every other day, some of which even prove fatal. I have tried my best to get the road built, but to no avail. Now we will end the dharna only after the work on the road begins,” Kumar, who belongs to Bhalauth village, said while talking to The Tribune on Wednesday.He said the dharna was being staged since Tuesday, but no official of the district administration or the Public Works Department (PWD) had visited them so far. “Several sarpanches, parishad and panchayat members and municipal councillors have called up and offered their support, but we have requested them not to join the dharna physically due to Covid,” he added.
23-07-2020||Yamunanagar||2 kids go missing in Yamunanagar canal||Two children went missing in the Western Jamuna Canal at Sukhpura village of Yamunanagar district where they reportedly had gone to take a bath. The body of one of them was found from the canal today and he has been identified as Tanish Kumar (12). The other child, Harsh Kumar (14), is still missing. Reportedly, three cousins Tanish, Harsh and Vansh had gone from home to play outside Sukhpura at about 4 pm on July 21. After playing for some time outside the village, they reached the canal flowing close to their village.  Tanish and Harsh reportedly entered the canal to take a bath and soon, went missing. “The third child, Vansh, came home and told us that Tanish and Harsh had gone missing in the water. We went there and found their clothes and slippers lying on the bank of the canal,” said Nasib Singh, cousin grandfather of the children. “Today, we got the body of Tanish from the canal. A search is on for Harsh,” said Nasib. — TNS
23-07-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad cops to set up wing to address concerns of youth||Taking a stern stance on the rising crime against juveniles, the Faridabad police have set up a Teen Age Police (TAP). The objective is to safeguard the youth of age between 13 and 19, an age group when they’re most impressionable. “The teens are vulnerable to manipulation, bullying and victimisation by unscrupulous elements. They need to be saved from online bullying, drugs, alcohol dependency and human trafficking,” said Faridabad Police Commissioner OP Singh. — OC
23-07-2020||
||Man duped of Rs17 Lakh||Yamunanagar, July 22 Daulatpur village resident Sohan Lal had allegedly been duped of Rs 17 lakh on the pretext of sending him to Portugal by a Radaur town resident with the help of some travel agents.  The accused, Malkeet of Radaur town, had given him fake documents related to visa, for which he was arrested by the Chennai Police. Complainant Sohan Lal said: “I knew Malkeet of Radaur. He told me that he had contacts with some prominent travel agents and would send me to a foreign nation with their help.”  He alleged that Malkeet took Rs 9 lakh from him on December 27, 2019 and later took Rs 8 lakh in two instalments. “He asked me to take a flight from Chennai airport. When I reached there on January 31, the airport authorities there told me that my documents were fake and arrested me,” said Sohan adding that he had to spend 14 days in the jail there.
23-07-2020||Hisar||Mysterious disease kills 36 buffaloes||A mysterious disease has resulted in the death of 36 buffaloes in three days at a dairy farm in Nangthala village of the district.  A team of Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (LUVAS), led by Dr Naresh Jindal, visited the dairy and took two carcasses for the postmortem examination and took samples of the ailing animals. Dairy owner Ranvir Singh has about 110 buffaloes.  Dr Jindal said the report of postmortem and other examinations would be ready by tonight. He said the treatment of ailing animals had been started and the dairy owner had been advised to change the feed. “I got information that the condition of the buffaloes is improving today,” he said while ruling out the outbreak of foot and mouth disease (FMD). Meanwhile, Haryana Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Anoop Dhanak, has also issued directions to the district administration to find out the reason behind the deaths. The minister spoke to Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni and directed animal husbandry officials to treat other cattle of the affected man.  The minister said Rajendra Vats, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry, had also visited the animals at the dairy with the veterinarians, who are engaged in treating animals round the clock. Dr Rajendra Vats said three eight-hour shifts had been set by the department. Each team consists of two veterinary surgeons and three assistants. He said the postmortem report would reveal the reason behind the deaths. — TNS
23-07-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Inter-state power theft detected, probe begins||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, July 22An inter-state power theft racket has been detected in the district in which power was being supplied illegally to the farmhouses across the border in Uttar Pradesh.An inquiry has been launched by the authorities of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN). No case has been registered so far.Illegal supply to UP farmhousesAccording to department sources, the racket came to light after a complaint was lodged with the head office of the DHBVN in Hisar recently in which it was alleged that power supply from a commercial connection provided to a resident in Kidawali village of the district adjoining the Yamuna had also been given unlawfully to farmhouses in UP.It is revealed that while Kidawali village, located 15 km from the district headquarters, has land across the Yamuna, a resident , Pradeep Tyagi, had got sanctioned a commercial power connection of 15 KW in 2014 on a land located across the river.It is claimed that while some farmhouses using the power supply are located in Kidawali village, many others are situated on the land belonging to Greater Noida of UP.It is alleged that supply from this connection was passed on illegally to about 24 farmhouses each having an independent transformer of 25 KV each. The majority of the farmhouses have been constructed in the past two to three years, itis added. The power supply was being done through an underground cable.A team of officials of the DHBVN consisting of two Executive Engineers and an Accounts Officer deputed for the probe visited the spot today for evaluation of the theft. “The team that visited the place for the second time today is expected to submit its report soon,” said Naresh Kakkar, Superintending Engineer, DHBVN, here. He said action would be taken against the culprits as per rules.
23-07-2020||Karnal||36 more youths deported by USA||The US Government has deported 36 more youths of the state, who were allegedly sent there by immigration agents on the pretext of false promises.It is the fourth group of youths deported by the US Government. Earlier, 158 youths of the state were deported after the outbreak of Covid. With the fresh arrival, the number of deported youths has reached 194 of the state.The Special Investigation Team (SIT), which was constituted by the state government to probe such cases, will register more FIRs in this regard. So far, the SIT has registered 270 FIRs this year and also investigating 45 cases of 2018-19. The SIT has arrested 147 immigration agents and recovered Rs 58 lakh from them.“In all, 36 more youths have been deported by the US Government on Tuesday and they arrived at the Amritsar airport. The deportees have been kept in a quarantine centre at Geeta Institute, Kanipla, Kurukshetra. We will register cases once their complaints are received,” said Bharati Arora, Karnal Range IG and SIT incharge.Meanwhile, the SIT probe into the previous cases revealed that the youths had travelled from India to the US with the help of travel agents, who had charged high fees, promising them their dream destination. These youths were routed through air, road, jungle and water. They were arrested when they entered into the US illegally. — TNSMost from KarnalAmong the fresh deportees, maximum 13 youths are from Karnal, followed by seven from Kaithal, six from Kurukshetra, three each from Ambala and Panipat, two from Jind and one each from Yamunanagar and Sonepat
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||HCS exam pattern changed||The state has amended the Haryana Civil Services (Executive Branch) Rules, 2008. The new rules will be called the Haryana Civil Services (Executive Branch) Amendment Rules, 2020.An official spokesperson said as per the amended rules, there would be two papers of 100 marks each (objective type/multiple choice questions type) in the preliminary examination. Questions related to general studies will be asked in Paper-1. There will be a Civil Services Aptitude Test under Paper-2, which includes comprehension, inter-personal skills, including communication skills, logical reasoning and analytical ability, decision making and problem solving, general mental ability and basic numeracy and data interpretation.Both question papers will be set in English and Hindi. In addition, for each wrong answer, .25 mark shall be deducted. The Paper-2 — Civil Services Aptitude Test — will be the qualifying paper with minimum marks fixed at 33 per cent. The spokesperson said the result of the preliminary exam shall be based only on the marks obtained in Paper-1 only. — TNS
23-07-2020||
||Ambala man murdered over dispute||Ambala, July 22 A 37-year-old carpenter was allegedly stabbed to death over a monetary dispute. This was revealed by the police officials here today. The deceased has been identified as Phool Chand of Ambala Cantonment. Reportedly, Chand had done wood work at the house of Bharat Kumar in Ambala Cantonment. Later, he had a dispute with Kumar over payment. “After Bharat came to my son’s shop, an argument ensued between them over the payment. After heated arguments, Kumar stabbed my son in the stomach and fled the spot,” Chand’s father Shiv Pujan told the police.  The carpenter was rushed to the local Civil Hospital, where he was referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh. However, his family members took him to the GMCH-32, where doctors declared him dead.  A case has been registered and a probe is underway.
23-07-2020||---||745 beat virus, 8 lose battle for life||Chandigarh, July 22With eight deaths and 724 fresh cases, the Covid tally of the state jumped to 28,186 on Wednesday.Meanwhile, 745 patients got cured on Wednesday, highest so far in a period of 24 hours, taking the tally of recovered cases to 21,697 with a rate of 76.98 per cent.The deaths were reported from Gurugram (2), Faridabad (2), Ambala (1), Jhajjar (1), Nuh (1) and Sirsa (1). A 74-year-old woman from Gandhi Colony and 68-year-old man from Dabua Colony in Faridabad succumbed to the disease. A 60-year-old resident of Ambala City, who was suffering from diabetes, hypertension and asthma, also died.The fresh cases came from Faridabad (174), Gururgram (149), Hisar (67), Panchkula (65), Ambala (55), Karnal (53), Mahendragarh (35), Palwal (28), Panipat (21), Jhajjar (17), Kaithal (17), Nuh (15), Rohtak (13), Kurukshetra (7), Bhiwani (3), Sirsa (3) and Yamunanagar (2).
23-07-2020||---||Education Minister Gujjar dials Class XII toppers||Chandigarh, July 22State Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar today congratulated the students, who have topped in Class XII examinations, via telephone.The toppers from different streams are Manisha of Mahendragarh district from arts stream, Pushpa of Kaithal district from commerce stream, and Bhavana Yadav of Rewari district from science stream.The minister said it was a matter of great pleasure that in all three streams, the girl students had secured the first position.Gujjar said for the first time, it had been decided by the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) to keep the certificates, and results of candidates in a digital locker for the convenience of candidates. However, the students could download their result from the board’s website, if required.
23-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||Only 3 industries show interest in Khudana township project||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, July 22Industrialists have shown dismal response to the ambitious Industrial Modern Township (IMT) project in Khudana village here as the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) has received merely three expressions of interest (EoI) from industries.The HSIIDC had, in June, floated the EoI to invite interest from real estate developers, industrialists/entrepreneurs and consultants/ consulting firms to assess the demand potential for developing an industrial park and setting up projects at the IMT. The last date to submit the EoI was July 15, but merely three industries turned up.The poor response has forced the HSIIDC to extend the date till July 31. It has now decided to even approach the industrialists personally to encourage them to set up their units in the IMT.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had the laid foundation stone of the IMT in February 2019 at a rally in Khudana before the Lok Sabha elections. Later, the BJP had sought votes by propagating this project. However, the project had been announced by the then CM Bhupinder Hooda in 2014 just before the Assembly poll but it could not take off.Meanwhile, Sandeep Yadav, a social activist, has raised questions over the inviting of the EoI alleging that it was nothing except a show-off. “There is no logic behind inviting EoI when the government has promised to set up the IMT. The authorities should acquire the land first and develop the infrastructure to attract industrialists,” he added.Anand, sarpanch, Khudana, said the gram panchayat had several months ago submitted the proposal to the authorities for providing 1,100 acres, including 960 acres of panchayat and 150 acres of private land, for the project, but nothing had happened after that.“After not receiving expected response from industries, we have now decided to contact the companies personally. The basic premise of the EoI is to assess the demand for the development of the IMT. On getting the EoI, the HSIIDC will take a call regarding going ahead with aggregation/ purchase of the land and implementation of the project,” said Ram Kumar, Senior Town Planner.Poor response
23-07-2020|| 
||JC Bose varsity eases fee rules||Faridabad, July 22  In what comes as a relief for the students of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, the university has allowed the students to pay the fee of current semester in two instalments. This was revealed by Vice Chancellor Dinesh Kumar.   The VC said the move came in the wake of difficulties faced by students and their parents amid the Covid pandemic. He said earlier the students had to pay full semester fee by August 17, but now they were allowed to pay 50 per cent of their semester fee. However, those who intended to pay the full amount were free to do so. Besides, no late fee would be charged.  The varsity has also announced to waive internet charges of Rs 447 for the current semester.  The VC said to help the students from economically weaker sections, the university would waive their tuition fee by 20 to 100 per cent. The university has scrapped the entrance test for admission to various UG and PG courses for academic session 2020-21 and has also extended the last date for submission of online application forms to August 15. For admission to MTech courses, GATE score will be considered.
23-07-2020||---||Haryana Government cites ‘malpractices’, bans registration of land transfer deeds||Chandigarh July 22Taking a serious note of the complaints of malpractices in land registrations, the state government today banned the execution of transfer deeds of various categories for different durations till August 15.In a press note released today, it has been said to build a technology and data-based mechanism to curtail the possible malpractices, and to ensure system-readiness for the purpose, the state government has decided to stop registration of transfer deeds under the Registration Act, 1908, from July 22.Financial Commissioner Revenue and Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management Department Vijai Vardhan said after the state government looked into the complaints of malpractices in the registration of transfer deeds, it decided to temporarily halt the registration of transfer deeds.He said no registration of transfer deed would be done by the sub-registrar or joint sub-registrar from July 22 to 29 in the state other than as provided in clause (6). Registration of lands, other than the lands specified in clause (2) and (3), will be permitted w.e.f July 30.Similarly, no registration of transfer deed of lands situated within municipal limits, urban areas, as notified under the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975, and Controlled Area declared under the Punjab Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas Restriction of Unregulated Development Act, 1963, will be done by the sub-registrar or joint sub-registrar from July 22 to August 5.Besides, the transfer deed of lands situated in urban areas, as declared/notified under Section 7-A of the 1975 Act and villages where the jamabandis are currently offline and not available on web-HALRIS will not be done by the sub-registrar or joint sub-registrar from July 22 to August 15.Vijai Vardhan said all e-appointments pertaining to the above stand cancelled, and fresh dates regarding the same would be given. Wherever generation of successful e-stamp challans (GRN) has been done, an extension of 30 days will be given for those challans, whose validity of 180 days expires between July 22 to August 17, he added.He said for those possessing Registered Sale Agreements between the buyer(s) and the seller(s) for transfer of land executed prior to July 22, the same had to be registered between July 22 and August 15. Such deeds might be allowed to be registered by the sub- registrars or joint sub-registrars only with the prior approval of the registrar of the districts concerned in writing in each individual case.500 e-appointments cancelled
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||41 demonstration plots for water conservation scheme||The Haryana Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department has established 41 demonstration plots over 41 acres in the eight blocks targeted under the ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ scheme, which is aimed at protecting the depleting groundwater table in the state through crop diversification. While stating this here today, the Additional Chief Secretary (Agriculture), Sanjeev Kaushal, said 11 demonstration plots covering two different varieties of maize had been established in Guhla and Siwan blocks. Similarly, demonstration plots showcasing two varieties of cotton had been established in Sirsa block, whereas three varieties of maize were being showcased in five such plots in Ratia block. In Pipli, Shahabad, Babain and Ismailabad blocks, seven varieties of maize were being cultivated in 20 demonstration plots. Under the scheme, farmers in the water-stressed blocks of Ratia, Siwan and Guhla, Pipli, Shahabad, Babain and Ismailabad and Sirsa were being encouraged to cultivate alternate crops. — TNS
23-07-2020||Chandigarh July 22
||Engineer-in-chief  is NHAI member||The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) has appointed Mahabir Singh, Engineer-in-Chief, PWD (B&R), Haryana, as a member (technical) in the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for a period of three years. An official spokesperson said Mahabir Singh joined his duty as a member of the National Highways Authority of India from Wednesday. — TNS
23-07-2020||---||Three dairies sealed in Karnal||Karnal, July 22Tightening the noose around the dairy owners who have not applied for the shifting of their establishments out of the city, the Karnal Municipal Corporation sealed three dairies and seized 11 livestock from five others on Tuesday. Last week, the MC had sealed several illegal dairies.MC Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said a team, led by Joint Commissioner Gagandeep Singh, sealed three dairies and seized livestock from five others in the different parts of the city, including Sector 12, Ramesh Nagar, Hansi Road, Ibrahim Mandi and Jato Gate.The seized livestock have been kept at the Community Centre, Prem Nagar, which will be released after paying a fine of Rs 5,000 per animal. The shifting of the dairies outside the city is a long pending project.
23-07-2020||Every year rain leads to waterlogging in the key areas of the city such as on the premises of Civil Hospital and city bus stand and brings the city to a standstill. Vehicular movement comes to a halt as vehicles get stuck while wading through submerged roads. The risk of mishap increases manifold in such conditions. Waterlogged streets and drains become breeding spot for mosquitoes and insects||Poor drainage brings tohana to standstill||Low-lying localities in narwana flooded after moderate rainLow-lying localities such as Birbal Nagar in Narwana were flooded after moderate rain. The roads were engulfed by sewage water. Chances of spread of diseases among residents increases manifold due to this foul-smelling blackish water. Life comes to a standstill for the residents. Adding to the residents’ woes, both, water and electricity supply also get disrupted. The administration is not paying any heed to the problems being faced by the people. Such conditions are not favourable for a healthy society to flourish, thus the concerned authorities must look into the issue and get the needful done, immediately. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaHeavy toll fee chargedHeavy toll fee is being charged near Murthal food joints in the state even as the proposed 56.2-km road between Panipat and Delhi-Haryana-Kundli border still remains ‘non-existent’. How can the toll fee be charged from the vehicles plying on a segment of the NH-44 (erstwhile NH-1) without any valid justification? The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways is requested to take a note of the issue. No toll fee should be charged till the project is accomplished.SK Gupta,PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
23-07-2020||Yamunanagar||Plantation drive by NCC unit||Y’nagar girl shines at int’l eventYamunanagar: Saloni Talwar, a student of MA English of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, won first prize at the international story writing competition. The event was organised by Ginni Devi Modi Girls (PG) College, Modinagar, Ghaziabad (Uttar Pradesh). Dr Ritu Kumar, head of the department of English said the title of the story written by Saloni was “Story of 3 S” which also had a moral i.e. “To take responsibility or you will learn a lesson.” Dr Rahul Khanna, officiating principal of the college, congratulated Saloni for her achievement and wished luck for a bright future. “The talent of students of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, needs no introduction. They have been performing excellent in the academics as well as in various co-curricular activities,” said Dr Khanna.DC lauds meritorious studentsKaithal: Deputy Commissioner Sujan Singh reviewed the result of 2020 secondary examinations conducted by the Board of School Education Haryana. He congratulated the students, teachers, parents and education officers for the improvement. The district has shown an improvement by 11 per cent. Last year the district’s result was 56.67 per cent as compared to 67.54 per cent this year and that of 41 per cent in 2018. Kaithal was at seventh place in the state, whereas the district was placed 15th in 2019 and 16th in 2018. The number of meritorious students also increased this year and Saloni, daughter of Sanjeev Kumar got third position in the state scoring 498 marks out of 500. The DC further said it was all due to the hard work of students, teachers and cooperation of their parents. In this academic session, meetings of all school heads were called every month to review the work done under the Saksham Haryana team. The school heads were provided ten sets of question papers for the board exams.
23-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sacked PTIs to meet Khattar||Ambala2 die in separate mishapsTwo persons were killed and three others sustained injuries in separate hit-and-run mishaps reported in different parts of the district during the past 24 hours, said the police here on Wednesday. TNSTwo held with 130-gm heroinThe district police have arrested two persons - Jasbir Singh and Joga Singh of Ambala - in a case of smuggling drugs and claimed to have seized 130-gram heroin from their possession, said the officials. Both the arrested accused will be produced before a local court on Thursday, added the police. TNSTwo held with stolen carThe district police have arrested two persons - Sahil of Mahesh Nagar and Titu of Kurukshetra - in a case of vehicle theft and claimed to have recovered a stolen car from their possession. Both the arrested accused were produced before a local court, which remanded them to 14-day judicial custody, said the officials. TNSProclaimed offenders heldThe district police have arrested two proclaimed offenders wanted in separate criminal cases registered against them at separate police stations in the district, said the officials. TNSATM robbers’ gang busted, 3 arrestedFaridabad: A crime branch team of the district police has busted a gang of ATM robbers and arrested three persons on Wednesday. A police spokesperson said the three accused, identified irfan, Nisar and Mukesh, all from Palwal district, were wanted in at least 10 cases of ATM loot in Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. He said the initial probe revealed that the trio had been involved in three incidents of ATM loot using gas cutters in the past one and half years. The accused will be produced in a local court on Thursday, he said.TNS
23-07-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Priyanka to move into Gurugram penthouse||Gurugram, July 228-room apartmentPriyanka will shift to an 8-room penthouse in DLF AraliasThe double-floor house covering 10,000 sq feet has a lift, double kitchen, terrace and adequate security set-upAsked to vacate her government bungalow in Delhi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is all set to shift to Gurugram by next week. She shall be shifting to a penthouse in DLF Aralias, Sector 42, Gurugram. A team of her Z-plus security officials came to review the arrangements days after her belongings were moved here, creating a flutter in the posh residential society.She is likely to stay here for two months before moving back to Delhi.The initial inspection was carried out by the CRPF and then by her own personal team. Sources say the residential society has stepped up its security, especially near her wing. The police too have included the society in the sensitive area category.The society is one of the two poshest accommodations in Gurugram, with DLF Magnolia being the other. It is mainly inhabited by politicians, CEOs and former bureaucrats.It has a three-tier security system and nobody can enter without the prior approval of residents and submission of ID cards. The Vadras shall be deploying their personal staff at the penthouse.
23-07-2020||Deepender Deswal||Quarantined in Haryana dharamshala, doctors told to arrange own food||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 22Disregarding government instructions to respect corona warriors, the district administration has asked healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, quarantined at a university guest house and a ‘dharamshala’ here to make own food arrangements.Administration stops facilityThe food expenses can’t be met out of the disaster management fund. Till we work out an arrangement, the staff will have to bear the cost of meals. — Dr Ratna Bharti, Civil SurgeonWhile discontinuing the facility, the administration claimed “disaster management funds could not be used to arrange meals for quarantined staff,” said sources.Civil Surgeon Dr Ratna Bharti, in a letter to the Principal Medical Officer today, stated that the Civil Hospital staff quarantined at Namdev Dharamshala and Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University guest house would now have to bear food expenses.When contacted, Dr Bharti said they had received related directions from the district administration. “The food expenses can’t be met out of the disaster management fund. Till we work out an arrangement, the staff will have to bear the cost of meals,” she said. A worker lodged at the ‘dharamshala’ for the last over month and a half said he would prefer returning home if the food facility was withdrawn. “We are already exposed to Covid risk. Arranging food is the minimum the administration could have done,” he said.Another worker maintained that while the health employees in Delhi and UP were being housed in five-star hotels, they were made to put up in guest houses without food, TV, newspapers, magazines or laundry services.Haryana Civil Medical Services Association president Dr Jasbir Singh Panwar said the staff on Covid duty was being taken care of by the district authorities in Rohtak and other places. “If the Hisar administration has passed such order for the quarantined staff, we will take up the matter with the higher authorities,” he said.
