23-12-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Weightlifter accuses Kabaddi coach of rape||Gurugram, December 23A 23-year-old woman weightlifter has accused a kabaddi coach of raping her on pretext of job.The accused is reportedly posted with the Haryana Police.The Gurugram Police have registered a Zero FIR in the case and have forwarded the matter to the Chandigarh Police for further action.The victim, a Jind resident, had become friends with the coach.As per the victim, the accused allegedly called her to Chandigarh in 2018, promising a job, and raped her.The victim said that she was then called to city on a promise that she would be sent abroad and was raped again.The accused allegedly kept making fake promises and raped her again in Hansi in August 2020. The victim then shifted to a PG in Gurugram and lodged a police complaint.Police spokesperson Subhash Bokan confirmed that a zero FIR had been registered at the Sector 9 A police station on basis of the victim’s complaint and forwarded to Chandigarh Police for further action.
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Cabinet okays new ‘panchayat tax’ on power bills; agriculture exempted||The Haryana government on Wednesday decided to levy a 2 per cent “panchayat tax” on power bills for consumers who fall within the limits of the rural bodies in the state, triggering an opposition demand for its rollback.Officials said electricity consumption for agriculture and some other categories is exempted from the tax. An official statement issued here said the state government has decided to levy the tax on use of electricity in order to augment the financial resources of gram panchayats.But it will not will apply on “consumption of electricity by the government of India or if it is consumed in the construction, maintenance or operation of any railway by the Centre or on consumption by agriculture consumers within the limits of gram panchayats in the state,” it added.The statement said the decision was taken at a meeting of the state cabinet held here under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Khattar later said the move would garner an additional Rs 100-125 crore annually for the panchayats which then can be used in their developmental work.The panchayat tax will be collected by the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) and the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) and paid in the same manner as if it was an electricity duty payable to the state government, and same will be remitted to the gram panchayats concerned, the statement said.The opposition, however, slammed the move, with senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala saying “the tax imposed on rural consumers should be immediately rolled back”.In another decision, the state government decided to set up a new municipal corporation, the 11th in the state, at Manesar in Gurugram district by including 29 adjoining villages in it.The Cabinet also approved the implementation of the Delhi-Panipat Corridor of Regional Rapid Transport System (RRTS), which will have a total length of 103.02 km, and it will have 17 stations, including six in Delhi and 11 in Haryana.The construction and commissioning of the RRTS will be undertaken in two stages – Sarai Kale Khan to Murthal, including Murthal depot (58.28 km), and Murthal to Panipat, including Panipat depot (44.74 km), the statement said.The project will enable efficient and effective movement of a large number of people into vastly congested places and provide important links for residents of urban/sub-urban nodes in Haryana to access services and facilities in towns and cities of the region, while bringing and accelerating economic development of these urban nodes, it added.The cabinet accorded approval to provide state government guarantee for a term loan of Rs 235 crores for setting up new sugar plants and ethanol plants at Karnal, Panipat and Shahbad sugar mills. The Haryana State Cooperative Apex Bank Limited (HARCO Bank) has sanctioned the term loan for the projects. PTI
23-12-2020|| ||5 Covid deaths in Haryana, toll up to 2,847||Chandigarh, December 23 Haryana on Wednesday recorded five Covid fatalities pushing the death toll to 2,847, even as 495 fresh cases pushed the infection count in the state to 2.59 lakh.  Two deaths were reported from Jhajjar and one each from Yamunanagar, Bhiwani and Fatehabad. Of the 495 new cases, 110 were reported from Gurugram. Faridabad registered 68 cases, followed by Karnal (41), Sonepat (40), Ambala (34), Bhiwani (29) and Rohtak (28).   So far, 2,847 people have died in the state due to Covid-19, out of which 2,487 were having comorbidities. Also, 647 people have been cured of the infection in the last 24 hours, taking the recoveries in the state to 2.51 lakh. As of now, there are 5,230 active cases in the state.Meanwhile, Dr AK Dubey, Medical Superintendent, Medanta - The Medicity, said that Health Minister Anil Vij, who has been undergoing treatment for coronavirus infection at the hospital, was shifted out of the ICU on Wednesday.Dr Dubey said Vij would continue to be kept under observation.Doctors are hopeful of the minister remaining stable on oxygen through nasal cannula.
23-12-2020||Ambala||Case registered against 13 farmers in Haryana for blocking CM Khattar's convoy||Haryana Police have registered a case against 13 farmers on various charges, including attempt to murder and rioting, after a group of peasants protesting against the Centre's new farm laws had allegedly blocked and hurled sticks at Chief Minister ML Khattar's convoy.On Tuesday, a group of protesting farmers had showed black flags to Khattar when his convoy was passing through Ambala City.Some of the farmers had allegedly tried to block Khattar's motorcade but police managed to provide a safe passage to the Chief Minister after some time.The case against the farmers was registered on Tuesday night on the complaint of some security personnel.Police on Wednesday said some farmers tried to charge towards the convoy and blocked its movement for some time.They said some farmers also hurled sticks towards some vehicles in the motorcade.Ambala City police registered a case against 13 farmers under various sections, including 307 (attempt to murder) 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (offence committed by any member of any unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC.Khattar was in Ambala on Tuesday to address public meetings in support of the party's mayoral and ward candidates for the upcoming civic body polls.The farmers had waved black flags at the chief minister's convoy while it was crossing the Agrasen Chowk. They also raised slogans against the government and said they would continue to protest till the three farm laws are repealed. PTI
23-12-2020||New Delhi||Haryana all set to implement Centre's labour codes: Deputy CM||Haryana is all set to implement the four labour code laws passed by Parliament, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Singh Chautala said on Wednesday.The rules and by-laws under the new code were being finalised by the Centre. The state government was in touch with the Union Labour Ministry regarding the status of the proposed rules.Chautala told The Tribune that the Union government is expected to frame them in a fortnight."The state government is committed to creating a good industrial climate and new job opportunities," he added.Chautala said the Haryana government will soon announce its new state industrial policy. It aims to boost industrialisation and further shore up the state's ranking in the "ease of doing business" index.The four labour codes laws were enacted after merging and rationalising about 40 disparate laws.They concern (a) Wages (b) Industrial Relations, (c) Social Security, and (d) Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions.The codes were rung in by the Union government with a view to reform labour laws.The states have the liberty to implement the Code laws with modifications in the Central rules as per the exigencies and requirements at their end.
23-12-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Potato rates crash in Haryana, new agri laws of no help||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22A potato glut in Haryana’s markets, its crashing prices and farmers at the receiving end — that is the long and short of the potato story this season in the midst of the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three “black laws”. The potato price has crashed from Rs 3,400 per quintal to Rs 700 per quintal in a month and could fluctuate further.The agri laws offer no mechanism to control the fluctuating prices, admits Haryana’s Agriculture Minister JP Dalal. He says the prices could dip further in the coming days and that there is no “instant” remedy.The lack of storage facilities, processing units and market intelligence to grow the in-demand crops and the absence of MSP weigh the farmer down. However, Dalal maintains that the three agri laws will benefit such farmers “indirectly” in the long run.“The laws do away with the bar on stocking commodities, allowing the farmer to hold on to the produce till he gets a remunerative price. Besides, the law on contract farming allows the end-user to purchase the crop,” Dalal said, adding improved storage and processing units will address the problem partially and this is not possible without private players.
23-12-2020||Karnal||As potato prices fall, farmers stare at losses||The sudden fall in the wholesale prices of potatoes has left farmers of the district staring at losses. The fall of Rs 2,700 per quintal in 30 days has them worried.On November 21, farmers sold potatoes for Rs 3,400 per quintal. A month later, the price plummeted to Rs 700. Early harvesting that led to glut in the market is being considered a reason for the sudden fall in price.Early harvesting led to glutOn November 21, farmers sold potatoes for Rs3,400 per quintal. A month later, the price plummeted to Rs700.Early harvesting that led to glut in the market is being considered a reason for the sudden fall in price.Some farmers in the district grow potatoes that mature early before sowing wheat in the hope to augment their income. But it is not turning out to be so. Farmers say the input cost has been rising, but the returns are dwindling.Gaureesh Gosain, a progressive farmer from Gangar village, said: “Earlier, the wholesale prices of potato were high. This month, the prices plummeted to Rs 700 per quintal, which is insufficient in light of the increasing input cost.”He added there was need for a sustainable procurement of potatoes. Besides, the state government should construct cold stores so that the excess produce could be stored for future sale and consumption.Some farmers, meanwhile, have delayed the harvesting of potato. One of them is Jaspal. “As the crop is not fetching remunerative prices, I have decided to wait for some time. I am aware that my decision will further delay the sowing of wheat, for which I have already purchased the seed,” he said.Another problem facing farmers is the decrease in production. “This time, the yield is around 80 quintals per acre in comparison with 150 quintals last year. On the contrary, the input cost increased,” said Raj Singh, a farmer from Uncha Samana village.
23-12-2020||New Delhi||Notification for panchayat poll in Jan: Dushyant||Ending speculation regarding the timing of panchayat elections, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said here on Monday that the government would issue a notification in this regard next month. “The date will be notified in January,” he said.Will implement Labour Code lawsState is all set to implement the four Labour Code laws passed by Parliament. The state government is in touch with the Union Labour Ministry regarding the status on the proposed rules and bylaws.Elections had been delayed due to Covid. He said the government had asked Deputy Commissioners to complete the spadework regarding elections. Speaking on the sidelines of a function here, Dushyant ducked a direct question on the role of farmers in the agitation. “No comment on the matter,” he said.He said the state government would push the pace of industrialisation, modernisation and balanced growth of the state. He spoke on the government’s efforts towards rural development through a clutch of schemes of the Centre and state, especially aimed at providing jobs to the youth.The ongoing efforts would have a positive impact in rural areas and hinterland of the state, he said. Villages would become a model to be emulated by other states, he said. He made special reference to implementation of MGNREGA. He said jobs and expenditure this year so far was 30 per cent more compared to the corresponding period last year.
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||10 succumb, 534 cases in Haryana||With 534 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state went past 2.59 lakh on Tuesday. With 10 deaths, the toll went up to 2,842. The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (92), followed by Faridabad (69) and Karnal (65).Two deaths each were reported from Rewari and Jhajjar and one each from Gurugram, Faridabad, Ambala, Panipat, Bhiwani and Fatehabad.Meanwhile, the health of Home Minister Anil Vij has shown steady progress. In a medical bulletin on Tuesday, Dr AK Dubey, Medical Superintendent, Medanta, said doctors were satisfied with improvement in his condition.He said Vij’s oxygen support requirement had come down and his chest CT scan and blood test results had shown improvement. — TNS
23-12-2020||Hisar||Museum at pre-Harappan site soon||The state government has decided to construct a museum at a pre-Harappan site in Kunal village of Fatehabad district.Ashok Khemka, principal secretary, Department of Archeology and Museums, is scheduled to visit the site in Kunal, besides the archaeological sites in Bhirrana tomorrow.Design finalised by govtAccording to district officials, the government has finalised the design for the site museum, which will have three galleries besides other areas to facilitate visitors. The Public Works Department (Buildings and Roads) will construct the museum. Krishan Kumar, executive engineer of the PWD (B&R), confirmed the construction of the museum. He said the archeology department would finalise the design and other details of the project.The officials maintained that archaeological sites in Fatehabad were among the most ancient and significant sites for the pre-Harappan era. Archaeologists in collaboration with the government department of Archaeology and Museums had carried out excavation at these sites in the past.The site in Kunal is stated to be contemporary to the one in Bhirrana. The carbon dating of Bhirrana site revealed that it dated back to 7030 BC (9,000 years old). The excavation in Kunal has indicated that this site, too, belongs to Hakra culture.They have found the traces of a prosperous pre-Harappan human habitation, which is believed to have existed along the banks of the Saraswati River.The excavation carried out in a joint collaboration by the Indian Archaeological Society, National Museum and the Haryana Archaeological Department has found materials that highlighted crucial facts about lifestyle, socio-economic milieu and food habit of the people who lived along the Sarwawati in the ancient times. It’s believed to be contemporary to the Bhirrana site, about 18 km from Kunal, which is known as the oldest Indus civilisation site and belonged to pre-Harappa phase.The discovery of gold beads and copper rings at the Kunal site during the excavation had pointed out that these were the developed village farming communities which had trade relations to other countries as the metal and precious stones were imported from far-flung places. The silver ornaments had also been found here during the previous excavation. A dwelling pit around two metre in diameter belonging to post-Neolithic phase of Hakra culture was also found.Archeologists believe that three sites — Kunal, Bhirrana and Rakhigarhi — were contemporary habitation sites. These were Indus civilisation sites, which had flourished near Saraswati and Ghaggar rivers, an official of the department involved in excavation said.
23-12-2020||THE Ministry of Road Transport and Highways should make the nation tollbooth-free at the earliest by upgrading the toll collection system to be based on global positioning system (GPS). The new system would call for seamless movement of vehicles throughout the nation by directly deducting the money from the linked bank account. Since||Make nation toll-booth-free||UGC decision on fee refund welcomeIT is a matter of great pleasure and satisfaction that the University Grants Commission (UGC) has warned institutions of action in case they do not offer full refund to first-year students who were unable to join their course because of financial hardship or any other reason amid the Covid pandemic after receiving admission. Under the decision, entire fee, including all charges, are to be refund in totality. The UGC has taken a good step for the welfare of students and their parents. — Subhash C Taneja, GurugramUnhygienic conditions at HSVP marketTHE market in the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) area is the only planned market in Narwana. But, the planners didn't plan it well and it lacks basic facilities such as toilets, which causes a lot of inconvenience to the shopkeepers and customers. Due to this, even children and women are forced to urinate in the open that adds to the customers' woes. Secondly, the municipal sweepers too visit the area once a while and do nothing to improve the condition at the ground level. Garbage littering and unhygienic conditions are a common sight here. The HSVP must look into the issue and get the needful done immediately. — Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Congress flays  hike in student bus pass fare||National general secretary of Congress Randeep Singh Surjewala on Tuesday condemned the hike of 47 per cent in student bus pass fare by the state government and demanded immediate withdrawal of the decision.Surjewala said people were already reeling under the Covid pandemic, rising unemployment and inflation. Instead of providing any relief, the state government added to their woes by increasing the bus pass fare for the students. The hike would put an additional economic burden on more than 1 lakh students of various schools, colleges, universities and other educational institutions.Surjewala said that was the second huge increase made by the government in the last four years. Referring to the official communication issued by the Haryana Roadways, he said earlier students were paying Rs 408 for a distance of 51-60 km, which now has been increased to Rs 600. Similarly, the students were earlier paying Rs 204 for 26-30 km, Rs 272 for 31-40 km and Rs 340 for 41-50 km, which now would be hiked to Rs 300, 400 and 500 respectively, he said. — TNS
23-12-2020||Rohtak||Rare winged visitors sighted in Rohtak||Much to the delight of birdwatchers, certain rare species of migratory birds have been sighted at wetlands in and around Rohtak district.Fewer winged visitors have arrived at the wetlands in conventional pockets like Dighal and nearby villages due to deficient rain after July.“There was hardly any rain after July. Comparatively less migratory birds have arrived owing to scarcity of marshy patches in certain pockets,” said SS Rawat, District Wildlife Officer, Rohtak.Rawat pointed out that 20,000-25,000 migratory birds had been spotted in Bhindawas sanctuary; 4,000-5,000 in Mandothi area and 2,000-2,500 near Sampla township.“Certain rare species like greater white-fronted geese and cape penduline tit have been sighted this year,” said HS Yadav, an avid birdwatcher.Birdwatchers expressed concern that the filling up of several ponds in villages had destroyed the natural habitat of these birds.“The Rohtak-Jhajjar belt can be developed as an attractive tourist destination for birdwatchers from other states if the authorities pay proper attention,” said Rakesh Ahlawat, a birdwatcher.
23-12-2020||Rohtak||MDU to ready Vision-2025 document||Session on ambulance activitiesFaridabad: St John Ambulance Brigade of Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, organised a counselling session for first-year students. It aimed at making students aware about the ambulance brigade and its benefits. A total of 95 students participated in it. Dr Devender, convener, motivated students to join the brigade so that they could learn about first aid, home nursing and safety techniques used in medical as well as other fields.5-day training camp concludesHisar: A five-day training camp to impart training to women belonging to SCs and STs to make them self-reliant and self-employed concluded at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University. It was organised at the Saina Nehwal Agricultural Technology Training and Education Institution of the university in collaboration with the Central Institute for Research on Buffaloes. Dr BR Kamboj, registrar, said with this training, women could become self-reliant and enhance family income. Varsha Rani, Professor, Department of Foods and Nutrition, gave information on all types of pickles, jam, candy, squash, chutney, tomato sauce, fruits and vegetables.KU invites applications for PhDKurukshetra: The Kurukshetra University (KU) administration has issued a notification for admission in PhD courses for 2020-21 as per the direction of VC Professor Som Nath Sachdeva. The KU spokesperson said the interested applicants could apply in the department concerned by January 2. He said all information was available on the university website and admissions would be done through entrance examination.Talk on Business lessons from GitaKurukshetra: Eminent personalities from India and abroad shared views at a special session of the ongoing international Gita seminar. The special session on the theme “Business Challenges and Disruptive Leadership: Insights from Shrimad Bhagawad Gita” was organised by the University School of Management, KU. Prof Ramesh Chander, Chairman, USM, KU, said Gita contained wisdom, pathways, inert and versatile principles on strategy, leadership, communication, efficient and productive resource allocation mastered on the principle of learning by doing. Prof Sushma Yadav, Vice Chancellor, BPSM University, congratulated the organisers for picking such a relevant theme. Dr Raj Nehru, VC, Vishwakarma University, Palwal, said turbulent times of business at this juncture demanded adhering to principles of Gita to get out of it. Prof Rajni Goel from Washington presented western views on disruptive leadership and influence of Gita on the same.
23-12-2020||Ambala||In Ambala, Khattar releases manifesto, promises IMT again||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday released BJP’s manifesto titled “Sankalp Patra” for the Ambala Municipal Corporation elections during a rally, and repeated his promise of constructing an Industrial Model Township (IMT) here.The MC will go to polls on December 27.No right to be in power: SeljaState Congress president Kumari Selja on Tuesday said people had the right to speak in a democracy, but were forced to come out on the streets when their voices were suppressed. If the government did not listen to people, it had no right to remain in power, she added.“The BJP is in power at the Centre, while the BJP-JJP government rules in the state. So, voters should elect BJP-JJP candidates and ensure smooth functioning of the civic body,” he said while addressing a gathering in Dhulkot.He listed out a few achievements of his government. “The Centre, the state and the MC have spent about Rs 1,000 crore on the city’s development. More money will be released for Ambala. I reiterate my promise that the IMT will be established and jobs will be generated,” Khattar said.He accused the Congress government of “selling” jobs.
23-12-2020||Ambala||Black flags shown to CM Haryana||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday faced opposition from farmers during his visit to Ambala for public meetings in support of BJP-JJP candidates in the MC elections.The farmers showed black flags to the CM when his convoy was crossing Aggarsain Chowk.The farmers raised anti-government slogans and surrounded the convoy. They said they would continue to protest till the farm laws were withdrawn.The farmers attempted to block Khattar’s convoy, but police pushed away the farmers, some of whom were wielding sticks, and provided safe passage to the convoy.Farmer leader Harkesh Mohri claimed that they had planned to show black flags and raise slogans, but some anti-social elements joined the protest and started blocking the convoy.Khattar said efforts were being made to crush democracy. — TNS
23-12-2020||Karnal||‘Boycott BJP-JJP leaders’ hoardings in Assandh||Farmers of Assandh subdivision have started installing hoardings calling for boycott of BJP and JJP leaders in protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws. So far, hoardings have been installed in six villages. More villages will be covered, farmers say.The hoardings also mention that those supporting protesting farmers would be welcomed to villages.On Saturday, farmers had shown black flags to Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia’s son Chand Bhatia in Assandh and gheraoed his vehicle.Chhatarpal, block vice-president, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said: “We have erected hoardings in six villages, including Jaisinghpura, Dera Gama and Khizrabad. Similar hoardings will be installed in more villages. For that, the order has been placed.”Another farmer Sukhwinder said Centre’s apathy had forced farmers to protest. — TNS
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Block Punjab borders over SYL, Abhay Chautala dares Haryana govt||Senior INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala today dared the BJP-led state government to block its borders with Punjab and stop the movement of people and goods till the neigbouring state released Haryana’s share of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) water.Addressing a press conference here today, the Ellenabad MLA said the INLD would support the BJP-JJP government if it decided to force Punjab over the demands for Haryana’s rightful share of SYL water.“Let the government take the decision today. We will support them till the time we do not get our share of water. We will not allow anyone to enter through Haryana’s borders with Punjab,” Chautala asserted.“We will stop the movement of goods going into that state from here till we get our share of water. Let them make a decision,” the Ellenabad MLA said.
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Illegality of marriage no bar for protection to couple: High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the alleged illegality of a marriage solemnised without the consent of the groom’s first wife is not a relevant factor for providing protection to the couple. The ruling by Justice Alka Sarin came in case of a Muslim couple seeking directions to the police for protection of life and liberty.Taking up the petition against Haryana and other respondents by the couple through counsel Vishal Garg Narwana, Justice Sarin asserted, “The alleged illegality of the marriage of the petitioners having been solemnised without the consent of the first wife is not to be gone into in the present proceedings, which are only regarding providing protection to the petitioners.”Justice Sarin asserted that the issue in hand was not the validity of the second marriage, but the fact that the petitioners were seeking protection of life and liberty as envisaged under Article 21 of the Constitution.Justice Sarin elaborated that Article 21 provided for protection of life and personal liberty and further laid down that no person would be deprived of life and personal liberty except as per the procedure established by the law.Justice Sarin pointed out that the court could not shut its eyes to the fact that the apprehensions of the petitioners were required to be addressed. “Merely because the petitioners have got married against the wishes of their family members, they cannot possibly be deprived of the fundamental rights as envisaged in the Constitution,” Justice Sarin observed.Justice Sarin recorded the contentions of the advocate who argued on behalf of the first wife that the consent of the first wife was necessary for performing second marriage as per the Muslim law. Before parting with the case, Justice Sarin directed the Nuh Superintendent of Police to decide the couple’s representation before taking necessary action as per the law. The direction came as Justice Sarin disposed of the petition without expressing opinion on the veracity of contents of the petition and submissions by the petitioners’ counsel.“It is made clear that this order shall not, in any manner, be construed as an expression of opinion on the veracity of the statement made by the petitioners or the validity of the marriage and shall have no effect on any other civil or criminal proceedings, if any, instituted or pending against them,” Justice Sarin concluded.
23-12-2020||Faridabad||Be polite but stern with violators, cops told||Commissioner of Police OP Singh has told the traffic police in the city to address vehicle drivers as sir and madam with a view to portray a better image of the police among public.Addressing a meeting of the traffic department here today, Singh said cops must be polite but take a tough stance in matters dealing with traffic norms violation. "While well-mannered behaviour will produce desired results, cops will have to deal strictly with violations to curb the risk of accidents or threat to life of others," he said.Singh said the cops needed to step up measures to check drinking and driving, over-speeding, zig zag driving and the vehicles plying without number plates. Four traffic policemen were honoured for their commendable work by the CP during the occasion. — TNS
23-12-2020||Karnal||Ashoka Pillar replica in Karnal village soon||Aiming to promote tourism, the Karnal Smart City Ltd (KSCL), a special purpose vehicle looking after the Karnal Smart City project, will be installing a 100-ft replica of Ashoka Pillar here.The board of directors has approved the project and the land has been finalised near Uchana village. However, the estimate of the project is yet to be made. “We have finalised around 4-acres of land of the Tourism Department which is lying vacant near Uchana village, opposite the Oasis Tourist Complex,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, who is also the CEO of the KSCL.He said the step would help in the beautification of the city. The entrance of the city while coming from Delhi will be attractive with this project.“The KSCL has started the tender process which will be completed in January. The project is expected to be completed in five months,” said Yadav. Under the smart city project, several initiatives were being made to make the city a tourist destination, he said, adding that the Ashoka Pillar was erected by Emperor Ashoka in 250 BC to mark the spread of knowledge and ‘dharma’.
23-12-2020||Jhajjar||Kin want death for minor’s rapist-killer||Migrant labourers today blocked the main road here for two hours and staged a dharna at the Mini-Secretariat, demanding capital punishment for 27-year-old Vinod, accused of raping and killing a five-year-old on Sunday.“We want the rapist to be hanged so that no one dares to think of committing such a heinous crime,” said Umesh, a protester. Jhajjar SP Rajesh Duggal suspended a head constable and dismissed a home guard for “misbehaving” with those who went to the police station to lodge a complaint.Meanwhile, the MP Government sent the ADGP (Police) to Jhajjar to extend monetary aid of Rs 4 lakh to the victim’s father as he hailed from the state. Sources said the accused had tried to molest the victim’s mother before perpetrating the rape-murder.“The accused came to our room late at night. My husband was not at home. He took my daughter to his house. My husband, I and some others went to his house after some time. We heard her crying while the door was bolted from inside,” said the victim’s mother. Duggal said the accused was a history sheeter, with eight cases against him in Jhajjar and Rajasthan. — TNS
23-12-2020||Kurukshetra||3L diyas to light up Kurukshetra on December 25||In a first, around 3 lakh diyas will be lit at Brahma Sarovar, Sannihit Sarovar and Jyotisar Tirtha as part of Deepotsav, which will be celebrated on the last day of the International Gita Mahotsav in Kurukshetra on December 25.More than 30 organisations will come together to light up the diyas and the entire expense will be borne by the organisations. An official of the Kurukshetra Development Board said: “Initially, the board had planned to get 1.80 lakh diyas lit at Brahma Sarovar through different organizations, but now after seeing the response, the administration and the board is expecting nearly 3 lakh diyas on the three sites.”On the adverse effect of the huge quantity of diyas on environment and consumption of oil, he said: “Since the diyas are to be lit by different organisations, we have not quantified the oil to be consumed during the event. It is unlikely to affect the environment as the diyas will be lit in a vast area spread across several kilometres.”Vijay Narula, member, Jio Gita Sansthan, said: “We will light up around 11,000 diyas at Brahma Sarovar and I don’t think that there will be any adverse effect on the air quality due to diyas.” Nitin Mehta, Regional Officer, state pollution control board, said: “I can’t comment on how much impact it will have on the air quality or pollution level at present. The damage, if any, will be known only after the event.”DC Sharandeep Kaur said: “The administration has tried to make the mahotsav a people’s festival this year. The social and religious organisations have contributed in multiple ways. The diyas will be lit in a vast area of six to seven km, and it will be a symbolic event only. Directions have been issued to use minimum oil and we will make sure that no pollution is caused.”G Anumpama, nodal officer for Gita Mahotsav, said: “The celebration of the mahotsav is not limited to the events being organised by KDB alone and includes various events being organised by institutions across Haryana. While the social media cell is being handled by students from Kurukshetra University’s Mass Communication Department, a special team comprising teachers, archaeologists and experts came together to create content on Gita and Kurukshetra.”
23-12-2020||Ambala||10 phones found in Ambala jail||Ten mobile phones were recovered in the past couple of days from the Central Jail and two FIRs against nine prisoners were registered. A search operation was launched inside the jail after a warder was suspended on the charge of supplying opium inside the jail and during the operation eight mobile phones were recovered on Sunday. — TNS
23-12-2020||Rewari||Yogendra Yadav’s father dies at 90||Prof Devender Singh Yadav (retd), father of Swaraj Abhiyan chief Yogendra Yadav, dies at his house in Saharanwas village here today after a brief illness. He was 90. His cremation was performed at the village. He served as an economic lecturer at Khalsa College in Shri GangaNagar (Rajasthan) and had been residing in the village for the past three decades after retirement. He also established Sampuran Kranti Manch in Haryana. — TNS
