23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 1,270 fresh COVID-19 cases, 17 more deaths||Haryana on Friday reported 1,270 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,55,765, while 17 more fatalities took the death toll to 1,705.Of the fatalities, Faridabad and Hisar reported three deaths each, two each deaths were from Gurgaon and Bhiwani while one fatality each was from Jind, Kaithal, Fatehabad, Jhajjar, Kurukshetra, Palwal and Karnal, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Among the districts which reported a spike in cases included Gurgaon (351), Faridabad (188), and Hisar (125).The number of active cases in the state currently are 10,082, while the recovery rate was 92.43 per cent. PTI
23-10-2020||New Delhi||GST shortfall: Haryana, Himachal to get funds borrowed by Centre||The Centre on Friday borrowed and transferred Rs 6,000 crore as the first tranche to 16 states and two UTs, including Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.The borrowing is at an interest rate of 5.19 per cent and the tenor of borrowing is expected to be broadly in the range of three to five years, stated an official news release.The Union Finance Ministry has evolved a special borrowing window to address the shortfall in GST collection during 2020-2021. A total of 21 states and two UTs had opted for this special window involving back-to-back borrowing coordinated by the Finance Ministry.Out of these, five states did not have any shortfall on account of GST compensation.The other states are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and the UTs of Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir.
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Alok Verma takes oath as new chairman of Haryana Public Service Commission||Indian Forest Service officer Alok Verma on Friday took oath as the new chairman of the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC).Haryana Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya administered the oath of office to Verma at a ceremony held at Raj Bhawan here, an official statement said.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Education Minister Kanwar Pal were among others who were present at the event.The 1989-batch IFS officer, a resident of Bihar, took premature retirement to join the coveted post. HPSC is responsible for the recruitment of ‘Group A’ officers in state government departments.The 56-year-old officer, who was Khattar’s aide-de-camp (Tour) during his first term as chief minister, will have a six-year term as HPSC chairman. He succeeded R K Pachnanda.Senior Congress leaders Aftab Ahmed and B B Batra hit out at the BJP-JJP government over Verma’s appointment, questioning whether there was no one from the state who was competent to head the commission.    In a joint statement, they claimed that the state government is advocating 75 per cent reservation in jobs for Haryana natives but appointing people from other states to head the state’s public service commission, a constitutional post. PTI
23-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||Now, self-financed colleges to get admission fee directly||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 22The Department of Higher Education (DHE) has allowed self-financed and government-aided degree colleges across the state to receive admission fee from students of undergraduate courses in both offline and online modes.It has also permitted the colleges to conduct open physical counselling on their own without late fee while following the COVID-19 guidelines.Earlier, centralised admissions were being made by the DHE and the students were bound to deposit their fee online to it instead of the college concerned.The DHE then was to transfer the fee to the colleges as per their admissions but many colleges had not received the fee even several days after the release of the first and the second merit list for admissions to the first year of undergraduate courses.The delay in transferring the fee put self-financed colleges in trouble as they are unable to pay the salary of their staff and bear routine expenses.Hence, Haryana Self-Financed Colleges Association (HSFCA) had demanded the restoration of previous year’s practice wherein the challan was generated by the DHE and the students deposited the fee directly to the college concerned in both modes.As per the new directives, the number of seats in the subject combinations can also be increased or decreased out of the sanctioned seats in a particular course by the colleges after the first round of open counselling that is scheduled from October 28 to November 2. The portal will be opened for fresh registration on the request of colleges from November 3, if required.Meanwhile, Kuldeep Arya, general secretary, HFSCA, thanked Director-General (Higher Education) Ajit Balaji Joshi for restoring the previous system of deposition of the fee directly to the college concerned and simplifying the online admission process.“The new guidelines have brought relief not only to self-financed colleges but also to the students who had to go to a cyber cafe to deposit their fee online. Now, they will be able to pay their fee offline,” said Arya.
23-10-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Mishap-prone Gurugram plans cycle tracks, footpaths||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, October 22The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has chalked out a mobility plan to construct 800 km of cycle tracks and 400 km of footpaths in the city over the next two decades.Set to be tabled before CM Manohar Lal Khattar and the Resident Advisory Committee, the Comprehensive Mobility Plan, 2041, stresses the need for pedestrian friendly and non-motorised mobility.Unsafe city: StudyBesides checking accidents, the plan aims at significantly reducing pollution, one of the biggest issues ailing the city. The plan also includes widening of six major roads, improving connectivity around metro stations via non-motorised transport and introduction of a public bike sharing system.A senior GMDA official said: “As per surveys, the city roads are not safe for pedestrians and cyclists. We had sought feedback from public. Residents want infrastructural changes to promote environment friendly transport.”
23-10-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Potholes, stalled work irk Panipat locals||Tribune News ServicePanipat, October 22Roads in the city and many connecting nearby villages are in deplorable condition. Besides, a major project to connect two states in Samalkha has been shut a few months ago, leaving residents of several villages annoyed. Even the Panipat-UP highway is in pitiable condition.The four-laned highway from Panipat to Kotdwar in Uttarakhand via Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnaur of UP is being constructed by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). The estimated cost of the 207-km highway is Rs 3,250 crore. According to NHAI officials, the work would be completed in the next two years.The condition of the Panipat-Haridwar road via Sanoli is pitiable, especially near Chhajpur village. Big potholes on this highway could be seen near Chhajpur and Ugrakheri villages. Jugwinder Singh Malik, an advocate and a resident of Ugra Kheri village, said the potholed road posed a serious threat to the lives of commuters, especially those on two-wheelers. “Though work on widening of the road has been started, these potholes should be filled soon so that people can enjoy a safe ride,” he added.Besides, the work on a high-level bridge on the Yamuna to connect Haryana and UP in Hathwala village of the Samalkha area has been slowed down for the past many months. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar along with the Union Minister of Rural Development had laid the foundation stone of the bridge on December 23, 2016, which was to be constructed at a cost of Rs 126 crore.The Public Works Department had allotted the work order in 2018. Under the project, the road from Samalkha to Dikadla village has to be widened up to 10 metre and 7 metre from Dikadla to bridge and the time fixed for completion is November 26, 2020, but only 25-30 per cent work has been completed so far.Due to the slow pace of work residents of villages Atta, Hathwala, Bilaspur, Khojkipur, Rakshera and Simbhalgarh in the area are facing a tough time. Dalbir Singh, former sarpanch of Bilaspur village, said the work was stopped 10 months ago due to which people were facing problems. “We have met officers concerned several times but to no avail. The work was started in September but it was again halted last month,” he said.Besides, widening of the Panipat-Assandh road in the city is another major demand of the residents. CM Manohar Lal Khattar had announced widening of the road from Red Light chowk at NH-44 to Assandh road police naka —- a stretch of 2.4 km —- to four lanes in 2018. Now, the PWD has allotted the work to the contractor after two years of the CM’s announcement.Ajeet Singh, XEN, PWD, said the cost of construction was Rs 7.5 crore. “We have also got the forest department approval to widen the Panipat-Gohana road from Gohana Chowk and the tenders will be invited soon,” he said. The construction of the road from Samalkha to high-level bridge would be paced up now as the payment of the contractor company has been made, the XEN added.Threat to motoristsPotholed road pose a serious threat to the lives of commuters, especially those on two-wheelers. Though work on widening of the road has been started, these potholes should be filled soon so that people can enjoy a safe ride. — Jugwinder S Malik, Ugra Kheri villageWork haltedThe work was stopped 10 months ago due to which people are facing problems. We have met officers concerned several times but to no avail. The work was started in September but it was again halted last month. — Dalbir Singh, ex-sarpanch, BilaspurTenders to be invited soonWe have also got the Forest Department’s approval to widen the Panipat-Gohana road from Gohana Chowk and the tenders will be invited soon. — Ajeet Singh, XEN, PWD
23-10-2020||Nitish Sharma||Kurukshetra to have 4 bronze statues||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, October 22Kurukshetra will soon have four bronze statues — one each of Arjuna and Bhishma in Narkatari village, of Abhimanyu in Amin village and of “virat swaroop” of Lord Krishna in Jyotisar.Krishna’s Virat swaroop to cost Rs9.5 crAn 18-foot statue of Abhimanyu will be installed at Amin village, the place where he was killed during Mahabharata, at a cost of Rs24 lakhA 42-foot tall ‘virat swaroop’ of lord Krishna will be installed at Jyotisar, the birthplace of Gita, at a cost of Rs9.5 croreAs per information, the project of Narkatari in which Bhishma will be shown on a bed of arrows and Arjuna shooting an arrow in the ground to fetch water will cost Rs 32 lakh. The height of Arjuna’s statue is around 9 feet, while the length of Bhishma’s ‘sarsaiya” is around 10 feet.At Amin village, the place where Abhimanyu was killed during Mahabharata, an 18-foot statue of Abhimanyu will be installed at a cost of Rs 24 lakh, while the 42-foot tall Virat Swaroop of Lord Krishna at Jyotisar, the birthplace of Gita, will cost around Rs 9.5 crore and after the landscaping and other work, the total cost of the project would be around Rs 10 crore.The statues are being installed according to the references and local legends associated with the Mahabharata. The Kurukshetra Development Board has also planned to get a “chakravyuha” formation on ground, and develop a park on a later stage in Amin village, and Abhimanyu’s statue will be integrated in that development project which would be carried out at 8-acre land in the village. Madan Mohan Chhabra, honorary secretary, Kurukshetra Development Board, said: “All three projects are part of the CM’s announcements. The statues are being sculpted by Ram Vanji Sutar’s unit in Noida who designed the Statue of Unity. The statues for Amin and Narkatari projects are ready and will be brought as soon as the pedestals are ready. These are likely to be installed in a couple of months. The statue of lord Krishna is likely to be ready by January 2021. However, we have requested them to get it ready by the end of this year.”
23-10-2020||Parveen Arora||Pusa-1121 fetches low price, farmers upset||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 22After Pusa-1509, now Pusa-1121 has disappointed farmers with low price. It is being sold at Rs 2,400-2,500 per quintal this season against Rs 2,800-3,000 per quintal last year.Pusa-1121 is a major contributor to basmati export. Rice millers and exporters, who are bulk buyers of the 1121 variety, are hesitant to purchase it because of the delay in payment to Indian exporters from Iranian buyers, which is considered as the main reason for low prices.“The payment of around 3 lakh tonne for 2019-20 is pending with Iranian buyers, while around 1.5 lakh tonne rice is lying packed with exporters. So, exporters are reluctant to buy fresh Pusa-1121 and book new orders from Iran,” said Vijay Setia, former president, All India Rice Exporters Association.He said buyers were not showing enthusiasm in purchasing fresh paddy from grain markets. Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association, said the variety was not fetching prices like last year as the buyers were not coming forward.Less prices this season has left farmers disappointed. “I have cultivated Pusa-1121 in around 10 acres, hoping that it will give me a good return, but it was sold at Rs 2,430 per quintal, while last year it fetched Rs 2,780 per quintal,” said Sher Singh, a farmer.Raj Kumar, another farmer, said earlier Pusa-1509 disappointed him as it was sold for Rs 1,900 per quintal as compared to Rs 2,300 per quintal last year. Now, his paddy crop of Pusa-1121 was sold at Rs 2,400 against Rs 2,800 last year. Rishpal Singh said after getting good prices last year, he cultivated the variety of 1121 on a large scale this time, but the variety had left him disappointed.
23-10-2020||Karnal||Factory making ‘spurious’ lubricant oil raided in Karnal||A team of the Chief Minister (CM) flying squad raided a factory allegedly involved in the manufacturing of spurious lubricant oil, machinery oil, mobil oil, transformer oil and others. The team members seized a huge quantity of these.   The factory owner has been handed over to the police. Till the filing of the report, no case was registered by the police. The quantity of seized oil is being accessed, said the officials of the raiding party.  As per the information, the CM flying squad led by Sub-Inspector Shispal along with other departments raided a factory on the Meerut road. The team members recovered huge quantity of ‘spurious’ mobil oil, grease, brake oil, lubricant oil and machinery oil.  “We have seized the mobil oil, grease and other oil. The samples have been sent to the laboratory for testing,” said Shispal. He told mediapersons, the owner could not produce any documents when asked. —TNS
23-10-2020||---||Committee set up to delete Punjab’s name from Haryana laws||Chandigarh, October 22Haryana is gearing up to do away with the name of Punjab in its laws. The state government has constituted a committee in this regard after an initiative by Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta.The committee constituted under the chairmanship of Legal Remembrancer, Law and Justice Department and Administrative Secretary, Law and Justice Department, will review and examine the amendment of subtitles of Acts approved under directions given in 1968. This committee will submit a report to the Chief Secretary within a month.According to the order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan, the members of this committee will include OSD, Law and Justice Department, Deputy Secretary of Department of Political and Parliamentary Affairs and OSD (Rules) of General Administration Department. The Deputy Secretary of General Administration Department will be the member secretary of the committee.Haryana had inherited laws which were in Punjab’s name and governance in Haryana had been based on these laws for the past 54 years. People of the state had been demanding a change the name of laws.Gupta had held a meeting with officers of the state government and Vidhan Sabha Secretariat on September 24.The Speaker had instructed the Chief Secretary to formulate a plan to rename all state laws after Haryana instead of Punjab and the decision to constitute the committee was taken at that meeting. There are 237 laws in Haryana which are presently named after Punjab.Haryana was established in 1966 under the Punjab Reorganisation Act. Thus, the existing Acts of Punjab at that time were enforced in Haryana. It was proposed in 1968 that Haryana would be able to make necessary amendments according to its requirements.
23-10-2020||---||Punjab cheating farmers, says Haryana Dy CM Dushyant Chautala||Chandigarh, October 22Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said the Punjab Government was cheating farmers in the name of minimum support price (MSP) of crops.He said if Capt Amarinder Singh was truly farmer-friendly, Punjab should also purchase mustard, millet, pulses, sunflower and other crops on MSP, besides wheat and paddy. Interacting with mediapersons in Panchkula, he said Haryana had decided to procure paddy variety 1509 on MSP of Rs 1,888 per quintal as the FCI did not procure it.
23-10-2020||---||Will bring private member’s Bill against farm laws: Bhupinder Hooda||Rohtak, October 22Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has said the Congress would bring a private member Bill against the three new agricultural laws in the coming session of the Assembly to protect farmers’ interest in the state.Hooda, accompanied by Rohtak MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra, was interacting with mediapersons at the District Bar Association here on Thursday. He was here to call upon the advocates to throw their weight behind the Congress in the Baroda bypoll.“The Congress has vowed not to let the BJP government execute the three agricultural laws in the state as these will entirely ruin the farmers who are already struggling to earn their livelihood due to the erroneous policies of the state government. The farmers across the state are on the warpath against the laws but the government is adopting an adamant attitude towards them,” he alleged.Commenting on CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit to Rohtak, Hooda said it seemed that Khattar had already accepted his party’s defeat in the Baroda bypoll as he was roaming here and there instead of campaigning in Baroda Assembly segment.“Khattar is holding a meeting with his party leaders and workers in Rohtak today. That shows that he is afraid of going to Baroda. He knows that the people of Baroda have made up their mind to teach the BJP a lesson,” said the former CM.Hooda claimed the Congress would register a one-sided victory in the poll.
23-10-2020||---||Bills passed by Punjab anti-farmer, says Haryana CM Khattar||Rohtak, October 22Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has termed the agricultural Bills passed by the Punjab Government two days ago as “anti-farmer”, stating that these would harm farmers’ interests.Ex-MP’s son joins BJPPradeep Sangwan, son of former MP from Sonepat late Kisan Singh Sangwan, and his supporters joined the BJP in the presence of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Agriculture Minister JP Dalal, state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar, MP Arvind Sharma and former minister Manish Grover.He also targeted the state Congress by accusing it of misleading farmers on the three farm laws enacted by the Centre. “The three Central laws are in favour of farmers and will help them double their income,” he told the media at the “Chai par charcha” event here on Thursday.“The Centre procures paddy and wheat at the MSP, while state governments buy other crops. The Haryana Government procures mustard, millet (bajra), maize, gram and moong at the MSP. Peanuts have also been added to the list. The Punjab Government should also make a provision to procure crops other than paddy and wheat at the MSP,” the CM said.He further said, “The Bills passed by Punjab provides for three-year imprisonment for buying paddy and wheat below the MSP. This, in fact, will harm farmers’ interests.”Khattar claimed the mandi system in Punjab was in a bad state. “More than 51,000 farmers from Punjab and other states get themselves registered on the Haryana portal for selling their paddy. This proves that the mandi system in other states is in a shambles, he added.Targeting the Congress, the Chief Minister said Congress leaders did not have an agenda, hence they were misleading farmers and other people by spreading lies.He accused the Congress of promoting nepotism. “The BJP does not believe in the politics of caste and religion. Haryana and Gujarat are examples of it. The BJP is working to eliminate the cancer of nepotism from the state,” he added.
23-10-2020||---||14 more die; 1,128 fresh cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, October 22With 1,128 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 1,54,495 on Thursday. The death toll went up to 1,688 with 14 more deaths.Gurugram reported the maximum cases (324), followed by Faridabad (199), Hisar (137), Rewari (67) and Sonepat (51).Three deaths were reported from Hisar while Yamunanagar and Sonepat reported two deaths each. One death each was reported from Gurugram, Ambala, Jhajjar, Bhiwani, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad and Jind.
23-10-2020||---||Haryana ex-Speaker Kuldeep Sharma apologises||Rohtak, October 22A day after former Vidhan Sabha Speaker Kuldeep Sharma made an inappropriate remark about Agriculture Minister JP Dalal’s gotra during a Congress workers’ meeting in Baroda, he on Thursday tendered an apology.“I regret having made the remark and feel sorry for Dalal and the Dalal khap. It was unintentional. Dalal is my friend and I respect him. I should not have made personal comments,” Sharma said.
23-10-2020||---||Cong rakes up Yogeshwar’s anti-quota tweet 2 years back||Gohana, October 22Congress Dalit legislators have condemned BJP candidate for the Baroda byelection Yogeshwar Dutt for his two-year-old anti-reservation tweet.“It is unfortunate that Dutt, who became the DSP because of the sports quota and availed himself of financial support, questioned the reservation for Dalits and backward classes, which is their constitutional right,” MLA Geeta Bhukkal told the media in Gohana today.Yogeshwar Dutt, BJP candidateNot against reservationI have never been against reservation for Dalits. I stand with the deprived sections of society. Every person, who cannot make ends meet, must get reservation. The Congress has no agenda in the bypoll. So it is dividing the society on caste lines.Other Congress legislators Shakuntla Khatak, Balbir Valmiki, Jaiveer Valmiki and Varun Mulana were also present at the press conference.They said Dalits and backward classes would boycott Dutt during the bypoll.On September 6, 2018, he had tweeted, “If ministers, teachers, engineers and doctors remain backward and poor even after taking the benefit of reservation, such unsuccessful law should be immediately revoked.”Yogeshwar Dutt had later deleted the tweet.Former Education Minister Bhukkal said, “The BJP nominee talked about reservation on economic basis. He is unaware that Haryana, under the leadership of Bhupinder Singh Hooda, was the first state in the country to give reservation on economic basis. Besides, the Congress government had extended the benefit of reservation to other underprivileged sections of society.”“The devious design of the BJP and the RSS is to end reservation for Dalits and backward classes. It is up to the people to decide whether such people should be voted in or out,” she added.
23-10-2020||---||3K farm fire incidents, Karnal tops||Hisar, October 22Incidents of stubble burning are going on unabated in Haryana as a total of 3,190 active fire locations have been detected by the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC).Sources revealed that Karnal district has so far recorded the highest number crop fires in the state with 658 active fire locations. Karnal’s neighbouring Kurukshetra and Kaithal districts too have reported 593 and 545 incidents respectively.The HARSAC had started monitoring and collecting data of the number of active fire locations in districts of Haryana from September 25 during the kharif season. Sources maintained that the districts of Ambala with 379 active fire locations and Fatehabad 232 active fire locations till today are also problematic districts.The burning of paddy straw by farmers has been a problem in the state for many years. Karnal, Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Fatehabad, Ambala and parts of Sirsa and Jind are major paddy growing districts.The farmers maintained that despite the assurances from the government, they are still to find an effective mechanism to dispose of paddy straw.The data indicated that the highest number of active fire locations was reported on October 18 so far.The officials maintained that the data would be collected till the first week of December for detailed analysis and comparison with previous years.Fatehabad district which is a hub of paddy farming in this region spotted 232 active fire locations in about 70 villages.Agriculture officials maintained that farmers in Hisar, Fatehabad and Sirsa districts harvest the paddy comparatively at a later stage due to late sowing of paddy in this region. Fire incidents could go up in the next few days in this region.In Hisar, a total of 99 active fire locations were recorded and the administration has so far imposed a fine of about Rs 1 lakh, said an agriculture official.Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni informed that a three-tier committee has been constituted to make farmers aware, monitor the situation and penalise the farmers who resort to stubble burning in the district. The DC urged the farmers to get the benefit of the government scheme to dispose of the paddy straw instead of resorting to burning which causes air pollution.
23-10-2020||---||Protest against three farm laws||Karnal, October 22Scores of farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Thursday took out a ‘kisan kranti yatra’ on tractors holding black flags in their hands against the new agri-related Acts.Farmers led by Rattan Mann, state president, BKU, said that these Acts were against farmers and the government should bring another Bill to ensure that the crop would not be procured below MSP.They handed over a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Mann praised the Punjab Government for bringing in the new Bills and demanded the state government should follow in the footsteps of the Punjab Government in the Assembly session that would start from November 5.
23-10-2020||---||SC restrains third-party rights on 268-acre land in Gurugram||Chandigarh, October 22The Supreme Court has restrained private developers from creating any third-party rights in respect of 268-acre land in Gurugram, which is part of the Manesar land release case, and clarified that “no fresh development” should be undertaken.Manesar land scamIt has also called for names of the officials who passed the orders in regard of the parcels of land, which were purchased before the Section 4 notification of the Land Acquisition Act, but were transferred by the landholders during the period from August 28, 2004, to January 29, 2010, by way of collaboration agreements.A notification to acquire 912-acre and 7 marlas land was issued under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act on August 27, 2004, in Manesar, Lakhnaula and Naurangpur villages in Gurugram. Landowners in haste sold land at throwaway rates of Rs 20-25 lakh per acre. According to the CBI, when all the land had been grabbed from the landowners by land mafia under the threat of acquisition at meagre rates, an order was passed by the Director of Industries on August 24, 2007, for releasing the land in favour of the builders.The present case in the SC pertains to clarification whether the apex court judgment dated March 12, 2018, by which the order of dropping acquisition proceedings was set aside, would also cover such parcels of land, which were purchased prior to the date of Section 4 notification but were transferred by the landholders during the period from August 28, 2004, to January 29, 2010, by way of collaboration agreements in favour of other parties.Paradise Systems Private Limited, Frontier Home Developers Private Limited and Karma Lakeland Limited submitted before the court that their parcels of land would be outside the scope of the judgment dated March 12, 2018.In an order dated October 13, the SC has now directed the state government to inform whether there are other such cases as well and has also called for all copies of the orders passed in context of these three parcels of land. It has also asked for the names of the officials who passed these orders. The next date is November 3.
23-10-2020||---||Department serves final notice on distillery as it fails to reply||Chandigarh, October 22The Excise and Taxation Department has served a final memo on Ambala-based NV Distillery Private Limited after its failure to reply to the show-cause notice served earlier this month following inspection.In the memo served on Thursday, the Excise and Taxation Commissioner told the distillery to submit its reply immediately, failing which “all facts will be brought to the notice of the competent authority”.The department had, on October 6, served a notice to NV Distillery at Bandholi village in Ambala, demanding an explanation over the shortcomings found during inspection of the unit.Instead of replying to the notice, the distillery had, on October 10, written to the department, demanding a copy of the inspection report prepared by officials who visited the unit and a copy of the video recording of the premises mentioned in the notice.The distillery was supposed to reply to the notice by October 16. The distillery sent a reminder to the department that day, asking officials to provide required material so that it could reply.Sameer Goyal, managing director, NV Distillery, said the unit was well within its right to demand a copy of the inspection report and video recording so that a proper reply could be prepared.Sources said these were dilatory tactics.
23-10-2020||Panipat||Farmer shot in Panipat village||A 50-year-old farmer, identified as Sukhbeer, was shot today in Dadola village of the district. His brother Mahvir said Sukhbeer was working in the fields when Sandeep, Satpal, Krishan and Krishan’s wife reached there and began quarreling with him over land. Though he intervened, Sandeep threatened to kill Sukhbeer, he alleged. Later, when they reached near Satpal’s field, they fired at Sukhbeer. A case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC was registered. — TNS
23-10-2020||---||MLAs become chairmen||Chandigarh, October 22Two JJP MLAs and three other leaders of the party took charge of their respective duties as chairman on Thursday. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala gave charge and congratulated them.Former MLA Rajdeep Phogat took charge as Housing Board Haryana chairman. Legislator Ramkaran Kala took charge as Sugarfed chairman. Narwana MLA Ramniwas Surjakhera took charge as Khadi and Village Industries Board chairman.Randhir Singh, son of JJP MLA from Guhla, took charge as Haryana Dairy Development Board chairman. Pawan Kharkhoda took charge as Haryana Scheduled Castes Finance and Development Corporation chairman.
23-10-2020||Rohtak||MDU sets up online help desk||GJUST professor honouredHisar: Prof R Baskar from Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, has been elected unanimously as a member of the governing council of the society for the promotion of science and technology in India (SPSTI) in the 10th annual general meeting of the SPSTI. This membership is for five years. The SPSTI is a not-for-profit NGO engaged in popularisation and promotion of science and developing scientific temper in the society, children and youth in particular. Established by thirty-seven leading scientists, academicians and administrators in 2009, the society has completed 11 years of excellence.3-day virtual training programmeHisar: He called upon the trainees to establish their own business and gain more profits by acquiring knowledge of modern techniques required for mushroom production. Convener of the online training Dr Pavitra Kumari informed the trainees about nutrients present in mushrooms and their medicinal importance. While, plant specialist Dr Ramesh Chugh also gave suggestions related to the marketing of mushrooms and informed them about the prevention of diseases and insects in mushroom production.
23-10-2020||The sanitary staff here have evolved a novel formula for the fast disposal of collected garbage. Not paying any heed to directions of senior officials some safai karamcharis burn collected garbage thus polluting the environment and posing risk to the health of residents. Some burn waste in garbage bins thus damaging bins. The council supervisory staff should bring such elements to book and take tough action against them.||Sanitation workers burn collected garbage||Satish Seth, KaithalFollow pandemic SOPs this festive seasonThe festive season is here and the pandemic far from over. The government should ensure that every one follows all standard operating procedures (SOPs). The Health Department should also launch a drive to check adulteration of sweets and other food items. The MC should also start a sanitation drill to keep the city clean. Above all citizens should cooperate with the authorities.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaConduct raids at sweets manufacturing unitsDuring the ongoing festival season, in almost all cities, the halwais work round-the-clock in makeshift workshops, employing extra work force for preparing sweets, under most unhygienic conditions. Last week, the CM flying squad raided a shop in Panchkula and confiscated spurious cheese valued over Rs 4 lakh brought from Narwana. Similarly, in a godown in Kaithal, paneer, khoya, rasgulas and gulab jamuns, weighing in quintals, was confiscated by the same team. This edible stuff, mixed with harmful colours, will be sold at sweets shops during Diwali. The government should carry out more such raidsRamesh Gupta, NarwanaReplace conventional streetlights with LEDsThe UHBVNL should ponder about replacing 25,000 conventional street tube lights with LED ones throughout the city under the Smart City Project of the Central Government, which will have a number of features, including saving of energy, automatic functioning of streetlights and centralised system.The amount thus saved on electricity bills can be used for various development works of the city.Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
