24-07-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Undertrial of Bhondsi jail attempts suicide after testing COVID-19 positive||An undertrial of Bhondsi jail attempted suicide in the Covid ward of civil hospital on Friday after testing positive.The jail guards rescued him but his condition deteriorated and he was referred to PGI Rohtak.An FIR has been registered against the inmate at Sector 10-A police station.According to the police, the undertrail is identified as Anuj Prakash (27), resident of Om Nagar colony, who was arrested in a case of cheating some time ago and was lodged in Bhondsi jail.He was taken to civil hospital yesterday as he had fever and was admitted.He tested positive late evening and after a while he tried strangling himself with his ‘gamcha’.The guards ran inside and stopped him but he was unconscious by then.“He is being treated in PGI, Rohtak now and an FIR has been registered against him. Probe is on,” said ASI Krishan Kumar, the investigating officer.
24-07-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Jat leader Hawa Singh Sangwan arrested for hurting sentiments of Ahir community||Gurugram police on Friday arrested state Jat leader Hawa Singh Sangwan for allegedly posting derogatory remarks against freedom fighter Rao Tula Ram and Ahir community on social media.The post which was eventually deleted and he apologised for it led to a major uproar in Ahir community that demanded stringent action for insult of their martyred leader. An FIR was registered against him at Cyber Crime police station, following which police seized his laptop.According to the police, a complaint was received in police commissioner office yesterday accusing Sangwan of hurting their sentiments by allegedly calling Rao Tula Ram a fugitive on social media.Following the complaint, an FIR was registered against Sangwan under Section 153A, 505 (2) of IPC at Cyber Crime police station.In view of the sensitivity of the matter, a police team was constituted that arrested the 73-year-old from his house sector 13, Bhiwani.The accused stated in the police inquiry that he had deleted the post containing objectionable comments for Yadav community and posted an apology for the objectionable remarks made by him for the community.Police said that Sangwan is retired commandant of CRPF and state president of Akhil Bhartiya Jat Arakshan Samiti.“The laptop of the accused has been seized and probe is on,” said inspector Vivek Kundu, SHO of Cyber Crime police station.Meanwhile, the Haryana Yadav Mahasabha has demanded stringent punishment for him.
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 4 more Covid-19 deaths, another big spike of 780 cases||Four more COVID-19 fatalities took Haryana’s death toll to 382 on Friday, while the case tally surged to 29,755 with 780 new instances of the infection reported in a day, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Gurgaon, the hardest-hit district in the National Capital Region, reported one fatality. Sonipat, Hisar and Nuh districts too reported a death each.Faridabad reported 203 fresh cases, Gurgaon 127, Sonipat 65, Rewari 59, Ambala 55, Panipat 35, Karnal 30 and Kurukshetra 25, according to the bulletin.On July 17, Haryana had reported its highest single-day spike of 795 cases, while 724 cases were added on July 22 and 789 on July 23.Active cases in the state stood at 6,420, while 22,953 have been discharged following recovery. The state’s recovery rate on Friday was 77.14 per cent while the rate of doubling of infections was 23 days. PTI
24-07-2020||---||Youth, cousin sister end lives at Rohtak hotel||Rohtak, July 24A youth and his cousin sister allegedly ended their lives by consuming poison at a hotel near Sheila bypass in Rohtak town.As per police sources, the 20-year-old youth, who was in a job, had an affair with his 19-year-old cousin sister, a student.They were reportedly exasperated as they were unable to continue the relationship owing to family and social pressure.The young man and woman checked in the hotel last evening. The man introduced himself as Ashish of a village in Panipat district, while the woman said she was Priya of a village in Rohtak district.They showed their Aadhar cards as identity proofs.After checking in, Ashish called up someone, using the phone of a hotel employee. Thereafter, several persons started calling up on the employee’s phone.The employee got alarmed and informed the owner of the hotel about the situation.In the meanwhile, Ashish and Priya consumed poison. They were rushed to the local PGIMS, but their lives could not be saved.Police spokesman Sunny Laura said the families of both deceased had refused to lodge FIR, adding that the bodies of the deceased were handed over to their family members after post-mortem examination.
24-07-2020||---||Ex-cop kidnapped, killed in Rohtak||Rohtak, July 24A former police constable, Virender (50), who belonged to Kheri Meham village in Rohtak district, was kidnapped and killed by unknown assailants here today.Virender had gone to the district court complex today, from where he was allegedly kidnapped by a group of six to seven assailants, who forcibly put him in a Sumo vehicle and sped away.Later, his body was found lying along the Rohtak-Jind road. As per preliminary investigation, he was crushed under some vehicle after being strangled.The body of the deceased has been sent for a post-mortem examination to ascertain the cause of death.As per sources, Virender had been sacked by the Police Department as he remained absent from duty for long. He had property-related disputes with some fellow villagers and was involved in several cases of assault.A case has been registered regarding the matter under Sections 302, 34, 201 and 365 of the IPC on the basis of a complaint lodged by Virender’s cousin Narender.The complainant has alleged that Sunil, Nanha, Rajkumar alias Baggi, Dharmabir, Vijay, Praveen and Ajay had kidnapped and killed Virender due to some land dispute.
24-07-2020||---||Post-matric scholarship scam: SVB arrests varsity founder||Rohtak, July 24The State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) has arrested Jogender Singh Dalal, founder of OPJS University in Churu district of Rajasthan, in connection with the Post-Matric Scholarship scam of Haryana.A case under Sections 218, 409, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 13 (1) C and D of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered in this regard at SVB police station in Rohtak on July 30, 2019. A special investigation team is probing the matter.“Dalal, who belongs to Chiri village in Rohtak district, has been accused of usurping crores of rupees of scholarships of a number of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes students from Rohtak and Jhajjar districts by showing their admissions at his university. Police remand of the accused of four days has been obtained from a local court and new facts are likely to surface after his interrogation,” says an official statement issued by the bureau.The accused allegedly got online applications moved for scholarships of the said students, got their accounts opened in different banks and embezzled a huge amount by getting the scholarship money transferred to those accounts.“The fake records of the students, passbooks of the bank accounts opened in their names, ATM cards and computers/laptops used in the fraud will be seized and the other persons/department officials involved in the scam identified,” the statement adds.
24-07-2020||Palwal||Nine months gone, work on Rs 200 crore elevated flyover project of Palwal remains suspended||The work on the Rs 200 crore elevated flyover project on the National Highway passing through the city has failed to move even an inch in the past nine months.Though a notice had been served by the NHAI to the company in March this year, work has failed to resume thus prolonging the sufferings of the commuters on the highway here.“Only 40 per cent of the work has been executed on the 2.5 kilometre long flyover aimed to provide signal free travel to the commuters moving on the highway connecting the national capital with Mathura and Agra,” said a district official, who said work was started in August 2017. Claiming that the project is not likely to be completed in the next 18 months, if resumed immediately, he blamed the laxity on the part of the supervising authorities for the unusual delay. “It has become a source of constant traffic chaos and pollution for the past three years,” said Kulveer Chauhan, a local resident.“The work on this flyover got stranded in October 2019, when the agency (contractor) handling this project left the work midway due to a ‘tussle’ over payments between it the main concessionaire (company) who had been given the work of six laning the National Highway till Agra in UP several years ago,” claim the sources in the district administration. Though it is revealed that the suspension of the work made the NHAI to make a move to replace the Concessionaire in March this year, the officials concerned claim that an action in this regard was still awaited. Dheeraj Singh, Project Manager, NHAI said that the issue of replacement of the Concessionaire was still in the purview of the higher authorities and it is likely to get resolved soon.Admitting that 60 per cent of the work on the project was still lying incomplete, Singh said the efforts were on resume it immediately and make it operational by July next year.“The matter is being taken up with the NHAI as the delay has resulted in acute chaos and problems in the traffic movement here,” said DC Naresh Narwal.
24-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Migrant labourer’s daughter stitched clothes to study, shines in Class 12 results||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 24In the times when scoring marks in the range of 90 per cent seems to have become the new normal, the score of 73.80 marks in Class 12 exams might appear pretty ordinary or below normal. But for Rukhsar, daughter of migrant worker Shabbir Khan, it is a dream-come-true situation.Rukhsar, who has been studying under streetlights for the past seven years with the dream to have a better future, has become the only girl of her clan to have finished her schooling successfully.The teenage girl has been stitching clothes to supplement her family income. She studied at the Government Senior Secondary School located in Model Town, Rohtak, as well as Gandhi School, an informal school for the children of migrant labourers and other underprivileged sections.“I am happy with my result and want to pursue a course in nursing or computers but my parents are unable to bear the expenditure on these courses. I don’t know what lies ahead for me,” says Rukhsar.Her father, Shabbir, who works as a daily-wager, maintains that he would have liked to educate his daughter further but would not be able to do so owing to his limited income and means.Nevertheless, Naresh, who runs and teaches at Gandhi School, is optimistic.“I feel that passing Class 12 with good marks is a milestone for Rukhsar and believe that she will be an inspiration for the other students of our school,” he maintains.
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||JJP's office in Chandigarh's Sector 3 closed after cook tests positive for COVID-19||The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) temporarily closed its headquarters here on Friday after a cook tested positive for COVID-19.Family members of the cook and some other staffers are also being tested, according to a party spokesperson.The cook has tested positive for COVID-19. He will be admitted to hospital for treatment, the spokesperson said.The party's headquarters in Chandigarh's Sector 3 have been closed for the time being, he said, adding that the entire premises are being sanitised.The spokesperson said the COVID-19 test report of the cook's son, who assisted his father, has come back negative. A clerk and another staff member have also tested negative.The cook's wife, a sweeper and his wife will also be tested, he said.He said the party is providing all assistance to the cook's family. PTI
24-07-2020||New Delhi||Haryana govt’s action against industrial units highly inadequate: NGT||Action taken by Haryana government against large scale violation of laws by industrial units for alleged contamination of groundwater is highly inadequate, National Green Tribunal said on Friday.Withdrawal of groundwater without any assessment of the impact of such extraction needed to be taken seriously against all non-compliant industries, the green panel said.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Haryana resident Ramesh Chand with reference to the allegation of pollution caused in the process of dyeing by the industrial units, resulting in contamination of groundwater in Khandra village in Panipat district, Haryana.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted that as per the analysis results of the underground water samples, few parameters were exceeding the acceptable limits.According to the report filed by the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), two non-complying units have been closed and prosecution is under process.Compensation had been assessed and three units had not resumed their operations after lockdown, the report said.The NGT said the report showed large scale violation of law by the industrial units for which action taken so far is highly inadequate.“Illegal extraction of groundwater without any assessment of the impact of such extraction needs to be taken seriously against all the non-compliant units... Compensation needs to be recovered for the entire period of violation up to the last five years,” the tribunal said.The NGT asked the Haryana government to take further action in the matter and file report filed before the next date by e-mail.The matter is posted for next hearing on January 5, 2021. PTI
24-07-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram hospital booked for negligence leading to death of COVID patient||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 24Gurugram police on Friday registered a case of negligence against a Sector-37 based private hospital for allegedly not providing oxygen support, which led to the death of a 44-year-old COVID positive woman.A case was registered under Section 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC at Sector-10A police station after CMO Dr Virender Yadav forwarded a negligence report.According to the police, the deceased was identified as Seema Arora, who was admitted in the hospital on June 1. Two days after her admission, she tested positive for COVID-19 and was then shifted to the COVID ward. The deceased was provided with a phone by the family when she was taken to the ward.It was on June 5 when she called her family saying she had difficulty in breathing and despite repeated requests, she was not provided oxygen support. She requested the family to shift her to another hospital.The family took shifted her in the critical condition to another hospital, where she died within minutes of admission.The family alleged that the accused hospital did not provide oxygen support even while being shifted to another hospital in an ambulance despite the patient’s repeated complaints of breathlessness.The family moved a complaint to the CM window and the CMO office, who after an enquiry found allegations to be true and recommended police action. After Seema’s death, the family members of the deceased had also launched a campaign, #justiceforSeema, on social media.“We will send a notice to the hospital staff for joining the probe. A case has been registered and further investigation is going on. Action will be taken as per the law,” SHO of Sector-10A police station Sanjay Yadav said.“The report of the Civil Surgeon has established negligence of hospital staff and now, we want strict action into the matter,” said Sanjay Pradhan, brother of the deceased.
24-07-2020||Deepender Deswal||Man confesses to killing his 5 children in Haryana's Jind||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 24A Jind man has confessed to killing his five children over the past five years. Two of them were killed last week at Didwara village in Jind.Confessing to his crime, Jumma revealed to the village panchayat that he did so on the advice of a tantrik of Kaithal. The panchayat handed him over to the police.Jind DIG Ashvin Shenvi said the man confessed that he had perpetrated the crime.His daughters, Nisha (7) and Muskan (11), had gone missing on July 17 under mysterious circumstances. The body of one of the girls was found from the Hansi-Butana link canal near the village while the body of the other girl was found 7 km away.Jumma, a daily wager, had five children and all of them had died under mysterious circumstances.He revealed to the panchayat that he killed his eldest child, a boy, five years ago. Later, he killed his other son and a daughter. However, nobody investigated the mysterious deaths of the children when the bodies were found from the canal.On July 17, he gave intoxicants to his daughters and threw them into the canal at night.Jumma told the panchayat that he was unable to take care of the children owing to poverty and that a tantrik had advised him to kill the children.The police have registered a case of murder.
24-07-2020||Kurukshetra||This Kurukshetra tea-seller has loan for Rs50 crore!||Rajkumar, alias Raju (47), who sells tea at Ahluwalia chowk here got the shock of his life when he applied for Rs 50,000 loan in a small finance bank. He learnt that as per his CIBIL score, he had already taken loans worth more than Rs 50 crore.He has been selling tea along a road for the past 17 years. The lockdown dealt a severe blow to his earnings, forcing him to apply for a loan. But his loan application was rejected.“Bank officials told me that according to my CIBIL score, 16 loans worth more than Rs 50.76 crore are outstanding against my name. I was left bemused. I have only taken one loan of Rs 20,000 from the State Bank of India (SBI),” said Rajkumar, a resident of the district’s Dayalpur village.According to his CIBIL score, he has taken personal loans, commercial loans and a two-wheeler loan. According to the CIBIL score, some loans were issued by Punjab National Bank (PNB). “I have an account in the PNB. When I approached bank officials, they said it was a technical error and it will be rectified within 10 to 15 days,” he said.Hari Singh, Chief Lead District Manager of the PNB, said: “Every person cannot understand a CIBIL report. There is a possibility that while generating Rajkumar’s score, the data of persons with similar names was added to his profile. The bank has asked the CIBIL agency to clarify the matter within a week. All loans entries wrongly shown against Rajkumar’s name will be removed.”
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Surjewala seeks probe by HC Judge into land transfer deeds, liquor scam||Congress party communications incharge Randeep Singh Surjewala has demanded a probe by a sitting Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court into registry and liquor scams.Levelling serious corruption charges on the state government during a press conference, Surjewala said during the lockdown, instead of fighting the battle against Covid, a controversy had erupted in the wake of liquor scam. Now, a multi-crore registry scam had also come to light.“The registry scam has once again proved the prevailing corruption in the state during the Khattar-Chautala regime,” he said. He sought reasons as to why the details of the registry scam were not being shared with people. There was a visible effort to safeguard the culprits, he alleged.“There are several complaints of illegalities in the registration process during the lockdown, especially in Gurugram, Sonepat and Faridabad. However, the government was trying to hush up the matter,” he alleged.He asked the government whether it had received complaints on developing illegal colonies, illegitimate registry and concession deeds, and defrauding the treasury of the government. If so, then why was the government not exposing and acting against the culprits and the land mafia? he asked. — TNS
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Deepender slams ban on property registration||Congress MP Deepender Singh Hooda criticised the Haryana Government’s move to ban the registration of immovable property up to August 5 in case of agricultural lands within the municipal limits and up to July 30 in case of other properties.He said a bare perusal of the news reports revealed that there had been scams in the registration of properties in the NCR, where the deeds of agricultural lands within the municipal areas were being allegedly registered by tehsildars and naib tehsildars without obtaining the NOC from the Town and Country Planning Department first.Deepender said unless those at the apex level were complicit with the land mafia and officials, such malfeasance and misfeasance couldn’t be indulged into by lower-level officials.He said for the registration of agricultural properties in the areas so notified, an NOC from the Town and Country Planning had to be obtained by the tehsildar/naib tehsildar, in case the land measures less than 2 kanals. “As per the news reports, this notification issued during Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s first regime (2005-2009) is being blatantly and grossly violated by the revenue official. This cannot happen without the higher-ups being in league with the field functionaries,” Deepender alleged.
24-07-2020||New Delhi||Don’t spread rumours, Bishnoi warns BJP||Congress MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi today scotched speculation that he was preparing to join the BJP, saying only Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi were his leaders.A day after sharing photographs with Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sachin Pilot on Twitter, Bishnoi posted a video to warn the BJP “against spreading rumours about him”.Unsparing for the old guard in the Congress, he urged the high command to accommodate veterans in other roles and promote mass leaders across states. — TNS
24-07-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram jail DSP nabbed with heroin, cellphones||Leaving the Gurugram police red-faced, a DSP posted at the Bhondsi jail was arrested for carrying drugs and mobile SIM cards, believed to be meant for jail inmates. On the police radar, Dharmbir Chautala’s phone calls were under surveillance. Following a “suspicious conversation”, a raid was conducted at his home. The police recovered drugs weighing 230 gm and 11 mobile SIM cards.SI Raj Kumar, head of the crime unit, reportedly received information that a man had visited the jail to supply mobile SIMs and drugs. A team led by Sohna ACP Sandeep Malik tracked down the man to DSP Chautala’s house. The two were caught red-handed. The alleged supplier was identified as Ravi alias Goldy, a native of Lucknow, now residing in Wazirabad village.“During interrogation, the accused confessed to have provided 4G SIMs to inmates, charging Rs 20,000 for each SIM,“ Police Commissioner KK Rao said.
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana collects details of land allotted to Gandhi family trusts||The state government has started the process of gathering details of allotment of land, if any, to three Gandhi family trusts — Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust and Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust.Accused of receiving funds from Chinese embassyThe decision to order the probe was ordered after the BJP alleged the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation had received funds from the Chinese embassy.In a letter to the Additional Chief Secretary (Urban Local Bodies Department), the Chief Secretary has referred to a communication in this regard from Vivek Wadekar, Chairman, inter-ministerial committee, Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), Directorate of Enforcement, with a request to examine whether any land was allotted to the three trusts.The Additional Chief Secretary, in turn, has written to all Commissioners of Municipal Corporations as well as Executive Officers and Secretaries of the Municipal Councils and Municipal Committees to intimate if land had been allotted to the trusts and, if yes, provide its allotment documents.The letters have been marked confidential, most urgent and time-bound.On August 8 last year, the MHA had set up an inter-ministerial committee to coordinate the investigation into the violation of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, Income Tax Act and the FCRA by the trusts.The decision to order the probe was ordered after the BJP alleged the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation had received funds from the Chinese embassy.Notably, the matter of land allotment to the Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust for running an eye hospital in Gurugram is already under litigation. — TNS
24-07-2020||Our CorrespondentGurugram||‘Honeytrapped’ Palwal doctor commits suicide||A 31-year-old RMP doctor of Palwal committed suicide after allegedly falling pray to honeytrap and threatened with rape complaint.Identified as Narender of Chajjunagar village, the deceased consumed poison after being unable to handle blackmailing. An FIR of abetment to suicide has been registered at Chandhut police station against three persons, including two women.As per the complaint filed by the deceased’s wife, Brahmwati, Narender called his elder brother Kailash after consuming poison, who then informed her. Narender was found unconscious in a nearby field and was rushed to a private hospital, where he died.An FIR was registered following her complaint under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC at Chandhut police station.“We are investigating the matter and trying to trace the accused. The family has alleged honeytrapping and blackmail,” said Deepak Gehlawat, Palwal SP.
24-07-2020||THE adjoining picture is of Sector 9||Tree a nuisance for residents||Stray cattle menace continues unabatedTHE menace of stray cattle at the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran, Sector 13, Kurukshetra, has become erratic and poses a continuous threat to the residents. Some dairy owners here set these cows free on roads in Kailash Nagar without any fear of penalty by the Municipal Council, Thanesar. The animals sometimes also cause nuisance in the area and it becomes troublesome for the residents. Field staff of the MC should look into issue and do the needful before they become a cause of an accident. — Ved Parkash, Kurukshetra2 murders in a week terrify residentsDURING the ongoing pandemic when people are already scared, the recent two murders in Narwana have terrified the residents. Last week, in Mor Patti area, a youth was shot dead when he was sitting outside his house. On Sunday, a shopkeeper on Mal Godown Road, was stabbed to death in broad daylight. In both the cases, the assailants were young motorcyclists, who fled the spot after committing the crime. The police are yet to trace them. — Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaDiscrepancy in electricity billTHERE was a discrepancy in the electricity bill of my home. The bill on the hard copy that I got showed the total payable amount to be Rs 962, while when I checked the same online, it was Rs 486. As I highlighted the issue with the authorities before paying the amount, I was supposed to pay the lesser amount only. If I had not checked it online, I might have to pay the wrong amount. The concerned authorities must look into the issue as the same mistake may have been made with others also. — Sachin Nain, PanchkulaPeople fight stigma with covidANOTHER rising problem among people who test positive for Covid is the stigma that they face due to the pandemic. We should act responsible and avoid any such discrimination against people who suffer from the disease. We should also be providing mental support to them and boost their moral. — Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
24-07-2020||Rewari||Meritorious students felicitated||Plantation drive at K’shetra varsityKurukshetra: A plantation drive was organised by the Department of Horticulture of Kurukshetra University on Thursday on the occasion of “Hariyali Teej” in the area around the Tourism Department of the university and the Institute of Management Studies. Vice-Chancellor Dr Nita Khanna planted a sapling under the drive. “There are many festivals in the nation dedicated to plants, agriculture and environment and Hariyali Teej is one of them,” said Dr Khanna adding that to maintain balance in the nature, it is important for people to plant trees and add to the green cover. Dr Khanna further said every human must plant at least one plant in their lifetime. Horticulture Department in charge Prof Narendra Singh thanked everyone for participating in the drive.Students shine in examinationsKarnal: Preeti Kumari, a student of Sant Nikka Singh Public School, Model Town, has brought laurels to the school and the district by securing second position in the district in Class XII arts stream examinations of the Board of School Education Haryana, the results of which were declared recently. She got 490 marks out of 500. Jyoti, another student of the school got 95 per cent marks, followed by Isha (94.8 per cent). Simultaneously, in commerce stream, Khushi, Shikha and Sanjana got 96.6 per cent, 94.4 per cent, and 94.2 per cent marks respectively. The management of the school congratulated the students for their better future.Webinar series commences at MDURohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University Vice-Chancellor Rajbir Singh inaugurated a webinar series on “Teaching, learning and research support service for quality enhancement”. The series has been organised by the Vivekananda Library of the university in collaboration with Elsevier. The VC said, “Access, equity and quality are essential components of higher education. Need of the hour is to utilise digital platforms to serve the cause of qualitative expansion of higher education.” Prof Nina Singh, Dean, Academic Affairs, underlined the importance of technology-driven higher education. Librarian Dr Satish Malik gave information about e-resources available at the library. Elsevier’s South Asia Regional Manager Nitin Rawat, Customer Consultant Vishal Gupta and Account Manager Faraha Siddiqui gave a presentation on “Use of Scopus, Science Direct and Mendeley to enhance the research effectiveness.” They highlighted details about e-resources, their reach and utility. Head of the Department of Library and Information Science Prof Nirmal Kumar Swain also spoke on the occasion.
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||6 more die of Covid; 789 cases reported in Haryana||With 789 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 28,975 today. Six deaths were reported — three from Faridabad and one each from Gurugram, Sonepat and Jhajjar. A total of 378 patients had succumbed to the virus so far, including 217 with comorbidities, with a fatality rate of 1.30 per cent.A 55-year-old woman of Govindpuri village in Yamunanagar succumbed to the virus, but was yet to be included in the state health bulletin.Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (220), Gurugram (139), Ambala (88), Sonepat (78), Rewari (48), Panipat (38), Rohtak (33), Karnal (31), Panchkula (22), Charkhi Dadri (17), Jhajjar (12), Nuh and Jind (11 each), Sirsa and Kaithal (10 each), Mahendragarh (8), Bhiwani (7), Fatehabad (5) and Yamunanagar (1).Five policemen tested positive in Karnal today, taking the total number of affected personnel to 33. Ambala reported 40 cases from Ambala City, 38 from Ambala Cantonment and five each from Naraingarh and Mullana.Meanwhile, 552 patients were cured in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of recovered cases to 22,249, with a recovery rate of 76.79 per cent.
24-07-2020||Hisar||Frontline warriors at resort?||Even as Haryana Tourism Corporation has offered Flamingo, a tourist resort in Hisar, for lodging healthcare workers who are frontline Covid warriors, senior administrative officers of the Health Department who are not directly involved in treatment and testing are occupying luxury suites at the resort.Dr Gobind Gupta, Principal Medical Officer (PMO), and eight or nine other medical officers are staying at the resort at government expense. The PMO is reportedly staying with his family. Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, transferred from Hisar to Panchkula on June 17, had stayed at Flamingo for months.Dr Gupta justified his stay at Flamingo by saying he had been meeting doctors and was involved in Covid management. He claimed members of his family were not staying at the resort.Dr Ratna Bharti, Civil Surgeon, said Dr Gupta had been staying at the resort as he was part of Covid management. She said she was not aware whether members of his family were staying at the resort.Dr Sharma, currently posted at the National Health Mission in Panchkula, admitted that he had stayed at the resort as he was involved in Covid management at the Civil Hospital.An administrative official said the resort had been requisitioned for frontline warriors and not for officials of the Health Department.The MD of Haryana Tourism Corporation sent a letter to its field staff on April 4 to provide free lodging to doctors and paramedical staff fighting the battle against the pandemic so that they did not put their family members at risk. A healthcare worker stated that the purpose of stay at the resort was defeated if any official stayed there with family.
24-07-2020||Rohtak||Donate plasma: Vij to recovered patients||Health Minister Anil Vij made an appeal to the recovered Covid patients to donate their plasma. He said each plasma donor could save the lives of two Covid patients.Speaking at the tele-inauguration of the plasma bank at PGIMS, Rohtak, today, Vij said the state government had arranged all medicines, equipment and facilities required for the treatment of Covid.“Yes, we faced some difficulty initially, as it was an unprecedented situation. However, we have put in our best efforts, and thanks to the dedicated services of our doctors and other health workers, our state has a good recovery rate,” the minister said.He appreciated the services of PGIMS doctors and other staff members for their role in combating the pandemic.Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences Vice-Chancellor OP Kalra said 57 persons had come forward to donate their plasma so far. — TNS
24-07-2020||Panipat||Petrol pump staff robbed of Rs13,000 in Panipat||Two armed men looted Rs 13,800 at gunpoint from the staff of a petrol pump in Dharamgarh village of the district on Wednesday night.The miscreants also shot at the salesmen and fled.Petrol pump owner Krishan Dutt of Kavi village, in his police complaint, said he went home after collecting cash from the salesmen around 8.30 pm. Soon after, he received a call from salesman Raju, who told him that two miscreants had looted cash after firing bullets on him and Bhagat Singh, another employee.A case has been registered under Sections 379 B, 34 and 506 of the IPC and 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against unidentified persons. The police have recovered the CCTV footage of cameras installed at the petrol pump. — TNS
24-07-2020||Rohtak||Man attempts suicide at Dhankar’s function in Rohtak||High drama was witnessed at the “Padbhar Grahan Samaroh” of the newly appointed state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar outside the party’s state headquarters at the HUDA Complex here on Thursday as a man tried to commit suicide by slitting the nerves of his legs.BJP values its workers: CMNewly appointed state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar assumed charge at the party’s state headquarters here on Thursday. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the BJP was a democratic party, in which a worker from the grassroot could occupy the topmost position. “Unlike other parties where only dynastic rule prevails, BJP workers are given big responsibilities,” he said. TNSChief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, BJP in-charge for state affairs Anil Jain, former BJP state chief Subhash Barala, former minister Ram Bilas Sharma and several other senior party leaders were present at the function when the incident took place.Rajvir of the district’s Kansala village, started raising slogans against administrative and police officials after severing his nerves. “I want to end my life as a cop has ruined my life,” said Rajvir when the media asked him the reason for taking his life.On hearing the cries, police personnel on duty reached the spot and took Rajvir to the PGIMS. A suicide note was recovered from him, sources say. His condition was said to be stable.Rajvir had made a similar attempt outside the SP’s office here a few months ago.“He is mentally upset. He was booked eight months ago for attempting suicide,” said DSP Gorakhpal Singh.
24-07-2020||Hisar||6 die in road mishap||Six youths, including two brothers hailing from Kirdhan village in Fatehabad district, were killed in a road accident, when their car collided with a truck near Jhareli village in Nagaur district of Rajasthan on Wednesday evening.The victims were going to Jodhpur, when their car collided with a truck loaded with marble. Both the vehicles skidded off the road after which the truck fell on the car.Four of the victims have been identified as Mahender, Vinod, Rajbir and Radheshyam, while the bodies of two others are yet to be identified. — TNS
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Drones hired to fight locusts||The Agriculture Department has hired the service of two drones from a Chennai-based company for countering locust swarms in view of the warning of future attacks. The drones have been engaged on consignment basis for Rs 2,600 per hour for 50 hours. — TNS
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Eight IAS officers  get higher grade||The Haryana Government has promoted eight IAS officers of the 2004 batch to the super time scale with effect from January 1, 2020.The promoted officers included Ashima Brar, PC Meena, A Sreenivas, Shekhar Vidyarthi, Sanjeev Verma, Jagdeep Singh and Anita Yadav.Meanwhile, CG Rajini Kaanthan, who is on deputation to Tamil Nadu, has been given pro forma promotion. — TNS
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Human Rights Commission takes note of Sec 399, 402 misuse||The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) has taken cognisance of a report in The Tribune on misuse of Section 399 and 402 of the IPC by the Haryana Police and called for a report from the DGP on “whether the police have assessed the reasons for a large number of acquittals and whether they have issued any guidelines or instructions to investigating officers in this regard”.The HHRC has observed that as per the report, “similar versions had been put forward by the prosecution that on the receipt of secret information, the police party reached the spot and overheard the accused planning dacoity”.In its order, it cited that in one of the cases, the prosecution reported that the police party reached the spot 20 minutes after receipt of secret information that the accused were planning to commit dacoity and the court commented that it was impossible to believe that the accused were still making the plan even after 20 minutes.The HHRC asked the DGP “whether the police authorities had held any seminar to make police officers aware so that the prosecution mighr be able to bring home the guilt to the accused beyond any reasonable doubt”.“Continuous failure of the police to prove the guilt against the accused shows inefficiency in conducting investigation by the police,” said the order, adding that acquittals reflected filing of cases for malicious prosecution. The next hearing is on October 7.
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||Farm insurance made voluntary in Haryana||Getting insurance of crops under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana in the state will now depend entirely on farmers’ wish. The state government has now decided to make the scheme completely voluntary for the convenience of the farmers.A spokesman said now farmers having Kisan Credit Cards can also give a self-declaration, seven days before the last date, in their bank saying that he did not need crop insurance. — TNS
24-07-2020||AmbalaThe district police have arrested Bharat Kumar of Ambala Cantonment for stabbing a carpenter to death||Carpenter stabbed to death||Two held with illicit weaponThe police have arrested two persons - Manish and Deepanshu of Ambala City - and claimed to have seized an illegal weapon from their possession, said the officials. Both the accused were sent to 14-day judicial remand by a local court, said the officials. TNSPhone recovered from jailA mobile phone was recovered from the premises of the Central Jail, said the police. According to information, jail deputy superintendent Vishal Chhibber had reported to the police that a mobile phone was recovered from outside a godown on the prison premises. The police have registered a case, said the officials. TNSTwo injured in mishapTwo bikers - Kamlesh Kumar and his friend Ajay of Nanhera near here - sustained injuries in a mishap, said the police. The police have registered a case against the accused, said the officials. TNS
24-07-2020||Chandigarh||50% women quota in Haryana panchayats||The Haryana Government today announced 50 per cent quota for women in the Panchayati Raj Institutions as against the current 33 per cent reservation.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the Development and Panchayats Department portfolio, said a Bill to amend the Panchayati Raj Act would be introduced in the upcoming monsoon session of the Assembly.Chautala said this was part of the common minimum programme of the BJP-JJP government. “The proposal will formally be placed before the Haryana Cabinet for approval soon,” he added.Chautala said in order to make information concerning land registry and “intkal” (mutation) public, the Revenue Department would upload a copy of e-jamabandi and registry deed on its website for both buyers and sellers to study before making a deal. This would help eliminate brokers.In order to minimise human interference in tehsils, the government would introduce the concept of centralised registry after e-registry. This would allow people to get registry done at any tehsil after submitting documents, he asserted.Given the current scenario, deputy commissioners had been directed to check registries in controlled areas (for Covid-19) within the municipal corporation limits under the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975, and submit a report within 15 days. — TNS
