24-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Covid Care Centres to lodge patients with mild symptoms||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 24The Rohtak PGIMS and Health Department authorities have devised a new mechanism to tackle the increasing number of Covid patients.As per official sources, all patients testing positive for Covid will be assessed at the PGIMS for categorisation according to their symptoms.The patients having moderate or critical symptoms will be admitted to the PGIMS, while those having mild or no symptoms will be referred to Covid Care Centres set up by the Health Department and district administration.“As per the new regime, home-quarantine for asymptomatic patients or those having mild symptoms would be allowed only after due approval of Health Department officials,” said Dr Varun Arora, in-charge of Covid Control Room at Rohtak PGIMS.As per official sources, four Covid Care Centres have been set up at different locations in the district, having a total capacity to lodge 285 persons.The district health authorities have submitted a list of these Covid Care Centres to the PGIMS and district administration and Covid patients will be sent to these centres after the PGIMS authorities approve these.The Rohtak Civil Surgeon, Dr Anil Birla, said they were well-equipped and prepared to lodge the Covid patients and would provide all requisite facilities at the Covid Care Centres across the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-care-centres-to-lodge-patients-with-mild-symptoms-103835
24-06-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Two youths tied to tree, beaten up with belts in Haryana's Yamunagar; 1 arrested after video goes viral||Chandigarh, June 24In a shocking incident two youths were tied to a tree and mercilessly beaten up on suspicion of stealing in Yamunagar on Tuesday. The police have arrested one of the accused, after a video of the two victims being assaulted went viral.The police are trying to identify, from the video, other people involved in the assault. In the three-minute long clip, the two youths, tied to a tree, are seen beaten up with belts and abused by a group of people with many bystanders looking on.As per case details, Ramesh Kumar along with his friend, Ladi, residents of camp area, after consuming liquor were picking up a tarpaulin from near a truck parked at Hanuman temple camp, when a group of truck drivers caught them and started hurling abuses.The two were then tied to a tree and were beaten up with belts by a few among the group, the victims alleged.However, investigating officer in the case, Satnam Singh, had a different version to offer. He said that some truck drivers and the youths entered into an altercation after the former accused the two of stealing the tarpaulin. The trucker drivers alleged that it was they who were roughed up by the two youths, who later fled from the spot.The two victims were then picked up from their homes by the truck drivers and tied to a tree before beating them up, claimed Singh. One of the attackers identified as Harpreet alias Happy has been arrested. Hunt is on for other accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-youths-tied-to-tree-beaten-up-with-belts-in-haryanas-yamunagar-1-arrested-after-video-goes-viral-103833
24-06-2020||New Delhi||Low intensity quake hits Rohtak; 8th since April 12||A low intensity earthquake of magnitude 2.8 hit Rohtak in Haryana on Wednesday, the National Centre for Seismology said.The NCS said quake occurred at 12:58 pm at a depth of 5 km.Since April 12, the Delhi-NCR has recorded 18 quakes. Of these 8 have taken place in Rohtak. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/low-intensity-quake-hits-rohtak-8th-since-april-12-103779
24-06-2020||Karnal||Coronavirus: Karnal reports 14 new cases, Haryana tally rises to 11,534||Haryana on Tuesday reported 14 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s case tally to 11,534.Karnal reported the new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 253. Those infected are six members of a family from Jalala village, three persons from sector-4, two from Subhash Gate, one each from Palm Residency, Karan Vihar and Mangal Colony.On Tuesday,  the state recorded 495 fresh cases and nine more deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-karnal-reports-14-new-cases-haryana-tally-rises-to-11-534-103764
24-06-2020||Parveen Arora||Imports hit, pharma industry faces raw material shortage||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 23The pharma industry is facing a shortage of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), the vital raw material used to manufacture tablets, capsules and syrups, owing to curbs on imports from China.Hike in prices another worryWe are dependent on China for 70% raw material. Due to no imports, our stock is about to end. Even wholesalers, who imported the raw material prior to the lockdown, have increased the rate manifold. — RL Sharma, senior vice-president, Haryana Pharmaceutical Manufacturers’ AssociationAs per the pharma industrialists, around 70 per cent raw material is imported from China, but it has been stopped due to Covid and unrest between the two nations. The stock of raw material is about to dry in most of the industries and that may lead to a shortage of medicines in coming days in the state.RL Sharma, senior vice-president, Haryana Pharmaceutical Manufacturers’ Association, said the wholesalers in the country, who had imported the raw material prior to the lockdown, had increased the rates manifolds of APIs like paracetamol, amoxicillin, azithromycin, cefuroxime axetil and others, forcing the industrialists to make the purchases on higher prices. “We used to purchase potassium clavulanate at Rs 15,000 per kg before the lockdown, but now we have to purchase it at Rs 19,000 per kg due to the shortage. Similarly, we are purchasing cefuroxime axetil at Rs 15,000 per kg, while earlier it was priced at Rs 9,000 per kg. Azithromycin is being procured at Rs 15,000 per kg while earlier it was available at Rs 7,000 per kg,” he added.Raman Gupta, general secretary, Karnal Pharmaceutical Manufacturers’ Association, said there were more than 200 pharmaceutical industries in the state and most of them were facing a shortage of raw material. He said the government should work on providing better platform to the raw material manufacturing units in the country. He said the production cost had increased, but they cannot hike the rates of medicines due to the drug price control policy.The association members urged the government to develop a pharma park for raw material in Karnal or Panipat. “If there is a facility of producing raw material locally, we will not have to depend on China for it,” said Robin Mehndiratta, member of the Karnal association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/imports-hit-pharma-industry-faces-raw-material-shortage-103364
24-06-2020||
||26 bleaching units in Panipat sealed||Panipat, June 23 A four-member committee constituted by the Panipat administration sealed 26 illegal bleaching units in the district in the past two days and disconnected their electricity connection. The Tribune had, on Friday last week, published a news report about the illegal bleaching units in the district. An RTI query has brought out that all bleaching units in Panipat are unregistered. Sources in the state government say there are 170 to 200 illegal bleaching units in the district.  Taking note of the news report, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) sought a report from the district authorities about the bleaching units. Shailender Arora, regional officer, HSPCB, said the joint committee under the supervision of the SDO, HSPCB, resealed seven illegal units in Nimbri village on the Sanoli road on Monday and disconnected their power connections. Besides, two illegal bleaching houses in Jalpar village and three in Kurar village were sealed. The team found three dismantled units. “Showcause notices have been served on bleaching unit owners,” Arora said. On Tuesday, the team sealed nine units situated on the Panipat-Rohtak road. Three units were located in Naultha village and six in Dahar village. “The HSPCB had sealed these nine units earlier as well, but the owners resumed operations,” he said. Deputy Commissioner Dharmender Singh said action against illegal bleaching units would continue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/26-bleaching-units-in-panipat-sealed-103365
24-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Unguarded ATM kiosk burgled, Rs 1 lakh stolen in Gurugram||Gurugram, June 23Amid the ongoing night curfew, thieves barged into an unguarded ATM kiosk, only 500 metre away from a police station, and fled with more than Rs 1 lakh cash.‘Hunt on for two’In CCTV footage, two masked men are seen. We are trying to nab them. Kuldeep Singh, SHO, Badshahpur police stationThieves stole the cash easily by opening the nut bolt of the ATM. An FIR has been registered at the Badshahpur police station and the cops are trying to nab the accused with the help of the CCTV footage, which shows two men entering the booth.This is first time in Gurugram that thieves have dismantled the machine rather that uprooting it or cutting it with a gas cutter. The police said the thieves were well-trained in dismantling the machine and opened it nut by nut.According to the complaint filed by Dushyank Kumar, manager of Canara Bank, Badshahpur branch, the ATM was unguarded and was open during the day only.“The booth was closed and it was around 10 pm on Monday when thieves entered the booth after broking open the lock of the shutter and sprayed some chemical on the CCTV cameras. They opened the chassis of the machine and fled after stealing Rs 1.29 lakh. It was on Tuesday morning, when the bank’s peon informed us,” the bank manager told the police.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered and the CCTV footage is being explored.“In the footage, two masked men are seen. We are trying to nab them,” said Inspector Kuldeep Singh, SHO of Badshahpur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unguarded-atm-kiosk-burgled-rs-1-lakh-stolen-in-gurugram-103366
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Nod to hire 110 apprentices of pharmacist in Haryana||Taking yet another step towards improving the healthcare facilities further in the state in view of the Covid pandemic, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has accorded administrative approval for engaging 110 technical apprentices of pharmacist at all 22 district civil hospitals in the state.Giving information here on Tuesday, an official spokesman said five technical apprentices of pharmacist per district hospital would be engaged under the Apprentices Act-1961 from the National Apprenticeship Training Programme (NATP).According to the official, under the Act, a monthly stipend of Rs 8,000 per technical apprentice was given out, of which reimbursement at the rate of Rs 1,500 per month per apprentice was made by the Centre. He said there were four boards of apprentices training for the entire country at Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata and Kanpur. The Central Office of the Northern Region is at Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nod-to-hire-110-apprentices-of-pharmacist-in-haryana-103367
24-06-2020||
||Forest staff assaulted in Yamunanagar district||Yamunanagar, June 23 A team of the Forest Department was allegedly manhandled by three persons "involved in illegal felling of khair wood" from the forest area of Khillowala village in Yamunanagar district. On the complaint of Kalesar Forest Range Officer Kuldeep Singh, a case was registered under the Indian Forest Act and the Wild Life Protection Act at the Pratap Nagar police station against Sardin, Yasin and Iliyas, all residents of Khillowala village, yesterday.  The complainant said a team of the Forest Department of Yamunanagar district was patrolling the forest area of Khillowala village when it came across the accused carrying one log of wood each at about 7.30 pm on June 20.  When asked to stop, they abandoned the logs and tried to run away. When forest staff tried to catch them, the accused manhandled, abused and threatened to kill them before fleeing,” the complainant said. The wood logs have been seized.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/forest-staff-assaulted-in-yamunanagar-district-103368
24-06-2020||Panchkula||Murder: Court gives nod to  polygraph test||A special CBI court here has given permission for a lie-detector test of two persons in connection with a double murder case that took place in Sirsa’s Chautala village in 2017. The next hearing will be on July 4. The accused are Simrandeep Singh, alias Simma, and Sukhpreet Singh, alias Bhudda.  Victims Amit and Satbir Singh were shot dead in Chautala village on January 11, 2017. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/murder-court-gives-nod-to-polygraph-test-103369
24-06-2020|| 
||Haryana signs pact with telecom firm to improve distance education||Chandigarh, June 23 To bring about qualitative improvement in the education of school students, the state has entered into an agreement with Reliance Jio TV under the Chief Minister Distance Education Programme. Giving information about this, Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said that under the agreement made with Reliance Jio TV, all four channels of Eduset would now be available on Jio’s platform free of cost. He informed that the objective was to impart education to every school student during the Covid pandemic. The students will be able to watch all four channels of Eduset through TV, laptop, desktop, tablet and mobile. Apart from this, the broadcast content on TV will be available on Geo-TV for a week so that the students can watch the same according to their convenience and time. The Education Minister informed that this step of the state government would benefit about 52 lakh Hindi and English medium students of government and private schools. He informed that separate education material was relayed for the students of the state who were preparing for competitive examination of JEE (Joint Entrance Examination) and NEET (National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test). Praising the state government, the Education Minister said even in adverse conditions like that of the Covid pandemic, the task of imparting necessary education to every student had been carried out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-signs-pact-with-telecom-firm-to-improve-distance-education-103370
24-06-2020||Ambala||Youth found dead, friend arrested||A 28-year-old resident of Durana village in Ambala Sadar was found dead in a local canal, the police said here on Tuesday. Sahil Gupta had gone missing on June 14. His friend Gaurav, in his early 20s, of Sambhalkhi village near Shahbad, Kurukshetra, has been arrested. Deceased’s brother Rammy informed the police that Sahil had left home with Gaurav on June 14 afternoon, but didn't return so a complaint was filed with the Ambala Sadar police station. “Initially, Gaurav claimed that they both were taking a bath in the canal when Sahil was carried away by the gushing water. However, the preliminary probe revealed that he pushed Sahil into the canal,” the police claimed. Though the motive behind the murder was not yet ascertained, Sahil’s brother apprehended that his brother might be killed for money.  The police have added the murder charge under Section 302 of the IPC in the FIR and launched further investigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-found-dead-friend-arrested-103371
24-06-2020||---||Haryana third in speedy passport verification||Chandigarh, June 23The Haryana Police have bagged the third rank in speedy passport verification across the country.Giving this information here on Tuesday, Haryana Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said the state police had brought down the passport verification to five days. We are also trying to bring it down to less than five days in near future.Congratulating all ranks of the force, the DGP said it was a matter of great pride that the Haryana Police had secured the third place in recognition of passport verification services being provided to the state residents. He also commended all field units for their excellent performance and recognition at the national level.While the third rank has beenjointly secured by Haryana and Kerala, the first position was bagged by Andhra Pradesh (AP), which sent a passport verification report within three days, followed by Telangana, which took four days.Notably, the Ministry of External Affairs observes June 24 every year as Passport Sewa Diwas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-third-in-speedy-passport-verification-103372
24-06-2020||---||Will strike off names if fee not paid by June-end: Private schools||Ambala/Karnal, June 23Private schools in Ambala have decided to start striking off names of students and stop online education if tuition fee is not paid by June-end. Teachers in private schools have not received their salaries for May and salaries for April have not been paid in full.Assurance to parents of needy studentsWe’ve assured parents that we won’t remove the name of any needy student, but they have to give a reasonable undertaking on inability to pay the fee. We’ll verify facts and extend full support if reasons are found to be genuine. — Dr Rajan Lamba, chief, Sahodaya School Complex, KarnalSchools have started sending messages to parents, asking them to submit tuition fee for April, May and June by the month-end. Those parents finding it difficult to pay fee for April and May can apply for payment in three instalments, to be paid in June, July and August.“Schools are unable to pay salaries for May, while salaries for April have been cut. Schools will be forced to lay off teachers from July and stop online education for students whose fee has not been paid. Schools have received around 20 per cent fee,” said Saurabh Kapoor, president of the Integrated Private School Welfare Society.“Schools must not send such messages as a case regarding fee is pending in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Schools have pledge money, which can be used for meeting expenses. Parents who can afford to should pay tuition fee according to the fee structure of the previous year and object if the school demands other charges,” said Ajay Gupta, president of the Parents’ Welfare Association.Meanwhile in Karnal, the Private Schools’ Association on Tuesday assured local MP Sanjay Bhatia and the parents’ association that the names of needy students would not be struck off even if they were unable to pay fee. The parents said schools were sending messages to parents to deposit fee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-strike-off-names-if-fee-not-paid-by-june-end-private-schools-103373
24-06-2020||Ravinder Saini||Insurance policy of over 400 roadways buses not renewed||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 23The Covid pandemic has hit the Haryana Roadways hard as it has not renewed the insurance policy of more than 400 buses, including 57 from Rohtak. The policy expired in the past three months of the lockdown.More than 70 per cent buses remained off road in the past three months.Official refutes fund scarcityThe renewal of the insurance policy has been deliberately withheld as buses remained off road for 3 months. So, there is no logic of renewing the policy. The buses are covered under third-party insurance. Hence, the policy will be renewed as soon as the buses start plying. — Sarabjit S Mann, Superintendent, State Transport OfficeIn normal times, the depot authorities send the budgetary demand to the head office before the expiry date of the insurance policy. But because of the Covid pandemic, money has not released, sources say.They also say the policy renewal fee is around Rs 70,000 per bus. So the fee of 400 buses will be Rs 2.8 crore.Jai Kanwar Dahiya, State Office Secretary, Haryana Roadways Workers’ Union, said financial crunch arising out of the global pandemic was the reason behind withholding the renewal of the insurance policy.“Haryana Roadways is grappling with monetary crisis. The union has requested the state government to extend financial aid to Haryana Roadways,” he said.Surender Siwach, workshop manager at the Rohtak depot, confirmed that the insurance policy of 57 buses of his deport had expired in the past three months and the head office had not allocated funds for the renewal of the policy.When Sarabjit Singh Mann, Superintendent at the state transport office, was asked about the state of affairs, he refused to admit that the Haryana Roadways was facing financial crunch.“The renewal of the insurance policy has been deliberately withheld for the time being as buses remained off road for three months. So there is no logic of renewing the policy. The buses are covered under third-party insurance. Hence, the policy will be renewed as soon as the buses start plying,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/insurance-policy-of-over-400-roadways-buses-not-renewed-103374
24-06-2020||---||Khattar approves upgrade of Jhajjar civic body||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-approves-upgrade-of-jhajjar-civic-body-103375
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||High Court notice to Haryana, discoms over fixed power charges||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued notice to Haryana and its power distribution companies on two petitions, seeking exemption from fixed power charges on the industry in view of the conditions brought by Covid.Taking up the petitions filed by the Manufacturers’ Association Faridabad and Haryana Environmental Management Society against the DHBVN, HVPN and UHBVN, Justice Sanjay Kumar fixed July 23 for arguments in the matter.Claiming that the industry was in distress, senior counsel Chetan Mittal and Vishal Sharma submitted that some states had already announced waiver of fixed power charges. Mittal argued that firms supplying power to state discoms were granted rebate, but the benefit had not been passed on to consumers. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-notice-to-haryana-discoms-over-fixed-power-charges-103376
24-06-2020||---||Covid claims 9 more lives in Haryana||Chandigarh, June 23The spike in Covid cases continued unabated on Tuesday, with the state reporting 495 fresh cases, taking its tally to 11,520. With nine more deaths, the toll went up to 178.Gurugram and Faridabad reported three deaths each, taking the toll to 69 and 64, respectively. Sonepat, Rohtak and Jind reported one death each.State trackerTotal persons under surveillance 98,623Currently under surveillance 42,672Persons completing surveillance 55,951Samples for testing 2,26,951Negative samples 2,10,998Results awaited 4,453Positive cases 11,520Cured 6,498Total deaths 178Faridabad reported a maximum of 183 cases, followed by Gurugram (133), Sonepat (59) and Bhiwani (53). Today was the ninth consecutive day of casualties, with 36 patients having died since June 15. The tally of positive cases surged to 2,596 with the addition of 183 cases today.The total number of critical patients or those on ventilator was 32. The number of discharged persons rose to 1,230, with 176 patients getting discharged today.In Faridabad, fresh cases were reported from Ballabgarh, Old Faridabad, Bhood Colony, AC Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, SGM Nagar, Dabua Colony, Sanjay Colony, Subhash Colony, Kheri Kalan village, Sector 3, Sector 23, Sector 31, Sector 48, Sector 88, Sector 19, Mahaveer Colony and Palla.In Ambala, nine cases were reported, taking the tally to 292. Seventeen patients were discharged, taking the figure to 177.Nine persons, including four members of a family, tested positive in Jhajjar. Five of them are from Shastri Nagar in Bahadurgarh. The tally of Covid cases in Palwal rose to 266 with five fresh cases.In Kurukshetra, four cases were reported. Yamunanagar district reported five more cases, taking the tally to 100. A woman dentist tested positive in Kaithal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-claims-9-more-lives-in-haryana-103377
24-06-2020||Sushil Manav||Haryana goes in for micro irrigation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 23With groundwater resources depleting fast and canal water insufficient to meet farmers’ needs by conservative flood irrigation method, Haryana has bagged four micro irrigation projects worth Rs 1,200 crore, funded largely by the Centre.The projects that involve micro irrigation schemes like drip and sprinkler irrigation will have nearly 64 per cent funding by way of loans from NABARD and 13 per cent in the shape of subsidy from the Centre.Devender Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, Irrigation and Water Resources Department, said the Centre had set up a micro irrigation fund with an initial provision of Rs 6,000 crore in 2019-20, and by taking swift action, the state government was able to get sanction for four big projects worth Rs 1,200 crore.The projects are Rs 500-crore micro irrigation projects using treated water from sewage treatment plants, Rs 400-crore project using Bhakra waters on the public-private partnership (PPP) mode, Rs 189-crore projects on existing canal commands and Rs 113-crore farm water micro irrigation projects.“The state government is conscious of conservation of water and has taken various steps to cover more areas under micro irrigation to address the water scarcity issue and arrest the fall in groundwater table. The government has constituted the Micro Irrigation Authority for implementation of micro irrigation projects in a big way,” said Singh.He said the state government had notified treated waste water use policy, which provided for 25 per cent use of treated waste water in the municipality and the rest to be used by the industry, power plants and irrigation. This micro irrigation project was a step towards implementing this policy. This would benefit 7,500 farmers in 105 villages.The cost of the project was Rs 2.14 lakh per hectare and farmers’ share would only be Rs 12,750, of which they would pay Rs 4,250 in the beginning and the rest in 10 yearly instalments. Singh said community-based micro irrigation schemes were proposed on canal outlets of eight channels in the Bhakra canal by farming water user associations in Fatehabad, Sirsa and Hisar districts.“Common infrastructure will be provided in the command area of each outlet to be covered under this project, which will be installed by the Command Area Development Authority (CADA) through a concessionaire on the PPP mode,” he said.With regard to projects on existing commands, the government planned to set up community-based micro irrigation schemes on canal outlets in various canal commands in 13 districts of the state. The fourth one was an innovative project for Mewat and Hisar districts to provide top-up subsidy to 14 CADA projects.“It proposes to provide top-up subsidy for the Loharu-Siwani area under a special plan. It will cover 36 over-exploited and critical blocks for minimising groundwater use, capacity-building for soil, adoption of water-saving technologies, additional coverage under irrigation and crop diversification,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-goes-in-for-micro-irrigation-103379
24-06-2020||Panipat||Booze scam: SIT moves plea to attach property||The district court has allowed an application moved by the SIT to attach the properties of four accused, including dismissed Inspector Jasbeer Singh and liquor smuggling kingpin’s brother Jitender, in the Kharkhoda liquor scam case. The other two accused are smuggling kingpin Bhupender Singh and his main associate Satish. Dheerender, an inspector in the Excise Department, was sent to judicial custody on Tuesday.“The court has fixed July 6 and 7 for hearing on the application,” said Jogender Rathi, Gannaur DSP and SIT incharge. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/booze-scam-sit-moves-plea-to-attach-property-103380
24-06-2020||RIGHT under the Narwana flyover on the National Highway (NH) 65||Illegal crossing in narwana a concern||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaSewerage deplorable in Ambala CityA little rain on Monday left sewerage choked in Sector 9, Ambala City. The lanes 929, 1,190 and above were found not accessible. The question arises if the HSVP is ready to face heavy rain. Complaining time and again, people are fed up with the authorities concerned. Potholes on roads, stray cattle, dumping of garbage, dilapidated condition of parks and missing street lights are a common sight. We hope the authorities concerned take a note of these issues and come up with a solution. — Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityPeople should plant saplingsTHOUGH officials of the Municipal Corporation should tie up their loose ends before the beginning of the monsoon season to avoid inconvenience to people and damage to property, people too should plant 10 trees each in the coming month. The people should identify suitable areas and make pits in advance for plantation. Once planted, we must take care of the trees till they grow big enough to survive on their own. Let us make our environment green and enjoy the bounty of the nature. — Colonel RD Singh, Defence Colony, Ambala CanttIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-crossing-in-narwana-a-concern-103392
24-06-2020||Kaithal||Online quiz winners honoured||KU gets Rs63.75-crore grantKurukshetra: The state government has released a grant worth Rs 63.75 crore (second installment out of Rs 85 crore) to Kurukshetra University for 2020-21. Earlier, the university had received Rs 21.25 crore as the first installment. KU Vice-Chancellor Nita Khanna said, “Due to special intervention of Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the government has released the grant. Earlier, the annual grant was issued in four installments. This year’s grant has come in two installments due to the Covid-19 situation."Universal remote developedHisar: Sumit Saroha, Assistant Professor, Department of Printing Technology, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, and his team have developed a universal remote for home appliances and got patent in the field of electrical engineering. Congratulating him, Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar said it was a great achievement for a teacher. Assistant Prof Saroha said the device could be utilised to operate all types of home appliances, such as fan, AC, TV, printer, desktop, bulb and tube light.Webinar on stress managementKarnal: KVA DAV College for Women organised a webinar on stress management during Covid-19. The resource persons were Ranbir Singh from IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala, Punjab; and Namarta Joshi from the GNDU, Regional Campus, Jalandhar. Principal Sujata Gupta congratulated the computer wing for this endeavour and appreciated students for their active participation. Ranbir Singh emphasised that stress is natural but it should not be prolonged. Namarta Joshi advised students to cope up with the changing situation. It was attended by 100 participants.5-day session for faculty at UIETKurukshetra: A five-day faculty development programme (FDP) on blockchain, sponsored by AICTE Training and Learning (ATAL), concluded at University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET). As many as 150 participants from across the country joined the event. Course coordinator Nikhil Marriwala said the dignitaries shared their technical expertise during various sessions conducted for five days. Professor Shivakumar Mathapathi, Adjunct Faculty, Santa Clara University, spoke on intersection of IoT and blockchain technologies, introduction to cryptocurrency and Bitcoin, demonstration of blockchain on IoT connected devices. Expert freelancers Anubhav Chaturvedi and Satyam Bhalla too threw light on various subjects.Inspirational poem by schoolkidKurukshetra: Gurasis, a Class VII student of Manish Papneja Memorial Public School, Ismailabad, has composed an inspirational poem and also come up with a painting of Earth wearing a mask. The poem wishes that society emerges from the pandemic. School Principal Rachna Batra appreciated the child’s effort.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-quiz-winners-honoured-103394
24-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana takes U-turn, no exams for final semester students now||Now, there will be no examination for final semester students of colleges, universities and technical institutions in Haryana and like the pupils in other semesters, they too will be promoted to the next class on the basis of average marks.Bowing to pressure from teachers as well as students, the Haryana Government today retracted from its earlier decision which said that examination of final semesters of all classes would be held from July 1 onwards.The fresh orders will apply to all colleges, universities and technical institutions in the state. Modifying his June 12 orders, Ankur Gupta, Principal Secretary, Higher Education Department, Haryana, said all students would now be promoted to the next semester with 50% internal assessment weightage and the rest from marks in previous examinations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-takes-u-turn-no-exams-for-final-semester-students-now-103398
