24-08-2020||Satya Prakash||Stubble burning: SC asks Punjab, Haryana and UP to hold meeting with all stakeholders||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, August 24The Supreme Court on Monday asked the governments of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to hold meetings with all stakeholders to completely stop stubble burning that converts the entire Delhi-NCR into a virtual gas chamber during October-November.A Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra asked the three states to file their respective report before it in four weeks.The top court—which is seized of a PIL on air pollution in NCR—sought to know from Punjab Chief Secretary if the state can assure that no stubble burning will take place this year.Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati told the Bench on behalf of the Environment Ministry that smog towers will be ready in Delhi in 10 months. She said a new technology to dissolve farm residue will be put to test this year.As the court wasn’t satisfied with the affidavits of the Centre and the Delhi Government on smog towers, it asked them to file fresh ones.During the hearing, advocate Charanpal Singh Bagri, representing farmers, complained that the issue was not being discussed with the farmers.Despite a ban on stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, farmers continue to do so because of lack of financial incentives to switch over to environment-friendly farm waste management practices.Last year, Punjab produced around 20 million tonnes paddy residue of which farmers burnt 9.8 million tonnes of it, while the figures in Haryana stood at 7 million tonnes and 1.23 million tonnes, respectively.State governments were now providing 50 to 80 per cent subsidy to farmers and cooperative societies to buy modern farm equipment for in-situ management of paddy straw. They’re also running an awareness campaigns against stubble burning.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, stubble burning was an important factor behind air pollution in Delhi-NCR last year, contributing up to 44 per cent of the air pollution in November.The Punjab Government had earlier told the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) that it has been utilising crop residue through biomass-based power plants and various bio-CNG projects are under process. It has proposed to set up a 25-megawatt solar-biomass project.Both Punjab and Haryana have set up thousands of custom hiring centres (CHCs) to give farm machinery on rental basis to farmers who cannot afford to buy high-end equipment for crop residue management.The court had on August 10 asked Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and UP to spell out steps taken to stop stubble burning that badly affected air quality in Delhi-NCR on the onset of winter.It had asked the Chief Secretary about the steps taken to providing machines and equipment to small and marginal farmers so as to dissuade them from burning stubble.The Punjab Chief Secretary had told the Bench that subsidy was being provided to small and marginal farmers but the state was facing financial constraints due to COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stubble-burning-sc-asks-punjab-haryana-and-up-to-hold-meeting-with-all-stakeholders-130756
24-08-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar tests positive for coronavirus||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar tested positive for coronavirus on Monday.Khattar announced on Twitter that his tests came back positive.  “I was tested for Novel Corona Virus today. My test report has returned positive,” he said in a tweet. “I appeal to all colleagues and associates who came in my contact over the last week to get themselves tested. I request my close contacts to move into strict quarantine immediately.”The development comes hours after Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta tested positive. Haryana Assembly is scheduled to convene for Monsoon Session on August 26. Two MLAs have also tested positive, as did Gupta's political secretary, his nephew wand the six Assembly staff.Khattar's earlier test report came negative for COVID-19 on Thursday, two days after he had attended the meeting with Shekhawat over the Sutlej Yamuna Link canal issue in New Delhi.Last week, the Speaker had decided that only those who test negative for coronavirus would be allowed to attend the session. With agenciesI was tested for Novel Corona Virus today. My test report has returned positive.I appeal to all colleagues and associates who came in my contact over the last week to get themselves tested. I request my close contacts to move into strict quarantine immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-130742
24-08-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Rs 6,000 crore earmarked for Haryana farmers from Central fund, says Dalal||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 24An amount of Rs 6,000 crore has been earmarked for Haryana from the Central Farmers’ Welfare Fund of Rs 1 lakh crore so that the small and medium farmers of the state are able to start other ventures apart from agriculture.This was stated by Haryana Minister for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister J.P.Dalal at Rohtak today. He was addressing a gathering after handing over financial assistance to the dependents of the farmers killed and injured in accidents.The minister handed over cheques for nearly Rs 65 lakh to the victims under the Chief Minister’s security scheme for farmers and farm-labourers on the occasion. He claimed that the Haryana Government had set a new record by purchasing wheat worth Rs 19,000 crore.“Providing relief to the farmers in the Covid era, the Central Government has decided to continue purchasing agricultural produce at the minimum support price (MSP),” said the minister, adding that the MSPs of the crops will be increased every year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-6-000-crore-earmarked-for-haryana-farmers-from-central-fund-says-dalal-130736
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta tests positive for coronavirus||Two days before the beginning of the monsoon session of the Haryana Assembly, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta tested positive for coronavirus on Monday.He has isolated himself at home after the report.On Sunday, Gupta’s political secretary and a nephew had tested positive for the virus.After this, the Speaker gave his samples, since he was not feeling well.Panchkula Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur confirmed that in the report that came in on Monday, Gupta was found positive for Covid-19. She said that Gupta was under home-isolation and stable. A few days back, Gupta had decided that all those attending the assembly session, including the CM, ministers, MLAs and bureaucrats will have to undergo tests for virus and only those who test negative will be allowed to attend the session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-vidhan-sabha-speaker-gian-chand-gupta-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-130683
24-08-2020||Karnal||Karnal reports death, 62 new coronavirus cases||Karnal reported a death and 62 new cases of coronavirus, taking the district's toll to 23 and total cases to 2,147 on Monday.The district reported one more COVID death on Sunday night as a 67-year-old woman of Sector-6 succumbed to the virus.Among the new cases, six each were reported from Sector-14 and Nilokheri, five from Butana, four from Sector-13, three each from Sham Nagar, Sector-6, and Sector-7, two each from Moti Nagar, Kailash, Vikas Nagar, Taraori and Sham Nagar and one each from Prem Colony, Gharuanda, Police Lines, Saini Colony, Vakilpura, CHD City, Railway Road, Ramdev Colony, Mangal Colony-II, Old Char Chaman, Shiv Colony, Jundla Gate, Kambopura, Rajivpuram, Shaktipuram, Vikas Colony, Basant Vihar, Ghoghripur village, Solo village, Dadupur and Dilbara village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-reports-death-62-new-coronavirus-cases-130675
24-08-2020||---||Kiran Choudhry hits out at government over handling of pandemic||Chandigarh, August 23Senior Congress leader and Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry today hit out at the government over ‘gross mishandling’ of the situation in the wake of the pandemic and ‘callousness’ in not reaching out to the poor and marginalised to mitigate their misery.Addressing mediapersons through video-conferencing, she said amid claims of the Centre and state, there had been a steep spike in the number of Covid infections and deaths at both levels.Choudhry expressed shock over the fact that about 40 per cent of tests in the state for detecting Covid were conducted with rapid antigen kits and not by the RT-PCR method.“The RT-PCR method is a confirmatory, gold standard and authentic test by WHO standards. As per ICMR and WHO guidelines, the rapid antigen test is not authentic and is known to give false negative results in a large number of cases,” she said.She alleged that exorbitant rates for testing and treatment by private hospitals and laboratories had been fixed by the Health Department, which were way beyond the means of the lower middle class and the average citizen.“In a national health emergency or pandemic, the entire expenditure on testing and treatment incurred by the public in government and private hospitals should ideally be borne by the state or Centre,” Choudhry said.She alleged that unscrupulous elements had been peddling sanitisers, disinfectants and other products manufactured without due procedure.On the closure of markets on weekends, she said such blanket curbs and local lockdowns hurt the economy. She criticised the government for hiking the prices of diesel and petrol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kiran-choudhry-hits-out-at-government-over-handling-of-pandemic-130558
24-08-2020||---||Objections over liquor, meat sale during weekend lockdown in Haryana||Faridabad, August 23Several social activists have objected to the functioning of liquor vends and meat shops during the weekend lockdown imposed by the state government in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases.‘People hardly adhere to norms’The move speaks volumes of the seriousness of the authorities to contain the spread of the pandemic as such shops attract a large number of people, who hardly adhere to social distancing or wearing masks. — Dr Brahmdutt, Bhrastachar Virodhi Manch“As the order imposing the lockdown on Saturday and Sunday clearly mentions that shops or establishments providing only essential services shall remain open during the period, the authorities concerned have failed to impose this ban on liquor vends and meat shops remaining open and becoming hotspots of visitors daily,” said Ajay Bahl of Ek Sangharsh, an NGO.While the order passed on August 21 had “failed” to clarify if liquor and meat sale was allowed, these items could not be put in the category of essential items like grocery, vegetables, medicines and milk products, he said.Opposing the functioning of liquor vends during lockdown , SK Sharma, District Coordinator of Road Safety Organisation, an NGO working for traffic safety, said that liquor was one of the main reasons behind accidents and its sale during the pandemic was wrong. Condemning the functioning of the liquor and meat shops during the weekend lockdown, Dr Brahmdutt of the Bhrastachar Virodhi Manch, said the move speaks volumes of the seriousness of the authorities to contain the spread of the pandemic as such shops attracted a large number of people, who hardly adhere to social distancing or wearing masks.Describing the weekend lockdown move as just a kind of mockery, AK Gaur of the Faridabad Action Group, claimed that the order was confusing as it failed to specify about the need of sale of liquor and meat during the two days of a week. “It is a pity that cops are driving away petty vegetable vendors citing the lockdown in some parts of the city,” he said. “The city has 212 vends and no order has been received to close these down during the weekend lockdown,” said SPS Chauhan, DETC (Excise). The city has over 200 meats shops at present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/objections-over-liquor-meat-sale-during-weekend-lockdown-in-haryana-130557
24-08-2020||---||MP Deepender Hooda attacks Centre over farmer welfare||Jhajjar, August 23Attacking the Centre over policies pertaining to Covid control and farmers’ welfare, Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda today said both policies had proved a failure as people were resisting these across the nation.Blasts ordinancesThe Centre has brought three ordinances, which are against the interests of farmers. They are on the verge of devastation due to the callous attitude towards resolving their issues. — Deepender Hooda, Congress MP“The government imposed the lockdown when Covid cases were fewer, but began unlocking when these started increasing in high numbers. It has now launched lockdown on weekends, which is being opposed by small shopkeepers and traders, who are facing losses. On the other hand, liquor shops have been allowed to open,” he said.The MP claimed that the Centre had deceived the people by throwing another ‘jumla’ of providing a relief package of Rs 20 lakh crore. The Congress would launch an agitation over the issue and go from door to door to ask the people how much relief they had got from the package, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mp-deepender-hooda-attacks-centre-over-farmer-welfare-130556
24-08-2020||---||Expect stormy session: Rohtak MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra||Rohtak, August 23Congress chief whip and Rohtak MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra today said the Assembly session would be stormy as the party would corner the government on various issues of public interest.Major issuesThe Congress will raise issues pertaining to farmers, unemployed youth, sacked PTIs and the law and order situation. During the lockdown, the BJP-JJP govt was committing liquor and registry scams. — Bharat Bhushan Batra, Cong chief whipHe said a meeting of party MLAs would be held under the chairmanship of Congress Legislature Party leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda on August 25 to decide the course of action for the session.“The Congress will raise issues pertaining to farmers, unemployed youth, sacked PTIs and the law and order situation. During the lockdown, the BJP-JJP government was committing liquor and registry scams,” he said.He pointed out that an investigation report on the liquor scam had been submitted, but the government was not taking action against those found guilty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/expect-stormy-session-rohtak-mla-bharat-bhushan-batra-130554
24-08-2020||---||6 Haryana Assembly staffers +ve||Chandigarh, August 23With 1,096 fresh cases, the total number of Covid cases reached 54,386 today. The death toll went up to 603 with six more deaths.Six staff members of the Vidhan Sabha, including PA to Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, tested positive for Covid.The monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha was slated to start on August 26.According to the state health bulletin, a maximum of 134 cases were reported from Panipat, followed by Gurugram (113), Faridabad (98), Ambala (97), Hisar (96) and Sonepat (66).While Ambala reported two deaths, one death each was reported from Hisar, Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Kaithal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-haryana-assembly-staffers-ve-130553
24-08-2020||Panipat||Woman held for thrashing 82-year-old mother-in-law||Social media has been buzzing with a video, in which an 82-year-old woman is seen getting thrashed by her daughter-in-law and her mother at her home in Sonepat. The video were posted on Sunday.Subsequently, daughter-in-law Saroj and her mother Mamta were booked under Sections 323, 506 and 34 of the IPC, the police have said. Saroj, an Auxiliary Nursing Midwife (ANM) in the Health Department, was arrested on Sunday. Her children made the video.In his police complaint, Sukhdei’s son Rammehar accused his wife and mother-in-law of torturing her mother for long. Rammehar drives a private milk van.SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said, “After verifying the authenticity of the video, a case was registered.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-held-for-thrashing-82-year-old-mother-in-law-130551
24-08-2020||Chandigarh||Amid boycott call, 80% candidates take PTI exam in Haryana||5 held for cheatingHisar: The police arrested five persons on the charge of attempting to cheat in the HSSC exam for the PTI recruitment here on Sunday. They will be produced in court on Monday. tnsAmid a boycott call by sacked physical training instructors (PTIs), more than 80 per cent of candidates appeared in the written test conducted by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) for the fresh recruitment of PTIs.Of 9,294 candidates registered for the test, 7,485 appeared at centres in Hisar, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Panipat.Bharat Bhushan Bharti, HSSC chairman, said the attendance was more than 80 per cent during the Covid pandemic, much higher than the normal times when only 65 per cent of candidates used to turn up.However, Dharminder Pehalwan, president, PTIs’ Sangharsh Samiti, claimed “almost complete” boycott of the examination by sacked PTIs. “Only 120 of the 1,762 sacked appeared in the examination,” he claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-boycott-call-80-candidates-take-pti-exam-in-haryana-130550
24-08-2020||Deepender Deswal||Elderly woman jumps into well in Bhiwani, saved||Tribune News ServiceBhiwani, August 23A policeman entered an abandoned well and rescued a woman who had jumped into the well in a bid to end her life in Bhiwani town today.A rescue operation was carried out with the help of a makeshift stretcher and ropes to pull the woman out of the well. Parvati Devi, 55, was rescued and rushed to the Civil Hospital, which referred her to the PGIMS, Rohtak. Her condition is stated to be stable.Devender Kumar, ASI, got the information that a woman had jumped into a well near Haluwas Gate this morning. He said, “I rushed to the spot and got inside the well as the woman was unable to communicate properly from a distance. She was in a semiconscious condition apparently due to toxic gases inside the well. I urged people to prepare a temporary stretcher by using gunny bags and bring some ropes.”He said he made the woman lie on the stretcher, which was tied with ropes, and people pulled her out.The well is filled with sludge and garbage. Locals said the well was lying abandoned for nearly 40 years and incidents of suicide had occurred a few times in the past.The ASI said the woman was not in a condition to give statement and had been admitted to the PGIMS, Rohtak. He said her family members told the police that she was mentally upset for some time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/elderly-woman-jumps-into-well-in-bhiwani-saved-130549
24-08-2020||Ambala||Ambala traders protest fresh restrictions||Shopkeepers in Ambala Cantonment on Sunday held a protest and raised slogans against the imposition of weekend lockdown by the state government.Atul Mahajan, a shopkeeper, said, “Shops in Ambala Cantonment used to remain open for customers on Sundays and rather close on Mondays. Instead of closing the markets on weekend, the government should order them to close on Mondays and Tuesdays as they do good trade on weekend and people from other districts too reach Ambala on Sundays for purchasing goods and items. Due to the recent weekend lockdown orders, they wouldn’t be able make purchases,” he said adding that shopkeepers and traders had already suffered huge losses during the previous lockdown.Another shopkeeper said the government exempted liquor vends and ordered other shops to remain closed. “We will meet the district authorities and submit memorandum in support of our demand,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-traders-protest-fresh-restrictions-130547
24-08-2020||---||Teachers to observe black day on September 5||Ambala, August 23Accusing the Centre and the state governments of adopting indifferent attitude towards private schools, the National Independent Schools Alliance (NISA) has decided to observe black day on Teachers’ Day on September 5.Kulbhushan Sharma, president, NISA, who is also the president of the Federation of Private Schools Welfare Association, Haryana, said, “Parents are facing financial problems due to the pandemic. As a result they are unable to pay school fee. They are of the view that no fee should be charged till schools reopen, thus, leaving the schools financially incompetent to provide remuneration to their teachers. The government should have implemented nationwide school voucher system for students through direct benefit transfer. This is the only way of delivering quality education through qualified teachers.”“We proposed that education vouchers of Rs 30,000 annually should be given to all unaided schoolchildren, which will not only help schools but other people who are in allied services. Schools have been providing free education to meritorious students from economically weaker sections under Rule 134-A of the Haryana School Education Rules, 2003, but a lot of reimbursement amount is still pending to be released. The repeated demands of releasing pledge money have been ignored,” he added.“NISA has been trying to raise issues that private schools have been facing due to the pandemic,” Kulbhushan Sharma said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/teachers-to-observe-black-day-on-september-5-130546
24-08-2020||Jhajjar||Role of one more nurse in gender test racket established||The local health authorities have established the role of one more staff nurse in the inter-state sex determination test racket that was busted four days ago. She works at the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) here. Dr Achal Tripathi, nodal officer (PNDT), has confirmed this.The two other nurses booked earlier are still absconding. The police are conducting raids at their possible hideouts.Dr Tripathi said, "We stumbled upon a recording of the conversation between the third nurse and a tout. It establishes that she did the recce of the decoy customer with an intention to provide information about the latter to the tout. She even shared some sensitive information about the Health Department with the tout. The conversation indicates that she, too, used to send pregnant women to the tout."A complaint against the third nurse has been filed with the Beri police station. "The decoy customer has accused the nurse of providing to the tout with her personal information," Dr Tripathi said.Jai Bhagwan, SHO, Beri police station, said the Health Department had made a supplementary statement, recommending that an FIR be registered against one more nurse for her involvement in the gender test racket. "Her role is being investigated before adding her name to the FIR," he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/role-of-one-more-nurse-in-gender-test-racket-established-130545
24-08-2020||Jhajjar||Jhajjar man murdered||Five unidentified miscreants stabbed a man to death and fled after carjacking a vehicle here this evening. The deceased was identified as Ashok. He was standing near a dhaba when the miscreants attacked him with a knife. He reportedly died on the spot.They forced a trio in a car to stop, assaulted them and drove way in their car. The occupants, identified as Arun, Praveen and Shankar of Ujjava village, were admitted to a hospital.Man shot in PehowaKurukshetra: A man was shot dead over alleged old enmity on the gurdwara road in Pehowa on Sunday evening. The deceased was identified as Monu of Kakrali village in Pehowa. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-man-murdered-130544
24-08-2020||Gurugram||Man killed as car rams into bike||A 49-year-old man was killed after a car rammed into his Harley Davidson bike in Cyber City today. His friend, who was coming on another bike, called the police and rushed him to hospital where he was declared brought dead. An FIR has been registered.According to the police, the incident happened at 6.30 am in Cyber City.“We have registered a case against the car driver and trying to identify him. He will be arrested soon,” said Aman Kumar, SHO, DLF Phase 2 police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-killed-as-car-rams-into-bike-130543
24-08-2020||Hisar||Webinar on diversity in agriculture||Week-long course concludesFaridabad: A week-long online value added course on ‘Cloud computing’ has concluded at the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, here. Held by the Department of Computer Engineering and the Department of Computer Applications, it was aimed at enhancing understanding of cloud computing concepts among post-graduate students, research scholars and faculty members. Revealing this, a spokesperson of the university said it was formally inaugurated by IIT Jammu Director Prof Manoj Singh Gaur, who was the chief guest at the launch event. While Prof Komal Kumar Bhatia, Dean, Faculty of Informatics and Computing, and Prof Manjeet Singh, Chairperson of Department of Computer Applications, elucidated the importance of this course. Detailed introduction about foremost topics was given by industry resource persons during the course. Addressing the participants, Prof Dinesh Kumar made them aware about the role of cloud computing in our daily life.GJUST e-campus placement driveHisar: Two students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology here have been selected in the e-campus placement drive by the Training and Placement Cell of the university. They were selected in Gurugram and Hisar-based software service company Daffodil Software Private Limited. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar and Registrar Prof Harbhajan Bansal congratulated the selected students. Placement Director Pratap Singh said 220 students of B Tech CSE, IT, ECE and MCA gave an online coding test of 90 minutes out of which five students were selected for the final round of online technical interview. Among the five, two students got selected for placement in the Daffodil Software Limited in their Hisar office. The drive was handled by Sonal Goel, HR Manager, Daffodil Software Ltd. Assistant Director Aditya Vir Singh said the selected students included Puneet Rohetella and Kartik Chouhan from B Tech CSE.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/webinar-on-diversity-in-agriculture-130542
24-08-2020||Rohtak||Cycling booms again||Yoga for better immunityKarnal: Retired Inspector Sukhbir Tyagi on Sunday made people aware of the importance of yoga in boosting their immunity to fight the deadly Covid virus. He interacted with people through an online session organised by Patanjali’s Karnal unit. “Make yoga a part of your lives as it helps control blood pressure and sugar level, and improves concentration,” he said.Creative ways to check CovidMahendragarh: The district administration has launched a sticker to make people aware of the dos and don’ts in view of the Covid virus. The stickers will be pasted on 10,000 vehicles. “The stickers give the message of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Since no vaccine has been invented so far, precaution is the only best option to remain safe,” Deputy Commissioner RK Singh said.New high for mountaineerRewari: Mountaineer Narender Yadav (24) of the district’s Nehrugrah village has been selected for the prestigious Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award, which will be conferred on him by President Ram Nath Kovind on Sports Day (August 29). “I have scaled Mt Everest, Mt Kilimanjaro, Mt Elbrus, Mt Aconcagua and 10 other peaks in Australia. My name has been registered in the Limca Book of Records for reaching the summit of Mt Kilimanjaro in 17 hours and descending in nine hours and seven minutes,” says Narendra, who scaled Mt Everest at the age of 20 in 2016. He adds he is enthused to be selected for the award.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cycling-booms-again-130541
24-08-2020||RECENTLY||Ambala lags in cleanliness||Gian P Kansal, AmbalaHeaps of garbage in GurugramHEAPS of garbage can be easily seen near Lotus Valley School, Sector 50, Sohna Chowk vegetable market and other such sites. Gurugram is one of the important districts of the state and the concerned authorities must look into the issue and must get the needful done immediately.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramLong way to ensure better sanitation in PanchkulaPANCHKULA secured 56th position in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 and has improved its ranking by 15 ranks from the previous year. The state secured second position and city got third rank in the survey. Congratulations to the state people and the people of Panchkula. The city has made some improvements but it has to go a long way in terms of ensuring better sanitation. There is a lot to be done and we need to work harder to fill the gap to provide better conditions. Residents of Sector 2 and 4 said certain areas are left ignored and roads there get inundated after recent rain. We while congratulating the authorities, we request them to look into the problems still being faced by the residents.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaEncroachments galore in NarwanaALL timber and iron merchants consider it their fundamental right to encroach upon as much space in front of their shops as possible and sometimes, even main arterial roads are blocked. This is a common scenario that one finds in almost all grain markets in the state and Narwana is no exception. They even erect permanent walls quite brazenly and don't have any fear of law as the trend is going on unabated since decades. The Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) should take a note of these and act against them.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaNeed to curb waterloggingIT is inspiring that various cities have scored good in the Swachh Survekshan 2020 but all endeavors go for a six when localities and roads get inundated after rains. This recurring menace needs a lasting solution. Besides, maintenance and augmentation of urban storm water infrastructure, construction of big lakes/reservoirs to store rainwater that could be channelised in lean months, should be mandated for every urban development as a state policy. Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-lags-in-cleanliness-130540
