24-09-2020||Ambala||Ambala village bans entry of ruling BJP, JJP leaders||Up in arms against the controversial farm Bills passed by the Parliament recently, the residents of an Ambala village on Thursday evening banned the entry of the ruling BJP and JJP leaders to their village.A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the villagers, held under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), at Jalbehra village.Strongly opposing the new legislations, which they termed as “anti-farmer” and “anti-farm labourer”, the irate villagers put up a banner at the entry of the village, prohibiting the entry of the ruling alliance party leaders.“If any of the leaders of the ruling alliance dare to come to our village, they shall remain ready to face our wrath,” said Rulda Ram, a village elder.The village youth, mostly from farming families, were seen fully charged and roaming around the village. Harjinder, who was on the forefront of the youth brigade, said, “Only those who are our supporters and against the farm Bills will be allowed entry to the village”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-village-bans-entry-of-ruling-bjp-jjp-leaders-145971
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||22 deaths, 1,698 fresh COVID-19 cases in Haryana||Haryana on Thursday reported 22 more coronavirus deaths as 1,698 fresh cases pushed the state's infection tally to 1,18,554.So far, 1,255 people have died from the infection in the state.Of the 22 deaths, four were reported from Panchkula; three each from Ambala and Kurukshetra; two each from Kaithal, Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Rohtak and Faridabad; and one each was from Karnal and Fatehabad, according to a Health Department bulletin.Gurgaon reported the maximum 288 cases, followed by Faridabad (240), Kurukshetra (125), Panchkula (101) and Sirsa (100).The state currently has 18,889 active cases while 98,410 have been discharged after recovery, the bulletin said.As of Thursday, the state has a recovery rate of 83.01 per cent, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/22-deaths-1-698-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-haryana-145969
24-09-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Former IAS officer to head Haryana Finance Commission||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 24Former Haryana bureaucrat P Raghavendra Rao will head the Haryana’s sixth State Finance Commission, an institutional mechanism for division of resources between the state government and the Panchayati Raj institutions (PRIs) and the urban local bodies for a five-year period (2021-22 to 2025-26).Constituted under Article 243 of the Indian Constitution and the Haryana Panchayati Raj Act, 1994, the commission has been constituted for tenure of one year with its headquarters at New Delhi. Serving IAS of Haryana cadre Vikas Gupta will be its member-secretary.A notification issued by Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora said the commission would make recommendations on “distribution between state and zila parishads, panchayat samities and gram panchayats of the net proceeds of taxes, duties, tolls and fees leviable by state”.Besides, it will also take a final call on the determination of taxes, tolls and fees which may be assigned to the PRIs and the urban local bodies. It will also decide various forms grants-in-aids to the PRIs and civic bodies from the consolidated fund of the state.Meanwhile, the commission will also decide on the mechanism for the devolution of resources to the urban local bodies with the ultimate aim of improving their fiscal position.The other objective of the commission would be balancing the receipts and expenditure of the state and generating surplus capital investment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-ias-officer-to-head-haryana-finance-commission-145958
24-09-2020||Hisar||BJP leader Sonali Phogat lands in another controversy as party worker alleges she thrashed him||BJP leader Sonali Phogat who is out on bail in the case of assault on a market committee secretary has landed in yet another similar controversy after a local party leader, Subhash Sharma, president of Kajla mandal in Hisar district, accused her of thrashing him at her residence last week.Sharma revealed to the media persons on Thursday that Phogat had called him to meet her at her residence on September 17. He alleged that he along with another party worker went to her residence where he was thrashed with sticks.Showing the bloodstained clothes, he said that he was brutally beaten up with sticks by three-four persons at Phogat’s behest and she threatened him by putting a pistol on his head.He said that she has been trying to intimidate him and other party workers. He said he has been hiding in his house after the incident and has mustered the courage to reveal the incident to the party leaders and media. He said that he went to the hospital for treatment. He said that he also went to the police to lodge a complaint but the police asked him for the MLR after which the action will be initiated. Sharma said that he was waiting for the medical report from hospital.Sonali Phogat, who hogged the limelight as TikTok star and unsuccessfully contested the election on party ticket from Adampur assembly segment, released a video on Facebook in which she is seen lying on a hospital bed, stated that the allegations of Subhash Sharma are baseless and stated that she will soon return to Hisar and put forth the facts with evidence.She also threatened to take legal action for levelling false charges.BJP district president Capt Bhupender said he will take cognisance when the concerned parties will bring the matter to him.Phogat had landed in a row when she thrashed MC secretary Sultan Singh during a visit to the grain market at Balsamand village of the district on June 5.The video of the incident had also gone viral on social media. The police have registered a case against her and later arrested her. She, however, has got bail in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-leader-sonali-phogat-lands-in-another-controversy-as-party-worker-alleges-she-thrashed-him-145945
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||CAG points out decline in NCZ area in NCR, delay in its mapping||Passing strictures on the poor functioning of National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB), the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) pointed out decline in Natural Conservation Zone (NCZ) area in NCR and delay in its delineation. The report was tabled before the Parliament on September 23.The NCR presently comprises 14 districts of Haryana, entire Delhi, eight districts of Uttar Pradesh (UP) and two of Rajasthan.    Major natural features, identified as environmentally sensitive areas, like the extension of Aravali ridge in Rajasthan, Haryana and Delhi; forest areas; the rivers and tributaries of major rivers; sanctuaries; major lakes and water bodies were demarcated as NCZ in the Regional Plan-2021.The Regional Plan (RP)-2021, which was notified in 2005, after a delay of three and half years, had tentative boundaries of NCZ as it was prepared on basis of satellite imagery of 1999 without ground truthing.When Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change raised the issue of mapping and delineation of forests and other ecologically sensitive areas in 2014, the NCRPB took the decision of delineation by each participating state based on ground truthing and verification of state revenue records. But it had not been completed even till September 2018, observed the CAG.  The NCRPB and the Union Environment Ministry accepted the audit observation.“The fact remains that delay in delineation of NCZ has resulted in non-finalisation of Sub Regional Plan (SRP) of Haryana and Revised Regional Plan (RRP) 2021 and adverse implications for environmental issues,” said the CAG. The CAG found that as per the analysis in June 2015 of the NCRPB, there was a decline in NCZ vis-a-vis figures contained in the RP-2021- decline in respect of Delhi was 15.43 per cent, while it was 43.88 per cent in UP, 25.97 per cent in case of Haryana and 11.18 per cent in case of Rajasthan. “…there has been no improvement in the green area and NCZ in NCR. In fact, the position has deteriorated over a period of time. The lack of effectiveness of the Board is thus self-evident,” said the CAG report. The CAG has pointed out that in case of “construction of Medical College with Teaching Hospital” in Mewat, Haryana, the NCRPB released two instalments of loan amounting to Rs 113.33 crore in 2010, despite environmental clearance and conversion of land use being pending. The project which was to be completed by May 2011 was completed in May 2015.  Also, for “Water Supply Scheme for Nalhar Medical College and Nuh Town” the NCRPB did not ensure availability of requisite land prior to releasing the loan of Rs 90.13 crore.The project of four-laning of five roads in Rewari took six years more but no liquidated damages were levied as there was no such clause in the loan agreement, said the CAG report. The Project Sanctioning and Monitoring Group (PSMG) granted assistance of Rs 1,648.37 crore, out of which Rs 1,562.93 crore was given to Haryana, in respect of those projects for which the SRPs were not formulated by the participating states. While revising the RP 2021, the NCRPB accepted and incorporated “tourism in the forest areas” in January 2014 as per the proposals of Haryana, despite objections. Subsequently, the Environment Ministry had raised objection in March 2014 and the NCRPB had to roll it back in April 2014. “This indicates undue benefit to the Govt. of Haryana with adverse ramification for the entire NCR,” said the CAG.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cag-points-out-decline-in-ncz-area-in-ncr-delay-in-its-mapping-145941
24-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports four coronavirus deaths||Panchkula reported four deaths and 101 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the death total to 76.The coronavirus tally stands at 101.COVID-19 deaths:A 60-year-old man from Tipra, a 64-year-old man from Kalka, a 45-year-old woman from Sector 20, and a 65-year-old man from Kalka succumbed to the disease.All of them reported co-morbid conditions.COVID-19 cases:The district also witnessed 101 fresh cases, taking the Covid tally to 5429.The fresh cases include 12 from Kalka, 8 each from Sector 20 and Sector 21, 7 from Sector 15, 6 from Pinjore, 5 each from Raipur Rani, Sector 10 and Sector 7, 4 each from MDC Sector 5, Sector 12 and Sector 16, 3 from Sector 11, Two each from Garhi Kotaha, Rampur Seuri, Sector 8, Sector 4 and Sector 8, one each from Amravati Enclave, Bhagwanpur, Chandimandir, CRPF, Hangoli, Haripur, Johluwal, Khatouli, Kot, Masumpur, MDC Sector 6, Railly, Rajiv Colony, Ramgarh, Sector 2, Sector 25, Sector 27, Sector 6, Sector 9 and Tagra Hansua.While 1,160 cases are still active, 4,183 persons have been discharged or cured.So far, Panchkula has conducted 61, 570 COVID tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-reports-four-coronavirus-deaths-145922
24-09-2020||Rohtak||Nursing professor commits suicide in Rohtak; wife, along with 2 daughters, jumps into water tank||A 38-year-old Assistant Professor at Nursing College of Pt BD Sharma PGIMS here committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance in his car near Kanheli village here on Wednesday evening.His wife, along with two daughters, also jumped into a water tank near Sun City when she came to know about the suicide.The woman and her younger daughter died due to drowning while the elder daughter- Enna (10)- somehow managed to come out of the water and reached a house in Sector-2 here where they used to live before shifting to the PGIMS campus. She then narrated the incident to the house residents, who later informed the police who fished out the bodies from the water tank on Thursday morning. The deceased have been identified as Dr Pramod Saharan, her wife Meenakshi and daughter Prisha (4). Meenakshi too was a lecturer.Pramod, along with a doctor, had gone to Gurugram in his car to take an exam in a medical college there on Wednesday morning. He dropped the doctor at her house in the PGIMS campus on coming back to Rohtak in the evening. Later, he drove the car towards Kanheli village where he consumed poison in his car and informed his friends about it. The friends rushed to the spot and took him to PGIMS where he was declared brought dead.Bijender Singh, SHO, Shivaji Colony Police station, informed the exact reason behind the extreme step was yet to be ascertained while a suicide note had been recovered from Pramod’s car wherein he did not blame anyone for the suicide.Sources said as soon as Meenakshi learnt about the suicide of her husband, she along with her two daughters, went to a water tank near Sun City on her scooty and jumped into the water on Thursday evening. Enna knew how to swim hence she came out from the water.Shamsher Singh, SHO, Urban Estate Police Station, said they took Enna to the spot at night to rescue her mother and sister but the divers could not locate them as there were four water tanks.“On Thursday morning, divers again launched the operation and fished out the bodies of the mother-daughter duo. Bodies of the three have been handed over to their kin after the postmortem examination,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nursing-professor-commits-suicide-in-rohtak-wife-along-with-2-daughters-jumps-into-water-tank-145854
24-09-2020||Yamunanagar||Minor sold for Rs56,000 to  40-yr-old man||A joint team of child line and police has rescued a minor girl of Yamunanagar, who was allegedly sold to a 40-year-old man of Rohtak for marriage.The girl (17) of Hamida Colony here was allegedly sold for Rs 56,000 by her motherto Vikram of Rohtak Dhamad village on September 7.As per an FIR registered at the city police station, Yamunanagar, on September 19, the child line, Rohtak, informed the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) on September 8 that a minor girl of Yamunanagar was sold and brought to Dhamad village. She was taken to a temple and Vikram married her.Thereafter, a joint team of child line and the police rescued the girl and presented her before the CWC and she was sent to a shelter home after counselling.On CWC chairperson’s complaint, a zero FIR was registered against Jhasu, Vikram, the girl’s mother and some unidentified persons under Sections 370, 366A IPC, Juvenile Justice Act, 9,10,12 of Child Marriage Prohibition Act, 2006, at Sadar police station, Rohtak, on September 19. The zero FIR was transferred to Yamunanagar, where another case was registered at the city police station on September 21. SHO Manoj Kumar said: “We’ve registered a child marriage case and started probe.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minor-sold-for-rs56-000-to-40-yr-old-man-145669
24-09-2020||Karnal||Police start drive to rehabilitate drug addicts||To identify drug addicts and to bring them back to the mainstream, the Karnal Range Police have started a campaign ‘Know your drug addicts’. Under it, each SHO will identify drug addicts and will rehabilitate them.So far, 59 drug addicts have been identified in the three districts, which come under the range. “We have identified 33 drug addicts in Karnal, 14 in Kaithal and 12 in Panipat district under this campaign. All SHOs have been told to identify the drug addicts of their areas for their treatment and rehabilitation,” said Bharti Arora, IG, Karnal Range.The IG directed the SHOs to treat them as victims and not as criminals so that they could shun addiction, return to the mainstream and enjoy their family life. The SHOs have also been told to take the help of rehab centres and the public for their treatment as well as for making them aware of the ill-effects of drugs.Another aim of the initiative is to arrest suppliers in these districts. “If there is an addict in any area, then somebody is supplying drugs to him. So a drive is being initiated to catch peddlers so that the supply chain can be interrupted in the three districts.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-start-drive-to-rehabilitate-drug-addicts-145673
24-09-2020||Kurukshetra||Course on security challenges||Tributes paid to martyrs at MDURohtak: The university community of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) on Wednesday paid floral tributes to the gallant soldiers, martyrs and freedom fighters on the occasion of Haryana Heroes' Martyrdom Day at the state-level freedom fighters' memorial on the campus. Senior university functionaries, including Dean, academic affairs, Prof Nina Singh; Dean, students' welfare, Prof Raj Kumar; Registrar Prof Gulshan Lal Taneja; chief warden (boys) Prof Randeep Singh Rana; chief warden (girls) Prof Sanju Nanda; librarian Satish Malik; director, public relations, Sunit Mukherjee and other office-bearers, offered floral tributes at the memorial. Prof Nina and Prof Gulshan Lal laid a floral wreath at the memorial on behalf of the university community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/course-on-security-challenges-145674
24-09-2020||Garbage has not been picked up in Kanhaiya City Sector 2 of Karnal city for the last about a month||No lifting of garbage for a month||Shakti Singh, KarnalOpen manhole threat to commutersA sewage manhole dug up for cleaning six months back has not been covered to date. This has turn into a bane for residents of Prem Nagar, Narwana. They say they have approached the officers concerned many times but to no avail. Since it’s in a corner, commuters have to move around it cautiously. It was overflowing during monsoon, which led to serious accidents. The officers concerned need to pay attention towards this issue at the earliest.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaPoultry farm troubles localsResidents of Binjalpur village of Ambala district are facing inconvenience for the last 20 years due to a poultry farm in their area. As we stay in neighbourhood, we are facing a lot issues due to foul smell from the farm. Since no one is listening to our problem, we have planned to shift from here. But the authorities need to address the issue soon.Ankur Sharma, Binjalpur, AmbalaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-lifting-of-garbage-for-a-month-145676
24-09-2020||Ambala||1 nabbed for peddling drugs||The district police have arrested Mohammad Shakey of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly smuggling drugs, said the officials here on Wednesday. The police said name of the accused was revealed by Sanjay Kumar of Ambala City, who was held recently with 100 intoxicating injection vials. Shakey had been produced before a local court, which remanded him to two-day police custody, the officials added. TNS2 held in vehicle theft caseThe district police have arrested two persons - Amritpal Singh of Rajpura in Patiala and Harpreet Singh of Sohana in Mohali - for reportedly stealing vehicles, and recovered a motorcycle from them, said an official here on Wednesday. Both accused had been produced before a local court, which remanded them to 14 day judicial custody, the officials added. TNSKarnalJail inmate escapesAn inmate, who was arrested by the Kurukshetra police, managed to escape from the special jail for Covid-suspected inmates outside district jail on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Amit Bhado, Jail Superintendent, Karnal, said that Deepak was arrested by Kurukshetra police under POCSO Act and was brought to the special jail. A case has been registered against Deepak by the Ram Nagar police. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-nabbed-for-peddling-drugs-145679
24-09-2020||---||Proposal to include 26  villages in Faridabad MC limits opposed||Faridabad, September 23Opposing the proposal to include 26 more villages into the limits of the Faridabad Municipal Corporation, a group of youths hailing from these villages today wrote a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala in this regard.The villages to be brought under MCF control are Kheri Gujran, Sarurpur, Samaipur, Nangla Gujran, Kadhaoli, Seekri, Jajru, Malerna, Sahupura, Chandwali, Mujeri, Mirjapur, Neemka, Badoli, Bhatola, Kheri Khurd, Kheri Kalan, Badshahpur, Tikawali, Tilpat, Pyala, Faridpur, Dadasiya, Karoli, Riwajpur and Bindapur.The letter was written at a youth panchayat held at a temple of Badoli village in the district.Jaswant Pawar, convenor of the meeting, said the villagers had written the letter with their blood to send out the message that they were strongly against the proposal and would go to any extent to stop it from seeing the light of the day.Sachin Chandila from Badoli village said the only aim behind the move of the MCF was to get hold over the land, with no intentions of developing these villages. The condition of the 38 villages already included in the civic limits was akin to that in slums, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/proposal-to-include-26-villages-in-faridabad-mc-limits-opposed-145629
24-09-2020||Our Correspondent||38 Gurugram villages say no to merger with MC||Gurugram, September 23Sarpanches of 38 villages in the district have opposed the move to merge their villages with the Municipal Corporation, citing “inefficiency” of the civic body to ensure basic civic amenities in the existing jurisdiction.The sangharsh samiti of the 38 villages said they were better off on their own. It submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner for Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, opposing the move.Beeru Sarpanch, a former sarpanch of Sarai Alawardi village, said: “In 2009, some villages were merged with 35 wards of the MC. All these years, the MC collected tax from residents. What for? Those villages lack hospitals and schools. Now, the civic body is eyeing our villages. The truth is it wants 7,021 acres of land worth Rs 900 crore.”He further said none of the 38 panchayats gave its consent to be part of the civic body. “A delegation of villagers will meet MLAs and MP of Gurugram area and seek withdrawal of the decision,” he added.On September 20, the sangharsh samiti had held a meeting at Vajirabad village to discus the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/38-gurugram-villages-say-no-to-merger-with-mc-145630
24-09-2020||Panipat||Notice to blanket unit for violating emission norms||The Regional Officer, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), has served show-cause notice for closure to a blanket manufacturing unit on Pasina Kalan road for violating emission norms. A source said Bhure Lal, Chairman, Environmental Pollution Control Authority, observed thick black smoke being emitted from an industrial unit on September 19. During inspection of the industrial unit, the HSPCB team found several anomalies in the unit.  Kamaljeet Singh, Regional Officer, HSPCB, said: “We have collected air samples and sent it to the laboratory at Chandigarh.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notice-to-blanket-unit-for-violating-emission-norms-145631
24-09-2020||
||Police serve under tough Covid situation||Karnal, September 23 Already struggling to cope up with the Covid pandemic and maintaining the law and order situation, a large number of Karnal police personnel are in the grip of the fatal virus. The situation can be gauged by the fact that the district has 2,249 sanctioned posts of police personnel, of them 1,797 are filled, while the remaining are lying vacant. Of these, Covid has infected 129 cops, of them 74 police personnel have recovered while 55 are still under treatment. Three police personnel have also lost their lives, said sources in the Police Department. Apart from them, around 30 police personnel are in quarantine as they came in contact with other positive colleagues. Due to manpower shortage, the police stations have less staff and have to work extra hard to dispose of public grievances. Of the 18 police stations in the district, six have been facing acute shortage of staff and the reserve staff have been sent there for public dealing as well as to maintain law and order situation if any situation arises. Besides, the police are also facing another challenge while nabbing the accused in various cases. “Whenever we have to apprehend any accused, we are unaware of the health status of the accused and on several occasions we have arrested persons who are Covid positive,” said a police official. “As per sources, 15 accused caught by the police at various police stations have also tested positive so far. Surinder Singh Bhoria, SP, said: “No doubt, the cases are increasing and the police have also been affected due to the spread of the virus.” Similarly, 33 police personnel have tested positive so far in Kaithal district, of them two are still positive. “Almost all police personnel have recovered and they have joined duty,” said Shashank Kumar Sawan, SP Kaithal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-serve-under-tough-covid-situation-145632
24-09-2020||---||Accused ran illegal liquor unit in Ambala: SIT||Yamunanagar, September 23Illegal country liquor was allegedly being prepared by three persons in a godown in Shahpur Machhonda village of Ambala district.The manufactures were reportedly supplying the illegal country liquor to several places in the state, mainly in Kurukshetra district.This fact came to light during an investigation being done by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) headed by Radaur DSP Randhir Singh in connection with 689 boxes of illegal country liquor recovered from a truck from near the town on September 11.The Yamunanagar district police had arrested Pradeep Kumar of Mathana village of Kurukshetra district on September 11 and Bittu Singh of Elahawas village of Bijnor district (Uttar Pradesh) on September 14 in the case.Sources said Bittu told the police that he, Pradeep and one Rohit Sharma started a business of preparing illegal country liquor in Shahpur Machhonda village of Ambala district.“Rohit owns a godown in Shahpur Machhonda village. They (Rohit and Pradeep) brought me to Machhonda village two months ago. We made a plan to prepare illegal country liquor and started the business there,” sources said Bittu told the police.Sources said Bittu also told the police that after preparing illegal country liquor, Rohit supplied it in his car to various places, mainly in Kurukshetra district. The liquor was sold at cheaper rates and the profit was distributed among the trio.Meanwhile, Pradeep told the police that “While going to Karnal and Samalkha, one Randhir Singh of Bahadurgarh sold us ENA on the way. We bought 200 litres of ENA for Rs 15,000.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/accused-ran-illegal-liquor-unit-in-ambala-sit-145633
24-09-2020||---||Gang of bike thieves busted, two arrested||Karnal, September 23The district police have claimed to have busted an inter-district vehicle theft gang. Two men have been arrested and 27 bikes recovered from them.The accused have been identified as Sonu and Ravi, residents of Barsat village, and Arif of Khargan village in UP’s Shamli. While the former two have been nabbed, the latter is absconding.Rohtash Singh, in-charge of the anti-auto theft unit, said they had held Sonu near Assandh on September 18, and it was during questioning that he revealed the name of his other two accomplices — Ravi and Arif. Subsequently, Ravi was apprehended with a stolen bike from Gharaunda, he said.“Sonu is a bike mechanic in Barsat village. He used to steal bikes and sell them off with Ravi and Arif’s assistance,” said Rohtash.The accused had stolen 10 bikes from Civil Lines, Karnal and 17 from Panipat. They admitted that they used to steal bikes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gang-of-bike-thieves-busted-two-arrested-145634
24-09-2020||---||Police stop Youth Cong’s rally against farm Bills||Panipat, September 23Haryana Youth Congress (HYC) activists today held a tractor rally against the three agriculture Bills passed by Parliament.On their way to Delhi, they were stopped on flyover at the NH-44 in Samalkha of Panipat district with water cannons and scores of activists along with their prominent leaders were detained.Hundreds of protesters, including farmers, arhtiyas and labourers, gathered in the Panipat grain market on the call of the HYC. Though the administration urged them not to move on the NH-44, they refused to listen and moved towards Delhi.The activists were led by HYC state president Sachin Kundu, Youth Congress national president Srinivas BV, Youth Congress incharge Krishna Allavaru, Samalkha MLA Dharam Singh Chhokkar, Israna MLA Balbir Singh Balmiki, NSUI president Divyanshu Budhiraja and Youth Congress general secretary Pratibha Raghuvanshi.The police had made arrangements to stop them on the Samalkha flyover near the grain market by barricading the Panipat-Delhi lane.The situation became tense after some protesters tried to jump the barricades and the police had to use water cannons to disperse them.Terming the three agriculture Bills anti-farmer, national president Srinivas BV said all farmers across the country were on the road and the Youth Congress was supporting them. “The movement will be intensified in the coming days,” he warned.Kundu said the Modi-led BJP government had passed the three agricultural laws in an anti-democratic way, which pushed farmers and youth into depression. “These agricultural ordinances are a direct attack on the mandi system,” he added.Satish Kumar Vats, DSP, Headquarters, said water cannons were used to disperse the activists. “Some activists were detained to deal with any untoward situation. They were released later,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-stop-youth-congs-rally-against-farm-bills-145635
24-09-2020||Ambala||Punjab farmers led by Bains brothers stalled at Haryana border||The police used water cannons and mild force to stop Punjab farmers from entering Haryana after sealing the inter-state border on the NH-44 here today.Led by Bains brothers — Simarjit Singh and Balwinder Singh Bains, MLAs from the Lok Insaaf Party from Ludhiana — the farmers, protesting against the controversial farm Bills cleared by Parliament recently, were riding motorcycles and were on their way to Delhi when they were stopped from entering Haryana at the Shambhu border.Following the protest, the busy highway remained blocked for traffic for a couple of hours and long queues of vehicles could be seen stranded on the highway, which connects major parts of Punjab with Haryana and Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-farmers-led-by-bains-brothers-stalled-at-haryana-border-145636
24-09-2020|| 
||Rs169 cr claims disbursed under Ayushman Bharat||Chandigarh, September 23  The state has provided a claim amount of Rs 169.06 crore under the Ayushman Bharat scheme launched two years ago. Ashok Kumar Meena, Chief Executive Officer, Ayushman Bharat-Haryana Health Protection Authority, told this to the media here on Wednesday. “The applications for claims are processed fast. The state has only 0.77 per cent claim overdue with hospitals. About 7.7 lakh families in the state have Ayushman Bharat cards,” he said.  The Ayushman Bharat is a flagship scheme of the Centre designed to change the approach of the health service delivery from segmented to a comprehensive need-based approach. Ayushman Bharat Haryana has verified 22.46 lakh beneficiaries in two years, besides empaneling 545 hospitals. To ensure transparency, Meena said 100 per cent Aadhaar seeding of golden cards and 100 per cent biometric authentication at the time of hospitalisation (except in neonates and emergencies) had been completed.  On the irregularities, the official said 90,000 cards were blocked after anomalies came to the fore. “Three FIRs were registered in 2019. One hospital was dis-empaneled, while three to four were suspended.”  On steps taken to ensure better health services, Dr Ravi Vimal, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Ayushman Bharat Haryana, said: “Of the 163 hospitals with the Quality Council of India (QCI) accreditation in the country, 75 are in Haryana.”  Among the 75 QCI-accredited hospitals, 33 have received a gold certificate, 39 silver and three bronze.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs169-cr-claims-disbursed-under-ayushman-bharat-145637
24-09-2020||---||1,986 new Covid cases, 27 deaths||Chandigarh, September 23With 1,986 fresh cases, the total number of Covid-positive cases rose to 1,16,856. The death tally went up to 1,233 with the addition of 27 deaths in the past 24 hours.Gurugram reported a maximum of 286 cases followed by Faridabad (262), Hisar (215), Panchkula (146) and Sonepat (131).Ambala and Rohtak had the maximum of three deaths each followed by Gurugram, Karnal, Bhiwani, Kurushetra, Sirsa, Yamunanagar and Jind with two deaths and Faridabad, Panipat, Hisar, Mahendragarh, Panchkula, Fatehabad and Kaithal with one death each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-986-new-covid-cases-27-deaths-145638
24-09-2020||Karnal||Addicts loot Rs 30,000 from fuel station||Three drug addicts allegedly looted Rs 30,000 and other items from a fuel station on the NH-44 near Sector 9 here on the intervening night of September 17 and 18, the police have said. Two of them were arrested on Monday. The arrested accused were identified as Pankaj Tyagi and Sajan, both from the city, said SP Surinder Singh Bhoria.  They, along and their accomplice, attacked employees of the fuel station and looted Rs 30,000, an LED, a digital video recorder and two phones.  A case has been registered under Section 394 of the IPC.  The accused reportedly confessed to have committed the crime.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/addicts-loot-rs-30-000-from-fuel-station-145639
24-09-2020||---||Medical students’ admission cancelled after 3 yrs of studies||Rohtak, September 23In all, 49 medical students have been sitting on a dharna at the Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS) here for a week, protesting against the abrupt cancellation of their admission from JR Kissan Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital last year.For the past 10 years, they have knocked the doors of the authorities concerned. But every time, they faced dejection.They enrolled in the Bachelor of Homeopathic Medicine and Surgery (BHMS) in 2016 and completed three years of studies.One of the protesting students told The Tribune, “My classmates and I had cleared the entrance examination and got admission after undergoing the counselling process. We studied for three years and cleared the examinations of first two years. A few days before the third-year examination in 2019, we were told that our admission had been cancelled.”The authorities, however, cited an order of the Supreme Court when asked about the cancellation of admission.Inquiries made into the matter brought out that the college had approached the Union Ayush Ministry, requesting it to increase the number of seats of the 2016-17 batch from 50 to 100.The ministry not only turned down the proposal, but also, surprisingly, cancelled the admission of the 49 students already admitted in the 2016-17 batch.Subsequently, the college authorities moved the High Court against the ministry’s admission. The HC gave relief to the students.In the meantime, the affiliation of the college was changed from the UHS to Shri Krishna Ayush University, Kurukshetra.The authorities of Ayush university then moved the Supreme Court, which set aside the HC’s order, cancelling the admission of the 49 students.College Director Amarender Singh said, “The Central authorities have authorised the state government to decide the matter. We appeal to the state government to adopt a sympathetic approach towards the 49 students.”The state government has constituted a committee, comprising the Additional Chief Secretaries of the Departments of Health and Medical Education and Research, to decide the matter.UHS Registrar Dr HK Aggarwal said a meeting of the committee had been convened in Chandigarh to discuss the matter.Crux of the matter||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/medical-students-admission-cancelled-after-3-yrs-of-studies-145640
24-09-2020||Panipat||Man shot dead over ‘land dispute’||A 26-year-old man, Aman, was allegedly shot dead by his elder brother in Rabhra village in Gohana of Sonepat district on Tuesday evening.Complainant Azaad Singh, father of the deceased, told the police that his elder son Krishan had committed the crime as he wanted control over the 3-acre agricultural land that he had cultivated along with Aman. Krishan along with one of his associates had come on a bike and opened fire upon Aman. Later, both of them fled the spot.Aman was rushed to the Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women at Khanpur Kalan, but was declared dead by doctors.The accused had been booked under various sections of the IPC. Efforts are on to nab the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-shot-dead-over-land-dispute-145641
24-09-2020||
    
        
    
||Ensure no trading takes place below MSP||Reiterating what former US Agriculture Secretary Earl Butz (during Ronald Reagan’s rule) had declared: “Get big or get out,” Sonny Perdue, US President Donald Trump’s Agriculture Secretary recently said: “In America, the big get bigger and the small go out. I don’t think in America, (as) for any small business, we have a guaranteed income or guaranteed profitability.”Wherever agriculture is being opened to markets, the big capital has successfully managed to push out the majority farming population and concentrated its control over food. That’s how the markets behave, with its own set of logic and ethics. As the big get bigger, the small farms struggle to survive. In America, after decades of market reforms in agriculture, only 1.5 per cent of its population has somehow managed to survive on the farm. Despite providing for $867 billion support under the Farm Bill 2018 over the next 10 years for agriculture, nutrition and conservation programmes, rising suicide rate, worrying trends of depression in rural areas, declining milk and farm commodity prices, and the mounting bankruptcy in farming — estimated at $425 billion — will make it tough for the family farms to survive the transition.With the suicide rate being 45 per cent higher in rural areas as compared to urban America, low prices and mounting debt has pushed much of the rural population in the grip of stress and depression. What happened in America is no exception. It has in fact become an international agricultural design, with agribusiness gaining strongholds over the food value chains across the globe, in reality their competitive strength depending on the huge subsidies received. In Europe, farming too is in a severe crisis despite an annual subsidy support of $100 billion, of which nearly half goes as direct income support. Low prices and mounting debt has gradually pushed small farmers out of business. In the UK, 3,000 dairy farms have closed down in the past four years. In France, a study had shown that nearly 500 farmers commit suicide on an average in a year.In India, 3.64 lakh farmers have officially committed suicide in the past 25 years as per the National Crime Records Bureau statistics. Despite 94 per cent farmers being dependent on markets all these years (as per the Shanta Kumar committee report), Indian agriculture is still in the throes of a terrible agrarian distress. Interestingly, an NSSO report in 2014-15 had shown that nearly 54 to 84 per cent farmers (depending on crops) in the kharif marketing season had sold their produce outside the mandis to private traders. In other words, farmers had the freedom to sell anywhere. They were not in the clutches of the mandis. The question therefore that needs to be asked is if markets were so efficient, why should farmers be increasingly abandoning agriculture and migrating to the cities. If markets were so benevolent, there is no reason why agriculture shouldn’t have been the engine of economic growth.But this is how markets operate, pushing people away from agriculture primarily to provide cheap workforce for the industry. The big get bigger in the process and the small go out. For India, the Washington-based International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) has a similar proposition — ‘move up or move out’. For several decades, mainline economists in India had been arguing on similar lines. Numerous committees and reports had pointed to the need to move towards market-friendly agriculture. Minimum Support Price (MSP) was named the culprit, coming in the way of real price discovery. In one form or the other, the emphasis had been on dismantling the vast network of Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC)-regulated mandis in Punjab and Haryana.To strengthen the argument, even the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) had come out with a table ranking states in terms of market-friendliness. Bihar topped the chart, and Punjab was at the bottom.Punjab brings up the rear because 87 per cent of wheat and rice (as per CACP) is procured by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) or by public sector agencies on its behalf at a guaranteed MSP. In Bihar, less than 1 per cent of the wheat harvest is procured. If this is market-friendliness, economists need to explain what is so good about it. In Punjab and Haryana, comprising the food bowl, farmers receive Rs 80,000 crore a year by way of price support. As far as I can remember, barring a few instances, farmers have not received a price higher than the MSP in open markets. Market prices have always remained lower than the MSP announced for wheat and paddy, the two crops that are being procured. Similarly, for the 23 crops for which MSP is announced every year, open market prices have generally been lower.The real price discovery for farmers is by MSP only. The need therefore is to make MSP a legal right for farmers and ensure that no trading takes place below the MSP, not only for wheat and paddy but for all the 23 crops for which MSP is announced.Although the government says MSP and APMC markets will remain intact under the new marketing reforms being ushered in, farmers fear that APMC mandis will gradually become redundant. With APMC markets heading towards a collapse, the new set of reforms is aimed at encouraging corporatisation of agriculture, with big business moving into agriculture, storage and marketing. As the experience of US/Europe shows, when unregulated markets become dominant, small farmers are the first to be pushed out of agriculture. Given that 86 per cent farmers have less than five acres of land holdings, the message is clear: get big or get out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ensure-no-trading-takes-place-below-msp-145671
24-09-2020||
    
        
    
||It’s not just about the farmer||The situation following the enactment of the three ordinances passed by the Centre has created a political problem as well as somewhat of a dilemma for many economists. There is the fairly common assumption by many economists that free functioning of markets is a more efficient way of letting prices and choices function than relying too heavily on the government. Other economists, however, have always pointed out that whatever the merits of the markets, when these fail, the government intervention is not only desirable but also often necessary. In the present situation, the debate is around three issues: the first, the application of the Essential Commodities Act; the second, the functioning and reach of the APMC; and the third, the functioning of contract farming.These issues are not new, and nor are the debates. Since about 2000, the Centre has been trying to put in place reforms which would do whatever is necessary to have more orderly agricultural markets, and this is a process which has continued irrespective of the parties in power. While clubbing the teeth of the Essential Commodities Act, reforming APMCs and encouraging contract farming have been the objectives, with the Central governments bringing out model enactments at various points and holding discussions with the states, there has been very limited progress on the ground.The present hurried enactment of the ordinances reflects a belief that somehow a process which had not yielded full fruit for 20 years could be done through a rushed enactment. This attitude is in itself a major change in the way the Centre is now dealing with the states, because agricultural marketing, like agriculture on the whole, is a State subject. The recourse that the Centre has taken in the matter of agricultural marketing is to the provision in the Constitution that the Centre can intervene in matters of inter-state trade. This has been known for some time, but the way in which this is being imposed is the true matter for debate.For agricultural markets as a whole, it is useful to distinguish between crops such as fruits and vegetables that are not covered by the MSP system, and those such as rice and wheat that are. Many states in response to efforts to reform the APMCs had either relaxed APMC regulations on such perishable commodities, or even allowed marketing outside APMCs, while retaining the APMC functioning on grains and oilseeds and less perishable crops. The main thrust in the 20 years leading up to now has been one of creating an economy where high-value crops, mainly fruits and vegetables, can be given a chance to grow and thrive by attracting new players into the market, such as large retailers and food processors.It was recognised that for certain other crops, mainly rice and wheat, the market was very strongly affected by what decisions were taken by the Centre on MSP and PDS purchases, and hence it was not possible to assume that markets would function freely. The present Acts seem to have dropped these distinctions, although the Centre has been quick to say that the MSP will continue to function. The Opposition, on the other hand, suspects that the MSP system may be under threat. States such as Punjab and Haryana, which were at the forefront of the Green Revolution, and till very recently, the main suppliers to the PDS, are understandably among the most concerned. The issue is not only that most farmers grow rice and wheat and sell it at MSP, but also that the functioning of many markets in these states depends upon MSP operations.For example, Punjab receives by way of mandi charges a very substantial fraction of the cost borne by the Centre in the purchase of rice and wheat at MSP. Any winding up of MSP, or even if MSP operations are taken out of the APMCs, could have a large impact on the total flow of funds from the Centre to the state. This is a danger, which although not expressed clearly so far, exists because one of the things enabled by the new Act is that the FCI, for example, could function outside an APMC, and as a direct purchaser for distribution to other states, it need not pay any market charges at all in Punjab. In other words, for states like Punjab and Haryana, the matter is beyond simply what concerns farmers, but also the fiscal relationship between the Centre and the state. The matter should have been discussed before the ordinances were issued, or at least before the enactment was put to Parliament.Punjab and Haryana farmers are clearly very concerned about what might happen to the system which they know so well, and which has paid them quite handsomely. The protests are related to this concern, and to the fact that in Punjab, for example, both the ruling and the Opposition party are united against the Central action. Nonetheless, from the point of view of economics, it must be remembered that one of the major issues that has been discussed over the years is that Punjab, especially, is paying a very large cost in terms of falling water table and other environmental problems that arise from too great a dependence on the rice-wheat cycle. Proponents of the Act would point to the fact that by liberalising trade in all other commodities, Punjab and Haryana farmers would be able to grow rice and wheat, if they wanted, but they might have better choices as a result of investment by the private sector, in view of larger and stable demand for high-value crops. These are precisely the issues which have been debated over the last 20 years and ramrodding important matters deserving of concern does not do justice to the sense of good federalism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/its-not-just-about-the-farmer-145660
