24-12-2020||Rohtak||Rohtak court rejects plea for action against Sonepat sisters for false complaint||A Rohtak court has dismissed an appeal for action against Sonepat sisters Pooja and Aarti for having lodged a false complaint of molestation against three boys of Aasan village in Rohtak district in a matter that had hogged headlines in 2014.The Court of Additional Sessions Judge Ritu YK Behl dismissed the appeal filed by Dr Subhash Vijayran in this regard today.The court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Isha Khatri had earlier dismissed Dr Vijayran’s application regarding the matter, against which he filed an appeal before the Sessions Court.Advocate Peeyush Gakhar, who appeared on behalf of the Sonepat sisters, argued that launching prosecution against Pooja and Aarti at this stage was not expedient in the interest of justice.On the other hand, Dr Subhash Vijayran maintained that he would move the Punjab and Haryana High Court and challenge the order passed by the Rohtak court.“The false complaint lodged by the Sonepat sisters has ruined the careers and prime years of Rohtak boys. I had sought legal action against the sisters so that it can be a deterrent for such bogus complainants and will pursue the matter till justice is delivered,” he asserted.The caseOn November 28, 2014, Pooja and her sister Aarti of Thana Khurd village in Sonepat district thrashed three youths of Assan village in Rohtak district on board a moving bus, accusing them of having molested them.An FIR was registered and an SIT was constituted to probe the case. Police investigation found the allegations levelled by the sisters untrue.None of the 50-odd witnesses, including the girl who shot the video of the incident, supported the version of the sisters. Polygraph tests indicated that the sisters were concealing some information, while the boys had come out clean.
24-12-2020||Mandi||Two of family from Haryana dead as car falls into gorge in HP's Mandi||A 28-year-old woman and her 12-year-old niece died while her husband was injured on Thursday after their car fell into a gorge in Himachal Pradesh's Mandi district, police said.The deceased were identified as Komal and her niece Isha.Komal's husband, Nitish Sharma (32), was admitted to the district hospital in Kullu, said Mandi Superintendent of Police (SP) Shalini Agnihotri.The SP said all of them were from Haryana's Faridabad and were headed for Kullu from Mandi via Kataula when the accident took place at Rehla Ropa. PTI
24-12-2020||Deepender Deswal||Dushyant cancels visit after protesters dig up helipad in his home segment||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 23A group of protesters dug up a helipad prepared in a school where Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala was scheduled to land in helicopter to attend a personal function in Karsandhu village in his home constituency of Uchana Kalan in Jind district on Thursday.The farmers gathered the school carrying black flags and raised anti-government slogans. They also dug up the ground with shovel today morning. Dushyant was schedule to attend a function in the family of supporter in the village. Later, Dushyant’s programme was cancelled though no reason was cited for the cancellation of the visit.The protesters maintained that they will not let Dushyant enter the Bangar region in Jind area until he announces his support the agitation of farmers who have been demanding withdrawal of the three Agriculture Acts introduced by the NDA government recently. They urged Dushyant to withdraw support to the BJP government in Haryana.A farmer leader Krishan Kumar said, “People of Uchana assembly segment gave a whopping victory by 47,000 votes after which he became the deputy CM. Now, the farmers have been raising the issue, he should come to our support. If he wants to continue his support to the BJP and stay with the government, let it be. But we will not let him to step on this land,” he said.The farmers said they had high hopes from Dushyant as he is great grandson of Devi Lal who is known as one of the towering leaders of farmers who always stood for farmers. But Dushyant has snubbed the farmers in his greed for power. We will continue to oppose him until he announces support to the farmers,” he said.Azad Singh, a khap leader said a mahapanchayat has taken a decision to not allow any ruling party politician in Jind region until they come to the support of the farmers. “We decided to stage protest after getting the information about the schedule of the arrival of the deputy chief minister today. We have damaged the helipad. We serve a caution to Dushyant to immediately join the farmers or he will continue to face the protest,” he said.The administrative officials have also come to the spot but they too have gone back sensing the strong protest of the farmers.
24-12-2020||Ambala||Two days after farmers block CM’s convoy, Ambala SP shifted||The Haryana government on Thursday transferred Ambala Superintendent of Police Rajesh Kalia, barely two days after a group of farmers here allegedly blocked Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s convoy and hurled sticks at it.Kalia was posted the Ambala SP over three months ago. According to an official statement, Kalia will be replaced by Hamid Akhtar, who till now held the charge of the SP (Security), CID.Now, Kalia has been appointed the CID’s SP (Security), it said. On Wednesday, the Haryana Police had booked 13 farmers on charges of attempt to murder and rioting, a day after people protesting against the Centre’s farm laws allegedly blocked the chief minister’s convoy and hurled sticks at it.A group of protesting farmers had shown black flags to Khattar when his convoy was passing through Ambala City. The CM was in the city to address public meetings in support of the party’s candidates for the upcoming civic body polls.Police on Wednesday said some farmers tried to charge towards the convoy and blocked its movement for some time. They said some of them hurled sticks at some vehicles. PTI
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Deputy CM Chautala says farm laws need amendments, urges farmers to give concrete suggestions||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said the new central farm laws need many amendments and urged protesting farmers to give “concrete suggestions”.The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leader reiterated that he will tender his resignation the day he feels he is unable to ensure minimum support price (MSP) to farmers in Haryana.Addressing a press conference here, the deputy chief minister said, “I believe that many amendments should be there. On this, we have given many suggestions to the Centre earlier and they too were agreeable on many suggestions.”             “I think the Centre is ready to incorporate those amendments,” he added.At another point in the briefing, Chautala said the Centre was repeatedly inviting the farmer unions to talks, and it was the responsibility of these outfits to give “concrete suggestions” regarding their demands.He hoped that the protesting farmers resume dialogue with the Centre to resolve their concerns over the three new laws.“When the Centre is ready for talks, the farmer unions that have held six rounds of talks earlier should come forward. No agitation has ever ended without talks being held,” he said.“I think the biggest demand of the Arhitiyas (commission agents) too is that in open market and in mandis, tax should be at par. If that happens, our marketing board and mandis will flourish as they have been going on. And if the Centre is ready to give written assurance on MSP, I think biggest demand of farmers is fulfilled,” he said in response to a question.To another question on the opposition and a section of farmers urging the JJP to withdraw support to the state’s M L Khattar government, Chautala said, “There is no pressure. We are running the government in a very stable manner.” — PTI
24-12-2020||New Delhi||Bitter cold persists in north India, light snowfall likely in Kashmir over weekend||Bitter cold conditions persisted in most parts of north India on Thursday as the minimum temperatures hovered well below the normal limits at several places in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan.There was slight improvement in cold conditions in Kashmir as the minimum temperature rose across the valley, even as the Meteorological office forecast the possibility of light snowfall over two days from Saturday.In the national capital, the minimum temperature remained below five degrees Celsius for the second consecutive day, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 4.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, and a maximum of 23.1 degrees Celsius. Cold wave conditions are likely in parts of Delhi over the next two days and the mercury is expected to drop to three Celsius on Friday. “Moderate to dense” fog is also expected during the period, the IMD said. Earlier in the day, “dense” fog reduced visibility in parts of the city, affecting traffic movement.        In Haryana and Punjab, the minimum temperatures hovered well below the normal limits.Adampur in Punjab reeled under intense chill recording a low of 1.6 degrees Celsius, while biting cold prevailed in Ludhiana too at 2.1 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Ambala, Karnal, Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa also registered below normal minimums at 5.7, 2.9, 4.6, 4.6, 5.2 and 6.3 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 4.7 degrees Celsius.Himachal Pradesh’s Keylong, Kalpa and Mandi shivered at sub-zero temperature. The tribal district Lahaul-Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong remained the coldest place in the state at minus 8.4 degrees Celsius, Met centre Shimla director Manmohan Singh said. Kalpa in Kinnaur district and Mandi recorded a low of minus 2.2 and minus 1 degrees Celsius, he added.   Manali, Dalhousie and Kufri recorded a low of zero, 4.3 and 4.5 degrees Celsius respectively.  The minimum temperature in Shimla was recorded at 4.1 degrees Celsius, he added. The Met centre has forecast rain and snowfall in isolated places of the state on December 27 and 28.In Jammu and Kashmir, the night temperature marked an improvement but continued to settle below the freezing point, the Met officials said.The weather has remained dry and cold across Kashmir since the snowfall on December 12, with the night temperature staying several degrees below the freezing point, they said.The officials said Srinagar — the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir — recorded a low of minus 3.8 degrees Celsius –up from the previous night’s minus 5 degrees Celsius.Gulmarg was the coldest recorded place in the valley.Kashmir is currently under the grip of ‘Chillai-Kalan’—the 40-day harshest winter period when the chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum.‘Chillai-Kalan’, which began on December 21, is considered the harshest winter period in Kashmir as a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley.While ‘Chillai-Kalan’ will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long ‘Chillai-Khurd’ (small cold) and a 10-day-long ‘Chillai-Bachha’ (baby cold).The Met office has said the weather is likely to remain mainly dry till December 25, but there is a possibility of light in the valley for two days from Saturday.There is no forecast of any major snowfall activity till the end of this month, it added.In Uttar Pradesh, a blanket of very dense fog enveloped isolated places.According to the weather office in Lucknow, there was no major change in the night temperatures across the divisions of the state.The night temperature was appreciably below normal in Gorakhpur, Bareilly and Moradabad divisions, below normal in Ayodhya, Lucknow, Prayagraj and Kanpur divisions and normal in the rest, it said.The lowest minimum temperature in the state was recorded in Muzaffarnagar at 2.5 degrees Celsius, while Jhansi, with 26.1 degrees Celsius, recorded the highest temperature.The Met forecast said the weather would most likely remain dry in the state and dense fog was very likely at isolated places on Friday morning.Most parts of Rajasthan too reeled under intense cold conditionsand Churu was the coldest place in the state with a minimum temperature of 4.8 degrees Celsius followed by Pilani where the night temperature was 4.9 degrees Celsius.The weather conditions would remain the same during the next 24 hours, the official said. PTI
24-12-2020||Hisar||Hisar health team raids Ludhiana clinic||A Health Department team of Hisar district in Haryana raided a clinic indulging in sex determination test and arrested a woman tout while conducting a pre-natal sex determination test in the Shimlapuri area of Ludhiana district today.The team got a tip-off that the Ludhiana clinic was luring pregnant women from Hisar and adjoining areas for the test.The PNDT nodal officer Dr Anamika Bishnoi said they roped in a decoy woman customer and got in touch with the tout for getting the sex determination test done at the Ludhiana clinic.The decoy customer struck a deal for the test for Rs 35,000. The woman was sent to the clinic today and the Health Department team conducted a raid there. Health officials swooped down on the ultrasound operator when he started the test on the pregnant woman. The operator, however, got a whiff of the raid and fled from the spot, leaving behind the portable ultrasound machine and his car at the spot. He, however, decamped with Rs 29,000, while the remaining amount of Rs 6,000 was recovered from the woman.Dr Bishnoi said they overpowered the woman tout from the clinic, while the ultrasound operator managed to flee from the spot. The raiding team also seized the MTP kit and other medicines from the clinic which were being run by a quack. She said they took the health team from Punjab with them during the raid and were in the process to get a police case registered against the woman tout and others involved in the illegal activity.
24-12-2020||---||5 die, 495 cases in Haryana||
24-12-2020||   ||Kabaddi coach booked for rape||Our Correspondent     Gurugram, December 23  A 23-year-old weightlifter from Jind has accused a kabaddi coach of raping her on the pretext of a job offer and other false promises, the police have said. The accused is reportedly posted in the Haryana Police.  The Gurugram police have registered a zero FIR and forwarded it to their counterparts in Chandigarh for further action.  In her police complaint, the victim said she had befriended the kabaddi coach in Jind. In 2018, he called the weightlifter to Chandigarh, promising to find a job for her, but he raped her, the victim alleged.   She claimed the coach again called her on the pretext of sending her abroad, but raped her. The same thing happened in Hansi this August.   The victim shifted to a PG accommodation here recently and approached the police.
24-12-2020||   ||Man gets 20-yr-jail for bid to abuse daughter||Tribune News Service     Yamunanagar, December 23  A district court on Tuesday sentenced a man to 20-year imprisonment for trying to sexually abuse his daughter. It also imposed a fine of Rs 14,000 on the convict.  In her police complaint lodged in 2018, the convict’s wife had said she had a fight with her husband on April 15, 2018, and he had kicked her out of the house.  “My husband started harassing my eldest daughter (then 14 years old). At night, he used to ask her to sleep with him,” the complainant had alleged.   “On July 6, 2018, my daughter called me up and started crying. When I asked her the reason, she told me that my husband had tried to sexually abuse her and threatened her with dire consequences if she told anyone,” she had said.  Subsequently, a case was registered against the girl’s father under Sections 8 and 18 of the POCSO Act, and Section 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at the women’s police station, Yamunanagar, on July 14, 2018.
24-12-2020||---||Poll panel staffer killed in road mishap||Our CorrespondentGurugram, December 23In a case of hit-and-run, a biker, an employee of the Election Commission was killed after being hit by an unidentified vehicle near golf course metro station yesterday morning.According to the police, the deceased has been identified as Vijay Kumar, a Dwarka resident. On seeing Vijay lying on the road, a home guard on duty informed the police about the mishap.“I was on duty when the incident occurred. On reaching the spot, I found a man lying on the road next to his motorcycle. He was severely injured. I informed the police and he was rushed to the hospital, but doctors declared him brought dead,” home guard Bhudev, resident of district Palwal said. As per the complaint of the home guard, an FIR has been registered against the unidentified driver under the Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence), 427 (causing damage) of the IPC at the Sector 56 police station.“We handed over the body to the kin after the post-mortem. We are trying to identify the vehicle and nab the driver with the help of the CCTV footage,” said ASI Vinod Kumar, investigating officer.
24-12-2020||---||DHBVN Director fined for non-compliance of orders||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 23The Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) has imposed a fine of Rs50,000 on the Director of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) for failing to comply with the previous order of the Commission in a case related to a suo motu petition on the issuance of wrong bills to the consumers.In an order dated December 22, the Bench comprising Pravindra Singh and Naresh Sardana, observed that neither any reply has been filed by the DHBVN till date nor the concerned Director along with chief engineer and superintending engineer appeared in compliance with the order dated December 8.“The Commission took a note of such lacklustre attitude of the DHBVN and decided to impose a fine of Rs50,000 on the Director who failed to appear in compliance of orders. The amount would be deposited in the office of the Commission by Drawing and Disbursing Officer (DDO) of distribution licensee within two weeks,” the order stated.In the last hearing on December 8, the Commission had observed that the DHBVN had not submitted the information stating that their server was not functional from December 1-9 and had asked its Director along with chief engineer and superintending engineer to be present on December 22, but no one appeared.The information was also sought from the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) which had submitted the data before the hearing.The Commission had directed the power distribution companies to take appropriate steps to reduce the cases of wrong bills and to submit the status as on October 31 and November 30.
24-12-2020||---||New strain fears up surveillance||Chandigarh, December 23The state government has ordered enhancement of epidemiological surveillance, containment and other measures to tackle distinct phylogenetic cluster of SARS-CoV-2 variant detected in the United Kingdom recently.With sustained decrease in the number of new Covid cases in the state for nearly past one month, the state health department will be taking all possible measures to check the spread of the variant through passengers with air travel history as it could pose fresh challenge not only in the state, but across the country.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, said the Director General of Health Services of the State had written to deputy commissioners and civil surgeons of all districts to take immediate steps in this direction.Arora said the steps were being initiated in response to a communication from Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary in Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in the Government of India, regarding the new variant which is spreading and growing rapidly in the UK.“It has been reported that this variant has unusually large number of genetic changes, particularly in the spike protein. This development calls for enhanced epidemiological surveillance, containment and other measures to effectively tackle the challenge,” he added.The Director General has told the DCs and civil surgeons that since all those arriving from the UK were being mandatorily tested with RT-PCR tests, those who test positive must be sent for institutional quarantine set up at the district-level while those found negative must be advised to isolate at home for seven days. If such persons develop symptoms within seven days, they are to be tested for Covid.
24-12-2020||---||‘Victory Flame’ makes halt at Ambala||Ambala, December 23The ‘Victory Flame’, a torch commemorating ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ of 1971 was received by Deep Strikers Division of the Indian Army at Shaheedi Chowk in Ambala Cantonment on Tuesday.On December 16, the victory torch was ignited by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the National War Memorial in Delhi. From here, the torch will be handed over to the Kharga Corp at Heritage Park on Thursday. Later, the torch will leave for Patiala.Commemorating 50 years of the 1971 war triumph, the Indian Army is celebrating this year as a yearlong festival from December 2020 to December 2021.The torch will be taken by army personnel to various parts of the country to highlight the sacrifices made by the Indian Armed Forces on achieving the historic victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, when the Indian Army liberated East Pakistan.
24-12-2020||---||Notice to Haryana on plea over termination||Chandigarh, December 23Just about a week after a driver was handed over an order terminating his services allegedly for floating some posts on social media against the Deputy Chief Minister, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday issued notice of motion to the state and other respondents.Justice GS Sandhawalia also issued notice regarding stay on the petition filed by Panna Lal. Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, his counsel submitted that the order dated December 15 was stigmatic in nature even though the petitioner might have been appointed on a contractual basis.It was further submitted that preliminary inquiry was not conducted though it had been mentioned. The date of posting of the offending messages as such on social media was also stated to be July 2018, before the Deputy Chief Minister had taken charge.
24-12-2020||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court puts Haryana on notice over plea against validation Act||Chandigarh, December 23The Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Second Amendment and Validation Act, 2020, came under the judicial scanner on Wednesday, with the Punjab and Haryana High Court putting the state on notice on a petition alleging that it had been enacted with the sole purpose of nullifying the judgment in the Ambience Mall case.Taking up a petition filed by Sanjay Lal and other petitioners through senior counsel Vijay K Jindal and Akshay Kumar Jindal, Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma fixed a six-week deadline for Haryana and other respondents to file a reply to the writ petition. The Bench fixed February 18, 2021, as the next date of hearing in the matter.The counsel asserted that the High Court had, in its judgment, categorical concluded that the alleged de-licensing of eight acres was in violation of relevant rules as the state’s act compromised open spaces, roads, parks, community buildings and schools. The Bench had also observed that the act of de-licensing was nothing but colourable exercise of power and deserved to be set aside.The counsel added that the 2020 Act, enacted subsequently, was also violative of Article 14 of the Constitution and against the intent and purpose of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Act, 1975, and Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Rules, 1976.The petition was filed less than six months after the order paving way for construction of Ambience Mall in Gurugram on an area initially earmarked as residential was quashed while ordering a CBI probe.The Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh had, in the judgment, asserted that the order of de-licensing a part of the residential area for commercial purposes was without authority of law and needed to be quashed.A separate investigation by an independent agency into the possible collusion between the builder and the state authorities was recommended. The state was also directed to “take necessary consequential steps forthwith”.
24-12-2020||---||Cong promises community centres, CCTVs in Ambala||Tribune News Serviceambala, December 23The Congress has promised to instal 5,000 CCTV cameras in Ambala, end the NOC and contractual systems, bring transparency in the functioning of the Municipal Corporation and construct six community centres in each ward.All this and more have been promised in the manifesto released by Congress leader Randeep Surjewala here on Wednesday. “The Congress is committed to holistic development of Ambala,” he said.The MC will go to polls on December 27.Surjewala accused the BJP of being indifferent to Ambala. “The city is the entry gate to Haryana, but look at its condition. The perennial problems of waterlogging and potholed roads have not been solved. What has the BJP done in the past six years?”To solve the problem of poor drainage, the Congress government had, in 2012, approved the construction of a drain from the district sessions court to the Banauri naka drain.“The project has been hanging fire. When I enquired about it, I was told that the project will be completed in 2023. I don’t think the Khattar government will remain in power till then,” the Congress spokesperson said.He also hit out at the government for not installing CCTV cameras in the city. “The Supreme Court had asked the Haryana Government to instal CCTV cameras across the state, but CM Manohar Lal Khattar installed cameras in his constituency Karnalonly. He forgot about Ambala. The Congress is ready for a debate with him if he is under the impression that his government has developed the city,” Surjewala said.On Nirmal-Singh-led Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) and Venod-Sharma-led Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJP-V), the Congressleaders said: “These parties cannot bring development. One needs state government’s support for development works and they wouldn’t get that aid. Soon, there will be a Congress government in Haryana and it will bring new projects in Ambala.”
24-12-2020||---||CM Khattar, Dhankar canvass in Sonepat||Tribune News Servicepanipat, December 23Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar visited Sonepat on Wednesday and held programmes at 20 places in support of BJP candidates fighting the December 27 MC elections.State BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar also visited Sonepat on Wednesday and held programmes to seek votes for party’s mayoral candidate Lalit Batra.Besides, Panipat Mayor Avneet Kaur and senior party leaders Gajender Saluja, Lokesh Nagroo, Ashok Kataria and Rajender Bhadar campaigned on Wednesday.The Congress, meanwhile, is contesting the elections on its symbol for the first time. Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda is in-charge of the campaign. Deepender said, “When the Congress was in power, the state was number one in per capita income, employment and sports. Now, it tops in crime, corruption and unemployment. The Sonepat MC became a hub of corruption in last six years.”
24-12-2020||---||Property dealer shot in Faridabad||Faridabad, December 23A 31-year-old man, a resident of Amipur village of the district, was shot near Sector-31 here today by unidentified assailants.The victim, identified as Manoj Bhati, was a property dealer and also a candidate of the Loktantra Suraksha Party, floated by former BJP MP Rajkumar Saini, for the state assembly elections from Tigaon Assembly seat last year.The incident took place around 1 pm today when Bhati, who was driving his Scorpio, was intercepted by five youths who had also come in a car. They reportedly opened fire at him from a close range near Shramik Vihar locality here.At least nine rounds were reportedly fired by the assailants. He was declared brought dead by doctors at a hospital. Though the cause of the murder is yet to be ascertained, police sources said an old enmity could be the reason for the incident.Bhati was self-employed and had shown property dealings as his profession in the affidavit submitted during the polls. He, however, had announced his support for Congress candidate Lalit Nagar in the polls held in October 2019. “We have registered a case and have launched a hunt to nab the culprits,” said a police official.
24-12-2020||---||Councillor puts in papers||Karnal, December 23Nissing councillor Puneet Kaur has resigned from her post in solidarity with the protesting farmers.She paid tributes to Baba Ram Singh, head priest of Nanaksar gurdwara in Karnal district, who had, last week, reportedly committed suicide at the Singhu border in support of farmers. “Baba Ram Singh’s sacrifice will not go in vain. My resignation pales in comparison to the sacrifice made by Baba Ram Singh,” Kaur said.
24-12-2020||Jhajjar||Semi-clad young farmers protest||
24-12-2020||LOGO||Rights panel seeks report from SPs over hooch deaths||Mukesh TandonTribune News ServicePanipat, December 23The Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) sought a detailed report from the Superintendents of Police of Sonepat and Panipat over the hooch deaths story published in The Tribune on November 6.Following the complaint of Kulwant Singh Nagra, a Jalandhar-based activist, the HHRC panel sought reports from the SPs of two districts, which is to be submitted within 42 days.Nagra submitted a complaint to the HHRC chairperson with a news item published in The Tribune on November 6 titled as ‘Hooch Deaths: 12 more die in two districts, toll rises to 42’.The complainant said more than 120 people died allegedly after consuming spurious liquor in a similar incident reported from Taran Taran and Amritsar districts of Punjab recently.  To rein in the unscrupulous element and to curb the social evil, the administration ordered to add Section 302 of the IPC to the FIR, he said. Nagra said the commission must issue appropriate directions to the concerned authority to add stringent provisions of the law in the FIR and provide adequate compensation to the victims’ kin.
24-12-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||1.3-km potholed road in Faridabad awaits repairs||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, December 23The wait for repair work on the 1.3-km stretch connecting Hardware Chowk and Pyali Chowk in the NIT area of the city lingers despite a project worth Rs 6.25 crore was prepared over two months ago. The project is awaiting administrative approval from the state government.“Though the project estimate was prepared by the municipal corporation (MC) in October, it was submitted for administrative approval to the higher authorities in November and has been awaiting the nod since then, thus prolonging the miseries of the commuters,” claimed sources in the civic body.Known as one of the busiest roads in the city, it is awaiting repair work for the past about three years, leaving it in bad shape. The issue got highlighted in September when a 29-year-old engineer died in a road mishap here. He was run over by a truck after he fell down from his motorcycle, which had lost its balance due to potholes.Sources in the MC say the civic body had planned to spend Rs 3 crore in 2018, but it could not take up repair because of the shortage funds.“If the authorities fail to take up the repair work within a week, we will soon file a PIL in the High Court,” said Varun Sheokand of Bhrastachar Virodhi Manch, an NGO which had staged a 15-day sit-in protest on the issue in 2018.SK Sharma, district coordinator, Road Safety Organisation, claimed Rs 10 lakh was spent in 2018 on road repair, but it again developed cracks.“The work will begin as soon as the approval is granted,” said Birender Kardam, Chief Engineer, Municipal Corporation.
24-12-2020||BOX---- biggest loss since 2015||Cotton growers await compensation for losses||Whitefly has caused losses to cotton crop in Hisar, Fatehabad, Sirsa and Bhiwani districts. The farmers might have suffered biggest ever losses since 2015 when whitefly had destroyed almost 70% of the crop in the region.Deepender DeswalTribune News ServiceHisar, December 23Farmers who suffered losses to their cotton crop due to whitefly attack earlier this year are still waiting for compensation from the government or insurance agencies.The farmers said they had submitted a report about the crop loss immediately but were yet to get the grant.Cotton growers have suffered the worst losses in the past five years as whitefly and other diseases have hit the crops hard in the Hisar region, known as the cotton belt of Haryana.The state has a record 7.38 thousand hectares under cotton this kharif season. The state government had ordered a special girdawari after farmers demanded it to assess their losses and calculate compensation.Sandeep Singh, a farmer of Dhiranwas village in Balsamand region, the worst affected area due to whitefly, said so far they had not received any compensation from the government. He said he had sown cotton in six acres and was able to reap only two to three quintals cotton per field.“The average cotton yield is about 10 to 12 quintals per acre. We are unable to even recover the input cost, which has pushed many farmers of the region deeper in debt,” Sandeep said.He said though the state agencies had started girdawari for the damage to crops, the farmers were being kept in dark.“The officials are not disclosing anything about the survey report. We have raised the issue with the Deputy Commissioner and urged him to get the five-member committee, comprising of the land owner, nambardar etc, included during the girdawari for transparency in the whole affair,” Sandeep said.District Revenue Officer Rajbir Dhiman said on the instruction of the state government, they were in the process of compiling a detailed report about the crop loss.“We will disburse the compensation amount on completion of the ongoing process of assessment,” he said, adding that the crops which were insured under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna would be compensated by the insurance firms.Official sources said whitefly has caused losses to cotton crop in Hisar, Fatehabad, Sirsa and Bhiwani districts. The farmers might have suffered biggest ever losses since 2015 when whitefly had destroyed almost 70 per cent of the crop in specific parts of the region.
24-12-2020||Strap||Govt-owned Palwal sugar mill to make jaggery||BQ‘Manufacturing from mid-Jan’The civil work of the jaggery production unit has started and is expected to start manufacturing jaggery from the middle of next month… We plan to produce over 50 quintals of jaggery daily and will continue operations till the sugarcane crushing season is onNaresh Kumar, managing directorBijendra AhlawatTribune News ServicePalwal, December 23The government-owned cooperative sugar mill at Palwal, which has been authorised to produce jaggery and jaggery powder for the first time, has been sanctioned a budget of Rs 27 lakh for setting up a plant for the project.The mill is expected to start production next month. “The civil work of the jaggery production unit has started and is expected to start manufacturing jaggery from the middle of next month,'' said managing director Naresh Kumar.He said the budget was also likely to get the approval of the Board of Directors of the mill. “The mill plans to produce over 50 quintals of jaggery daily and will continue operations till the sugarcane crushing season is on,” he said.The mill had operating from November 1 and has crushed over 8 lakh quintals of sugarcane so far. The other two mills authorised to produce jaggery from this season are the ones at Meham and Kaithal.An announcement to this effect had been made by Cooperation Minister Banwari Lal prior to the start of the crushing season that started from November 1.Revealing that the mill here had crushed 8,70,200 quintals of cane till Tuesday, Kumar said a total of 70,600 quintals of sugar had been produced in the past 52 days of the operation.While 18,800 quintals of cane was crushed on a single day (December 22), the mill recovered around 1,800 quintals of sugar, making the sugar recovery level hit 9.50 per cent. The capacity utilisation of the mill remained at 98.95 on Tuesday against an average of 90.99 per cent so far this season.“The mill, which was hit by technical snags last season (2019-20) and had started functioning from mid of December, crushing only 23.19 lakh quintals, is expected to crush over 30 lakh quintals of cane this season due to excellent performance,” said Palwal DC Naresh Narwal.
24-12-2020||   ||Chance to teach govt a lesson: Hooda||Tribune News Service     Rewari, December 23  Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has said the results of the forthcoming civic body elections presented an opportunity to voters to teach the BJP-JJP government a lesson for its “misgovernance”.   He was here on Wednesday to campaign for Congress candidates. Former minister Capt Ajay Yadav, his MLA-son Chiranjeev Rao and former minister Rao Narender were also present.  The elections are scheduled for December 27.  “The state government is least bothered about the common people. The electors will respond in the same currency by not for BJP-JJP candidates. Every section of society is upset with the government,” Hooda said.  The former CM further said farmers were not getting remunerative prices for their produce, labourers were sitting idle, youth were unemployed, employees were not getting salaries and businessmen were struggling to keep their ventures afloat.   “The process of change will begin with the local body elections,” he said.  On the farmers’ movement, he said the Centre had been ignoring one of the biggest farmer movements in the history of the country.   Turning to Rewari, Hooda said: “The BJP-JJP government failed to bring any major project in Rewari. Besides, it failed to solve local problems. So it becomes imperative to teach the BJP-JJP alliance a lesson.”        Caption: Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Hooda addresses a meeting in Rewari on Wednesday. Tribune Photo
24-12-2020||---||HJP releases manifesto, promises 2,000 jobs||Strap: Accuses BJP of misusing govt machinery for registering fake FIRTribune News ServiceAmbala, December 23Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJP-V) chief Venod Sharma released his party’s manifesto on Wednesday for the Municipal Corporation elections scheduled for December 27.The party has promised 2,000 jobs in the MC in the next five years, a special package for the development of villages under the MC limits, stray-animal-free city, and better lighting on the streets.Sharma announced a simplified process for obtaining no-objection certificates (NOCs), clean water and installation of CCTV cameras.“Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday promised to establish the Industrial Model Township (IMT). He had made the same promise one-and-a-half-years ago. Does it take so much time to process a file? Instead of making hollow promises, he should clarify the time period in which the IMT would be constructed. The HJC will construct the IMT on coming to power,” the HJP chief said.On the FIR lodged against him on the charges of spreading rumours, Sharma said: “The BJP is trying to create pressure and register fake FIRs to win the elections. I fail to understand the basis of the FIRs registered.”He questioned the complainant, advocate and BJP leader Sandeep Sachdeva. “My wife and I have been book. Why aren’t the police arresting us? Action should be taken against advocate Sandeep Sachdeva (BJP leader) for getting the fake FIR registered. I give him an opportunity to rectify his mistake and withdraw the FIR, or else I will file a defamation case against him,” Sharma said.He added he would lodge a complaint with the Election Commission concerning the miuse of the government machinery for political gains.
24-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Farmers' dharna at Tikri border takes new meaning for poor kids||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 23Class V student Raj (12), son of a migrant labourer, doesn’t know the reason for which thousands of farmers are camping near his rented accommodation at the Tikri-Bahadurgarh border for the past 28 days. But he is happy, for he gets to eat different varieties of food thanks to langar started by farmers.Like him, children of migrant labourers come to the protest site every morning and return in the evening. Their schools are closed because of Covid.“My friends and I play hide and seek, drink tea, and eat biscuits, chapattis with ‘chhole’, sweets and fruits. We even take food home. No one stops us from doing that,” Raj says. Besides food, farmers have been providing children with woolen clothes.When asked about the reason behind the farmers’ protest, Raj quickly responded: “They want to get the price of their crops enhanced.”His friend Avinash interrupted him. “They are here with tractor-trailers as the government is not allowing them to reside in their villages,” he said naively.Standing nearby was Class VIII student Sapna, holding a bag full of biscuits and other food items. “Children of my locality and those from nearby areas have been spending a good time here ever since the farmers arrived. My father also came here once to have langar,” she said.Jai Tirth Singh, a farmer from Punjab, said that besides food, several protesters had also provided children and slum-dwellers with sweaters, jackets and blankets after seeing them shivering in cold.“Some children raise slogans of ‘Kisan Ekta Zindabad’. They ask about the duration of our stay. I think they don’t want us to return,” said Jaspreet Singh, another farmer.
24-12-2020||---||Child panel officer meets kin of minor raped, killed in Jhajjar||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, December 23National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) Registrar Anu Choudhary along with a technical expert reached Jhajjar today for an on-the-spot inspection in the rape and murder case of a five-year-old girl.Choudhary visited the victim’s house and the spot where her body was found. She also interacted with the victim’s family members to get information about the incident. The family members requested her to help them get justice by ensuring capital punishment to the accused. Later, Choudhary called on Superintendent of Police Rajesh Duggal for a report of the police action in the case.“I came here to conduct an on-the-spot inspection and will submit my report to the commission soon,” Choudhary told the media.The girl was raped and murdered by a 27-year-old neighbourer, a history sheeter, on Sunday night.
24-12-2020||---||Murder bid case against 13 farmers who blocked Haryana CM's convoy||Ambala, December 23The police have booked 13 farmers for blocking Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s convoy in Ambala on Tuesday. They have been charged with attempt to murder, voluntarily causing hurt and damaging public property.The suspects have been identified as Bagga, Dara Singh, Chahat Chauhan, Bhura Kurbanpur, Jasmit, Baiji Dhurkara, Jasbir Singh, Kaka, Jitender, Montu, Rony, Ajay and Jaspal Singh.The case was registered on the complaint of a security official, who stated that farmer unions were repeatedly asked to protest peacefully.He reported that despite repeated attempts, they reached Aggarsain Chowk with black flags and had a scuffle with policemen. He added that they stopped pilot vehicles while wielding sticks and threatened the policemen.“Activists who regularly work for the union stayed back, but some youngsters went ahead with the protest. There is resentment among the youth. Chahat Chauhan, Bhura Kurbanpur and Jasmit have been wrongly named as they were nowhere near the convoy,” said farmer leader Harkesh Mohri.
24-12-2020||---||Haryana Government okays policy targeting Rs 1L cr investment, 5L jobs||Chandigarh, December 23Haryana’s new enterprises and employment policy, which was approved by the Cabinet under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday, would focus on building a resilient economy on the back of robust industrial growth.The Haryana Enterprises and Employment Policy 2020 also aimed to attract investment of over Rs 1 lakh crore and generate five lakh jobs in a period of five years, starting from January 1, 2021.“The policy envisages leveraging opportunities arising out of changes in global economic order and aligning industrial growth in the state with national initiatives such as ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Mission’,” a press note said.SMO recruitment: The Cabinet accorded approval for 25 per cent direct recruitment of Senior Medical Officers (HCMS Group A) through the departmental high-powered selection committee by taking these posts out of the purview of the Haryana Public Service Commission. A total of 116 SMOs would be recruited.Land transfer: The Cabinet approved the report on modalities related to Inter-departmental transfer of government land for public purposes. The government had constituted a four-member committee on February 17 to examine the matter.Toll plaza: The Cabinet approved installation of a new toll point on the Jwara-Godana road (Haily Mandi-Palawas road) in Rewari district. The validity of this toll would be till March 31, 2022.Housing policy: The Cabinet approved a proposal regarding amendment in the Affordable Housing Policy 2013. The maximum area limit of project was increased from 10 acres to 30 acres while the minimum area was reduced from five acres to four acres.RRTS corridor: The Cabinet approved implementation of the Delhi-Panipat corridor of the Regional Rapid Transport System (RRTS). The length of this corridor would be 103.02 km and it would have 17 stations -- six in Delhi and 11 in Haryana.Sugar plants: The Cabinet accorded approval to providing state government guarantee for term loan of Rs 235 crore for setting up new sugar plants and ethanol plants at the Karnal, Panipat and Shahabad sugar mills.Bank guarantee: The Cabinet accorded approval to providing state government guarantee of Rs 900 crore in favour of commercial banks for sanction of credit facilities to Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited.Grant of CLU: The Haryana Government decided to amend the policy for establishment of retail outlets of CNG and PNG stations and petrol pumps by grant of change of land use (CLU) through single window platform for the setting up of retail outlets.Yog commission: The government decided to rename the Haryana Yog Council as the Haryana Yog Aayog to promote awareness, dissemination and education in yoga.
24-12-2020||---||Congress condemns registration of cases against farmers||Chandigarh, December 23State Congress president Kumari Selja on Wednesday condemned the registration of cases. She said filing of cases for attempt to murder showed the government’s desperation.“The voice of farmers is being continuously suppressed by the BJP government. This government has lost the trust of the people. This is the reason black flags were shown to the Chief Minister,” she said.“By showing black flags to the Chief Minister, how does it become a case of attempt to murder,” she asked. She said the government should immediately withdraw the cases lodged against farmers.
24-12-2020||Parveen Arora||Tourism dept approves Karan Lake’s facelift||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 23The Haryana Tourism Department has given its nod to the project of facelift and renovation of Karan Lake, presently spread on 17 acres, to Karnal Smart City Limited (KSCL), a special purpose vehicle looking after the Karnal Smart City project.The green signal was given to the KSCL in a recent meeting between RS Verma, Director, Tourism Department; Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO KSCL; and other officials of the smart city.Now, the KSCL will prepare a detailed project report and will call the tenders. The authorities are hopeful that the work will commence in January. The existing infrastructure of the lake will also be incorporated in the proposed plan, said Nishant Kumar Yadav, CEO.“We have chalked out a plan to develop or renovate the Karan Lake. The Tourism Department is already constructing the banquet hall. For beautification, we will erect fancy lights as well as proper signage. Three layers of tracks will also be laid on the periphery of the lake which is around 1.3 km. One will be for pedestrians, second for cycling and third one for vehicular movement,” said Yadav.A grand fountain would also be installed in the lake and proper sitting arrangements for tourists would also be made. Besides, a light and sound show would also be organised in the evenings, he said. A food court would be made and a beautiful island would also be developed to attract tourists, he added.Presently, Karan Lake is dependent on Western Yamuna Canal for water, which is seasonal and gets water from July to August. “To ensure round-the-year supply of water, two tube-wells will be installed. Automatic water gauges will also be installed to check the water level in the lake,” Yadav said.Apart from these, ancient sculpture would also be installed on the pathway from National Highway-44 to Karnal Lake to beautify the entrance, the DC asserted.The KSCL has also planned to attract local residents apart from the travellers on NH-44 for which it will develop a corridor from Shrimad Bhagvad Gita Dwar to Karan Lake.Light-and-sound show will be planned
24-12-2020||The careless and callous behaviour of the municipal authorities of Shahabad Markanda can be guessed from the accompanied photograph. Stray cattle feed on plastic bags dumped with the garbage on roads. Also||Garbage lying unattended on road||Dr Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaSimian terror in PanchkulaThe growing number of monkeys has become a serious threat to residents of Sector 8, Panchkula. They usually come in groups and often damage various items kept outside the house, including flower pots, and the hapless residents have no options to deal with the menace. At times, they also pounce on people. Before stepping out of the house, we have to ensure that there are no monkeys around. The civic authority must do something as simians have become more dangerous than stray cattle on the road.SK Gupta, PanchkulaEase process of releasing compensation awardThe online process of releasing the enhanced amount of compensation awarded by the District Courts, High Court or Supreme Court of land acquired after depositing it by the concerned departments or authorities into the executing courts is very complex and lengthy. When the enhanced compensation amount is presented to the courts executing across the state, they hand it over to the treasury in their own name. The compensation amount deposited in the treasury is released by the executive courts in favour of the landowners/decree holders only after obtaining the CCD number from the treasury, which takes so many days. The High Court is requested to expedite and simplify the process of releasing the compensation amount deposited in the executing courts at district level. The compensation amount should be deposited directly in the name of the concerned court with the State Bank of India instead of depositing it in the treasury and the same should be further transferred into the degree holder's bank account on the court’s order.Shakti Singh, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
24-12-2020||Kurukshetra||Special session on Bhagavad Gita||Student selected for R-Day paradeHisar: NSS volunteer and student of BA (hons.) English (final year) of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, Simran has brought laurels to the college by getting selected for the Republic Day parade. She is the only student from Kurukshetra University and the girls’ contingent of four, to represent the state. Dr Rahul Khanna, Officiating Principal of the college, congratulated Simran, her parents and NSS programme officers Dr Mahesh Kumar, Dr Deepmala, Dr Jitender Singh and Manjeet Rani for the achievement.IQAC holds ninth meetingHisar: The Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, held its 9th meeting. The meeting was organised under the chairmanship of Vice Chancellor Tankeshwar Kumar. Prof Ashish Agarwal, Director, IQAC, welcomed all members of the committee. The aim of the meeting was to approve the minutes of the 8th meeting of the IQAC and to apprise the members about the various achievements of the university and also to discuss the forthcoming NAAC accreditation in 2021.Valedictory function at mduRohtak: Delivering the valedictory address on soft skills and SSB guidance programme organised by the Youth Centre for Skill Development for all services (YCSD) of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Dr Sharanjeet Kaur, Chairperson, Haryana Welfare Society for Persons with Speech and Hearing Impairment (HWSPSHI), stated that effective communication paves way for personal and professional success. In her address, she also said that students must think of society and work for societal development. DSW Prof Raj Kumar mentioned that under the programme, students are provided guidance and training for Defence Service(s) as well as other Central and state services.
24-12-2020||Parveen Arora||A first, genetic institute registers 3 dog breeds||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, December 23The National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources (NBAGR), an institute which registers newly identified livestock germplasm, has registered three breeds of dogs — Rajapalayam and Chippiparai of Tamil Nadu and Mudhol Hound of Karnataka, taking the total count of the registered livestock to 200.This is for the first time that the dog breeds have been registered. Dogs were earlier not included in the livestock category, but now these have been included as companion animal and will be studied by the NBAGR, says Dr RK Vijh, Director.The institute has so far registered 50 breeds of cattle, 17 buffalo, 44 sheep, 34 goat, 19 chicken, 10 pig, nine camel, seven horse, three donkey, two duck and one each of yak and geese. The newly identified dog breeds were recently approved by the Breed Registration Committee of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Dr Vijh says.The institute will soon characterise all native dog breeds, including Himachali, Bhutia alias Gaddi, Rampur Hound, Caravan Hound and others, he says, adding that if all goes as per plan, the bureau will select Gaddi breed, which has adapted to cold climate, for defence forces for help in search operations in border areas.As per Dr KN Raja, senior scientist at NBAGR, Rajapalayam is a medium-sized dog, which has white coat colour and pink skin, nostrils and eyelids.Chippiparai dog is also medium in size and has coat colour varying from fawn to dark brown, brownish black and black. Mudhol Hound dog is mainly found in Karnataka, which has good guarding ability and can run very fast, he adds.
24-12-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula MC poll: Teach BJP a lesson, says Selja||Haryana Congress Committee chief Kumari Selja today called upon the Panchkula residents to teach the BJP a lesson for its anti-people and anti-farmer policies by defeating its candidates in the MC poll.She was addressing a public rally in support of Congress mayoral candidate Upinder Ahluwalia at Ramgarh.“It was the BJP’s own anti-people policies that are now paying back to it. The government is not listening to those whom it claimed to be working for after coming to power,” she said. The farmers’ agitation is an eye-opener for the nation and the BJP daily-dallying approach to solve the agitation reflects its agenda to sell the country in the hands of a few select people, she added. — TNS
24-12-2020||Chandigarh December 23||In Haryana, 2% rural tax; MC status for Manesar||The Haryana Government on Wednesday decided to levy 2 per cent panchayat tax on power consumers who fall within the limits of the rural bodies in the state. The decision, taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, aims at augmenting resources of gram panchayats. It will be applicable to all power consumers, except the Union Government and agriculture consumers. The collected tax will be ploughed back into gram panchayats with panchayats set to make a profit of Rs 100-125 crore.The Cabinet also decided to set up a municipal corporation at Manesar in Gurugram with the addition of 29 villages in its jurisdiction okayed. The Haryana Enterprises and Employment Policy, 2020, which aims at achieving regional development and providing livelihood opportunities to people through resilient economic development, was given a nod. It will come into effect from January 1, 2021, for a period of five years. The motive is to attract an investment of Rs 1 lakh crore and create 5 lakh jobs.The Haryana Group ‘C’ Employees (Recruitment and Conditions of Service) Bill, 2020, to create a common cadre for them too got a green signal. — TNS
