24-10-2020||Chandigarh||1,299 fresh COVID-19 cases take Haryana’s tally to 1,57,064; death toll 1,720||The COVID-19 death toll in Haryana rose to 1,720 on Saturday with 15 more fatalities, while 1,299 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 1,57,064, a health department bulletin issued here said. Of the new fatalities, six were reported from Hisar, two each from Jind, Yamunanagar and Sirsa while one death each was recorded in Fatehabad, Bhiwani and Gurugram, it said.Among the districts which reported a big spike in fresh cases included Gurugram (398), Faridabad (193), and Hisar (139).The number of active cases in the state currently stands at 10,148 while the recovery rate is 92.44 per cent. PTI
24-10-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||CBI court issues notice to Ram Rahim in Ranjit Singh murder case for conducting proceedings through video-conference||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24In the Ranjit Singh murder case, one of the oldest murder cases in Haryana, the CBI Special Court issued notices to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and other accused for conducting proceedings though video-conferencing (VC).The murder took place in 2002.No effective hearing could take place on the last 10 dates, since March 21, due to the Covid pandemic. At present, the case is in the final arguments stage.During a hearing on October 23, CBI counsel HPS Verma submitted that the arguments on behalf of the prosecution had already been completed and thereafter defence started its arguments. He added that an application under Section 311 of the CrPC was moved and thereafter one defence witness was also examined and now part arguments of the defence remained to be addressed.He told the court that the present matter be put for further proceedings through video-conferencing till the physical hearing of the matter was made functional.CBI Special Judge Jagdeep Singh ordered, “Keeping in view the stage of the matter and other attending circumstances, let notices be issued to the accused and their counsel to explore the possibility of conducting further proceedings through VC, if physical hearing of the matters does not get fully functional by the adjourned date.”According to the CBI chargesheet, Ram Rahim had thought that Ranjit Singh, former Dera manager and resident of Kurukshetra, was behind the circulation of the anonymous letter alleging sexual exploitation of women followers in the Dera and hatched a conspiracy to kill him.The murder took place on July 10, 2002. Along with Dera chief, Krishan Lal, Jasbir, Avtaar, and Sabdil are accused in the case. Another accused Indersain died in the first week of this month.Ranjit Singh was returning on his motorcycle after serving tea to his father, who was working in the fields, at Khanpur Kolian village of Kurukshetra. On the way, four people fired at him and fled. He died of bullet injuries. Sabdil and Jasbir were identified among the four people. Sabdil was the gunman of Ram Rahim.Earlier, in the rape case of women followers, which was registered following the anonymous letter, Ram Rahim in August 2017 was sentenced to 20-year rigorous imprisonment. In journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati murder case, the same court had sentenced him to life imprisonment in January 2019.The next date of hearing is November 5.
24-10-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||It’s not clean and green Panchkula||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comIt’s not clean and green PanchkulaThe sight just outside Sector 7 (on NH-73), Panchkula, speaks volumes about the reckless attitude as the garbage is seen strewn around . It reveals the real inside story of the just concluded cleanliness drive launched by the Panchkula administration. Sadly, 'cut and foget' seems to be the stated policy of the civic body here much against the spirit of its 'clean and green Panchkula'. SK Gupta, PanchkulaTractor trailers leave dusty trailOne can see tractor-trailers overloaded with sand passing through all residential and commercial areas in Narwana. While negotiating speed breakers on potholed roads, the dust falls on the traffic coming behind. In principle, it should be covered with a tarpaulin. But it seems the administration is not bothered to act tough on offenders. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaRecalculation of enhancement by HSVPI want to draw the attention of the government towards recalculation being done in case of enhancement by HSVP, in which case the benefit is being given to the allottees who haven't paid the same. Whereas being a case of miscalculation, I request the government and the authorities concerned that it should also be refunded to those allottees who have paid it within the stipulated time in good faith. Ganesh Nagpal, Ambala CityNo Social distancingThere is no social distancing at the Transport Department in Ambala City. Though there is token system in place and the number is displayed on the screen for those who come for license and vehicle registration, but yet people are anxious to get their work done out of the way and unnecessary peep through the windows. Every day we are sensitised through media to maintain social distancing. We all must be careful during the festive season and keep Covid under check. People in general should cooperate with the authorities and help maintain social distancing. Gian P Kansal, Ambala City
24-10-2020||Hisar||Assistant professor awarded Australian patent for smart door lock system||CUH declares exam resultsMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) has declared the results for the final year master of commerce (MCom), master of computer applications (MCA), master of arts (Hindi) and master of science (biotechnology). The Controller of Examinations (CoE), Vipul Yadav, said the exams for the courses were conducted between September 14 and October 8. The results of MLib, MSc (geography) and MA (sociology) were declared on October 16. "Results of remaining subjects are also being prepared hence these will be declared soon," he added.Webinar on Aatmanirbhar BharatMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) in collaboration with Students for Holistic Development of Humanity, Haryana, organised a two-day national webinar on "Aatmanirbhar Bharat : Issues and challenges". The inaugural session was addressed by Swadeshi Jagran Manch leader Satish Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of Central University of Himachal Pradesh Prof Kuldeep Chand Agnihotri, and Vice-Chancellor of Gautam Buddha University, Greater Noida, Prof Bhagwati Prakash Sharma. CUH's Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad said to make India Aatmanirbhar, it was necessary to pave the way for the holistic development of younger generation.Bonanza for teachers at Bose University Faridabad: Giving bonanza to the teaching staff during the festive season of Dasehra and Diwali, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has decided to give 20 per cent hike in the monthly remuneration of its contractual faculty, and extended the benefit of "equal pay for equal work" to them. The decision to this effect has been taken in the 38th meeting of the executive committee (EC) of the university, which was held under the chairmanship of Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar. The executive committee has approved the hike in the monthly remuneration of contractual faculty from Rs 48,000 to Rs 57,700 on a par with the entry pay of assistant professor as per the recommendations of the Seventh Pay Commission. Accordingly, all eligible contractual faculty members will be paid a remuneration of Rs 57,700 per month wherever the complete workload and other duties are being met by such incumbents. As many as 36 contractual faculty members will get the benefit of increased monthly remuneration. Further, the University has also given the promotion to its 27 faculty members under the Career Advancement Scheme (CAS).
24-10-2020||Karnal||4 held in double murder case in Karnal||The police have arrested four persons in the double murder of Joginder Singh (50) and his nephew Arun (30) at the Anand Vihar Colony in the city on the intervening night of October 17 and 18.The accused have been identified as Parveen, Abhishek of Banso Gate, Amit of Sadar Bazar and Raghuvir of Dhkka Basti in the city. They were arrested on Friday from Meerut road, said Rajiv Kumar, DSP (City). — TNS
24-10-2020||Jind||Protesting woman hit by car in Jind||A woman, who was sitting on dharna in front of the SP office, was injured when a car allegedly hit her today. She has been admitted to a hospital with minor injuries.She has been sitting on dharna since yesterday to demand the arrest of her husband and in-laws for rape.The woman had submitted a complaint of rape and harassment for dowry against her husband and in-laws four months ago. The Jind police registered a case against nine persons. — TNS
24-10-2020||Gurugram||Fire at factory in Gurugram, goods worth lakhs destroyed||Massive fire broke in the basement of a cooler manufacturing factory at IMT, Manesar, on Friday and it took six hours to bring it under control. More than 16 fire engines were pressed into service. No casualty was reported but goods worth lakhs were burnt to ashes. The cause behind the fire has not been ascertained yet and the police are investigating. — OC
24-10-2020||---||2 get 15 years in jail under NDPS Act||Kurukshetra, October 23The court of additional district and sessions judge Dr Amit Kumar Garg has sentenced two persons in a case of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and sentenced 15 years of imprisonment to them along with fine of Rs 2 lakh each on Thursday.As per information, the court has sentenced Arjun Singh and Devpushp Kumar, both residents of Uttar Pradesh.On April 21, 2018, Arjun and Devpushp were arrested by the police. Intoxicating injections (1,400 injections of buprenorphine, 240 of fortwin and 600 injections of pentalab) were recovered from their possession. A case was registered under Section 22 of the NDPS Act at Thanesar Sadar police station.
24-10-2020||---||Haryana Public Service Commission chief takes oath||Chandigarh, October 23Alok Verma took oath as chairman of the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) at Haryana Raj Bhawan here on Friday. He succeeded Ranjit Kumar Panchnanda of the West Bengal cadre.
24-10-2020||---||Anil Vij launches ‘Asha Pay’ for health  workers||Chandigarh, October 23Haryana Health and Home Minister Anil Vij on Friday launched an Android application and web portal called ‘Asha Pay’ for digital payment and performance monitoring of state’s Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs).There are 20,268 ASHA health workers working in the state. Vij said ASHAs were a major strength of the department. With the help of this app, the payment of their monthly honorarium and incentive amount would be made digital and faster, he added. He said along with this, verification and acceptance of the performance and evaluation report of the workers would also be digital. The Health Minister said all ASHAs would be provided with SIMs with facility of unlimited calls and 30 GB of 4G internet monthly data so that this process could be linked to geo-locations soon. Health and Family Welfare Department Additional Chief Secretary Rajeev Arora said monitoring and report of the performance of ASHAs would also be done at the state headquarters.
24-10-2020||Parveen Arora||Demarcation of land along Yamuna begins||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 23The Survey of India has started demarcation of land in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh along the Yamuna in view of decades-old disputes between farmers in both states over ownership and possession.The process has begun on trial basis at Badi Kalan village in Karnal, where pillars will be erected to serve as the boundary between the two states. A stretch spanning around 300 km along the Yamuna between Yamunanagar and Palwal will be covered.“The Survey of India has marked the spots where the pillars will be erected. The process to erect pillars for demarcation has been started. A total of 44 pillars will be erected — 24 by the Uttar Pradesh PWD and 20 by the Haryana PWD,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC.He said the Roorkee ITI would check the quality of these pillars. “Around 10 villages in Karnal, Indri and Gharaunda blocks have been involved in disputes for the past several years,” he said.“The governments of the two states held a joint meeting in January to find a permanent solution. It was decided to construct pillars again at locations where these were missing. The PWD in both states will complete the task,” said Gaurav Kumar Singh, Deputy Superintendent, Haryana and Punjab office, Survey of India.Disputes over thousands of acres had been going on among farmers in villages along the inter-state border since the 1950s, leading to bloody clashes. Changes in course of the Yamuna had been causing confusion over ownership of land.Crops sown by farmers in one state were being harvested by farmers of the other state. The Dixit Committee was set up in the 1970s to sort out the issue. The committee demarcated the land in 1979, taking the flow of the Yamuna at that time as the border between the two states.
24-10-2020||Faridabad||Doctor held for issuing fake certificate to ‘assaulter’||The Crime Branch of the local police has arrested a doctor of a private hospital here in connection with issuance of a fake medical certificate to an accused in a criminal case here.A spokesperson of the Police Department said that the accused doctor, identified as Satish Kumar and running a private hospital in Nangla Part-2 of the NIT area, had issued a fake medical certificate and fake receipt of admission charges, to one Vijay Kumar, an accused in a case of criminal assault in March.FOR GETTING BAILLater, Vijay submitted a medical certificate by Dr Satish Kumar of being admitted to his hospital to get anticipatory bail.In the incident, a pregnant woman lost her unborn child, the spokesperson said. The certificate of admission in the hospital at the time of assault has been found bogus.He said that Vijay, a resident of Anangpur village, had submitted this certificate for getting anticipatory bail which was pending in the High Court. The police had arrested two other accused — Rohit and Narender — from the same village on March 21.The case was filed after a complaint was lodged with the police on March 3 by one Krishan Kumar, a resident of Dera Gurukul in Surajkund area.Krishan Kumar alleged that Vijay, Rohit and their associates had barged into his house and beat up the family members including a pregnant woman, resulting in MTP of her unborn child, over some dispute. “Vijay has a criminal record,” he said. — TNS
24-10-2020||---||GST compensation: Haryana may get Rs 350 cr||Chandigarh, October 23As the Central Government borrowed and transferred Rs 6,000 crore as the first tranche of GST compensation to 16 states today, Haryana is expected to get nearly Rs 350 crore as its share.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, who holds the portfolio of the Excise and Taxation, told The Tribune that the state’s total GST compensation due is over Rs 6,500 crore.“Though the Centre has not so far divulged the details of the distribution of the compensation released, as per my calculations, the state must get nearly Rs 350 crore,” said Chautala.The Deputy CM said the state’s compensation due was Rs 5,840 crore at the time of the last meeting of the GST Council.The state received an instalment of Rs 761 crore on October 5 and the Centre has also agreed in principal to transfer the last year’s balance of Rs 1,570 crore soon.The Centre today said it had borrowed and transferred Rs 6,000 crore as GST compensation to 16 states which include Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and two union territories: UT of Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir.As per provisions in the Goods and Service Tax (Compensation) Act, 2017, the states are assured of their revenue at 14 per cent compounded growth rate over the base year revenue 2015-16 for the loss of revenue arising on account of the GST implementation for a period of five years.Due to inadequate balance in the Compensation Fund, the admissible bi-monthly GST compensation had so far not been released.
24-10-2020||Gurugram||Elderly woman robbed in Gurugram||A 67-year-old woman was attacked and robbed by a youth who entered her house in Sector 57 after posing as a courier employee. An FIR has been registered on the statement of woman’s brother as she is being treated at a hospital and not fit to give statement yet.According to the complaint filed by retired bank manager Prithiviraj Singh Chauhan, a resident of Faridabad, his sister Manjushree Chauhan (67) lives in Sushant Lok PhaseII on the first floor. It was on Thursday evening when Hari Singh Dhillon, a resident living on the second floor, called and told him that his sister who was a retired professor at the JNU, New Delhi, had got injured. “When I reached the hospital, my sister told me that an unknown man rang the doorbell and claimed that he was a courier boy. When my sister opened the door, he pushed her and barged into the house. He hit her on the head and she fainted. The boy fled away after robbing her gold chain and bangles. The neighbour informed me and rushed my sister to Paras Hospital where her condition is still critical”, the complainant told the police. As per the complaint, an FIR has been registered against unidentified accused under Sections 379-B (snatching and force), 452 (house trespassing) of the IPC at the Sector 56 police station.“We are exploring the CCTV footage of the nearby area to identify the accused.”, said the investigating officer. — TNS
24-10-2020||Deepender Deswal||Slow pace of construction work adds to woes of Jind residents||Tribune News ServiceJind, October 23The sluggish pace of work of construction of roads and railway overbridges has turned out to be a bane of Jind residents for over a year.The miserable condition of roads in the town has become a cause of major inconvenience to the motorists and residents. The district administration claimed that the work for construction of main roads of the town was under process and the roads were lying dug up. District authorities have diverted traffic at various points in the town to evade jams on broken roads. Due to increased traffic on under construction roads, the quality of air is dropping and thus adding to air pollution and vitiating the atmosphere in the town.Som Nath, a businessmanWork on three overbridges post deadlineThe deadline for the completion of three overbridges has already ended, but these will take some more time to be functional. Raj Kumar Goyal, a resident of Rohtak road area here, said three roads were lying in bad shape as the work was under process at these patches for around a year. “Almost entire 2-km stretch of the road has been dug for reconstruction. Sewer pipelines are being laid on the road from Devi Lal Chowk to Bypass. The officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) said they had prepared an estimate of Rs 5.5 crore for relaying of the road,” he said.Similar is the condition of Safidon road, as the entire stretch is in pitiable condition. The progress of the work of construction there too is slackened. Tender of Rs 1.77 crore for the road was floated in March. Vishal, a local resident, said the traffic on most of the roads has been diverted to alternative roads in the town due to the construction work. “People are facing breathing issues due to increased air pollution in the area. Residents had repeatedly requested the authorities to look into the issue and get the work expedited, but to no avail,” he said.Aditya Dahiya, Deputy CommissionerContractors told to speed up workContractors have been directed to expedite the work on overbridges and roads and warned that they will be issued notices for slow pace of work. Another road, which is also known as the mini bypass of the town, a 3-km stretch from Safidon road to Bhiwani road is also in pitiable shape. The work on the road is being carried out under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. Since, it too requires laying of sewer and water pipelines, it will take a while for the project to be completed as laying of sewer pipelines is in process.Som Nath, a businessman, said under construction railway overbridges at four locations were also adding to the woes of the residents. The deadline of the completion of three overbridges has already ended, but these will take some more time to be functional. Similarly, the deadline of overbridges on Gohana road, Bhiwani road and jail bypass road has also ended. An official of the PWD said the contractors had to suspend the work due to lockdown.Deputy Commissioner Aditya Dahiya has directed the contractors to expedite the construction work on the overbridges and roads and warned that they would be issued notices for slow pace of work. Executive engineer of the PWD buildings and roads (PWD-B&R) Navneet Singh said they had directed the contractor to expedite the work on mini bypass road and Safidon road where the roads were being laid. “The work is being expedited on these two projects. However, the process to float tenders for construction of Rohtak road is in process and will be completed at the earliest,” he added.
24-10-2020||---||Now, self-financed colleges to get admission fee directly||Rohtak, October 23The Department of Higher Education (DHE) has allowed self-financed and government-aided degree colleges across the state to receive admission fee from students of undergraduate courses in both offline and online modes.It has also permitted the colleges to conduct open physical counselling on their own without late fee while following the Covid guidelines. Earlier, centralised admissions were being made by the DHE and the students were bound to deposit their fee online to it instead of the college concerned.The DHE then was to transfer the fee to the colleges as per their admissions but many colleges have not received the fee even several days after the release of the first and second merit list for admissions to first year of undergraduate courses.The delay in transferring the fee put self-financed colleges in trouble as they are unable to pay the salary of their staff and bear routine expenses.Hence, Haryana Self-Financed Colleges Association (HSFCA) had demanded the restoration of previous year’s practice wherein the challan was generated by the DHE and the students deposited the fee directly to the college concerned in both modes.As per new directives, the number of seats in the subject combinations can also be increased/decreased out of the sanctioned seats in a particular course by the colleges after the first round of open counselling that is scheduled from October 28 to November 2. The portal will be opened for fresh registration on the request of colleges from November 3, if required.Meanwhile, Kuldeep Arya, general secretary, HFSCA, thanked Director General (Higher Education) Ajit Balaji Joshi for restoring the previous system of deposition of fee directly to the college concerned and simplifying the online admission process.“The new guidelines have brought relief not only to self-financed colleges but also to the students who had to go to a cyber café to deposit their fee online. Now, they will be able to pay their fee offline,” said Arya.
24-10-2020||---||Amid Covid, dengue on the rise in Karnal||Karnal, October 23Amid the Covid pandemic, rise in the number of dengue cases has become another cause for concern for the Health Department.The department has served notices on around 1,500 residents after finding the larvae of mosquito breeding in water coolers and at other places in their houses.“So far, 35 cases of dengue have been reported in the district,” said civil surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma.He said their six teams comprising 36 health workers had been visiting door to door in Karnal city to check the breeding of mosquitoes.The department has also issued an advisory, telling people not to let water stagnate in the vicinity.“People should drain out water from coolers and discard utensils lying on roofs and in the vicinity,” he said, adding that temperature had dipped so people should get themselves checked by doctors.The civil surgeon said some symptoms of Covid were similar to dengue such as fever and body ache, so there was need to be extra vigilant. So far, Karnal has reported 8,122 cases of Covid, of which 7,764 have recovered, while 116 have died and 242 are still active.
24-10-2020||Karnal||Line losses cut to 16% in 4 years: Discoms’ chief||Shatrujeet Kapoor, Chairman-cum-Managing Director of the two power discoms —Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam — on Thursday said the power corporation had been making efforts to control line losses and theft of electricity.“With the continuous efforts of employees of the corporation, we have reduced the overall line losses to 16 per cent from 30 per cent in the last four years, while the rural domestic line losses have come down to 20 per cent from 80 per cent in the past,” Kapoor said.Hesaid “Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon” scheme, which provided 24-hour uninterrupted power supply to rural domestic consumers, played a crucial role in reducing the line losses.So far, 4,755 of around 7,000 villages had been included in the scheme, he said, adding that process to include 100 more villages in Kaithal, Sonepat, Palwal and Narnaul was underway.Kapoor was today at Panchayat Bhawan in Kachwa village to inaugurate Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel library, which is the first developed by the UHBVN under corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative at a cost of Rs 20 lakh. He said the power corporation would spend 2 per cent of total savings on the CSR activities. He said the corporation had earned a profit of Rs 412 crore in 2017-18, while Rs 300 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 330 crore in 2019-20.“We have started CSR activities from Kachwa village and soon 40-50 such libraries named after Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel would be opened in various villages included in Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon,” he said. The MD said around 3,000 books had been kept in this library and there was an option of e-books as well. He said smart meters were being installed in Karnal, Gurugram, Panchkula and Panipat districts. — TNS
24-10-2020||---||Bhupinder Singh Hooda plays farmer card to woo voters||Panipat, October 23Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda has said that the people of Haryana want the BJP to suffer a defeat in the Baroda bypoll.Hooda said this election is not only about the prestige of the people of Baroda but his reputation is also at stake in the constituency.Hooda started campaigning for Congress candidate Induraj Narwal in the Baroda byelection on Thursday and held public meetings in Ahulana, Bhanderi, Madina, Chhichhrana, Mirzapur Khedi, Kathura, Kehlpa and Chapra.Every section of the state is upset with this government and this government has lost the trust of all — farmers, labourers, workers, shopkeepers, traders and small businessmen, he added.The people of Baroda will give a decisive mandate against a government which has ignored and discriminated against them for the past six years, Hooda said.Hooda said the government is making false promises and putting out empty slogans to trick the people. The ground reality is that today, the farmer is forced to protest on the streets as his crops are not getting a fair price in the grain markets.He was not able to get MSP for his wheat crop in the last season and the problem has continued for the paddy crop this time,” he said.Paddy, which had touched Rs 4,000 to 6,000 per quintal during our government, is being sold at Rs 1,700-1,800 today, he said.The government has taken anti-farmer decisions by implementing three new laws without even bothering to speak to the farmer. There is no mention of MSP in these laws and this is why we are continuously seeking a fourth law, the former CM added.Besides, Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda said that the Baroda would decide the next government in the state. On the second day of campaigning for Congress candidate Induraj Narwal, Deepender Hooda visited Thaska, Mahra, Bahinswan Khurd, Rukhi, Putthi, Rabhra, Moi Hooda and Riwara villages.Deepender claimed that the people in Baroda constituency have made their mood in favour of the Congress candidate.
24-10-2020||Panipat||BJP, Congress spreading lies, says Om Prakash Chautala||Former Chief Minister and INLD chief Om Prakash Chautala today said people in the state were unhappy with the BJP as well as the Congress and a large number of people were joining the INLD.Chautala has started a campaign in support of INLD candidate Joginder Malik for the Baroda bye-poll and visited nine villages today. He will visit all 54 villages of the constituency in support of Malik.Former INLD state president Nafe Singh Rathi and former parliamentary secretary Shyam Singh Rana were also present during his visit.Chautala said maximum development works in the entire state had been undertaken during the INLD government. “Congress and BJP are spreading lies among people and misleading them. The reality is that the candidates of both the parties stand nowhere in comparison with the INLD candidate,” Chautala claimed.Urging people to vote in support of Malik, Chautala said he was the best candidate among all. Promising to solve all problems of the people of Baroda, Chautala said: “We have done well in the past and will work well again if voted to power.” — TNS
24-10-2020||---||Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma: Bhupinder Singh Hooda responsible for backwardness of Baroda||Panipat, October 23Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma has hit out at former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda for “backwardness” of the Baroda constituency and claimed that people here had decided to go with the development and to bloom the lotus in Baroda.Sharma was interacting with mediapersons today at the BJP office in Gohana in support of BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt.Taking a dig at Hooda, Sharma said he always claimed that Baroda was his house but always discriminated and betrayed people here.Sharma said Dutt had brought laurel to the country, state and Baroda in sports and now it was the turn of Baroda to increase his pride by voting to for him so that he could raise the voice of people there.“The politics of the Congress revolves around lies. It is spreading misinformation on the farm laws. The reality is farmers will be prosperous after the laws are implemented,” he said.Sharma said no other party could give an honest candidate like Dutt. “Even after losing in 2019, he worked for people of the constituency with honesty,” he added.
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Deaths cross 1,700 mark in Haryana||With 17 deaths, Covid deaths in the state crossed the 1,700 mark on Friday. A total of 1,270 fresh cases were reported.Three deaths each were reported from Faridabad and Hisar, two each from Gurugram and Bhiwani and one each from Karnal, Palwal, Jhajjar, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad, Kaithal and Jind. — TNS
24-10-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Anil Vij recommends suspension, Municipal Corporation official goes on leave||Tribune News ServicePanipat, October 23Municipal Corporation Commissioner Sushil Kumar proceeded on leave after ULB Minister Anil Vij recommended his suspension reportedly for his lethargic attitude in revenue collection, including property tax.The MC general house has proposed the total income of Rs 131 crore in 2020-21, including Rs 40 crore from property tax, but only Rs 9.74 crore has been collected so far.Vij had reviewed the financial situation and revenue collection reports of all 10 MCs in the state and the MC was at the last spot in recovery of property tax.As per sources, 1.41 lakh units (properties) are registered in the MC record. The MC general house had set the target of recovering Rs 55 crore as property tax in 2018-2019 but received only Rs 13.15 crore, in the next fiscal (2019-2020). The MC had set the target of recovering Rs 33 crore but received only Rs 7.42 crore, while the MC has set the target of recovering Rs 40 crore property tax this financial year 2020-2021.According to sources, Rs 195 crore property tax was pending for the past many years. The MC had prepared a list of around 360 defaulters in the city who owed Rs 5 lakh or more as property tax of which 195 are the defaulters who owed Rs 10 lakh or more in the city. In a reply to an RTI, these 195 defaulters owed over Rs 150 crore as property tax.According to the record, the biggest defaulters were a shopping mall in ward no 14 (owing Rs 19.16 crore) and another in ward no 13 (Rs 15.61 crore).Mayor Avneet Kaur said she had asked verbally several times and also wrote letters to the commissioner to pace up the recovery of the property tax.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has specially directed the corporations to generate their own revenue, but no action has been initiated to speed up the recovery of the property tax and even no mechanism was adopted for it by the officers, she alleged.The commissioner has allotted a tender to a company for distributing bills and to maintain a record recently but nothing was seen on the ground so far, she added. “The ULB Minister’s action is good in my view,” the Mayor maintained. Commissioner Sushil Kumar did not respond even after several attempts.
24-10-2020||Parveen Arora||130 fire locations in Karnal not found||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 23As many as 130 active fire locations out of 698 in the current paddy season in the district reported by the Haryana Space Application Centre (HARSEC) have not been found by the team members of the Agriculture Department.They haven’t found any traces of fire at these locations.As per the information gathered from the Agriculture Department, as many as 698 active fire locations were reported by HARSEC in the district. The maximum (214) active fire locations were reported from Nissing block, followed by 135 in Karnal block, 106 in Assandh block, 103 in Gharaunda block, 72 in Indri block and 68 in Nilokheri block. Of the total reported active fire locations, the teams of department could not find 130.“As soon as we received the data, we sent our team members to the spot. Of the total 698 active fire locations till Friday evening, 130 locations were not found,” said Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director Agriculture (DDA). He maintained that seven fire locations were out of the district.The DDA believes that usually farmers burn the crop residue in the evening and the department receives the report in the morning. There is a possibility that farmers may plough the fields after burning stubble and later irrigate the field. As a result, the team members face difficulty in tracing the fire locations.The DDA said they had got 15 FIRs registered and had imposed a fine of Rs 6.35 lakh on 252 farmers for burning stubble.
24-10-2020||Nitin Jain||Masked effigies to go up in flames in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 23To signify the triumph of good over evil, the Dasehra celebrations will be held as symbolic this time and not on a massive scale as they used to be for the past over 160 years in the district.With Covid casting its shadow on the annual show of Ramlila and Dasehra, there will be, for the first time in the history, no Dasehra event in Ambala Cantonment while four symbolic events will be held at various places in Ambala City on Sunday.Though number of gatherings and scale of celebrations has been cut, special attraction this year will be the masked effigies of the “three demons”, which will go up in flames.“We have decided to put face masks on the effigies of Ravana, Meghnada and Kumbhkarna to spread awareness about Covid among the public,” said the organisers of all four events being organised in Ambala City.The Dasehra celebrations will be held at the Dasehra Grounds in Rambagh, Prem Nagar, Sector 7 and on Ghel Road.Following the Covid protocols and guidelines issued by the district administration, the organisers of all these four events have also reduced the size of effigies. Besides, arrangements for ensuring social distancing for the limited gathering at the events have been made.“Bringing down the height of the effigies down to half, the effigy of Ravana will be tallest at 30 feet, Meghnada at 25 feet and Kumbhkarna at 20 feet,” said Shiv Rajan, one of the organisers.Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma had recently held a meeting with the organisers and had apprised them of the restrictions in place. “We will be keeping a close watch at the events,” he said.
24-10-2020||Faridabad||Faridabad gets second plasma bank to boost Covid treatment||The second plasma bank in the city was formally inaugurated on Friday. The first such facility was made functional at the ESIC Hospital, which is also a Covid special hospital in the district, on August 7.Inaugurating the plasma bank, known as Sant Bhagat Singh Maharaj Plasma Bank, Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment and local MP Krishan Pal Gurjar said it was likely to prove a milestone in the process of the treatment of Covid patients in the district.The plasma bank will be managed directly by the District Red Cross Society and the district administration and will run from the premises of a gurdwara in the NIT region here.“The ESIC Plasma Bank has already issued 221 units of plasma for the treatment of Covid patients, against a total of 251 units donated so far by the patients who have recovered from the infection,” said Dr Nimisha Sharma, incharge, plasma bank at the ESIC Hospital.DC Yashpal Yadav said it would be continued till any final order or directions were received from the ICMR or the Health Department, after reports that the ICMR was likely to recommend the discontinuation of plasma therapy in view of adverse reactions in some cases and its failure to reduce mortality. — TNS
24-10-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Delayed projects: Haryana real estate authority to blacklist 50 builders||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, October 23In a bid to tighten the noose around errant builders, the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HARERA) has decided not to issue fresh licences to those builders whose previous projects have been delayed.Thousands of homebuyers suffer when builders leave their ongoing projects midway to undertake new ventures. They take deposits from the buyers even as the housing projects keep on lingering for years.The regulatory authority has decided that now not only will the builders be debarred from getting licences, but will also be blacklisted. The authority has reportedly drawn a list of 50 such builders in Gurugram.“A builder cannot leave one project midway and start another one to siphon off or divert funds of the project that should have been finished first. There are many builders who have been duping buyers and we plan to put a stop to it. Action has been taken against two builders and others will also not be spared,” said KK Khandelwal, Chairman, HARERA, Gurugram. The HARERA, Gurugram, has sent a notice to blacklist Empire Realtech Pvt Ltd along with an associated company, CHD Developers. The notice also directed the builders to either complete the pending project or face cancellation of the registration.As per the authority, Empire Realtech Pvt Ltd launched a project 106 Golf Avenue, Sector 106, Gurugram, in 2011 and the possession of the apartments was to be given by December 2016, but the buyers are still running from pillar to post to get the apartments. Meanwhile, the promoter has issued a revised date (June 30, 2021) for completion of the project to the regulatory authority.
