24-11-2020||---||Surge in Covid-19 cases: Haryana limits number of people at social gatherings in NCR districts||Chandigarh, November 24To contain the surge in Covid-19 cases in the six Haryana districts adjoining the national Capital, the state government on Tuesday decided to limit the number of persons allowed at social gatherings in these areas to a maximum of 50, in case of indoor functions, and 100 for outdoor events.The new restrictions will be implemented in Gurugram, Rewari, Faridabad, Rohtak, Sonipat and Hisar, said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.In the remaining districts of the state, the number of people attending social gatherings, like marriage ceremonies and political or religious functions, has been limited to 100 persons for indoor events and 200 persons for the outdoor functions.The new orders will come into force from November 26, Khattar said during the video conference of Chief Ministers of eight states on Covid-19 situation. The virtual meeting was presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij was also present on the occasion.Khattar said that the Covid-19 situation in Haryana remained “satisfactory” in the first and second phases, but in the third phase, spurt in number of cases has been registered in the past few days, especially in the districts adjoining the NCR.The CM said that keeping in view the movement of people in the NCR, the state government had ramped up testing in the NCR so that people found positive could be isolated to keep a check on the further spread of infection.The police and Urban Local Bodies have been directed to strictly enforce wearing of masks and issue challan to the offenders. A fine of Rs 500 will be imposed on those who are found without masks, he said.An arrangement of 57,000 beds has been made in different hospitals of the state, which is sufficient keeping in view the number of cases, said Khattar.Also, sufficient number of oxygen cylinders, ventilators, ICU beds, etc., is available in the state, the Chief Minister added.He said that the state government had further strengthened the home isolation care of COVID-19 patients so that they could be provided treatment facilities at their homes.
24-11-2020||Rohtak||Ahead of ‘Delhi chalo’ drive, cops pick up farmer leaders in midnight raids||Two days ahead of the ‘Delhi chalo’ demonstration planned by farmers’ orgainsations in protest against the three agriculture laws enacted recently, Haryana police personnel swooped down on the homes of dozens of farmers’ leaders and activists in different parts of the state in the wee hours on Wednesday and whisked them away.Midnight raids and arrests were reported from Sirsa, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Ambala districts. Later in the day, Khattar said that the government does not approve of the farmers’ protest and plans are afoot to ensure law and order is not compromised. Appealing to the farmers’ organisations to desist from holding protests and urging the public from keep away from the GT roads leading to and from Delhi and Punjab, Khattar said, “The public should avoid the Punjab-Haryana borders on November 25 and 26 and from the Delhi-Haryana border on November 26 and 27. Stern action has been planned to avert any law and order situation.”     “As many as 72 activists have been detained so far and more such preventive arrests are likely,” Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava said.  The All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Khet Mazdoor Union and several other associations of farmers and farm-labourers decried the midnight raids conducted at the behest of the BJP-JJP government in Haryana and staged protest demonstrations against the move across the state. “We condemn the ruthless manner in which the state government acted to sabotage the peaceful protest planned by the farmers’ organisations. Houses of farmers’ leaders were raided at unearthly hours between 1 a.m. and 3 a.m. as if they are wanted criminals,” said Comrade Inderjit Singh, a vice-president of the Haryana chapter of All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), who led the protest demonstration at Rohtak. BKU (Charuni) spokesman Rakesh Bains also criticised the state government for picking up farmers’ leaders from their homes in the middle of night.  “The government is treating the farmers like terrorists. The government is adopting repressive tactics to weaken the ‘Delhi march’ movement,” he maintained.  Last evening, BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni had expressed apprehension that the police might arrest the farmers’ leaders, following which many veteran farmers’ leaders went underground to avoid arrests. The farmers’ organisations and the main opposition party, the Congress, have sought immediate release of the detainees. Addressing reporters after a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party in Chandigarh, Hooda said the treatment meted out to farmers was wrong as every citizen of the country has the right to raise their demand in a peaceful manner and agitate against policies that would harm them. “The legitimate demands of the farmers cannot be suppressed. Arresting leaders from their homes at night cannot be justified and the government should release the arrested leaders at the earliest,” he said.
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures rise, hover above normal at most places in Haryana, Punjab||The minimum temperatures on Tuesday rose slightly and hovered above normal limits at most places in Haryana and Punjab.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 12.3 degrees Celsius, three notches above the normal for this part of the year, according to the Meteorological Department here.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a minimum of 11 degrees Celsius, up one notch against the normal while Karnal recorded a low of 10 degrees Celsius.However, Hisar registered a four-degree below normal minimum at 7.2 degrees Celsius.Amritsar in Punjab recorded a minimum temperature of 13.6 degrees Celsius, seven notches above the normal. Ludhiana recorded a low of 12.6 degrees Celsius, up three notches while Patiala’s minimum settled at 12.1 degrees Celsius, also three notches above the normal.The night temperatures had hovered two-four notches below the normal at most places in the two states during the past few days. --- PTI
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers' march: Haryana borders with Punjab to remain sealed on November 26-27||In the wake of the farmers' protest march towards Delhi against the Centre's farm laws, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday said the state borders with Punjab will remain sealed on November 26 and 27.Meanwhile, the Haryana Police issued an advisory for the public, asking them to modify their travel plans.Khattar said they have advised people to avoid travelling along the state borders with Punjab for the two days as these will remain sealed. PTI
24-11-2020||Bathinda||Farmers burn Khattar government effigies in Bathinda||Irked over farmers being arrested in Haryana ahead of "Delhi Chalo" agitation, farmers—under the banner BKU Ekta Ugrahan—on Tuesday burnt effigies of Khattar government at various protest venues in Bathinda.The farmers union told that they burnt the Khattar government effigies at the venues of their ongoing protests at toll plazas at Jeeda and Lehra Bega, outside Best Price at Bucho, outside Reliance Pump at Rampura, and outside BJP leader Makhan Jindal at Rampura.BKU Ekta Ugrahan district president Shingara Singh Mann said, that they condemn the Haryana government step to arrest the farmers on Monday night in a bid to stop them from going to Delhi.He said, that the protest against this act was staged against the Khattar government, and burnt his effigies at their ongoing protest venues in the district.Mann said, that the farmer unions have given the call of Delhi march to mark their protest against the three controversial farm laws on November 26, but the BJP Khattar government in Haryana is arresting farmers’ leaders to weaken their movement of Delhi march.He also said, that they would march toward Delhi from, here, as per the plan, if Haryana tried to stop them, then they would stage a protest there only.
24-11-2020||Gurugram||2 youth killed 3 injured in separate road mishaps in Gurugram||Two youth were killed and three others were injured in two separate road accidents in Gurugram, the police said on Tuesday.In the first incident, an accident occurred in front of the petrol pump on Sheetla Mata Road in the early hours of Monday.A car coming from Palam Vihar area at high speed crashed into the rear of a canter. The driver of the car died on the spot while the youth sitting on the rear seat was seriously injured. The errant canter driver escaped from the spot after the accident.The deceased was identified as Abhishek (20), a resident of Rajiv Nagar, while the injured was identified as Paras (20). The injured man is undergoing treatment at a private hospital.In connection with the incident, the police have started a probe after registering a case at Sector-5 police station.The body has been handed over to the family after an autopsy."During preliminary investigation it came to fore that Canter was standing on the road. The car came from behind and rammed into it. This caused an accident. However, the whole truth will be revealed either from the CCTV cameras installed nearby or from the arrest of the driver," said additional in-charge of Sector-5 police station, Satish Kumar.In the other incident, a man identified as Suraj died in the accident while his friend Pinki and Sachin were injured in the mishap. Suraj was driving his bike while his two friends were pillion riders. All the youth were in their 20s.The police said Suraj rammed his bike into a tractor trolley which was parked roadside without any warning signage on Sohna road. Suraj died in the mishap while his friends are undergoing treatment in a hospital.An FIR has been lodged at Sohna Sadar police station and search is on for the erring vehicle and its driver, the police said. IANS
24-11-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Vij rules out night curfew in Haryana; announces steps to check Covid spread||Chandigarh, November 24Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij has ruled out the imposition of lockdown or night curfew in the state in view of the surge in Covid cases.Vij said the state would not impose restrictions, but spread awareness to make people understand that they would have to learn to live with the virus by strictly adhering to safety protocol. Besides, he said, they would challan those violating the Covid norms.Meanwhile, the Himachal Pradesh government on Monday decided to keep all schools and colleges closed till December 31 and clamped a night curfew in four districts as the state fights a spurt in coronavirus cases.The night curfew will be in place from Tuesday to December 15 in Shimla, Mandi, Kangra and Kullu districts from 8 pm to 6 am.Till December 31, only 50 per cent of Class III and IV employees on the rolls will attend government offices each day.Gatherings at social, cultural and political events will be capped at 200 people and those who don't wear masks in public will cough up a fine of Rs 1,000.
24-11-2020||---||After fight with wife, drunk man in Karnal throws their 3 children into canal||Karnal, November 24In a shocking incident, a man allegedly threw his three children into a canal near Kulvehri village on Monday night after he had a fight with his wife.The children were identified as Shiv (8), Jhanvi (5), and Dev (3).Police have started a rescue operation, but the bodies are yet to be retrieved.Sushil Kumar, a resident of Nalipar village, was arrested and has confessed to the crime.The residents of Nalipar village said that Sushil, a juice vendor, was alcoholic, which was the reason behind arguments with wife Baby.On Monday, too, the two exchanged words over his addiction, following which he took away the children on a bike.The neighbours tried to chase him, but were not successful. On hearing the children crying near the canal, farmers working in the fields nearby tried to stop him, but he threw them into the canal, said the residents.After committing the crime, he came home and informed the family before fleeing the place.Residents of the nearby villages are helping the police trace the bodies.Kunjpura SHO Munish Kumar said they were trying to trace the bodies with the help of divers.“We have launched a rescue operation to trace the children. Apart from taking help of divers, we have requested reduction of the water level,” he added.After the incident, a pall of gloom descended on the house. “I never imagined he would kill his own children in this manner,” said an inconsolable grandfather of the kids.He demanded death penalty for his son.
24-11-2020||Panipat||Panipat SP booked for  ex-councillor’s suicide||Panipat Superintendent of Police (SP) Manisha Choudhary and two other cops have been booked for allegedly abetting the suicide of former councillor Harish Sharma.FIR against protesters for blocking highwayThe police on Monday lodged a separate case against a large number of people for allegedly blocking National Highway-44 for over three hours after placing Harish Sharma’s body on the road and pelting the police with stones.The other two police officials against whom a case has been registered under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC include SI Baljeet Singh and ASI Mahabir Singh. A police complaint was lodged by Sharma’s daughter today, in which she alleged they were harassed by the accused, following which her father ended his life.The former councillor had jumped into a canal on Thursday. — TNS
24-11-2020||Parveen Arora||Stubble burning up 44% in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 23All warnings of the state government to farmers not to burn crop residue seem to have failed to get the desired results, with the state recording a 44 per cent increase in cases of stubble burning.As per data available, the state reported 9,512 active fire locations (AFLs) from September 25 to November 22, while the number was 6,581 last season.Fatehabad led the tally with 1,974 cases, followed by Kaithal (1,557), Jind (1,164), Karnal (1,051), Kurukshetra (843), Ambala (806), Sirsa (631) and Yamunanagar (507).Meanwhile, air quality index (AQI), which had improved from poor to moderate or good after post Diwali showers, turned poor again by 4 pm on Monday.Need to verify dataActive fire locations (AFLs) are being reported with the help of two satellites. There was a data mismatch when teams of officials went to fields and found no trace of fire at several places. The Agriculture Department will verify the data. —S Narayanan, member secretary, Haryana state pollution control boardHisar and Fatehabad were in the very poor category with AQI at 321 and 319, respectively. Gurugram (285), Jind (284), Rohtak (278), Ambala (277), Faridabad (272), Yamunanagar (265), Bahadurgarh (257), Dharuhera (249), Manesar (245), Ballabgarh (222), Sirsa (208) and Narnaul (206) were in the poor category.Panchkula (195), Kurukshetra (187), Karnal (179), Kaithal (165), Sonepat (157) and Nuh (110) were in moderate category, while Panipat was in the satisfactory category with AQI at 86 AQI.Data of the Haryana Space Application Centre had shown a rise in cases of stubble burning, said S Narayanan, member secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control Board.He said AFLs were being reported with the help of two satellites, but the data got mismatched when teams went to fields and found no trace of fire at several places.“The Chief Secretary has directed all Deputy Commissioners to get AFLs checked. The Consortium for Research on Agro-Ecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi, is also monitoring AFLs. The Agriculture Department will check data with it,” he said.Asked about the poor quality of air, he said apart from stubble burning, industrial pollution, vehicles and other reasons contributed to air pollution.
24-11-2020||---||28 succumb; 2,663 cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, November 23With 2,663 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state crossed the 2.19 lakh mark on Monday. With 28 deaths, the toll went up to 2,216.Three deaths each were reported from Gurugram, Faridabad, Hisar and Rohtak, two each from Sonepat, Ambala, Karnal, Rewari and Fatehabad and one each from Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Sirsa, Mahendragarh, Bhiwani and Jind.The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (866), followed by Faridabad (577), Rewari (206), Rohtak (136), Hisar (135) and Sonepat (134).A total of 2,567 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of discharged to 1.97 lakh.
24-11-2020||---||Rs 500 fine no deterrent, Covid norms flouted with impunity||Chandigarh, November 23Despite a fine of Rs 500 for not wearing masks in public, Covid protocols were openly flouted in public places across Haryana a day after Health Minister Anil Vij told DCs and SPs to ensure strictness.Gurugram: Despite recording 650 Covid cases a day, on an average, for the last 15 days, the authorities were struggling with rampant violations. From callousness in wearing masks to absence of social distancing, protocols were being ignored in the district.The health authorities had identified 20 key areas where the threat was worrisome due to crowding. The top areas are Sadar Bazaar, Khandsa Mandi, sector markets and Rajiv Nagar.Panipat: Despite cases rising in Panipat and Sonepat districts, people were not following Covid protocols. People in Panipat markets — Insaar market, Salarganj market, Chaura Bazar, SD handloom market and Gur Mandi — were roaming without masks.The situation was the same in Sonepat markets — Kachey Quarter, Geeta Bhawan Chowk market and Bada Bazaar — and other public places. People were not following Covid norms.Hisar: Covid guidelines were being violated, especially in political and private functions. Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa had been holding public meetings across the district to mobilise supporters for the November 29 public event.Photographs released by the district administration showed hardly any person in a mask at the meetings. In another violation, the municipal corporation organised a janata bazar and musical nite at the old college ground. Mayor Gautam Sardana inaugurated this event.Karnal: People in various markets, particularly Karan Gate, Railway road, Kunjpura road, Mughal Canal and Model Town markets, and commercial complexes were not maintaining social distancing. Several people were seen without masks and not maintaining distancing norms.Faridabad: Violation of protocols was a major reason behind the sharp spike in cases and deaths, according to health officials. Admitting that more than 50 per cent people were still not wearing masks in public places, a district official said the police had been asked to issue challans.Ambala: At the cloth market in Ambala City and Sadar Bazaar in Ambala Cantonment, social distancing was being ignored though a majority of people wore masks.Jhajjar: Social distancing was not being maintained by people at the main markets in Bahadurgarh and Jhajjar though more than 75 per cent of the people wore masks.
24-11-2020||Hisar||Fatehabad teacher, two sons end life||A government schoolteacher and his two teenage sons committed suicide by jumping into a canal near Pili Mandori village in Fatehabad district on Monday.The deceased were identified as Kuldeep (40) of Ramsara and his sons Virender (15) and Nitish (13). The police recovered the bodies from the Bhattu Kalan branch near Pili Mandori village on Monday.Kuldeep and his sons left their home on a Scooty on November 19. After their family started a hunt, a helmet and a blanket were recovered near Bhattu Kalan branch.Fatehabad DSP Satyendra Kumar said the bodies were taken to the Civil Hospital for the postmortem.He said they would take further action after preliminary enquiry. He said the motive behind the suicide was not clear yet. Sources said Kuldeep and his wife were having marital discord. — TNS
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||High Court allows ED plea against de-sealing||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today allowed the appeal of the Enforcement Directorate (ED), challenging the de-sealing of the Dabwali farmhouse of former Chief Minister and INLD leader Om Prakash Chautala for two weddings of his grandsons.Appearing before the Bench of Justice Daya Chaudhary and Justice Meenakshi I Mehta, the counsel argued that the ED had taken over the property in accordance with provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and the accused was prohibited from using and enjoying it under provisions of the Act.He further stated that the order to de-seal and hand over the property for use was against the statutory provisions, aims and objectives of the Act and there was no provision for temporarily de-sealing of the property for interim use.The case has its genesis in two applications submitted by Abhay Chautala. He was seeking interim restoration of the attached property on the grounds that the grandsons of the former Chief Minister were scheduled to get married on November 27 and 30. — TNS
24-11-2020||---||PRI polls in Feb: Dy CM||Hisar, November 23Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Monday said elections to the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) will be held in February next year.“The state government has reserved 50 per cent of the PRI posts for women and 8 per cent for Backward Class A,” he told the media here.The JJP leader further said, “The Bills with regard to the quota provisions had been sent to the Governor for approval. As soon as the Bills are approved, the state will recommend to the Election Commission to hold the poll.”On the Covid situation, the Deputy Chief Minister said there was no requirement to impose lockdown again though there was need to implement the guidelines strictly in view of the surge in cases.About the shortage of urea in Punjab, Dushyant said farmers in the neighbouring state were facing shortage of urea as the Punjab Government had failed in arranging the adequate quantity as train services had been affected.
24-11-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Vacant posts, poor infra ail childcare units: Audit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 23More than 52 per cent of the Child Care Institutions (CCIs) in the state don’t have counsellors, 67 per cent face shortage of medical officers, 58 per cent are doing without sick rooms and 54 per cent lack staff residence.These facts have come to light in this year’s social audit of all 88 CCIs across the state. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) conducted the audit of all CCIs across the country.In Haryana, the audit report paints a somber picture. A pointer to the sorry state of affairs, though not part of the report, came to the fore last week. A five-year-old mentally challenged girl was found confined illegally in an open shelter home in Panipat, following which the Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) had recommended closure of the shelter home.“We released the report recently and informedthe departments concerned about its findings,” said NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo.There are 54 children’s homes in the state, 20 shelter homes, eight specialised adoption agencies, four observation homes and two special homes. Of the 88 CCIs, 63 come under NGOs or trusts and the remaining 25 under the state government.As per the Juvenile Justice Model Rules, 2016, every CCI should have a management committee and it should convene a meeting at least once every month. The report, however, states 11 CCIs (12.5 per cent of 88) don’t have management committees. Of the remaining 77 CCIs, 61 institutions are not convening a meeting at least once a month.On the shortage of staff, the audit report points out that close to 65 per cent of the CCIs don’t have child welfare officers, more than 76 per cent are doing without the paramedical staff, more than 69 per cent need the housekeeping staff, 17 per cent make do without cooks and close to 40 per cent have the posts of store keeper-cum-accountant vacant.On infrastructure, the report says only 58 per cent of the CCIs have recreation rooms and just 42 per cent have counselling rooms. More than 76 per cent have bathrooms and 68.2 per cent have toilets. Close to 32 per cent don’t have child-friendly exclusive toilets and about 24 per cent lack child-friendly exclusive bathrooms.When contacted, Jyoti Bainda, HSCPCR chairperson, said: “We will take appropriate action on the basis of the audit report.”Grim Scenario65% CCIs don’t have child welfare officers67% CCIs doing without medical officers16% lack individual beds for children18% don’t plan meals in consultation with kids
24-11-2020||---||Private contractors’ strike leaves Faridabad in deep mess||Faridabad, November 23The strike by the contractors of a private company that has been outsourced the work of waste disposal by the Faridabad Municipal Corporation has left the city full of garbage.The city churns out around 800 tonnes of solid waste daily.“Hundreds of tonnes of garbage collected in the past few days have been lying at various dumping points in the city. The waste was to be removed to the main dumping site at Bandhwari village, but the strike by the private contractors, carrying out the job since December 2017, has brought the process to a halt,” reveal MC sources.“More than 600 tonnes of waste is lying at a collection centre on the Mujheri road here, which has not been cleared for the past three to four days,” said an employee of a contractor engaged in garbage disposal. Moreover, there are 10 to 12 other dumping stations, where the garbage has not been removed for the past three days, he added. The employee said the problem arose due to the delay in the payment of around Rs 6 crore due to the contractors.Won’t budgeSix of us have resorted to strike till our dues are cleared. The work has been halted after the officials concerned expressed their inability to clear the dues without justifying the delay, which is going on for the past six months. —Azad Harsana, ContractorClaiming that over Rs 1 crore was pending, Azad Harsana, a contractor, said he along with five others had resorted to strike till the payment was cleared. He said the company officials had called a meeting at Bandhwari on Monday evening.A total of six contractors have been assigned the garbage disposal work in Faridabad and Gurugram.“The MC has failed to resolve the issue of garbage disposal despite spending over Rs 53 crore in the past three years due to rampant corruption,” alleges PP Kapoor, an RTI activist.Meanwhile, Inderjeet, MC Additional Commissioner, said the matter had been taken up with the company and was expected to be resolved soon.
24-11-2020||Nitish Sharma||11 months on, demarcation of Saraswati still incomplete||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, November 23Eleven months have passed, but the demarcation of the Saraswati in Thanesar to identify the encroachments has not been completed.To increase the water carrying capacity of the river and identify the encroachments after several colonies of Thanesar witnessed a flood-like situation in July last year, due to incessant rain and overflowing of water from the Saraswati and other drains, the district administration and the Irrigation and Water Resources Department had decided to carry out a survey of the colonies developed along the river.From Pipli to the SYL canal, the length of the Saraswati is 70,000 feet. While the width in the Pipli area is 65 feet, it reduces to 15 to 30 feet towards the city area due to the development of colonies. This has badly affected the natural flow of the river.Work to begin in phasesWe want to develop the Saraswati channel in Pipli as a tourist destination, under which a stretch of 500 m will be developed in the first phase. —Dhuman S Kirmach, Deputy Chairman,  HSHDBAn official of the Irrigation Department said the water carrying capacity of the Saraswati was merely 200 cusecs, while the river had been receiving over 1,000 cusecs in July last year. The riverbed must be at least 70 feet wide for a smooth flow.Dhuman Singh Kirmach, deputy chairman of the Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board (HSHDB), has directed the irrigation officials to complete the demarcation work and prepare a report about the encroachments that have affected the flow of water.Kirmach said, “The demarcation work is on and the encroachments are being identified. I have visited the area from Pipli to Jyotisar and the work till Kheri Markanda village has been completed. We want to start evening aarti.”He said, “Besides building a temple of Goddess Saraswati, and carrying beautification work on both sides of the bridge, we have proposed to start boating, for which the river will be widened. The cleaning work of the channel has been initiated and ghats are also being developed.
24-11-2020||Kurukshetra||Haryana to revive tourist sites along river||Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said efforts were being made to rejuvenate the Saraswati, while discussing the development works being carried out on the river at Pipli today.All tourist and heritage sties situated along the river would also be renovated, he said.“Thousands of years ago, the river used to flow through Kurukshetra and go further towards Sirsa. The Vedas and the Puranas were composed on this sacred ground.”The state has been making efforts to revive the Saraswati and ensuring that the coming generations get to know all about it. “All heritage sites on the river banks will also be developed.” — TNS
24-11-2020||Ambala||Government may arrest farm leaders: BKU||Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni has expressed apprehension that the government may arrest farmers’ leaders to weaken their movement of Delhi march on November 26.The farmer unions have given the call of Delhi march to mark their protest against the three controversial farm laws.Charuni, who released a video addressing the farmers on Monday, said: “The government may adopt any tactic to weaken the ongoing movement of Delhi march but we have to face and overcome it. It may arrest all your leaders. However, even if we are arrested, the movement shouldn’t get failed as every farmer is a leader. You have to reach in large numbers, break all barricades and reach the assembly point at Education City near Kundli border before entering Delhi and make the struggle a success.”A kisan yatra under the banner of the BKU (Charuni) will leave from Shambhu border on November 25 to reach Delhi on November 26. — TNS
24-11-2020||Jhajjar||Jhajjar farmers meet DC over unprocured bajra||Several farmers and arhtiyas on Monday called on DC Jitender Kumar and complained about the non-procurement of bajra in the grain market despite an extension up to November 27.They urged him to ensure the procurement of the bajra with immediate effect.“Token is not being issued by the authorities to us for selling bajra at the MSP, while the produce is lying unprocured at the mandi for several days. Though the DC has assured us of resolving the issue in the next two days but we are not satisfied with his reply as the procurement season will end on November 27,” said Baljeet, a farmer from Hasanpur village. — TNS
24-11-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana recorded second highest number of cases last week||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 23The week ended November 22 recorded 17,426 Covid cases in Haryana, the second highest figure since the first case was reported on March 17.The highest number of cases so far was recorded in the week from September 14 to 20, when 17,616 cases were reported.Haryana had been witnessing a rise in the number of cases every week. The week from October 26 to November 1 witnessed 10,576 cases, which rose by 31.7 per cent to 13,924 cases in the week from November 2 to 8.The number of cases jumped by 22.6 per cent to 17,070 in the week from November 9 to 15. The week ended November 22 saw a rise of 2.1 per cent over the previous week.The Covid mortality rate in Haryana was 1 per cent, lower than Himachal Pradesh (1.5 per cent) and Chandigarh (1.6 per cent), while Punjab had the highest rate in the country at 3.2 per cent.The number of cases per million population in Haryana was 8,482, much higher than in Himachal Pradesh (4,909) and Punjab (5,251) and more than national figure (7,513). Chandigarh reported 15,719 cases per million population.Haryana had a positivity rate of 6.9 per cent. Among districts, Faridabad led with 12.5 per cent, followed by Gurugram (9.8 per cent), Rewari (8.7 per cent), Hisar (8.4 per cent), Panchkula (8.1 per cent) and Panipat (8 per cent).Of the 2,188 deaths in Haryana till November 22, 1,328 (61 per cent) were on ventilator, 422 (19 per cent) were on oxygen support and 121 (6 per cent) were brought dead.Fatehabad district had the highest mortality rate of 2.2 per cent, with 89 deaths out of 4,053 cases. It was followed by Yamunanagar at 2 per cent, with 111 deaths out of 5,445 cases, and Jind at 1.9 per cent, with 67 deaths out of 3,592 cases.
24-11-2020||---||Government hiding fatality count, claims Selja||Chandigarh, November 23State Congress president Kumari Selja on Monday blamed the BJP-JJP government for failing to control Covid spread and alleged that the actual number of casualties was not being revealed.She said the pace of Covid spread in the state was increasing again, which was a matter of concern. She claimed that this was due to failure and negligence of the government.In a statement, Selja said despite repeated warnings by the Congress, no arrangements were made by the government to deal with the pandemic, as a result of which more than 17,000 cases and 155 deaths were reported in a week.She said schools had been reopened by the government without complete preparations, due to which more than 300 students and more than 35 teachers were infected.She said the failure of the government and negligence had led to the risk of Covid infection reaching children, parents and teachers.She said there were reports that figures of deaths were hidden, which was of greater concern.
24-11-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Violators beware! Gurugram cops to attend weddings as ‘guests’||Gurugram, November 23Fearing the surge in Covid cases with the forthcoming wedding season, the city police will be mandatory guests at all functions.Following the commencement of the wedding season on November 25, the local policemen shall attend every wedding in the area and videograph the violations. In case of excessive gathering or non-usage of masks, challans will be issued.As per the plan...The Gurugram police teams have been regularly inspecting the wedding venues and banquet halls to prevent the spread of infection.Police commissioner KK Rao said all DCPs, ACPs and SHOs have been told to identify the crowded areas in their jurisdiction and appeal to the people to comply with the guidelines issued by the government through loudspeakers.Following the direction, 995 challans were issued by the police in a single day on Sunday. Till now, a total of 91,707 persons, have been penalied for not wearing masks. A total of Rs 4,58,53,500 has been recovered as fine.Identify crowded areasPolice officials have been told to identify crowded areas in their jurisdiction and appeal to the people to comply with the guidelines. —KK Rao, Commissioner of policeAs per the plan, cops will attend weddings without any invitation. The SHO of every police station will investigate the venue to ensure that Covid rules are followed during the function. A case will be filed against those, who violate the rules.The police have also started receiving complaints against the violators through social media platforms.
24-11-2020||Ravinder Saini||Plot level 20 ft lower than road, owners unable to build house||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 23Several persons, who were allotted residential plots at Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), Sector 10, in Bahadurgarh town, are feeling cheated as the level of plots is allegedly 20 feet lower than the road.Many of them reside in rented accommodations and want to construct the house there. However, they are unable to do so without earth-filling that will cost them in lakhs. The HSVP has started imposing penalty on them for non-construction.The allottees have filed a joint complaint to the Chief Minister, demanding redressal of their grievance and setting up of a panel to probe the sand theft.A delegation of the allottees called on Bahadurgarh SDM Hitender Sharma today and raised the issue. Sharma has sought a report from the local Estate Officer of the HSVP in this respect.Rs 75 lakh to fill patchConstruction can’t be done without earth-filling of the entire patch. It will cost over Rs75 lakh. The HSVP should do earth-filling up to 15 feet, and the rest can be done by us. —Jagdish Kaur, Balwinder Singh’s wife“The plots were allotted in 2017 through a draw system and no one at that time knew that the level of a full patch having 28 plots of 4 marla is 20 feet lower than the road. The allottees took time to raise the issue jointly. They personally made many rounds of the HSVP office, but to no avail. Now, we have decided to approach the court if the earth-filling is not done by the HSVP,” said Mukesh Malik, a plot holder.Manjit said he was paying house rent of Rs 10, 000 per month. “We are facing double whammy by paying the house rent and being fined by the HSVP for non-construction,” he said.Vikas, another allottee, maintained that the construction could not be done without earth-filling of the entire patch and it would cost over Rs 75 lakh. “Hence, the HSVP should do earth-filling up to 15 feet, and the rest can be done by us,” he said.Virender Hooda, administrator, HSVP, Rohtak, said the department was not liable for the pit as the plots were allotted on the basis of ‘as it is, where it is’ condition.
24-11-2020||Rohtak/Rewari||Cong leaders working at BJP’s behest, say former ministers||Congress leaders Subhash Batra and Krishan Murti Hooda have sought the expulsion of senior party colleagues Ghulam Nabi Azad, Kapil Sibal and Anand Sharma, accusing them of working at the behest of the BJP and damaging the party interests.The former ministers said here today, Azad, Sibal and Sharma were “power-hungry” leaders, who were issuing damaging statements against the Congress leadership under the influence of the Prime Minister. “We will write to the party leadership and seek the expulsion of the three leaders,” Batra said.Murti said state leaders would stage a protest at the residences of Azad and other leaders involved in “anti-party” activities if the Delhi Police and the administration gave them the permission. In Rewari, former minister Capt Ajay Yadav said Azad should not raise party’s internal matters in the media. — TNS
24-11-2020||---||Truck driver held for rape||Ambala, November 23A truck driver from Panipat has been arrested for allegedly raping a woman for more than three years on the pretext of marriage, the police said here on Monday. The accused, identified as Surjit (32), was remanded in a day’s police custody.Surjit had befriended the 28-year-old woman, who is a Central government employee, through Facebook and developed a relationship, claiming that he was unmarried. When in February this year, she learnt that Surjit was married, she stopped talking to her.Subsequently, Surjit started to demand money by threatening to post her objectionable videos on social media, the victim said.On October 21, she lodged a complaint with the women’s police station. “During a day’s remand, the police will recover Surjit’s mobile phone, with which he had shot the objectionable videos,” women’s police station SHO Inspector Sunita said, adding a separate case of cheating was registered against the accused at the Parao police station.
24-11-2020||Faridabad||Rape convict on run for 15 yrs, arrested||A rape convict, who was on the run since 2005, has been arrested. He was booked for rape in 1998. The convict, identified as Sakir (40) of Faridabad, had jumped bail in 2005. He was arrested from his hideout, a house at Utawar village in Palwal, on Sunday .He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody on Monday. The district court had sentenced him to five years’ imprisonment. He was released on bail following his petition in the High Court, but he jumped bail. The local court had issued a re-arrest warrant. — TNS
24-11-2020||---||Hisar DC meets hail-hit farmers||Hisar, November 23Priyanka Soni, Deputy Commissioner, visited a number of villages to assess the crop loss suffered due to hailstorm that occurred in the district recently.The DC, accompanied by the District Revenue Officer Rajbir Dhiman and other officials, reached Dabra village and interacted with the farmers. The farmers complained that mustard, paddy crops and vegetables were damaged due to hail.The farmers demand special ‘girdawari’ of the damage caused by the hailstorm that occurred on Sunday, and urged the state to give compensation for their losses.The vegetable-growing farmers also suffered loss, while mustard in about 60 villages was destroyed due to hail. Mange Ram, a farmer from Bhojraj village, said he had sowed 3 acres of mustard about one month ago. “Heavy hail completely destroyed the crop. I am not in a position to resow mustard, and the land is not fit for wheat sowing,” he said, adding that the crop was not insured under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana.In Mayyar, Bhanana, Satrod and Sikarpur villages, the standing paddy crop was destroyed due to hail. Krishan Satrod, member, Zila Parishad, said the state should immediately announce compensation of Rs 40,000 per acre to the affected farmers.
24-11-2020||Panchkula city seems to be losing on various counts nowadays. What else could explain the prevalence of several tilted electricity poles on the NH-73||Public facilities in poor shape||Damaged roads pose threatCommuting on the Circle 3 road in Sector 86 of New Gurugram has turned out to be a harrowing experience for residents. The road is full of potholes. Meanwhile, the road under the Rampura flyover on the NH-48 is also in a similar condition. However, it seems the authorities are apathetic towards the plight of the residents. The area is posh, but the condition of the infrastructure is poor. The officers concerned need to wake up from the deep slumber and act in this regard. —Niti Sood, GurugramDelay in benefits to martyrs’ kin unacceptable This is in reference to a news report published The Tribune columns on November 21 regarding ‘a widow of a CRPF jawan waiting for the entitled benefits for 18 years’. It has put a serious question mark on the administrative machinery, which is supposed to take care of the welfare of the martyrs. In this digital age, when most of the documentations and other administrative works are processed online, such prolonged delays are highly condemnable and not acceptable. The administration and the District Soldiers’ Board must be held accountable for processing the cases of death benefits entitled to the bravehearts. The Centre and the state government should issue strict guidelines to settle all benefits at the earliest so that the families of the martyrs do not face any harassment or financial hardships. —Ravi Bhushan, KurukshetraWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
24-11-2020||Rohtak||Faculty development programme||Rahul Rishi, Director, UIET, and Vineet Kumar, Dean, Faculty of Engineering & Technology, also spoke on the occasion. Programme coordinator Deepak Chhabra threw light on the themes of the programme. Faculty member Ravinder Sahdev proposed the vote of thanks.MDU extends date to submit formsRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has extended the last date for submission of online forms for admission to certificate, diploma and advanced diploma programmes in university teaching departments (UTD) and MDU-CPAS (Gurugram) for the session 2020-21 to December 15. MDU Registrar Gulshan Lal Taneja said candidates, who had submitted the online application form earlier, but could not upload the supporting documents, may also update the admission forms up to December 15. Details of the programmes are available on MDU website.Needonomics principle discussedKurukshetra: An online inter-school event ‘Businessopolis-2020’ was organised, in which former Vice Chancellor MM Goel, who retired from Kurukshetra University, said, “Keeping in view the resource crunch in the economy, the conspicuous consumption at micro and macro levels has to be stopped.” Principal Rajee N Kumar delivered the welcome address and presented citation on the achievements of Prof Goel. The principle of needonomics (economics of needs) can reduce the socio-economic problems of the country to a considerable extent, said Prof Goel. ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ could be a success story by adopting needonomics, which is ethical, non-violent and spiritual in nature, he said.e-admission for PG coursesChandigarh: The online admission to postgraduate courses (PG) in all government, aided and self-financing colleges will commence from Tuesday. The last date to apply is December 7. The documents will be verified from November 27 to December 10. The merit list will be displayed on December 14, while the validity of merit list and the time for submission of fee will be from December 14 to 18. The display of waiting list and physical counselling at colleges for the remaining vacant seats will start from December 21.
