25-08-2020||New Delhi||Petition in SC seeks 8-hour shift for cops; appeals Punjab and Haryana HC's order||The Supreme Court has issued notice to the governments of Punjab and Haryana and the Union Territory of Chandigarh on a petition seeking an eight-hour shift for police personnel with weekly offs.A three-judge Bench headed by Justice Fali S Nariman on August 21 asked the three administrations to respond to the petition filed by Jagjeet Singh who challenged the December 4, 2019, verdict of the Punjab and Haryana High Court that had dismissed his plea seeking implementation of the recommendations of the Bureau of Police Research and Development for introducing eight-hour shift system in all the police stations and police posts along with weekly offs.The Bench clubbed the case with another petition seeking similar relief on an all-India basis already pending in the top court.Section 22 of Indian Police Act, 1861 says: “Every police-officer shall, for all purposes in this Act contained, be considered to be always on duty, and may, at any time, be employed as a police-officer in any part of the general police- district”. The petitioner has sought rational interpretation of this provision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/petition-in-sc-seeks-8-hour-shift-for-cops-appeals-punjab-and-haryana-hcs-order-131288
25-08-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram police to book parents of minor car driver after biker killed in accident||Gurugram, August 25Two days after the tragic death of a biker in accident involving a car, Gurugram police are set to book his parents. According to police, the family today submitted age proof confirming that the driver was minor. Sources said police have recovered a beer bottle from the car and it hints the driver was drunk.A 49-year-old city Alok Gupta was killed on Sunday morning when the motorcycle he was riding collided with a car in DLF Cyber City. The onlookers told police that the car was being driven by a minor boy accompanied by his friend. Both car driver and his friend were also injured in the accident and are being treated in a private hospital.The police registered a case against the car driver but it became clear only today that he is minor. He is student of class XI in a private school. The family today submitted age proof and after that police might be book his parents under negligence.The police had registered a case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of IPC.“We are investigating and action will be taken as per the law,” said inspector Aman Kumar, SHO of DLF phase 2 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-police-to-book-parents-of-minor-car-driver-after-biker-killed-in-accident-131273
25-08-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports three deaths, 41 new cases||Forty-one people tested positive for coronavirus and three people died in Panchkula on Tuesday, officials said.Six people tested positive through RT-PCR and the rest through the antigen test. The district’s tally has gone up to 1,637, of which 588 are active cases.Panchkula Chief Medical Officer Dr Jasjeet Kaur said: “Most of the cases are those people who have come in contact with already diagnosed patients. All infected patients are being admitted to the isolation wards and their relatives are being isolated. Their contact tracing is also being done so that they can be quarantined and tested”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-reports-three-deaths-41-new-cases-131245
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar ‘stable and comfortable’||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar who was shifted to Medanta Medicity in Gurugram late on Monday night following testing positive for COVID-19, is “stable and comfortable”, according to doctors attending on him. According to Dr AK Dubey, Medical Superintendent of Medanta, Khattar (66) developed fever and body ache from the last three days. Considering his age and history of diabetes, he was admitted to Medanta on August 25 at around 2.30 am.He was examined by Covid care ward team led by Dr Sushila Kataria and treatment was started as per protocol immediately.“He has been maintaining his vital parameters—pulse, respiration and blood pressure. His general condition is stable and he is comfortable,” said Dr Dubey.Meanwhile, Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who also tested positive for the virus yesterday, has also been shifted to Medanta today.Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma and Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan tested positive for the virus today and both of them have isolated themselves at their homes.With this, the CM, the Speaker, a Cabinet minister and 4 MLAs—Assem Goyal (Ambala City), Laxman Napa (Ratia), Ram Kumar Kashyap (Indri) and Harvinder Kalyan (Gharaunda) are now among the Covid positive cases while two other MLAs, Subhash Sudha (Thanesar) and Mahipal Dhanda (Panipat Rural) have already contracted virus and recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-stable-and-comfortable-131230
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Strict coronavirus protocols in place as Haryana Assembly session begins Wednesday||The monsoon session of the Haryana Assembly is set to begin here on Wednesday with the authorities putting strict protocols in place in view of the coronavirus pandemic.Besides the MLAs and officials requiring a coronavirus negative certificate to gain entry into the Assembly complex, seating arrangement has also been changed to ensure social distancing in the 90-member House.Just before the starting of the session, the pandemic has already cast its shadow with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma testing positive for the virus.BJP MLAs Lakshman Napa, Ram Kumar Kashyap and Aseem Goel also tested positive as have six Assembly staffers, Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa, who will be presiding over the House proceedings in the Speaker's absence, told reporters here on Tuesday.Khattar is currently admitted to Gurgaon's Medanta Hospital, where his condition is stable, an official said.During the past two weeks, Haryana has seen a spike in infection cases, which are close to the 55,000-mark with over 600 fatalities.Gangwa said the duration of the session will be decided by the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) of the House, which will meet on Wednesday.The Vidhan Sabha, however, released a two-day tentative schedule. The session will begin at 2 pm on Wednesday with obituary references.Earlier, the Speaker had made it mandatory for anyone entering the Assembly complex for the monsoon session to show a COVID-19 negative certificate, which should not be older than three days.  This was done on Health Minister Anil Vij's suggestion.The seating arrangements in the House have also been changed to ensure social distancing, Gangwa said. Only one MLA can sit on a bench as against two earlier. The Speaker's as well as visitors' galleries have been converted into a sitting place where legislators will be accommodated with social distancing, he said.In the officer's gallery, as against the capacity of 36, only 18 people will be allowed to sit, officials said.No visitor will be allowed to watch the Assembly proceedings this time, said Gangwa.A kit containing masks, gloves and sanitisers will also be provided at the seats to the legislators, said Gangwa, with officials adding that every paper to be laid on the table of the House will go through sanitisation.At the entry to the Vidhan Sabha, shoe covers will be provided.Officials said media persons will not be allowed to enter the Vidhan Sabha complex this time but arrangements have been made at a nearby government building to enable them cover the proceedings.  The House was completely sanitised on Saturday, Gangwa said, adding the process will be repeated on Tuesday evening.Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja told reporters that her party, which is the main opposition in Haryana, welcomes the protocols put in place to tackle the infection.“Such measures are necessary to keep everyone safe amid the pandemic,” she said.Selja had reached the Vidhan Sabha complex where her party held a meeting of its legislature group to chalk out a strategy for the session.The Congress legislators were allowed entry into the complex after they produced a COVID-19 negative certificate.The Assembly is meeting for the first time since the Budget session held in February-March this year.The House has to meet at least once in six months to fulfil the constitutional requirement of holding a session within six months of the previous one. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/strict-coronavirus-protocols-in-place-as-haryana-assembly-session-begins-wednesday-131209
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana minister Mool Chand Sharma tests COVID-19 positive||Haryana Transport, Skill Development and Mining Minister Mool Chand Sharma tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday night.Sharma took to Twitter to advise those who had come in contact with him to isolate and get themselves tested.He has quarantined himself at his home here. His sample report was received on Monday night.मेरी नोवल कोरोना वायरस की रिपोर्ट पोज़िटिव आयी है। इसलिये मैं अपने आप को आइसोलेट कर रहा हूँ । मुझे किसी प्रकार के कोई लक्षण नहीं हैं। पिछले दिनों जो लोग भी मेरे सम्पर्क में आए है उनसे अनुरोध करता हूँ वो भी अपना टेस्ट करवाएँ और अपने आप को सुरक्षित करें |  On Monday, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, besides several MLAs, had tested positive for the contagion.Notably, the Monsoon session of the Haryana Assembly starts on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-minister-mool-chand-sharma-tests-covid-19-positive-131146
25-08-2020||Rohtak||Bride abducted at gunpoint hours after wedding in Rohtak; traced||A bride was abducted by a group of armed men at gunpoint in Kalanaur town here while the groom was taking her to his house in a car a few hours after their wedding on Monday evening.The police launched a hunt and later recovered the bride from Sonepat district. The preliminary investigation revealed that two of the abductors were residents of her village. No arrest was made till the filing of this report. However, the police were conducting raids at possible hideouts of the accused.Sources said the main accused took the bride to his relative’s house in Sonepat and fled after leaving her there. The police reached there and recovered the bride.In her complaint, the bride said as the car reached near Mokhra Turn in Kalanaur town on Monday evening, a man signalled the driver to stop the car. As soon as the driver stopped the car, four-five more men came there.One of the men flashed a pistol and pointed it at the driver’s ear. Later, the men forced him, his uncle, the bride’s brother and some others to get down from the car. Thereafter, the men, along with the bride, sped away from the car. The bride’s brother identified two of the accused, based on which the police made the investigation and succeeded in recovering the bride.Rahul Sharma, Superintendent of Police, said an investigation was underway while a case under sections 365, 379, 395, 397 of IPC and the SC-ST act has been booked against the accused on the complaint of the groom in this respect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bride-abducted-at-gunpoint-hours-after-wedding-in-rohtak-traced-131142
25-08-2020||---||4 new citizen facilitation centres in Karnal soon||Karnal, August 24The municipal corporation (MC) is going to establish four citizen facilitation centres in various parts of the city. The locations of these centres have been finalised, with one being established near the new bus stand and another at the community centre of Sector 6.The third will be set up in Prem Nagar community centre and the fourth at the Community Centre of Kambopura. The process to hire the agency for setting up, managing, operating and maintaining these centres is underway. It is expected that these centres will be functional in September.At present, one citizen facilitation centre is operational on the MC premises near DAV Senior Secondary School. The authorities claimed that this step would make the services easily accessible to residents living in the vicinity, besides reducing the time involved in availing them. It will be a one-stop shop to avail the entire gamut of citizen-centric services under one roof.“Residents will get all municipalities services delivered in an integrated manner on a counter. The objective is to facilitate citizens to avail all government to citizen services and government to business services anytime, anywhere and in a hassle-free, transparent and time-bound manner,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Municipal Commissioner.The proposed citizen facilitation centres will be delivering citizen-centric services such as printing of final certificates, submission of any additional documents among others, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-new-citizen-facilitation-centres-in-karnal-soon-131138
25-08-2020||I saw an I-20 car two days ago at the traffic lights of Sector 5 and 10||Check no. plates of vehicles||Sachin Jain, PanchkulaRailway underpass a nuisanceThe railway underpass on the old Kaithal-Jind road below the Jind-Kurukshetra Railway line has become a source of nuisance for residents of Kaithal. This was constructed to facilitate a link between the main Kaithal town localities and residential localities on the southern side of the railway line and the new Anaj mandi. The underpass always remains in bad shape. During the dry season, the big potholes on the underpass poses great risk to commuters and during the rainy season, most of its portion remains inundated with rain water.The authorities look the other way.Satish Seth, KaithalCattle menace continuesThe efforts and promises of theadministration in making the district cattle free has been proved hollow. Prior to the outbreak of the Covid pandemic, the Hisar Nagar Nigam had launched a drive but it fell headlong with a few seizure of animals. Moreover, the contractor hired for this mission was not provided adequate police force. Taking advantage of this lapse, the cattle owners who were seen discreetly monitoring the capture exercise coercively got their cattle freed during transportation or even from their last destination. There is a dire need to bring harsh legislation coupled with heavy pecuniary penalty against the cattle owners.Baljeet Singh, HisarDriving on high beamIt is very normal to see people driving their vehicles with head lights on in the high-beam mode, leading to a number of accidents. My question is to the authorities is that when there's a law then why it is not endorsed?Ganesh Nagpal, Ambala cityWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/check-no-plates-of-vehicles-131139
25-08-2020||Hisar||GJUST organises webinar||230 participate in workshopKurukshetra: Professor SP Bansal, Vice-Chancellor of Himachal Pradesh Technical University, said India had a dismal 11 per cent contribution to research in top 10 journals, while other nations have much more contribution to research. India has to catch up soon and for this the role of universities is very important. He was addressing an international workshop on 'Research with R', in which 230 participants from across seven different countries are participating. The event has been organised by the Haryana Commerce and Management Association with the technical support from Dyal Singh College, Karnal, and SD College, Ambala cantonment.DBT approves financial supportHisar: DBT has approved financial support to MSc biotechnology programme of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar, with an intake of 30 seats. GJUST is the only university in Haryana, the MSc biotechnology programme of which is funded by the department of biotechnology, Ministry of Science & Technology, Government of India. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor and Prof Harbhajan Bansal, registrar of the university congratulated the department of Bio for this achievement. The VC told that it is a proud moment for the department as well as for the university.faculty development programmeKurukshetra: The University Institute of Engineering and Technology, Kurukshetra University, in association with Engineering Staff College of India, Hyderabad, organised an online faculty development programme on electronic content development. On the valedictory function, the convener of the programme Prof CC Tripathi, director, UIET and Dean Engineering, said it was the need of the hour to adopt novel techniques of online teaching to make the learning more effective for students. As many as 15 sessions were conducted by eminent speakers. The experts guided the participants through online demonstration of various online learning tools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gjust-organises-webinar-131140
25-08-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Ballabgarh-Sohna highway in bad shape||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 24The Ballabgarh and Sohna state highway in Gurugram district is in bad shape since two years. Despite toll charges are being collected, the commuters are still on the receiving ends.PASSING THE BUCKBal Kishan Prasad, Manager of the Gurgaon-Faridabad Toll Road Private Limited (GFTR) collecting the toll, blamed the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF), as he said the road was dug up for laying a sewage line in 2018, but has not been repaired as per the agreement.“Since mid 2018, neither the toll operator nor the civic authorities have repaired the road despite the fact that daily toll charges of several lakhs are collected,” claimed Umesh Kumar Sharma, a commuter.He said a patch of several kilometers between the railway bridge flyover in Ballabgarh and Pali village had been lying in a dilapidated condition due to potholes and was ignored despite repeated complaints.Jitender Bhadana, another resident, said half a dozen rough patches on this highway made the journey rickety till Sohna, but the authorities concerned had failed to either repair the damaged portion or stop toll collection.Claiming that a stretch of 10 kilometres in the Ballabgarh area had become non-motorable, said it was perhaps the first instance in the state or region where toll was being collected for a damaged road. “Travelling here is dangerous as the road turns into a slush pool after every downpour,” he said.The highway built on build-operate-transfer basis was opened in 2012 and is claimed to be the second busiest road in the district after the National Highway-19 (Delhi-Agra) in view of traffic movement.Toll varies from Rs 25 to Rs 300 per vehicle for one way, depending upon the type of vehicle. The monthly charge is between Rs 500 and Rs 9,000.While MLA from NIT Assembly segment Neeraj Sharma had written to suspend the toll collection till it was repaired, Bal Kishan Prasad, manager of the Gurgaon-Faridabad Toll Road Private Limited, collecting the toll, blamed the municipal corporation Faridabad as the road was dug up for laying a sewerage in 2018, but had not been repaired as per the agreement.He said the company had informed the authorities concerned, including the DC and Municipal Commissioner. “We will take up the repairs of the road soon,” said Birender Kardam, Superintending Engineer, MC, adding that laying of the second underground line had delayed the repairs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ballabgarh-sohna-highway-in-bad-shape-130815
25-08-2020|| ---||One killed, 3 hurt in road mishap||Hisar, August 24 A woman was killed and three members of her family injured when their car collided with another car on the Ratia road near Fatehabad town on Sunday. Kamlesh, wife of Ram Kumar Bharti, a journalist with a Hindi daily, died.  Bharti and their  two children suffered injuries. They were admitted to a hospital in Hisar and were being treated there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-killed-3-hurt-in-road-mishap-130816
25-08-2020||---||10 held over cheating in PTI examination||Hisar, August 24The police have arrested 10 persons in connection with the case of cheating during the written examination for Physical Training Instructors (PTIs), which was conducted here on Sunday. Among the accused are four candidates.The case has been registered under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC on the complaint of a teacher, Babli, who was on exam duty at Government Senior Secondary School at Jahajpul in Hisar district.The accused have been identified as Yudhvir, Pravin, Navin, Vikram, Bhupendra, Ravindra, Sukhbir, Mandeep, Sunita Devi and Ajay.The complainant said, “She was on duty in room number four when a youth entered the room claiming to be a government employee. He showed me an ID card to back his claim. I got suspicious as he started scanning the QR code of an examinee and passed a slip to him. I hurriedly informed the centre superintendent and youth was nabbed. He was identified as Mandeep.”Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia said Mandeep told the police that more persons, including four candidates, were involved in the cheating.The police said two masterminds, identified as Kapil of Khanda Kheri village and Rohtas of Litani village in Hisar district, were still at large.Sources say the masterminds reportedly took Rs 8 lakh from each of the four candidates. The accused were produced in court, which sent Mandeep to a three-day police remand and eight others to a day’s remand. Sunita was remanded in judicial remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-held-over-cheating-in-pti-examination-130817
25-08-2020||---||DGP recommends IGP’s suspension||Panchkula, August 24Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava has recommended the suspension of Inspector General of Police (IGP) Hemant Kalson, who was arrested on August 22 for allegedly assaulting and abusing two women after trespassing into their houses in Panchkula’s Pinjore.Also read: Haryana IG arrested for assaulting 2 Pinjore womenThe DGP has confirmed this. The Home Ministry has also cleared senior police officer’s suspension file. It awaits Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s approval.The 55-year-old IGP, Home Guards, posted in Panchkula, is in judicial custody.In the first case, a woman, who also happens to be Kalson’s cook, alleged that the IGP barged into her house and thrashed her daughter.In the second incident, a man complained that Kalson abused his wife when she opened the door and assaulted him, besides threatening to shoot him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dgp-recommends-igps-suspension-130818
25-08-2020||Parveen Arora---||Disinfectant tunnels unused in Karnal||Tribune News Service Karnal, August 24 The much-hyped disinfectant tunnels are lying unused outside the offices of various departments in the city. As many as five tunnels were installed — one each at Mini Secretariat, Civil Surgeon Office, KCGMC, municipal corporation office and Civil Hospital — during the initial days of the outbreak. These tunnels, costing around Rs 70,000 each, are meant to spray water mixed with sodium hypochlorite (a chemical used in cleaning solutions) on people passing through them. Their installation was done with much fanfare and it was claimed that they would prevent the spread of virus. An official of the administration said these tunnels were hardly used for a week, so these proved to be a wastage of money. “These tunnels were installed without verifying certain things like whether the spray is effective against coronavirus or if it can adversely affect the human body. After the side-effects of the chemicals were highlighted, these tunnels were discarded. The authorities took the decision to install these tunnels in haste. They should have enquired about the effects of the chemicals before the move,” said an employee.  “Various studies suggest that exposure to sodium hypochlorite may cause adverse effects on human body, including skin problems, nasal and conjunctival irritation, sore throat and coughing,” said a doctor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/disinfectant-tunnels-unused-in-karnal-130819
25-08-2020||Jhajjar||Cow carcasses found, locals block road||Agitated local residents protested and blocked the Jhajjar-Bahadurgarh road here on Monday for over an hour after two cow carcasses were found lying along the road and another one was found injured. The protesters suspected it to be a case of cow slaughter and demanded action against the culprits. Vehicles queued up on both sides of the road due to the blockade.DSP Rahul Dev persuaded the protesters to lift the blockade assuring them of action .— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cow-carcasses-found-locals-block-road-130820
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||JJP makes key appointments||The Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) has made many key appointments here on Monday. Seven general secretaries, four secretaries and one treasurer have been appointed to the national executive body of the JJP. The JJP has appointed Pirthi Numberdar, Kamlesh Saini, senior leader of the party and Karnal resident Brij Sharma, former minister Chaudhary Harsh Kumar as general secretaries. Former MLA and senior leader Puran Singh Dabra has been made national general secretary again.  The JJP has given former MLA Rajdeep Phogat new responsibility by making him general secretary in the national executive body along with Ambala resident Surjeet Singh Sondha. Anita Yadav from Ateli has also been made national secretary along with Jaipur resident Sanjay Chopra. The party has appointed former Pataudi MLA and senior leader Ganga Ram and Bhiwani resident Vijay Prakash on the post of national secretary. Gurugram-based Rajesh Soota will be the national treasurer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jjp-makes-key-appointments-130821
25-08-2020||---||Assembly likely to give Question Hour a miss||Chandigarh, August 24The monsoon session of the Assembly is unlikely to have Question Hour during its proposed two-day session, which will start on Wednesday.The final decision on the duration and agenda will be taken during a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee of the Assembly on the morning of August 26.According to the tentative schedule, obituary references and presentation, discussion and voting on supplementary demands for 2020-21 are scheduled for August 26. The Assembly will take up legislative business on August 27.There is no mention of Question Hour in the schedule, though the Assembly secretariat recently held a draw for questions to be taken up in the Question Hour.Meanwhile, Deputy Speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa will exercise all powers of the Speaker, with Speaker Gian Chand Gupta having been home-quarantined after testing positive for Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/assembly-likely-to-give-question-hour-a-miss-130822
25-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram patient, two doctors booked for violating norms||The police have booked a Covid-positive woman, two doctors and as many private labs on the charge of violating the Covid guidelines and putting the lives of people at risk.The case has been registered on the complaint filed by Dr Ashima, medical officer of a primary health centre in Wazirabad. The complainant alleged that the Covid patient not only violated the home isolation guidelines, but also threatened the lives of others by roaming outside.“A 48-year-old woman of Palms Society here tested positive for the virus on August 20. The test was conducted at Metropolis Lab here on the recommendation of private doctor Naveen Chawla. The doctor neither gave her any prescription nor advised her home isolation even though she was symptomatic. Dr Chawla violated the Covid norms as he did not inform the Health Department or the district administration about her getting infected.”The next day, she visited Dr Gaurav Mahajan to get herself retested. Dr Mahajan advised her to go for the RT-PCR test again. For the test, she went to SRL Lab, where doctors did not ask about the previous test result. She tested positive in the second test as well.“It was when she contacted the Health Department to enquire about the home quarantine that she told officials that none of the two private doctors recommended her self-isolation,” Dr Ashima said.An FIR has been registered against the woman, both doctors and both labs under Sections 270, 188 and 34 IPC at Sector 40 police station. “The matter is being probed. Action will be taken as per law,” said Inspector Sunil Kumar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-patient-two-doctors-booked-for-violating-norms-130823
25-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||High court raps Haryana for hushing up accident to protect superiors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 24Nearly five years after an assistant lineman was left with 100 per cent physical disability after receiving an electric shock, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that an attempt was apparently made to hush up the matter to protect superiors, leaving scapegoats to pay the price.Justice Arun Monga noted that two reports in the matter — by an SDO and the police — reflected a flippant attitude. Making it clear that it was imperative to fix responsibility, Justice Monga asserted that the task of switching high-tension electric wires and transformers off and on was required to be assigned to a qualified engineer “so that such dastardly accidents do not take place in such a nonchalant and casual routine manner”.The admonition came after Justice Monga took note of the fact that a “sham” inquiry was apparently conducted by the SDO and none was stated to be at fault by the police, while the victim was removed from service.Disposing of the petition by victim Tony Kumar against Haryana, Justice Monga directed the competent authority to objectively consider his representation for compensation and reemployment before passing a speaking order. Justice Monga set an eight-week deadline for the purpose.As interim compensation, Justice Monga ordered that the petitioner would be deemed to be in service from the date of accident till the speaking order was passed and would be entitled to last-drawn wages for the period he was out of service as reparation for incapacity suffered while on duty.Before parting with the order, Justice Monga noted that the court expected and would appreciate if the competent authority kept in mind the benevolent provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act and sympathetically considered the petitioner’s claim to employment before taking appropriate steps to provide him alternative employment in case he was not found fit to work as a lineman anymore.The petitioner’s counsel had earlier contended that an official had negligently switched off the wrong feeder line, resulting in the accidentthat left the victim with permanent disability. The respondents had then removedhim from service, leaving him and his wife and two minor children in the lurch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-raps-haryana-for-hushing-up-accident-to-protect-superiors-130824
25-08-2020||ibune News Service ---||Cotton, bajra under threat as 2K acres inundated in Palwal||Palwal, August 24 Due to recent rains kharif crops such as cotton and bajra sown on about 2,000 acres in Palwal district are facing a serious threat of damage.  After getting numerous complaints in this regard, the Agriculture Department has launched a survey. “The standing cotton crop on over 400 acres in our village is facing a threat of loss if the accumulated water doesn’t get drained out soon,” said Ranbir, a farmer from Dhatir village. Claiming that Dhatir was among several villages in the region, which was low-lying and prone to waterlogging, he said rainfall in the past two weeks had resulted in the problem. Ranbir said this was harmful to the crop as higher dampness tends to destroy the plants beyond recovery. Subhash of the same village said the matter had been reported to the officials of the Agriculture Department.  Worried about the fate of his crops, Rakesh, a farmer from Karna village, said the officials concerned had assured to extend all possible help after conducting a survey. Cotton, bajra and jowar on about 300 to 350 acres had been affected due to the waterlogging, he added. Meanwhile, Dharmender Tewatiya, sarpanch of Durgapur village, said around a dozen farmers were worried about the cotton crop sown on 815 acres here. Amarjit Jangu, a farmer of the same village, said a majority of the fields were still waterlogged.  Similar complaints surfaced from Baghola village, where cotton on 500 acres is affected by waterlogging.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cotton-bajra-under-threat-as-2k-acres-inundated-in-palwal-130825
25-08-2020||Chandigarh||10 more fall prey, cases go past 55K in Haryana||With 1,074 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 55,460 today. With 10 deaths, the toll went up to 613.Faridabad reported a maximum of 125 cases, followed by Panipat (128), Rewari (87), Ambala (80), Gurugram (77) and Rohtak (72).Faridabad, Panchkula and Kurukshetra reported two fatalities each while one death each was reported from Panipat, Ambala, Rohtak and Fatehabad.Sirsa, Rewari get testing labsHealth Minister Anil Vij inaugurated two RT-PCR testing laboratories in Sirsa and Rewari via videoconferencing, taking the total number in the state to 23. He said similar laboratories for Covid testing had been set up in 14 government hospitals and medical colleges, besides nine private laboratories in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-more-fall-prey-cases-go-past-55k-in-haryana-130826
25-08-2020||---||Man who sent hoax blast letter to IAF held||Ambala, August 24 A man has been arrested on the charge of sending a letter to the Air Force station here, warning of multiple bomb blasts at New Delhi, Ayodhya, Ambala and Punjab. The accused has been identified as Vishal (25), a resident of the district’s Bara village. He was living at a rented accommodation in Ambala City. Ambala Cantt police station SHO Vijay Kumar said, “Vishal has confessed to have sent the letter not only to the Air Force station in Ambala Cantt, but also to the ITBP, CISF, BSF and CRPF. He wanted to take revenge from men, who, he said, had wronged him. Vishal pinned the blame on six men.” Vishal reportedly told the police that he wanted to take revenge from a man who married a woman he loved. Another name mentioned in the letter was of a man, who was in a relationship with another woman he loved. The remaining four names were of four alleged fraudsters who allegedly duped Vishal of Rs 3,200 on the pretext of selling a mobile phone through OLX in July, the SHO said. The alleged fraudsters claimed to be in the Army.  Vishal wrote the letter on August 7, got it photocopied and destroyed the original one. He signed the letter under a woman’s name. He posted the letters from Ambala Cantt. Ambala Cantt DSP Ram Kumar said, “Vishal should have lodged a complaint about the online fraud. He was produced before a court, which sent him to a day’s police remand. He has no previous criminal record.”  Vishal said, “I realise that posting the letters was a mistake. I regret my action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-who-sent-hoax-blast-letter-to-iaf-held-130827
25-08-2020||Sushil Manav---||Rift in state Congress discernible||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, August 24 Conflicts within the state Congress have become more discernible after today’s Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting. Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has been observing silence after his name figured among the 23 senior leaders who wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi, calling for a “full-time and effective leadership”. “I cannot comment on internal matters of the party,” he said. The letter is being considered a move to prevent Rahul Gandhi from taking over the reins should Sonia decide to resign as interim president. Sources close to Hooda maintained that the letter calling for sweeping changes was not merely about leadership, but about broader reforms within the organisation. “The letter suggested sweeping changes in the organisation with an aim to strengthen the party at the grassroots. It was aimed at elections within the party at the block, district and state levels and even at the CWC level, as had been the practice in the past, ” said the sources. The Congress leadership had ignored Hooda till Rahul was at the helm. The party lost all 10 seats from the state in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. After Hooda showed signs of revolt at a rally in Rohtak in August last year, the party leadership nominated him Leader of Opposition and replaced Ashok Tanwar with Kumari Selja as state president. The Congress provided a stiff challenge to the BJP and was able to win 31 seats in the Assembly elections, with the BJP winning 40 seats. Selja and Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala have been quite vocal in their support for the Gandhi family, including Rahul. A day before the CWC meet, Selja wrote to Sonia, emphasising the need for Rahul’s leadership at this juncture. Surjewala was seen making Rahul’s position clear when senior leader Kapil Sibal said, “Rahul says we are colluding with the BJP.” Capt Ajay Yadav, a former minister, and his son Chiranjiv Rao, an MLA, are also supporting Rahul’s return as party president. Kiran Choudhry is silent on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rift-in-state-congress-discernible-130828
25-08-2020||---||Whitefly scare in Hisar, Bhiwani; farmers on alert||Hisar, August 24 The presence of whitefly has created a scare among cotton farmers in Hisar, Bhiwani and Jind districts. Fearing an attack, farmers have been spraying insecticides as the insects have already done damage in some pockets of the region.  Bhoop Singh, a farmer of Daulatpur in the Uklana block, said on Sunday, he spotted a number of whiteflies in his field and sprayed insecticides on the cotton crop sown on 5 acres. “I cannot say whether the crop will sustain or not,” he added. Yogesh Kumar, head of the entomology department in the Haryana Agricultural University, said a team of the HAU recently visited fields in Jind and Bhiwani districts and found the presence of whitefly above the economic threshold level. He said they had issued an advisory to the farmers to keep a close watch on the crops and count the number of whiteflies on them.  Another member of the HAU team said: “Whitefly is a carrier of cotton leaf curl disease. The current weather is conducive for the insect thus, the farmers need to be alert.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/whitefly-scare-in-hisar-bhiwani-farmers-on-alert-130829
25-08-2020||---||Teachers to observe ‘black day’ on Sept 5||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, August 24Accusing the Centre and the state governments of adopting indifferent attitude towards private schools, the National Independent Schools Alliance (NISA) has decided to observe ‘black day’ on Teachers’ Day on September 5.Kulbhushan Sharma, president, NISA, who is also the president of the Federation of Private Schools Welfare Association, Haryana, said, “Parents are facing financial problems due to the pandemic. As a result, they are unable to pay school fee. They are of the view that no fee should be charged till schools reopen, thus, leaving the schools financially incompetent to provide remuneration to their teachers. The government should have implemented nationwide school voucher system for students through direct benefit transfer. This is the only way of delivering quality education through qualified teachers.”“We proposed that education vouchers of Rs 30,000 annually should be given to all unaided schoolchildren, which will not only help schools but other people who are in allied services. Schools have been providing free education to meritorious students from economically weaker sections under Rule 134-A of the Haryana School Education Rules, 2003, but a lot of reimbursement amount is still pending to be released. The repeated demands of releasing pledge money have been ignored,” he added.“NISA has been trying to raise issues that private schools have been facing due to the pandemic,” Kulbhushan Sharma said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/teachers-to-observe-black-day-on-sept-5-131137
25-08-2020||New Delhi||Meet stakeholders on farm fires: SC to states||The Supreme Court today asked the governments of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to hold meetings with all stakeholders to completely stop stubble burning that converts Delhi-NCR into a virtual gas chamber during October-November.A Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra asked the three states to file respective reports in four weeks.The court, which is seized of a PIL on air pollution in the NCR, sought to know from the Punjab Chief Secretary if the state could assure no stubble burning would take place this year. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati told the Bench on behalf of the Environment Ministry smog towers would be ready in Delhi in 10 months. As the court wasn’t satisfied with the affidavits of the Centre and Delhi Government on smog towers, it asked them to file fresh ones. The farmers’ counsel said the issue was not being discussed with farmers. The SC had on August 10 asked Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and UP to spell out preventive steps. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/meet-stakeholders-on-farm-fires-sc-to-states-130931
25-08-2020||Panchkula/new delhi||Ahead of Haryana session, CM, Speaker test +ve||Two days ahead of the Assembly session, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and three MLAs today tested positive for Covid-19.Khattar had attended a meeting with Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who was later found infected. Legislators Aseem Goyal, RK Kashyap and Lakshman Napa have tested positive too.Meanwhile, India scaled a new peak in Covid testing with more than 26,000 tests per million people, exceeding the WHO advisory of at least 140 tests per million people per day.“We have now tested 3.59 crore samples for Covid with 6,09,917 tests conducted in the past 24 hours,” said the Ministry of Health as daily infections rose by 61,408 to take the caseload to 31,06,348. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ahead-of-haryana-session-cm-speaker-test-ve-130972
