25-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||PGIMS CMO suspended for dereliction of duty||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 25The Rohtak PGIMS authorities have suspended a Casualty Medical Officer (CMO) on the charges of dereliction of duty after the veteran woman leader of Haryana and former Lieutenant-Governor of Puducherry, Chandrawati (92), was brought to the casualty wing of the institute on the night of June 12.Chandrawati, who fell down and got her hip fractured at her residence in Charkhi Dadri, could not get a room at the PGIMS and had to be admitted to a private hospital in Rohtak at 1.30 am on June 13.No VIP room was available for Chandrawati at the PGIMS as the ward in which the VIP rooms are situated had been earmarked as an isolation-cum-quarantine facility for the COVID-19 patients and doctors.As per the official sources, Dr Kuldeep was on duty at the Emergency wing on the evening of June 12 but he was not present there during his duty hours.Dr Sandeep, Deputy Medical Superintendent (Accidents and Emergencies) at the PGIMS, confirmed that CMO Dr Kuldeep had been placed under suspension by the institute authorities for a period of six months.Chandrawati was the first woman member of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha and the first woman Member of Parliament from Haryana. Apart from holding the position of Lieutenant-Governor, she has also been a minister in the Haryana government twice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgims-cmo-suspended-for-dereliction-of-duty-104405
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Common entrance test for Group C posts in the offing in Haryana||A common entrance test for recruitment to thousands of Group C posts is in the offing in Haryana, a development which will go a long way in instilling uniformity and transparency in the recruitment process.In fact, the Haryana Government on Thursday initiated week-long consultations with nearly 30 of the total 140 departments, boards and corporations to chalk out modalities for the holding of examination for the non-gazetted posts.      Currently, the Haryana State Service Commission (HSSC) holds separate examinations for different departments for the recruitment to Group C posts depending on the requisition of posts from the departments.A lot of efforts and resources are wasted on holding several examinations prompting the state government to moot the proposal for holding a common entrance test.Meanwhile, Bharat Bhushan Bharati, HSSC Chairman, said the commission was competent to hold the common entrance test for Group C posts as and when asked by the state government.Officials said the representatives of the departments were of the view that the common entrance test would save time and resources of the government besides ensuring uniformity in the recruitment process.“An institutional mechanism is sought to be created on the issue of holding common entrance examination through consensus by consulting major departments, boards and corporations,” a senior official asserted.The recruitment to the Group C posts is currently done in two ways. One, the direct recruitment is made through the written examination conducted by the HSSC for different departments. Second, some percentage of vacancies is filled through departmental promotions from the Group D cadre.Meanwhile, Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarv Karmanchari Sangh, while welcoming the proposal to hold the common entrance test, said the state government should not dilute the departmental promotions from Group D to Group C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/common-entrance-test-for-group-c-posts-in-the-offing-in-haryana-104398
25-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Seismometers installed to monitor quakes at Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 25In the wake of recently increased seismic activity indicated by the spate of earthquakes in Rohtak district, the National Centre for Seismology (NCS), Ministry of Earth Sciences, has decided to instal seismometers for carrying out micro earthquake (MEQ) survey in the district.Rohtak District Revenue Officer (DRO) Poonam Babbar, who also heads the local Disaster Management wing, disclosed that two seismometers had been installed at the Rohtak mini-secretariat and at Karontha village in the district to record the seismic waves in the form of digital waveforms to find out the intensity of earthquakes.It may be pertinent to mention here that Rohtak has witnessed as many as 10 earthquakes in the last few weeks.“As per the official data, Rohtak district has had 206 earthquakes since 1969, of which 10 have taken place very recently,” said Saurabh Dhiman, District Project Officer (Disaster Management).As per an official statement, the equipment installed in Rohtak comprise portable seismometers especially designed for micro earthquake (MEQ) survey used by National Centre for Seismology for collecting data of earthquakes.If an earthquake is detected, the event is analysed by the duty officer and passed to the authorities concerned for taking necessary action for mitigation of disaster.The event data is also published on NCS website seismo.gov.in, mobile app RISEQ and social networking pages of the centre for public information. The data is also archived for research purpose as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seismometers-installed-to-monitor-quakes-at-rohtak-104394
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Monsoon covers most of Punjab, some parts of Haryana||The southwest monsoon advanced further to cover most parts of Punjab and some parts of Haryana on Thursday, the Meteorological Department here said. The wind system had reached the northern parts of Punjab, and Chandigarh, on Wednesday, bringing rains at many places.“The monsoon has advanced into most parts of Punjab and some parts of Haryana. The northern limit of monsoon passes through Nagore, Alwar, Delhi, Karnal and Ferozepur,” the MeT department said Thursday.Meanwhile, the maximum temperatures settled a few notches below normal limits in the two states and at their common capital Chandigarh.Chandigarh recorded a high of 34.1 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal limit.In Haryana, Narnaul's maximum settled at 34.8 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal, while Hisar recorded a high of 36.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal.Karnal, which received light rain during the day, recorded a high of 35 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal. Ambala recorded a maximum of 34.7 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal.Patiala in Punjab recorded a high of 35 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal.Amritsar and Ludhiana, which received light showers, recorded maximum temperatures at 33.5 degrees Celsius 33.2 degrees Celsius and, respectively.The MeT has forecast light to moderate rain or thundershowers at isolated places in Haryana and Punjab over the next two days. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/monsoon-covers-most-of-punjab-some-parts-of-haryana-104378
25-06-2020||---||Two youths found burnt in Rohtak’s Lakhan Majra; six booked||Rohtak, June 25Bodies of two youths were found in a burnt condition along a canal in Lakhan Majra area of Rohtak district in the wee hours today. A charred motorcycle was also found lying near the bodies.The youths have been identified as Sandeep (25) and Sonu of Hathwala village in Jind district.  The police have registered a case under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC against six youths of the same village on the basis of a complaint lodged by Sandeep’s father.The complainant, Rajesh alias Bobby, stated that his son Sandeep had some enmity with Khandu of his village. He alleged that Khandu, along with his brothers Surjeet and Pradeep and three others, had burnt Sandeep and Sonu to death.SHO (Lakhan Majra) Raju Sindhu said the bodies had been sent for a post-mortem examination. No arrests had been made till the time of filing this report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-youths-found-burnt-in-rohtaks-lakhan-majra-six-booked-104363
25-06-2020||Rohtak||US-based Rohtak doctor beats COVID-19 to feature in Hollywood flick||Nephrologist Dr Pooja Bhatia Malhotra, who hails from Rohtak, had contracted the deadly disease coronavirus while treating her patients. The doctor, who is currently in the USA, resumed work after defeating the deadly disease.She will feature in a Hollywood documentary film on COVID-19 warriors of Indian origin.Dr Pooja is among the five Indian doctors working on the frontline during the COVID-19 in the USA which has been included in a feature-length documentary movie, "A Pandemic: Away from the Motherland".The documentary is made by Sweta Rai, an Indian filmmaker in Hollywood.The movie showcases the remarkable contribution of Meerut-origin Dr Ankit Bharat, who is well-known for robotic lung surgeries and recently, performed pioneering double-lung transplant surgery on a COVID-19 patient.The other COVID warriors of Indian origin based in the USA, who feature in the film, include Dr Uma Madhusudana (Internal Medicine), Dr Shreedhar Kulkarni (Internal Medicine) and Dr Shantanu Singh (Critical Care and Pulmonary Diseases).As the film was shot during the lockdown, the filmmaker guided the doctors through a mobile app for shooting professional videos, like Skype, Zoom and WhatsApp video-calls.“Reducing the pain and suffering of patients is a satisfying experience in itself. I am happy that the efforts of the medical fraternity have been acknowledged and appreciated universally in the COVID era,” said Dr Pooja, daughter of Rohtak-based senior advocate Amarnath Bhatia.Dr Pooja is married to Sameer Malhotra, a software engineer based in the USA.Dr Pooja’s brother Vishal Bhatia points out that after having tested positive for COVID, his sister stayed at home in strict isolation for more than two weeks and got treated.“After defeating the disease, she resumed her clinical work and also gave her own blood-plasma for the treatment of COVID patients,” said the proud brother.It was a big challenge: Filmmaker Sweta RaiTalking to The Tribune on the phone, filmmaker Sweta Rai said it was a big challenge to shoot the film amidst the pandemic and lockdown and she was happy that they had made it.“The underlying idea behind making the movie was to underline the contribution of Indian-origin doctors who are working far away from their country. The film focuses on the personal lives of the doctors and their family members in the Covid era,” stated Rai.The Hollywood filmmaker revealed that she got the idea to include the Rohtak-origin woman doctor from her mother, who lives in India and had read a news report in The Tribune about Dr Pooja’s dedication towards the treatment of patients after recovering from Covid herself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/us-based-rohtak-doctor-beats-covid-19-to-feature-in-hollywood-flick-104348
25-06-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram to have partial lockdown; containment zones, risk clusters to be shut for 2 weeks||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, June 25Gurugram will follow the Dharavi model of Covid management and soon announce a partial lockdown. The orders are expected on Thursday evening or Friday morning under which the containment zones or clusters with multiple containments areexpected to be locked down for about two weeks to contain the Covid transmission.A senior official said a three-day window would be given to people and industries in affected areas to put things in order.Locals would be confined to their areas and work from home.“We will go ahead with containing the vulnerable areas, confine population, go in for screening and antigen-testing. The positive cases will be isolated and treated. The contacts will be quarantined. The district will follow a micro-lockdown wherein clusters and containments will be locked down. It will help us curtail transmission in the city and deal with the situation in affected areas. We may receive the final orders soon,” said the official.The country’s biggest slum Dharavi dealt with the Covid crisis using draconian containment and tracing, tracking and testingstrategy.Since the first case was reported on April 1, more than 2,000 infections and 80-odd deaths have been reported here. Daily reportedinfections dropped from a high of 43 a day in May to 19 in the third week of June. The average doubling rate has gone up from 18 days in April to 78 days in June.The civic authorities isolated positive cases aggressively to halt the spread of infection in addition to taking initiatives like fever camps,doorstep initiatives and mobile vans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-to-have-partial-lockdown-containment-zones-risk-clusters-to-be-shut-for-2-weeks-104315
25-06-2020||Karnal||Coronavirus: Karnal reports death, 13 new cases; Haryana tally rises to 12,023||Haryana on Thursday reported a death and 13 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s COVID toll to 189 and case tally to 12,023.Karnal reported the death, the fourth in the district, and 13 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the district’s case tally to 267. A 67-year-old man of Sector-13 died of COVID at KCGMC on Thursday. His sample was taken on Wednesday, when he was brought to the hospital with multiple ailments, and he tested positive after his death. Thirteen people, including seven members of a family in sector 7, a 37-year-old man of Kamalpur, a 23-year man of Ashok Nagar, an 8-year-old boy of Karan Vihar, a 32-year-old man of Ranwar village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-karnal-reports-death-13-new-cases-haryana-tally-rises-to-12-023-104287
25-06-2020||Kurukshetra||KU VC releases activity calendar||‘Truth must for quality society’Rohtak: Ashok Kumar, Assistant Professor, IMCMT, Kurukshetra University, and Google certified fact-checking trainer, has emphasised the need for a campaign against fake news and misinformation. At a webinar organised by the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication of Maharshi Dayanand University, he said credible information would help create a quality society. “We must always cross-check facts and figures available on the internet,” he said. He threw light on fact-checking tools and websites.Faculty development sessionAmbala: SA Jain Senior Model School, Ambala City, organised a three-day faculty development programme on education. The resource person was Heena from SD College, Ambala Cantt. It was a virtual session. Teachers were informed about Google classroom topics which included creation of class, structuring course contents, adding course material and evaluating assignments. School president Shrikant Jain, chairman Anil Jain, principal Anita Mehta among others appreciated the session.Ashoka varsity launches AcademySonepat: Ashoka University has launched an academy, a premier programme under Ashoka X, for online collection of learning content from academics and experts from across the world. Starting June 29, the academy will deliver high-quality courses to select groups of committed learners. According to university’s spokesperson, in its first edition, 15 courses in liberal arts and sciences will be opened to all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ku-vc-releases-activity-calendar-104273
25-06-2020||The Shri Bikaner Sweet House-Vishnu Colony stretch of the railway road in Kurukshetra||Newly constructed road develops cracks||Rein in private hospitalsMAJORITY of the private hospitals are making a killing under the garb of the Covid pandemic. Their charges are almost unbearable for a common man. A kin of a patient, admitted to a hospital recently, has claimed that the institute charged an extra amount of up to Rs 18,000 per day even when the patient had an insurance cover worth Rs 4.5 lakh. The government needs to rein in such hospitals. — AK GAUR, SECTOR 86, FARIDABADIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/newly-constructed-road-develops-cracks-104272
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Hospitals may start technical courses for staff||Health and Medical Education and Research Minister Anil Vij has said that the possibilities of starting courses relevant to technical posts in hospitals and medical colleges of the state is being explored. Vij said the Additional Chief Secretaries of the Health and Medical Education and Research Departments had been asked to take appropriate action in this regard. He said the Department of Skill Development had prepared a list of technical courses that could be started in hospitals and medical colleges. For such courses, the Skill Development Department has also promised to give free certificates to successful candidates. This will help in ensuring the availability of trained and skilled staff in hospitals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hospitals-may-start-technical-courses-for-staff-104172
25-06-2020||Palwal||Retd staffer hangs self in rail coach||A 60-year-old retired railway employee has allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in a train coach at the local railway station.  The deceased has been identified as Jagdish Kumar who retired three years ago. He had been residing in the local railway colony. No suicide note has been found. The incident came to light on Tuesday morning when a railway employee spotted the body hanging from a handlebar in one of the compartments of a passenger train which had been stationary at platform number eight since Monday night.  The railway police shifted the body to the hospital where a postmortem examination was conducted. The body has been handed over to his kin. According to information, he had been consuming liquor daily. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retd-staffer-hangs-self-in-rail-coach-104159
25-06-2020||Rohtak||PGIMS doc to face action in ex- Lt Guv case||Taking note of an inquiry report, the executive council of the University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, has decided to suspend and chargesheet a casualty medical officer in connection with the treatment of Chandrawati, former Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry, at the emergency ward of the PGIMS on June 12.According to the inquiry report, Dr Kuldeep was not present despite being on duty when Chandrawati arrived at the emergency ward following a hip fracture. The inquiry committee did not find negligence in treatment.The committee was formed following media reports that Chandrawati had to wait for two hours, was not attended to and was not allotted a VIP room. It observed that a VIP room could not be allotted as the VIP ward had been converted into the Covid isolation area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgims-doc-to-face-action-in-ex-lt-guv-case-104160
25-06-2020||Yamunanagar||Woman found dead in Jagadhri||The naked body of a 55-year-old woman was found at her quarter in the colony of Northern Railway’s carriage and wagon workshop, Jagadhri, on Tuesday. She lived alone. Deceased Saroj Bala was a Group D employee at the canteen of the workshop. Saroj got the job on compassionate grounds in 2014 after her husband’s death, who was an employee at the workshop. On the complaint of her niece, Richa, who live in Sugar Mill Colony, a case has been registered against unidentified persons under Section 302 IPC at Farakpur police station on Tuesday. The complainant said after getting information about the death of his aunt, she and her husband reached Jagadhri found the naked body near the refrigerator. “The household belongings were scattered. It seems that she was killed with a motive of loot,” the complainant said. SHO Manoj Kumar said the body was handed over to the family after the autopsy at the local Civil Hospital on Wednesday. “Only the autopsy report will ascertain whether or not the deceased was raped,” he said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-found-dead-in-jagadhri-104161
25-06-2020||bala||Ambala admn on mission to quench thirst of animals||With the mercury hovering over 40°C, the district administration has launched a special drive to quench the thirst of birds and animals in Ambala. The campaign was initiated from Naraingarh where SDM Aditi spearheaded it by placing earthen pots filled with water. Under the drive, which is supported by local NGOs and philanthropists, water-filled earthen pots were placed at strategic locations for birds and animals at all government buildings, including the sub-divisional administrative complex. “We placed 50 earthen pots and filled them with water at various places in the town on the first day of the drive and assigned the task of refilling water in them to the civic body and other departments on a daily basis,” said Aditi. She said the NGOs and social activists have come forward to join hands in the drive. Deepti Dua, who runs a local NGO Sewa Sadan, said they had offered full help and support to the administration for the drive. Besides birds and animals, the drive will also water trees and plants in public places. “Our aim is to place earthen pots in every nook and corner of the town and keep them filled with water during the entire summer season,” the SDM revealed, while adding that separate drives against single-use plastic and distributing sanitary pads to needy girls and women were being conducted. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-admn-on-mission-to-quench-thirst-of-animals-104162
25-06-2020||rnal||CM’s ‘janata darbar’ today||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will hold a ‘janata darbar’ at Dr Mangal Sen Auditorium here on Thursday for which the complainant needs to acquire a token or else they won’t be entertained. To allot tokens, the district authorities has established a counter at the Mini-Secretariat, which was flooded. The authorities have issued 100 tokens and scores of people had to return empty-handed. “I came here to get my complaint registered, so I can raise it in front of the CM. But I was told that the quota of the complainants was already full,” said Rekha Devi, a local. Similarly, Neeraj, Amarnath and others had to return empty-handed. They complained that the token system should not be introduced and everybody should be allowed to raise their complaints. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cms-janata-darbar-today-104164
25-06-2020||---||Jhajjar shopkeepers protest rise in crime||Jhajjar, June 24Traders and shopkeepers at main markets in the town shut their shops on Wednesday and took out a march to protest against the rising incidents of crime.They criticised the police for their alleged failure in arresting those who opened fire at the house of a vegetable trader here four days ago.The protesters gathered at Punjabi Dharamshala and started a protest march while raising slogans against the police.They reached the mini-secretariat, where a delegation of protesters submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner, demanding arrest of the criminals.The traders said the rising crime graph in the district had caused panic while the police were unsuccessful in nabbing the criminals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-shopkeepers-protest-rise-in-crime-104165
25-06-2020||---||2 tied to tree, beaten up on theft suspicion in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, June 24Two youths were allegedly tied to a tree and beaten up with belts by a group of people here on the suspicion that they stole goods from trucks. The incident took place on June 6, but the case was registered on Tuesday — a gap of 15 days as the youths identified as Ramesh Kumar and Laddi were afraid to approach the police.A video of the incident was posted on social media on Tuesday. Case registered, one arrested On Kumar’s complaint, the police booked truckers Harpreet Singh, Rohit, Laddi and unidentified men under IPCSections 148 (rioting) and 506 (criminal intimidation).Harpreet was arrested on Tuesday and sent to judicial custody.In his complaint, Kumar of camp area here said he and his friend Laddi were collecting pieces of tarpaulin scattered around trucks on June 6 when a few truckers started beating them up on the suspicion that they were stealing goods from the trucks.“They tied us to a tree and beat us up with their belts. They threatened us with dire consequences if we told anyone about the incident,” Kumar alleged.He further said in the complaint, “My condition deteriorated due to injuries on June 8. My mother took me to Civil Hospital, Yamunanagar, that day. She asked me several times what had happened, but I could not muster courage. I went into shock. I was scared of the attackers.”On Tuesday, Kumar summoned courage and told his parents about the incident; Laddi followed suit.Anil Kumar, incharge of the Gandhi Nagar police post, said the accused owned trucks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-tied-to-tree-beaten-up-on-theft-suspicion-in-yamunanagar-104166
25-06-2020||Faridabad||Man held for stealing players’ debit cards||The police have arrested a 30-year-old engineer in connection with incidents of fraud after stealing debit cards and mobile phones of sportspersons. At least four such incidents have come to light. The accused identified as Twinkle Kumar, a resident of Sector 7, was nabbed by a team of the cyber crime cell on Tuesday.  A complaint was lodged on June 20 by one Jitender Pratap, a resident of Sector 63, who claimed his debit card and mobile phone were stolen when he was playing cricket on Saturday.  A case under Sections 379, 419 and 420 of the IPCwas registered.  “The accused, who used to work in a private company till a couple of months ago at Gurugram, is addicted to online gambling. To enhance his income, he started stealing debit cards and mobile phones,” an investigating official said.  He said the accused used to target sportspersons who were busy playing and had left their belongings near the spectator area. Twinkle stole the card of complainant Jitender Pratap on Saturday while he was playing cricket and withdrew Rs 80,000.  ACP Anil Kumar said that the accused used to call the customer care centre of the debit card to change the PIN.  “We have recovered Rs 50,000 and the mobile phone used in the crime,” said Sube Singh, PRO of the Police Department.  He added that Twinkle was wanted in at least three similar cases filed in Gurugram district. The accused was remanded in judicial custody today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-stealing-players-debit-cards-104167
25-06-2020||
||Officials booked for sale of poor quality seed||Kurukshetra, June 24 The police have booked the managing director, officials and traders of a seed company on the charge of supplying poor quality sunflower seeds in Kurukshetra. Some farmers from Shahabad had approached the Agriculture Department earlier this year, claiming that they were provided poor quality seeds of the NSFH 36 (sreshta) variety of Nuziveedu Seeds Limited. An investigation was launched and fields of 54 complainants inspected. The department came to the conclusion that the problem was due to genetic impurity of seeds, due to which farmers suffered loss of between 50 per cent and 80 per cent. During investigation, it was found that the company had sold 5,190-kg seeds in Kurukshetra. A case was registered against managing director M Prabhakar Rao, sales head K Venkat Rao, production head Ramanna Reddy, quality head Raghuvender Singh, breeder Satish Reddy, Anil Trading Company, Mahesh Fertiliser Store, Sohan Lal Aggarwal, Sanjeev Kumar and Company, Shivam Trading Company, Guru Nanak Trading Company and Iqbal Trading Company.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/officials-booked-for-sale-of-poor-quality-seed-104168
25-06-2020||Ambala||Free training for vendors||The Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Haryana, has directed all food business operators and street food vendors to ensure that they follow guidelines of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India to mitigate the spread of Covid, ensure food safety and have the Food Safety and Training Certification. Subhash Chander, Designated Food Safety Officer, FDA, Ambala zone, said: “To ensure uninterrupted food supply to consumers while containing the risk of Covid, the food business operators are being asked to improve the standards of hygiene and follow the guidelines. At present, a free-of-cost training of the Food Safety and Training Certification is being provided. The training aims to improve the safety of food business, workers and consumers. The participants will get a certificate having two-year validity.” “The food manufacturers are being encouraged to wear masks, gloves and headgear while preparing food. Besides, they are being told to maintain personal hygiene and use sanitisers. People who have been running restaurants, hotels, dhabas, and even street vendors must get training,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/free-training-for-vendors-104153
25-06-2020||
||Illegal structures razed in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, June 24 A team of the District Town Planner (DTP) demolished 124 damp-proof courses (DPCs), 12 boundary walls and an unauthorised factory in three colonies of Yamunanagar’s Jorian village on Tuesday. The team of DTP comprised Assistant Town Planner Dinesh Singh, Field Investigator Mohit Sharma, Junior Engineers Mohit Kumar and Ravinder. Ranbir Nehra, SDO, (B&R) PWD, was appointed the Duty Magistrate. Amit Madholia, DTP, said the total area of these three unauthorised colonies was nine acres. “In all, 124 DPCs, 12 boundary walls, one factory, three offices of the dealers and five under-construction buildings with kuchha road network were demolished in Jorian village on Tuesday,” Madholia added. “We have carried out a demolition drive in seven  new unauthorised colonies in Yamunanagar in the past one week,” he said. Madholia said people should not invest in such unauthorised colonies and they should contact the DTP office for any enquiry before buying land.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-structures-razed-in-yamunanagar-104154
25-06-2020||---||Sacked inspector surrenders||Panipat, June 24Dismissed Inspector Jasbeer Singh, who is an accused in the Kharkhoda liquor scam case, surrendered before the special investigation team (SIT) on Wednesday. He was the SHO of the Kharkhoda police station.He was on the run ever since he was suspended and booked in April. The special investigation team produced Jasbeer before the court, which sent him to four-day police custody. Air Force retiree He was dismissed from service on May 20 on the basis of an investigation by the SIT and the Police Department. Sonepat Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa had recommended Jasbeer’s dismissal.It is alleged Jasbeer, along with six other policemen, was allegedly involved in liquor smuggling in connivance with kingpin Bhupender Singh.Rahul Sharma, Rohtak SP and SIT incharge, told The Tribune that Jasbeer had no option but to surrender because the district court as well as by the Punjab and Haryana High Court had rejected his anticipatory bail plea.The Sonepat SP said, “Jasbeer was involved in the misappropriation of the seized liquor stock and remained absent from duty without information.”Liquor theft from a sealed godown in Kharkhoda came to light after the Sonepat SP ordered its inspection. About 5,700 boxes of liquor were found missing. The SIT found out that police officials, including Jasbeer, were hands in glove with smuggling kingpin Bhupender.Bhupender had surrendered on May 9 after the SIT raided his Chandigarh house and seized Rs 97 lakh, jewellery, an SUV, two pistols and four mobile phones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sacked-inspector-surrenders-104155
25-06-2020||---||Doctor 'working at two govt bodies’ booked||Rohtak, June 24The police have registered a case against Dr Gaurav Nandal, a postgraduation student and junior resident of the department of orthopaedics at the PGIMS, on the basis of a complaint by the institute authorities.The complaint stated that Dr Nandal had been working at two government organisations at the same time. “He has also been giving his services at the SAI’s National Boxing Academy in Rohtak since April 2018,” the complaint read.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/doctor-working-at-two-govt-bodies-booked-104156
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||80% power plaints settled within 2 hrs||The four-digit toll-free number 1912 is proving to be effective for the redress of complaints by electricity consumers during Covid.In May, a total of 1,68,566 complaints were received on this number, 80 per cent of which were redressed by the technical staff of power utilities within two hours. The complaints which were taking more time were redressed within 10 hours, providing relief to consumers.An official spokesman said Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam had started the toll-free number to ensure smooth supply of electricity and redress complaints related to electricity issues. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/80-power-plaints-settled-within-2-hrs-104157
25-06-2020||---||Man shot dead over land dispute in Ambala Cantonment||Ambala, June 24A man in his 40s was shot dead over a land dispute case near Manglai village, which falls under the jurisdiction of Mahesh Nagar police station, in Ambala Cantonment here today.The deceased has been identified as Amarjeet, a resident of Fulelmajra village of the Saha block. The murder is the fallout of a clash between two groups that took place in Fulelmajra village yesterday.In his complaint to the police, Sahil Pal, son of the deceased, alleged that around 5 am, when he, along with his father Amarjeet and uncle Jarnail Singh, was going to Manglai village for a walk, three men — Sagar, Lucky and Ravi — came on a motorcycle and stopped his father Amarjeet. Sagar shot him in the head and then they managed to flee. Lucky was riding the motorcycle and Ravi was accompanying them.Sahil alleged that while fleeing, the suspects said they had taken the revenge of the clash that happened yesterday. Amarjeet was taken to the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, where he was declared dead.The police have recovered a pistol from the spot. A case has been registered against Sagar, Lucky, Ravi, Vijay Kumar, Sarpanch, Fulelmajra village, Vinod, Karnial, Rajinder, Binni, Mahinder and others under Sections 302, 120B of the Indian Penal Code and 25 of the Arms Act at the Mahesh Nagar police station.Amarjeet had reportedly suffered injury during a clash on Tuesday too. Meanwhile, to maintain the law and order, a police force has been deployed in Fulelmajra village. The body of the victim has been handed over to the family after the post-mortem examination.Superintendent of Police (SP) Abhishek Jorwal visited the hospital to take stock of the situation.Four injured in MohaliMohali: Four members of a family were seriously injured over a land dispute in Bharatpur village. Rajinder Singh, one of the injured, said a quarrel had broken out between him and his relatives over a piece of land a few days ago. Some of his family members were seriously injured in the altercation, he added. The injured were taken to the GMSH-16, Chandigarh. Gurwinder Singh of the opposite party was also undergoing treatment at the Phase 6 Civil Hospital here. The victim’s family alleged that Gurwinder admitted himself to the hospital to gain sympathy. They also alleged that instead of taking action against the attackers, the Sohana police had registered a false case against the injured for molesting a woman of the village. Meanwhile, Satpal Singh, ASI, Sohana police station, said all allegations against the police were baseless and fabricated. He said Gurwinder was beaten up by Rajinder Singh and his accomplices. The ASI said a case has been registered against Rajinder Singh and others. He said the statements of Rajinder Singh have also been recorded but his medical report has not been received by the police yet. Upon receipt of the report, appropriate action will be taken against the other party, he added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-shot-dead-over-land-dispute-in-ambala-cantonment-104236
25-06-2020||Karnal||Low auto sales worry traders||Amid the economic slowdown due to Covid, the automobile dealers are struggling as the sales of bikes and cars have taken a plunge.According to dealers, the sale of new vehicles has come down to 30% compared to normal days, while the recurring cost, including salaries of staff and interest on loan, remains the same.Amarjeet Singh, GM, Samta MotorsPandemic impactDue to the Covid pandemic, vehicle sale has reduced to around 30-35%. Prior to the lockdown, we had been selling around 125 vehicles per month. In May, we sold only 40 units.“The industry has already been witnessing a downward trend in vehicle sale for the last two years. Covid has further dented the sector. In 2018-19, I sold 410 units of two-wheelers per month, which reduced to 295 units per month in 2019-20. Last month, we sold only 98 vehicles,” said Sonal Khetarpal, owner of Ekta Automobiles.He said they had to bear the expenses which they had been prior to the lockdown period. He urged the government to reduce the GST on two-wheelers from 28% to 10% to attract customers.Several people have either cancelled their bookings or postponed the four-wheeler purchase plan. “Due to the Covid pandemic, vehicle sale has reduced to around 30-35%. Prior to the lockdown, we had been selling around 125 vehicles per month. In May, we sold only 40 units,” said Amarjeet Singh, GM, Samta Motors. He maintained that people had started postponing their purchase plans. Eight people got their bookings cancelled in May. Singh seeks reduction in the GST on four-wheelers.A couple of dealers are struggling hard to get BS4 vehicles registered in the name of customers. These vehicles were to be sold and registered before March 31. However, the government had given relaxation till April 30, but they failed to get the same. “We have been allowed to open showrooms from May 4, but very few persons are coming even for inquiry. I sold some BS4 bikes before the enforcement of the lockdown, but these could not be registered due to the lockdown. Now, the concerned portal is not working. The production of BS6 bikes is very limited and we are waiting for fresh stock,” said Sumit Miglani, GM, KL Automobiles. An employee of Modern Automobiles said the sale of vehicles had reduced to around 30%.“I had a plan to purchase an SUV, but the uncertainty over the duration of the Covid pandemic has forced me to postpone my plan. I can manage without new car, but cannot without essential commodities,” said Yashbir Singh of Model Town.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/low-auto-sales-worry-traders-104152
25-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Accused given default bail entitled to it sans bonds: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 24Long considered an indication of bad luck, Friday, the 13th, eventually turned out to be promising for Raju. An accused in a criminal case, he was granted default bail on March 13, a Friday. But before Raju’s counsel could furnish the bail bonds, the prosecution, “over the weekend”, presented the challan.Coming to his rescue, the High Court ruled the petitioner was admitted to bail before the final report was filed, creating the valuable right of default bail.About default bail “This court is convinced that the petitioner having been granted bail deserves to be put back to the position he was on Friday, the 13th, as his rights stood created on that day. He should be allowed an opportunity to furnish bail bonds to complete the transaction process,” Justice Rajiv Narain Raina ruled.In a criminal case, the challan has to be presented within specified timeframe or extension in time is required to be sought. Failure to present the challan within the stipulated period gives the accused an “indefeasible right” to get “default” bail in the absence of extension in time granted by the court.Justice Raina referred to the order dated March 13 before observing that an Additional Sessions Judge admitted the petitioner to bail under Section 167 (2) CrPC, subject to furnishing bail bonds of Rs 1 lakh.Justice Raina added the judge recorded in the order that the counsel sought time to furnish bail bonds. But the court “waited sufficiently. However, bail bonds were not furnished”. The result of non-furnishing of bail bonds was, nevertheless, not specified in the order.Justice Raina added: “No time was fixed for furnishing bail bonds unless the law is that bail bonds must be furnished on the same day and if there is delay in furnishing bail bonds, bail stands automatically cancelled and person remains in jail at its own peril.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/accused-given-default-bail-entitled-to-it-sans-bonds-hc-104169
25-06-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Rapid antigen tests started in Gurugram||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, June 24With Covid cases having crossed the 4,000 mark in Gurugram, the district health authorities have brought in a rapid antigen test to step up testing. They aim is to test all vulnerable households in more than 100 containment zones.They will start with 50 contacts of Sadar Bazaar traders, who have tested positive. The department has received kits for over 8,000 tests and aims to widen the ambit to 20,000 tests in the coming weeks.The diagnostic technique, which tests nasal fluid swabs, displays Covid-positive result in 15 minutes and Covid-negative within 30 minutes. The speedy result is expected to speed up Covid management by almost 70 per cent.The department has deputed workforce in the field with kits to ensure maximum testing per day, which according to the authorities, may lead to high Covid-positive figures over the next few days.“This will help in effective management as we will know how many people are infected. We can then plan accordingly. We will test contacts, those with symptoms and the vulnerable who are in high-risk zones,” said Dr Virender Yadav, Civil Surgeon. Four out of 50 tested positive on Wednesday and would be sent for a confirmatory RT-PCR test.The rapid antigen test is accurate in case of Covid-positive result. Taking this into account, the ICMR mandated that each negative test with visible symptoms or contact with positive patient should follow antigen analysis with the RT-PCR test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rapid-antigen-tests-started-in-gurugram-104170
25-06-2020||---||10 more deaths take toll to 188 in Haryana||Chandigarh, June 24Haryana reported 10 fresh Covid deaths taking the state’s tally to 188 even as the total cases went up to 12,010, an increase of 490 cases.Gurugram reported six more deaths taking its death tally to 75 while Rewari reported three deaths. Faridabad reported one death taking the total to 65.Another suspected Covid death was reported from Panipat.The maximum of 201 cases were reported from Faridabad with Gurugram reporting 117 cases and Rewari 48 cases.The death toll due to Covid in Faridabad rose to 65 today with one more patient dying due to the infection. This was the 10th consecutive day of casualties as a total of 37 patients have died since June 15. The victim is a 71-year-old man from Sector-19.The tally of positive cases also surged to 2,795 with the addition of 201 new cases today.Covid infection combined with comorbidities is claimed to be the main reason behind the recent deaths.The localities from where the fresh cases have come during the past 24 hours included Ballabgarh, Old Faridabad ,Bhood Colony, AC Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, SGM Nagar, Dabua Colony, Sanjay Colony, Subhash Colony, Kheri Kalan village, Sector-3, Sector-23, Sector-28, Sector-20, Mahaveer Colony, Palla, Jawahar Colony, Tilpat and Saroorpur village.Panipat reported a suspected Covid death on Wednesday. Besides, 14 positive cases were reported in the district taking the tally to 151 cases here.In Karnal, 14 persons, including six members of a family from Jalala village, tested positive. The other patients included a woman (38) and her daughter (17) from Subhash Gate, a woman (36) and her two sons (13 years and six years) of Sector-4, a 48-year-old man of Jundla Gate, a four-year-old girl of Sector-35, a 24-year-old youth of Karnal Vihar, taking the number of positive cases to 253 in the district.Meanwhile, seven fresh Covid cases were reported from Ambala on Wednesday taking the district tally to 299. Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said the fresh cases comprised four of a family including a three-year-old child from Ambala City and three of another family including an eight-year-old child from Ambala Cantt.All the fresh cases were contacts of Covid patients. With this, the total number of active cases in the district has reached 113 while the tally of cured patients touched 183 after the discharge of six more cases on Wednesday.In Palwal, the tally of Covid positive cases has risen to 278 with 12 new cases. The fresh cases include three men aged 23, 25 and 57 from Teli mandi, Hodal, a 25-year-old woman from Modi colony, 65-year-old woman from Basant Vihar, a 27-year-old man from Garhi Patti, a 22-year-old man from Hathin, a 34-year-old man from Tahi Mohalla, a 35-year-old man from Kailash Nagar, a 33-year-old man from Khambi village and two persons aged 46 and 32 years hailing from Jhabar Nagar and Moti Colony of Palwal.Case in SecretariatA pharmacist working in the Health Department dispensary at the Haryana Civil Secretariat here is reported to be Covid-positive. Entry to the offices of ministers and senior bureaucrats at the Secretariat was restricted in view of the detection of the case. Contacts of the infected person, including two liftmen, have been quarantined.COVID-19 CASES DISTRICT-WISE COUNT||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-more-deaths-take-toll-to-188-in-haryana-104171
25-06-2020||Parveen Arora||20 agents arrested in four days for immigration fraud||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 24The office of SIT head and IG Karnal Range, Bharti Arora, is flooded with fresh complaints by youths who had been duped by immigration agents on the pretext of sending them abroad.This SIT was constituted by the state government to inquire into the cases after the US government had deported over 140 youths of the state. 33 fresh cases registeredApart from investigating 134 FIRs registered on the complaints of youths deported from the US, the SIT has been inquiring into 260 FIRs registered in 2018 and 2019 also.In the fresh complaints received by the SIT head, the police have registered 33 FIRs related to cheating by the agents. So far, the SIT has arrested 34 agents and seized Rs 40 lakh from them. Of the total 71 accused, 38 have been booked in multiple cases.“We have arrested 20 accused in the past four days and registered 33 FIRs on the fresh complaints from those who had been duped by agents,” Bharti Arora told The Tribune.The investigation conducted by the SIT revealed that semi-literate youths having rural background are soft targets of such agents and they lure them on the pretext of showing dreams of better lifestyle and easy money.“The arrested persons admitted that they used to lure youths of rural areas, who had very less qualification and not much land, on the pretext of sending them abroad. Most of the victims either had sold their land or borrowed money from others,” she added.The SIT has also added Sections of human trafficking in most of the cases and is now going to add Sections of extortion.“The cases of deported youths are clear-cut cases of human trafficking and we have added Section 370 of the IPC. In some cases, we found that the agents had confiscated the passports of the victims and demanded more money from their family members. So, we will add Sections of extortion in those cases,” the IG added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-agents-arrested-in-four-days-for-immigration-fraud-104158
25-06-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Haryana disinfectant unit raid triggers controversy||Gurugram, June 24The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) and Ayush Department of Haryana are in blame game over a raid conducted by the former on Tuesday at a disinfectant manufacturing unit in Gurugram.While FDA Commissioner Ashok Meena says firms cannot manufacture such disinfectants without obtaining licence from his department, Dr Satish Khatkar, licensing authority under the Ayush Department, asserts that the FDA has no business raiding a unit licensed by it.FDA, Ayush Department in blame game Firms cannot manufacture disinfectants without obtaining FDA licence. — Ashok Meena, FDA CommissionerFDA has no business raiding a unit licensed by Ayush Department. — Satish Khatkar, Licensing Authority, Ayush DeptThe conflict between the two departments comes as with the increase in the demand for sanitisers and disinfectants due to the Covid pandemic, several manufacturers have started taking the easier Ayurveda route to skip the stringent rules under the allopathic system.A unit manufacturing sanitisers or disinfectants under the allopathic system has to install sophisticated equipment like 20 micron air filters and machinery complying with WHO good manufacturing practice (GMP) before it gets a licence, while those producing it under the Ayush licence use simple and cheaper machinery.On Monday, a team of the FDA took samples of a disinfectant from a supermart in DLF, Phase 4. For the purpose of verification of the product, the team visited a unit in Gurugram that manufactured that product.Meena said an FDA licence was required to manufacture that disinfectant, and the Ayush licence that the firm had was not valid for the product it was manufacturing.“The surface disinfectants are meant for disinfection of dead surfaces. These do not fit in the definition of Ayurvedic medicines, which are for internal or external use of human beings or animals and are not for surfaces,” said a senior officer of the FDA.Meanwhile, the owner of the firm blamed the internal tussle between the Drugs Control Department and the Ayush Department for the raid on his firm and alleged that he was being harassed unnecessarily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-disinfectant-unit-raid-triggers-controversy-103980
