25-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Liquor prices slashed in Rohtak as sales dip||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 25Owing to the substantial drop in the demand of liquor, especially beer, due to lockdown-related factors this year, the local liquor contractors have slashed the prices in a bid to boost the sales.Boards and banners announcing discount offers have been put up at liquor shops in Rohtak, with contractors claiming that they have cut down the rates at the retail outlets up to 33 per cent.“There are hardly any social get-togethers or family functions. The bars are closed, and so are the hostels of universities and colleges. Hence, the sale of liquor, especially beer, has taken a huge dip these summers. We have reduced the rates considerably to push the sales,” says Sumit Soni, a liquor contractor.Sanjay Manchanda, who works for a beer company, also maintains that the sales are down owing to the closure of bars, pubs and restaurants, besides the general economic setbacks suffered by people in general due to the lockdown.Persons involved in liquor trade further point out that the stiff competition among the liquor contractors and illegal sale of liquor in villages and townships have also compelled the contractors to slash the prices.
25-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Withdraw ban on paddy sowing or face statewide stir, Cong MP warns BJP-JJP govt||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 25Congress Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda has warned the BJP-JJP government in Haryana to withdraw the ban imposed on sowing of paddy or be prepared for a statewide farmers’ stir.“Farmers of Fatehabad, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Shahbad have protested against the government diktat and we support their stance. Even JJP MLAs are opposing the move of the state regime,” he said in a statement issued here today.The Congress leader maintained that if the Haryana government was genuinely worried about depletion of groundwater, it should implement the suggestions given by Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda in this regard.“The former Chief Minister has been advising the BJP-JJP regime to revive Dadupur-Nalwi water recharge canal, put pressure on the Centre to bring SYL canal water to Haryana, promote drip irrigation and ensure good prices for alternative crops, but the state leadership is not paying any heed to these suggestions,” he maintained.
25-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 4 new cases, state tally rises to 1,187||Haryana on Monday reported four new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s case tally to 1,187.Karnal reported a new case of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 33. A 32-year-old man from Nirmal Vihar, who had come from Delhi, tested positive on Monday. With this, the total number of active cases rose to 16 in the district.Sonepat reported three new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 162. The cases were reported from different localities.On Sunday, Haryana reported 52 new COVID cases. Faridabad reported the maximum of 14 cases followed by Gurugram which reported nine cases. The other districts which reported cases were Karnal (5), Rewari (5), Jhajjar (2), Hisar (7), Kaithal (1), Sonepat (5), Rohtak (1), Kurukshetra (2) and Panipat (1).
25-05-2020||---||Farmers demand increase in subsidy for seeding machine||Ambala, May 24Amid shortage of labour, farmers have started sowing paddy using the direct sowing technique in the district and have sought an increase in subsidy on purchase of direct seeded rice (DSR) machines.Nearly 86,000 hectares of land is covered under the paddy crop every year. At present, around 10 such machines are available, two of which are with the Agriculture Department.Shortage of labour will not only hit paddy transplantation work, but also increase the cost of cultivation. Farmers have started sowing paddy using the DSR technique as there is no other option to deal with the situation. The DSR machines are being bought from Punjab. The cost of the machine ranges from Rs 65,000 to Rs 80,000 and the government must increase subsidy. Pardeep Chauhan, FarmerAs per information, in view of shortage of labour, the Agriculture Department has also offered subsidy on 1,000 DSR machines this year in the state.For SC, ST and women beneficiaries and small and marginal farmers, the subsidy will be 50 per cent of the cost or Rs 20,000, whichever is less. For other beneficiaries, the subsidy will be 40 per cent of the cost or Rs 16,000, whichever is less.“Shortage of labour will not only hit paddy transplantation work, but also increase the cost of cultivation. Farmers have started sowing paddy using the DSR technique as there is no other option to deal with the situation. The DSR machines are being bought from Punjab. The cost of the machine ranges from Rs 65,000 to Rs 80,000 and the government must increase subsidy,” said Pardeep Chauhan, a farmer of Sambhalkha village.“The labour problem is going to get severe in the state. Last year, labourers had sought between Rs 2,000 and Rs 2,200 per acre for sowing. This year, labour cost will be over Rs 4,000 per acre. Farmers have no option but to adopt the DSR technique and the government should offer 80 per cent subsidy on the cost of the machine,” said Rakesh Bains, spokesman of the BKU (Charuni).“Farmers have been sowing paddy since May 15 and bookings for DSR machines are on. Farmers are also getting the machines on rent from other districts. They are free to purchase the machinery from any manufacturer whose machines have been tested by testing institutes approved by the government. The department is also giving subsidy on paddy transplanter and maize transplanter. After purchase, farmers should register themselves by uploading the bill along with e-way bill on the department portal by June 30. Documents are required to be produced at the time of physical verification. Subsidy will be given on first-come-first-served basis,” said Rajinder Sethi, Junior Engineer, Agri-culture Department.
25-05-2020||Mukesh Tandon||ULB Director summons Panipat MC officials||Tribune News ServicePanipat, May 24The Director, Urban Local Bodies (ULB), has summoned municipal corporation (MC) officials on May 28 with five-year record of streetlights installed.The special investigation team (SIT) constituted to probe the streetlight scam had sought complete record of streetlights installed in five years, but MC officials failed to give the record despite several reminders.Anil Vij, ULB Minister, had constituted the SIT, headed by the ULB Director, with the Karnal Chief Engineer and Gurugram Chief Accounts Officer as members.Chief Engineer Ramesh Madhaan, a member of the SIT, wrote to the ULB Director about the reported negligence of MC officials in providing the record.Following this, the ULB Director sought the record from MC officials and summoned them with relevant documents on May 28.Councillor Dushyant Bhatt had raised questions over the slow pace of inquiry into the scam.
25-05-2020||---||Municipal Corporation issues notice to 45 illegal marriage palaces||Yamunanagar, May 24The Yamunanagar- Jag-adhri Municipal Corporation has issued show-cause notices to owners of 45 illegal marriage palaces and banquet halls. It has asked them to submit valid proof of sanction, completion or occupation certificate obtained from the competent authority along with no-objection certificate (NOC) from the Fire Department.The MC authorities swung into action after the Director of Urban Local Bodies directed conducting of a survey of marriage palaces, banquet halls, paying guest facilities and private residential hostels and action against establishments found illegal. Several establishments, including marriage palaces, were reportedly found to be operating illegally within municipal limits.“Several establishments are flouting safety norms and violating rules and regulations, putting precious lives at risk and also causing loss of revenue to the MC,” a source said.Failure to comply with requirements of the present notice, issued under provisions of various sections of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, will invite punitive action against the owners of the marriage palaces and sealing of illegal buildings without further notice.Bharat Bhushan Kau-shik, Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar- Jagadhri, said owners of 45 marriage palaces and banquet halls had been put on notice so far. “We have issued show-cause notices to marriage palaces to begin with. Soon, we will serve notices to owners of illegal paying guest accommodations, lodges and private residential hostels.”
25-05-2020||---||Doctor booked for  ‘sexual harassment’||Faridabad, May 24The police have registered a case of sexual harassment against a doctor at a private hospital here. No arrest has been made so far.The move comes two days after an order issued by the National Commission for Women (NCW). The NCW had taken cognisance of a tweet by a woman staffer of the hospital.A police spokesperson said a case had been registered and the matter was under investigation.The NCW, in its order on Friday, asked the director of the firm running the hospital, to report whether an internal committee was inquiring the complaint.Renu Bhatia, State Commission for Women member, visited the hospital yesterday and met the complainant to record her statement.
25-05-2020||---||BJP suspends senior leader for six years||Rohtak, May 24The BJP has suspended Chander Prakash Kathuria, a special invitee to the party’s state executive committee, from the primary membership of the party for six years.The membership of the Karnal-based BJP leader has been suspended by the BJP’s state president Subhash Barala.The former Sugarfed chairman recently courted controversy when he fell and got injured while trying to get down from the balcony of a second-floor flat in Chandigarh.The BJP leader had reportedly gone to meet a woman, but tried to descend from the balcony with the help of a cloth when he lost his grip and fell.
25-05-2020||---||Councillors accuse MC chief of graft||Rohtak, May 24Municipal councillors of Kalanaur in Rohtak district have alleged rampant corruption in the grant of contract for maintaining cleanliness, installation of streetlights and construction of nullahs and roads.A group of councillors have sought a probe into the alleged irregularities in functioning of the municipal committee by the chairperson in connivance with officials concerned.“There is huge embezzlement of money in the civil works. At least three nullahs have been constructed in the periphery of Kalanaur township without any requirement. A cleanliness-contractor was paid money for two months without any work being done. Streetlights installed by the committee have become dysfunctional and a road constructed by it has also been damaged within a short time,” alleged Sunil Katyal, vice-chairman.On the other hand, committee chairperson Mamta Rani refuted the charges. “I am backed by the Congress and they are BJP supporters. Hence, they are trying to malign my image. All civil works have been carried out in public interest and the official procedures have been followed. We have also submitted the relevant documents and official record with the local administration,” said the chairperson.
25-05-2020||---||4,600 migrants sent to Bihar by 3 trains||Yamunanagar, May 24In a major relief to migrant labourers, 4,600 of them were sent to Bihar by three special Shramik trains from Yamunanagar district on Sunday.In the presence of Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar and Yamunanagar MLA Ghanshyam Dass Arora, the first train carrying 1,550 migrants was sent to Barauni district of Bihar.‘Given Food, Water’The migrant labourers were sent with food packets and water bottles after conducting their health check-up.Mukul Kumar, DC On this occasion, Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar, Superintendent of Police Himanshu Garg, Jagadhri SDM Darshan Kumar, City Magistrate Bharat Bhushan Kaushik and Superintendent of railway station SK Joshi were present.“The migrant labourers were sent with food packets and water bottles after conducting their health check-up,” said Mukul Kumar, Deputy Commissioner.According to information, two more trains carrying about 3,050 migrant labourers were also sent today from here for Muzaffarpur and Katihar districts of Bihar.The Deputy Commissioner further said that those trains would go straight to Barauni, Muzaffarpur and Katihar districts and would not stop on the way.
25-05-2020||Karnal||1 killed in Kunjpura cracker unit mishap||One person was killed and a child seriously injured in an explosion in a fire cracker factory near Kunjpura village on Sunday evening.The explosion took place around 6 pm inside the cracker factory when 12 workers were working there, said Kunjpura SHO Gaurav Punia said. Four fire engines were rushed to the spot to douse the flames, he said. The deceased has been identified as Vinod Paswan (46) of Bihar and injured has been identified as Pardeep (12) of Kunjpura. The SHO said the police is investigating the matter. — TNS
25-05-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Lockdown leaves over 30K freight truck drivers stranded||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, May 24DOOM FOR INDUSTRYMore than 30,000 drivers and helpers have become jobless because of the crisis caused by the Covid pandemic. About 75 per cent of the 45,000 trucks and private carriers registered here are lying stranded due to the lockdown imposed to check the spread of the virus.“It has been two months that I did not get a call for work from my employer,” said Mohan Singh, a driver hailing from a nearby village. “Though I got my salary for March, but due to no work, the employer expressed his inability to pay for the lockdown period,” he said adding that hundreds of drivers and cleaners had been facing similar situation. Revealing that his family of six was facing tough time as he had no source of income for being jobless for the past over 60 days, Suraj Pal of Palwal village, who worked as a driver with a transport company here said he had started looking for other avenues to make a living as there was no job guarantee in that sector.Sources in the transport industry revealed that as 75 per cent of the trucks had still been off the road.Haryana Transport and Truck Association general secretary Subhash Kaushik said while the staff, including the drivers, had been directly hit, the overall loss to around 1,200 transport companies had touched several crores. “Easing of lockdown has helped in revival of only 15 per cent of the work and around 20 per cent of my vehicles are still stranded in other states,” he said adding that majority of these had been engaged in transport of essential goods.“As more than 60 per cent of the drivers have left or gone to their homes, shortage of drivers could take a toll in revival of the sector till it gets vital support from the government in form of waiver of road tax, insurance, permit fee and interest on EMI,” he added.IP Laul of the LTC Logistics Limited, a transport company, said as post lockdown revival has been less than 15 per cent, it had affected employment of large number of people associated with the sector directly or indirectly. Revealing that vehicles that got stranded mid way had become a liability he said they now had an additional burden of paying parking fee, which was between Rs 200 and 400 per vehicle per day. “With no source of income and work, how will we be able to pay the salary or the expenses, which include the road tax and insurance fee among others? he asked.Col S Kapoor of the Faridabad Industries Association (FIA) said with over 40,000 trucks been associated with the industry, transport crisis could pose a hurdle in revival of the economy.
25-05-2020||---||52 new Covid cases, count rises to 1,183||Chandigarh, May 24Haryana reported 52 new Covid cases taking the state’s tally to 1,183.Faridabad reported the maximum of 14 cases followed by Gurugram which reported nine cases. The other districts which reported cases were Karnal (5), Rewari (5), Jhajjar (2), Hisar (7),Kaithal (1), Sonepat (5), Rohtak (1), Kurukshetra (2) and Panipat (1).The total number of cases included 21 foreign returnees and 14 Italian nationals, who had been discharged. With 14 more new cases found positive today in Faridabad, the total cases in the district jumped to 209. It is for the first time that the number has crossed the 200 level though the active cases are 94. A total of 115 persons have been discharged after recovery.The total cases in Gurugram went up to 271 with nine more cases today. While two cases were reported from Rajendra Park, one case each was reported from Sector 10-A, Rajiv Nagar, Sector 22-A, Jharsha, Nayi Basti, Pataudi and Anaj Mandi.Five persons, including three Sevil village residents and one each from Railway Colony Gohana and local Kot Mohammad were reported positive from Sonepat.In Hisar, seven persons, including four members of a family from Dhani Mogabbapur, tested positive for Covid taking the district’s tally to 19. In Karnal, four members of the family of a cloth merchant were among the five positive cases, taking the tally to 32.A 40-year-old man, his mother, wife and two children tested positive in Rewari, taking the district’s tally to 16. The man hails from a Bikaner village and works in Gurugram.In Jhajjar, the tally went up to 93 with the detection of two more positive cases both being from Bahadurgarh town. A 65-year-old man and a 37-year-old man were two more cases in Kurukshetra taking the district’s tally to 17.In Panipat, a youth from Chandoli village was the new Covid positive case, taking the tally to 54. Similarly, a 29-year-old man from Garhi Sampla tested positive, taking the total count of patients to 16. He works at the Fire Department in New Delhi.In Kaithal, the tally increased to six with one more case — a 19-year-old youth from Shakti Nagar.
25-05-2020||Ambala||Fabric made to cut infection risk up to 90%, claims firm||An Ambala-based firm NUFAB Technical Textiles Private Limited has claimed to develop a non-woven fabric, which will significantly reduce infection risk to frontline medical workers.The firm has claimed that the developed fabric is comfortable, lightweight, and breathable, which will help frontline medical workers by reducing the infection risk up to 90 %.Director, NUFAB, Salil Goyal said, “The fabric was sent to Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to determine the resistance of protective clothing materials to penetration by blood and body fluids, and the fabric has been certified and approved by DRDO. It is useful in making coveralls gowns — PPEs used by our health warriors. The PPE kits being used by frontline warriors doesn’t allow air to cross which make them sweat a lot. Besides, being light weight, the new fabric is breathable and thus, reduces chances of infection substantially. The other benefit is that it is recyclable and eco-friendly.”“The fabric available in UK and USA cost around Rs2,000 to 2,500 per kg, while our product costs just Rs175 per kg. We are in touch with the government so that the frontline warriors could be provided kits made of this fabric,” he said. — TNS
25-05-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||No let-up in crime against women||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24There is no let-up in crime against women even during the Covid lockdown in state. The state recorded 66 rapes, 62 cases of kidnapping and abduction and 142 incidents of molestation in April.These crimes were reported despite there were restrictions imposed upon the movement of people. Though, it is lower than the monthly average of the last year in the state, but there has been recorded a rise in the number of deaths due to dowry. The state recorded 27 dowry deaths in April, while the monthly average for the last year was 20.7 (as per information uploaded on the Haryana Police’s website). A rise of 30.4 per cent has been recorded. The number of cases (22) were lower in April 2019.WhatsApp helpline WHATSAPP HELPLINEWomen are suffering as they are locked with their perpetrators during the lockdown. We have specifically floated a WhatsApp number (95600-80115) for complaints about domestic violence during the lockdown period.Preeti Bharadwaj, Vice-Chairperson, Haryana State Commission For WomenAmong 66 rape incidents, there were 17 gangrapes, 45 rapes and four incidents of elopement with rape, reported in the state. Nuh is the worst among all districts as it recorded 19 incidents, with eight gangrapes, 10 rapes and one case of elopement with rape.In one of the incidents in Panipat, a 21-year-old woman alleged that she was gangaped by four men, after luring her for help in crossing the Yamuna to get to her husband in Uttar Pradesh (UP). In Jind, three youths, including a 16-year-old, allegedly gangraped a 14-year-old girl in a school in Jind district.In 142 incidents of molestation, Nuh and Rohtak rank the worst with 16 cases each.As many as 62 incidents of kidnapping and abduction of women have taken place. Here too, Nuh leads with 16 cases, followed by Kaithal with eight incidents.Five cases of eve-teasing have also been recorded with two each in Hisar and Jhajjar, and one in Fatehabad.As many as 90 cases of dowry disputes (Section 498-A of the IPC) with 27 alone from Nuh, followed by 11 in Gurugram were reported. Nuh also recorded five incidents of dowry deaths (Section 304-B of the IPC) which is the highest among all districts while two cases each are registered in Faridabad, Panchkula, Panipat, Palwal, Rewari and Yamunanagar.“Despite such difficult circumstances due to the Covid pandemic, when people are struggling to get even food, crime against women in Haryana is a constant factor. It is a serious issue,” said Prof Rajesh Gill, Department of Sociology, Panjab University (PU).“Women are suffering as they are locked with their perpetrators during the lockdown. We have specifically floated a WhatsApp number (95600-80115) for complaints about domestic violence during the lockdown period,” said Haryana State Commission for Women vice-chairperson Preeti Bharadwaj.“For dowry disputes, we have been helping aggrieved women to take legal or police help, if she needs and we try to counsel husbands. However, we always try for amicable settlement,” said Priya, who is a counsellor at Haryana Women Helpline-181.Crime rate in April Molestation 142Dowry case 90Rape/gangrape 66Kidnapping/abduction 62Dowry death 27Eve-teasing 5
25-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||Despite Centre’s orders, owners fined for delay in vehicle fitness renewal||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 24The Regional Transport Office (RTO) is penalising owners across the state for delay in vehicle fitness renewal despite the Centre announcing an extension for the same till June 30 due to the lockdown.Satish, an auto-rickshaw owner of Rohtak, had to pay penalty of Rs 500 (Rs 50 per day) as he got late by 10 days in getting fitness certificate renewed. Similarly, another auto-rickshaw owner got fitness certificate by paying Rs 1,400 for delay of 28 days. Interesting, the renewal fee is Rs 600 for an auto-rickshaw.What Central Govt SaidThe Transport Ministry on March 30 said documents like driving licence and vehicle fitness certificates whose validity may have expired after February 1, 2020, or will expire before June 30, will be considered valid till June 30 this year, keeping in mind the nationwide lock down amid Covid outbreak.Rajender Dahiya, president of the New Rohtak Auto-rickshaw Kalyan Samiti, said the vehicle fitness renewal for both auto-rickshaws was due during the lockdown. “The penalty is unjustified and violates Central Government orders which validate fitness certificate, all permits and driving licences that expired in lockdown till June 30. Even RTO was not doing fitness test when the certificate expired,” he said.Siya Ram, chairman of MR School in Mahendragarh district, said the fitness certificate of two of their buses expired in April. “The RTA office told me I had to pay penalty when I went for renewal. I have not got the certificate renewed and am preparing to move court against the penalty,” he said.An official who did not want to be named said since the state government had not issued any order for exemption, penalty was being charged from vehicle owners. Mahendra Pal, ADC-cum-Secretary, RTA, said he had received some complaints about penalty being slapped during vehicle fitness renewal for the lockdown period. “I have taken up the matter with the headquarters,” he said.How the anomaly crept inMotor Vehicle Inspector Surender Siwach said there was a common online software to deposit renewal fees. It automatically slaps penalty on vehicles that missed the deadline, so district authorities have nothing to do with it, he said.
25-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||July trial for nation’s first elevated track in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 24The Railways has set a July target to conduct trials on the country’s first elevated railway track in Rohtak city after missing the second deadline due to the lockdown. Over 95 per cent construction of this 4.8-km-long track has been done and the rest is likely to be is finished by June-end.The track will do away with five level crossings in the city, reduce traffic jams and bring relief to residents of several colonies located nearby who had to cover a long distance to go to the other side of the track.Then Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu had electronically unveiled the foundation stone of the ambitious Rs 350 crore project in November 2016, but it was formally launched by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in March 2018. A deadline of 18 months was fixed to complete the project.The project missed the first deadline of November 2019 following resistance by local residents after removal of encroachment on one side of the track. The deadline was extended by four months and the project was to be completed by April. Work had reached its final stage when the lockdown came into force in March, said Pradeep Ranjan, technical advisor of the project.“Only work of laying the rail line is left. Skilled workers are required for it, so return of migrant workers from their homes is awaited. They are likely to come at the end of this month. Thereafter, they will take a month to lay the track. All essential materials have been made available at the site,” Ranjan said, adding that the Railways has decided to conduct the trial in July.Giving details, Ranjan said it would be a double track with 109 pillars, but initially one track would be used for rail movement. The project will prove instrumental in easing traffic congestion in the city and will usher in a new era of development in the city, he said.
25-05-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Khattar takes cognisance of ‘raw deal’ to MLAs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has taken cognisance of the alleged raw deal to certain MLAs by district-level officials.Acting on the issue raised by Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, Khattar has directed the Chief Secretary to devise an institutional mechanism, under which district officials give elected representatives due respect and address their grievances on priority.Earlier in the day, Gupta briefed the Chief Minister about the video-conference he had with legislators on May 21 and 22.Gupta said most legislators complained to him that district-level officials did not respond to their telephonic calls and dilly-dallied on taking action on people’s grievances brought by them.Sources said Khattar took serious note of the legislators’ complaints, especially at a time when the state government was engaged in the battle against Covid.“A formal order by the Chief Secretary to district-level officials, including Divisional Commissioners, DCs, SPs and Municipal Commissioners, to extend courtesy to MLAs and attend to their grievances promptly will be issued soon,” the sources said.Gupta said since the Chief Minister had already taken cognisance of the matter, legislators’ grievances about the alleged raw deal by officials would be taken care of soon.After the issue of a raw deal to legislators was raised by MLAs, Home Minister Anil Vij had issued a veiled threat to officials, saying they must listen to elected representatives if they wanted to serve in the state.
25-05-2020||---||Man tries to kill himself||Gurugram, May 24A man shot at himself in an SUV on the Delhi-Gurugram expressway while taking his pregnant wife back from a maternity clinic on Friday night.The victim was identified as Ravi Kumar (34) of Faridabad. He had lost his job during the lockdown. His wife Riya, who was also injured, was seven-month pregnant.The stressed couple had an argument while they were driving on the Rampura flyover. Ravi reportedly shot himself on the right temporal side. The bullet exited from the left and struck his wife on the chin.They were spotted by passersby and taken to hospital. Doctors referred them to the Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi, where Ravi was critical. Riya was able to give her statement last evening.
25-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Congress to help Kaithal doctors||Kaithal, May 24The Congress will provide PPE kits and N-95 masks to all government and private doctors in the district by Monday. This was stated by AICC communication incharge Randeep Singh Surjewala here today.He handed over PPE kits to some doctors on the occasion. He said hypochlorite solution would be provided in all police stations in the district for cleaning.Surjewala said that he believed not in lip service but wanted to do some thing concrete in the prevailing situation . He said that just few weeks ago the insecticides were sprayed in various localiites of the Town and in number of villages. Besides this 15000 , 200 ml sanitiser bottles were distributed in the area by congress party volunteers . He lamented that BJP state government was not doing enough in this direction.
25-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Rs 50K reward for information on liquor vend fire||Kaithal, May 24The police has announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for concrete information about the accused who set a liquor vend on fire in Balu village of Kalayat sub-division of Kaithal district on May 21, leading to the death of two persons.SP Shashank Kumar said Om Parkash of Kurar village, a partner in the vend, and Bhagat, a cook, were sleeping in an inner room attached to the vend while Balinder Singh, a salesman, was asleep in a room near the gate of the vend. Balinder realised a fire had broken out and at about 2.52 am, he informed Sat Pal, the other partner, and also told him the door of his room was bolted from outside.Satpal rushed to the pot and informed the fire brigade and the police. By the time the fire was doused, Om Parkash and Bhagat had died. Balinder was rescued.DSP Vinod Shanker and CIA-1 and CIA-2 teams and the Kalayat police are investigating the case. Anyone with information about the case can call up the SP (9053052100), DSP Vinod Shanker (9053052105) or Kalayat SHO (9053052116).
25-05-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Four thermal plants fined Rs 7.2 cr for violating emission norms||Tribune News ServicePanipat, May 24The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has imposed environmental compensation of Rs 18 lakh per month per non-compliant unit of the four thermal power plants in the state for not following emission norms. The penalty, levied under Section 5 of the Environmental Protection (EP) Act, will come into force from January 1 and plants have to pay Rs 7.2 crore till June 5.The Board said 10 units of the four plants – unit 6, 7, 8 of the Panipat Thermal Power Station (PTPS); unit 1, 2 Deen Bandhu Chhotu Ram Thermal Power Station, Pansra (Yamunanagar); unit 1, 2 of the Rajiv Gandhi Thermal Power Project, Khedar (Hisar) and unit 1, 2, 3 Aravali Power Corporation Limited (APCL) in Jharli village of Jhajjar district — had failed to reduce emissions till December 2019.CPCB chairman Ravi S Prasad also warned through the order dated May 8 that the compliance status would be reviewed. Further direction, if required, could be issued, which may include directions of closure of the units. It also ordered the plants to ensure compliance of directions, failing which action as deemed fit would be taken in accordance with the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.In 2015, the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change notified new environmental norms for coal-based power plants to cut down emission of particulate matter (PM10), sulphur dioxide (SO2) and oxides of nitrogen (NOx). It set a deadline of December 2017 for power stations to adhere to these guidelines.On December 11, 2017, the CPCB issued directions that plants should install electrostatic precipitators to meet particulate matter emission limit and use flue-gas desulfurisation (FGD) technology to check SO2 emission and gave them time till December 2019.However, the four plants failed to comply with the CPCB directions issued under Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. Taking stringent note, the Board had issued show-cause notices to the plants on January 31 and sought their reply within 15 days. All plants had filed their reply with the CPCB in February. Not satisfied with the response, the CPCB chairman has directed the plants to deposit environmental compensation.
25-05-2020||---||Mother kills two girls in Hisar village||Hisar, May 24A woman stabbed her two daughters to death at Khedar village of the district today. The woman also attempted suicide and inflicted injury on the neck.The woman, hailing from Rajasthan, was a worker at the construction of a road at Khedar village. The police said that the woman was preparing flour for baking chapattis when the children, who were playing close by, threw dust in the flour. The woman got enraged and assaulted the children with a knife and then inflicted injury on her own neck.The deceased children have been identified as Kiran (1) and Mamta (3). Their mother Charia is injured and admitted in a hospital. The Barwala SHO Kuldeep Singh informed that the police have registered a case on the complaint of her husband Ahmad.
25-05-2020||---||Teenager strangles 14-year-old, held||Panipat, May 24A 14-year-old teenager was allegedly strangled to death at a house in Model Town here today. The police registered a case against another 14-year-old teenager. The deceased was identified as Dhiren, son of Dharmender of Madhepura in Bihar.Dharmender, father of the deceased, told the police that he, along with his family, had been staying at the dairy of Tejbeer Singh in Joshi village, where he was working.He said his 14 year-old son Dhiren started staying at the house of Tejbeer in Model Town five days ago. He stated that another 14-year-old teenager hailing from Bihar was sharing the room with his son.After receiving information about the death of his son this morning, he reached the spot and found his son lying on a bed. The police also reached the spot.Inspector Sunil Kumar, SHO, Model Town, said it was revealed during preliminary investigation that both teenagers had a quarrel over sleeping under the fan in the room. The other teenager strangled Dhiren to death and went to sleep, he stated.The accused was nabbed and produced before the juvenile board, the SHO said. The accused was handed over to the juvenile board, he added.Had Fight over fanInspector Sunil Kumar, SHO, Model Town, said it was revealed during preliminary investigation that both teenagers had a quarrel over sleeping under the fan in the room
25-05-2020||New Delhi||IMD issues ‘red alert’ for Delhi, Punjab, Haryana||With temperatures surpassing the 45° Celsius-mark across several parts in north India, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued a “red” warning for Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan for the next two days.The IMD has also issued an “orange” alert for heatwave for east Uttar Pradesh, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD’s Regional Meteorological Centre.He cautioned that temperatures could soar up to 47° Celsius in some parts over the next two or three days.This was also for the first time this summer season that a red warning had been issued for heatwave, Srivastava said. — PTI
