25-04-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Lockdown effect: Number of marriages on Akshaya Tritiya takes a dip||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, April 25 The number of marriages usually solemnised on the occasion of Akshaya Tritiya, considered an auspicious day in the Hindu almanac, has taken a huge dip due the ongoing lockdown to battle Covid-19 pandemic.  A large number of marriage ceremonies are generally solemnised on Akshaya Tritiya, which this year falls on April 26.Local hoteliers and banquet hall managers said most of the marriages scheduled for Akshaya Tritiya had been put off due to the lockdown.The authorities concerned though believe that the possibility of arranging clandestine child marriages on this day can still not be ruled out.Protection-cum-Child Marriage Prohibition Officer Karminder Kaur, therefore, appealed to the residents to be vigilant and report any child marriage(s) which comes to their notice.“The residents can call me at 9466106100 or inform on women helpline numbers 181 or 1091. Child helpline number 1098 or police control room number 100,” said the officer.Karminder also asked Station House Officers (SHOs) of all the police stations in the district to ensure no child marriage takes place in the areas under their respective jurisdiction.“As per the provisions under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006, marriage of a girl below 18 years of age and/or a boy less than 21 years of age is a cognisable and non-bailable offence,” pointed Karminder.She said those who conduct, encourage or aid in solemnisation of child marriages might be punished with up to two-year imprisonment or fine of Rs 1 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lockdown-effect-number-of-marriages-on-akshaya-tritiya-takes-a-dip-76190
25-04-2020||Ravinder Saini||Back from red zones, 3 senior Mahendragarh varsity officials among 5 quarantined||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, April 25Five employees, including three senior functionaries, and the daughter of another employee of Central University of Haryana (CUH) here were quarantined at their official residences on the campus on Friday.All the persons returned to the university from their home towns in different districts of Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan over the past couple of days. All the districts fall under Covid red zone.Sources claimed the senior functionaries met other officials of the university and also attended meetings as well after their return. A team of district health authorities reached the university on Friday afternoon on getting information about their arrival.“The team, led by Dr Sandeep, initially conducted a check-up on the officials and the girl. No Covid like symptoms were found in any of them. Thereafter, the team asked them to quarantine at home for next 14 days. The officials were also advised not to step out of their houses during the quarantine period,” said the sources.Mahendragarh is one of three districts in the state having no Covid postive case so far.One of the senior functionaries told The Tribune that he along with another official came to the university on April 20 from their home following the directives by Vice Chancellor for resuming work from office. He issued the directives while referring to an order of the HRD Ministry.Dr Ashok Kumar, Civil Surgeon, said, “As per guidelines, all persons who travel to Mahendragarh from other districts are supposed to inform the authorities about their health status. The 14-day home quarantine norm has to be followed."Vice Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad said all the officials were asked to work from their official home in the university following the directives of the MHRD."They were asked to stay quarantined at home immediately after they came to the campus. Ever since, they are working from home," he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/back-from-red-zones-3-senior-mahendragarh-varsity-officials-among-5-quarantined-76183
25-04-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Domestic violence calls at Haryana Women Helpline rise by 32 per cent during lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25As couples are bound at home following Covid pandemic lockdown, calls from distressed women have increased at Haryana’s Women Helpline-181, but it is complaints about domestic violence that show a rise of over 32%.From March 23 to April 21, a period of 30 days of lockdown, the Women Helpline received 62 calls alleging domestic violence. “Otherwise, the Helpline receives an average of 46.8 calls of domestic violence in 30 days, which is based on the data of previous one year,” said Preeti Phogat, Women Helpline Manager. She added that the data showed a rise of 32.5% domestic violence complaints.“Overall, the Helpline received 108 calls from distressed women during 30 days of lockdown. On average, we receive about 100 calls. So, here also there is a rise (8%),” said Phogat. “Due to lockdown, domestic violence cases have risen. The husbands are staying at home. There is easy availability of countrymade liquor too. So, disputes between couples have risen. Also, clashes with neighbours and phone stalking are other cases which have come to light during lockdown,” said Priya, counsellor at WomenHelpline.During lockdown of 30 days, the Helpline also received 21 calls disputes with neighbours or family disputes, seven calls of verbal abuse or misbehaviour, six calls of phone stalking, four calls of physical hurt, three calls of cybercrime and one call each of theft, dowry, refusal of marriage, threat and mental harassment. But domestic violence forms 57.4 % of total complaints.In one of the cases, a pregnant woman was beaten up at her in-laws’ house in a Jhajjar village. She wanted to go to her parents’ house located in Rewari. But due to lockdown, she was helpless. She called up the Helpline. The police were then sent to shift her to her uncle’s house located in the same district in the night and the next morning her brother and other relatives took her along with them.In another case in Karnal, a husband injured his wife with a knife. Due to Covid, her medical examination was not taking place. The Helpline counsellor took the help of One Stop Centre-which provides medical, legal, psychological and counselling at district-level- and got her medical examination done. An FIR was also registered.“Physical abuse of women by husbands is coming up in a number of cases. It appears men are frustrated due to lockdown and venting their anger at wives,” said Ritu Rani, counsellor at Women Helpline. Haryana State Women Commission Vice Chairperson Preeti Bharadwaj said their office was closed during lockdown but they had received 65 complaints through email regarding abuse against women which includes dowry, physical hurt, domestic violence, desertion by husband, NRI matters. She added, “Our office also collected data from 22 women police stations across Haryana and police helpline-1091, where about 1,447 complaints have come since lockdown started on March 23 till April 9. We are tracking the disposal of these complaints.”     Meanwhile, the Women Helpline received 2,191 calls from people who got stuck in lockdown and were asking about CM Window of their native states, where to get passes, asking for other helpline numbers working in Haryana, power and sanitation complaints, recharge queries, Punjab helpline numbers, transportation to their native state, and ration queries.  Category                                       ComplaintsDomestic Violence                        62Physical Hurt                                     4Phone Stalking                                         6Family Dispute/Neighbour Dispute    21Cyber Crime                                              3Theft                                                            1Verbal abuse/misbehave                          7Dowry                                                            1Refusal of marriage                                     1Threat                                                            1Mental Harassment                                     1Total                                                               108*From March 23 to April 21||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/domestic-violence-calls-at-haryana%C2%A0women%C2%A0helpline-rise-by-32-per-cent-during-lockdown-76146
25-04-2020||---||42-year-old Ambala man tests positive for coronavirus||Ambala, April 25A 42-year-old man from Tharva village in the district on Saturday tested positive for Covid, taking the district tally to 12.He was suffering from kidney ailment and diabetes as well.Around 16 families in contact with the patient had been home-quarantined for 14 days. While all 10 Covid patients admitted to Ambala hospitals had already been discharged after recovering from the deadly virus, a 55-year-old Tablighi Jamaat attendee patient was still admitted to Chandigarh’s PGI.However, he had also recovered from Covid but was being treated for other ailments, Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said. The district had also reported a Covid death, first in the state. 23 students stranded in Kota arrive in Karnal; quarantinedKarnal: As many as 23 stranded students from Kota arrived in Karnal and have been kept in a quarantine ward at Jaat Dharamshala in the city. Their health screening will be done shortly.Meanwhile, 173 migrant workers, who are staying at a shelter home, are being sent to their native places in UP.Yamunanagar admn sends 400 migrant workers to UP in 20 busesYamunanagar: The district administration sent around 400 migrant workers in 20 buses of Haryana Roadways to Uttar Pradesh on Saturday morning.According to official data, about 2,300 migrant workers are staying in 24 shelter homes in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/42-year-old-ambala-man-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-76130
25-04-2020||Gurugram||Migrants rounded up in Gurugram||Inspired by online stories of people reaching native villages in Bengal and UP riding cycles, 10 daily wagers, desperate to get back home, living as tenants in Gurugram decided to pedal their way to native villages in Bihar but were rounded up and sent back by Sohna police on Friday. The 10 labourers started in the wee hours and were trying to cross state border while travelling through fields.Getting a tip-off from some farmers, the patrolling team of Sohna police intercepted them and rounded them. They were however left off after counselling, while six of them stayed in Badshahpur village, four stayed in Mohammadpur, Sector 37.“We have no work and our families are alone in Bihar. We thought lockdown will end in a month but it is getting extended day by day,” said one of them. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/migrants-rounded-up-in-gurugram-75992
25-04-2020||Gurugram||CRPF holds its first e-passing-out parade||For the first time in its history, the world’s largest paramilitary force, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), commissioned 42 officers into the force through a webinar due to the Covid scare.  Trained at the CRPF officers’ training academy in Kadarpur village, Gurugram, the 42 trainee officers, including four women, dressed in their uniforms and additionally adorning masks and gloves took the traditional ‘antim pag’ (last step at the training institute) by stepping on a special doormat kept at the exit of the auditorium and embossed with these words in Hindi. The trainee officers had completed their training on March 5. However, their passing-out parade (POP) scheduled for March 22 had been put on hold due to the pandemic. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy and CRPF chief AP Maheshwari addressed the young officers, seated in an auditorium, from their respective offices in North Block and Lodhi Road in Delhi. They inducted this 51st batch of DAGOs (directly appointed gazetted officers) through the first-ever e-passing out parade that replaced the traditional way of holding a parade and ceremonial event under the sky. The officers were administered the oath to serve the country. Later, the academy officials pipped ranks of Assistant Commandant on their shoulders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crpf-holds-its-first-e-passing-out-parade-75991
25-04-2020||---||3 of Rohtak’s 4 Covid cases visited Delhi hospitals||Rohtak, April 24Covid patients okay, says PGIMSThe Rohtak PGIMS authorities have stated that all three Covid-positive patients admitted at the institute were recovering. In a statement issued here on Friday, the authorities said certain elements were spreading baseless rumours regarding their condition.The Rohtak district administration has asked residents planning to visit any Delhi hospital for treatment or accompanying anyone for the purpose to inform the local health authorities in advance. Three of the four residents of Rohtak district found Covid-positive had visited Delhi hospitals recently.“Residents of Rohtak undergoing treatment from any Delhi hospital must get their details registered with the Rohtak Civil Surgeon or on helpline numbers 01262-281031 and 7027816559,” Rohtak Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate RS Verma ordered on Friday.The district health authorities had recently asked Rohtak residents who had visited Maharaja Agarsen Hospital in Punjabi Bagh, New Delhi, to report to the Civil Hospital or call on helpline numbers as several persons who had visited the said hospital were found Covid-positive.DC halts procurementMeanwhile, the district administration has created a containment area in Sampla township of Rohtak district after a local resident tested positive for Covid. The nearby areas have also been put under the buffer zone. Rohtak Deputy Commissioner RS Verma has stopped procurement/purchase of wheat and mustard at the local grain markets with immediate effect as a precautionary measure.500 home quarantinedNearly 500 residents of the area in which the Covid-positive man was staying have also been home quarantined. The houses in the ward have been sanitised and 10 medical teams have been deployed to screen and take samples of the local residents. The 35-year-old man belongs to Uttar Pradesh and was working at a plywood factory in Sampla. After the lockdown, he started selling vegetables to earn a livelihood. The people who came in contact with him were being traced, screened and quarantined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-of-rohtaks-4-covid-cases-visited-delhi-hospitals-75990
25-04-2020||
||Control room catered to 1L calls so far||Chandigarh, April 24  From providing medicine to sending ambulance, the Haryana Government’s Covid control room has attended 1.07 lakh calls this month till April 23, thus helping people in the times of crisis. It is also providing tele-medicine services.  Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, Rajeev Arora said anyone could get a free consultation from specialist doctors regarding Covid symptoms, general health and mental health related queries by making a call to the Covid control room. As many as 979 doctors are available for counselling on this helpline.  On April 22, the control room received 3,961 calls and a caller named Ravinder from Karnal, who is a cancer patient undergoing treatment from PGI, Chandigarh, sought medical assistance. Vikas Gupta, Director General, Swarna Jayanti Haryana Institute for Fiscal Management, intervened after which Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Karnal, Gagandeep Singh visited the patient and handed over the medicine. Similarly, on April 23, 4,320 calls were received. Three major concerns were addressed out of which one was of Ashish from Gurugram. The caller’s wife was nine months pregnant and was in labour pain since morning. Due to the lockdown, they were unable to approach a doctor. The ambulance was provided within 30 minutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/control-room-catered-to-1l-calls-so-far-75989
25-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||No parole for convict after father dies amid lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 24The Punjab and Haryana High Court has refused to grant parole to a murder convict whose father died during the Covid lockdown. Among other things, the Bench was of the view that the convict, lodged in Hisar jail in Haryana, belonged to Rajasthan and both states were under curfew, while the country was under a national lockdown. The Bench noted that the last rites had already been performed and confirmed information regarding ‘bhog’ ceremony was not available.The petitioner, Natwar Lal Das, had moved the High Court through video-conferencing against Haryana and other respondents for directing the Hisar Central Jail Superintendent to temporarily release him on parole in accordance with provisions of the Haryana Good Conduct Prisoners (Temporary Release) Act, 1988.The Bench was told that the petitioner was convicted of murder and other offences under Sections 302, 343 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code by the Hisar Additional Sessions Judge and was currently undergoing imprisonment for life till natural death and his appeal against conviction was pending in the High Court.The Bench was also told that the petitioner’s father died on April 12, after which the authority concerned was approached for the convict’s temporary release. The petitioner’s grievance was that the application continued to remain pending, compelling him to move the High Court.His counsel submitted that a prisoner had a statutory right to temporary release from prison on parole if a member of his family died. He submitted that the petitioner wished to attend his father’s ‘bhog’ ceremony and participate in performance of certain rituals and as such, he was entitled to be released on parole.Haryana Additional Advocate General Deepak Sabharwal, on the other hand, contended that the application moved on the petitioner’s behalf for parole stood rejected. He further submitted that the last rites had already been performed and as such, the petitioner was not entitled to parole.Taking up the matter, the Bench of Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli asserted that the last rites, as submitted by the state counsel, had been performed and the submission regarding the ‘bhog’ ceremony and other rituals could not be countenanced either. The Bench noted that the state counsel had submitted that the village panchayat and other authorities concerned “denied if any ‘bhog’ ceremony was being performed or any dates fixed by the family”.The Bench stated that even otherwise, the petitioner was a resident of Udaipur in Rajasthan and currently lodged in Central Jail-1 in Hisar. “Both states are under curfew and owing to a pandemic, the country is under a national lockdown. Thus, in the given circumstances, we are dissuaded to grant the prayer of the petitioner or to order his release from prison on parole,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-parole-for-convict-after-father-dies-amid-lockdown-75988
25-04-2020||---||Kurukshetra arhtiyas join hands to tide over labour crunch||Kurukshetra, April 24Over 61 KMT wheat bought in AmbalaFarmers and commission agents are facing various difficulties pertaining to logistics and arrangements at 106 purchase centres, including 15 grain markets, in the district.The number of farmers, which was restricted to 25 per day on Monday, went up to 100 a day at the mandis on Friday. Over 61,379.1 MT wheat was purchased in the district till Thursday evening.Farmers Ram Saran, Ajit Singh and Bakhtawar Singh, waiting for their turn to sell their produce, alleged inadequate arrangements. TNSCommission agents in Kurukshetra have formed groups of three to four each to tide over the shortage of labour and ensure smooth wheat procurement.They claimed they were making-do with just half the labour they had last year. Daulat Ram, an arhtiya in the Thanesar grain market, said he had nine labourers for the wheat season last year and not even one this year. “Many of us are facing a similar crunch and so we decided to form groups of three to four each to get the work done,” he said.Thanesar Grain Market Arhtiya Association president Dayal Chand said the large commission agents used to operate with 30 to 40 labourers till last year while now they have 15 to 20 labourers, including local workers. Small commission agents who used to operate with five to seven labourers have formed groups of three-four to manage procurement, he said.Deputy Commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said the procurement season was progressing smoothly. “Four procurement agencies (Food and Supply, Haryana Warehousing Corporation, Hafed and FCI) in Kurukshetra had purchased 1,27,976 MT wheat, of which 23,486 MT was lifted till April 23. The SDMs have been directed to visit purchase centres and ensure there were no issues related to procurement.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-arhtiyas-join-hands-to-tide-over-labour-crunch-75987
25-04-2020||Deepender Deswal||People’s proactive approach prevents Covid spread in Jind||Tribune News ServiceJind, April 242 patients infection-freeThe district reported two positive cases from Nidani village — one of the infected persons had attended the Nizamuddin event and another villager came in his contact.The entire village was declared containment zone and the Health Department sanitised the entire district. Both positive cases have now recovered fully.The proactive approach of villagers over preventive measures as per the Health Department advisory and the role of social organisations in motivating people in urban areas to stay indoors have helped the district administration in controlling the spread of Covid in the district.The district reported two positive cases from Nidani village — one of the infected persons had attended the Nizamuddin event and another villager came in his contact.The entire village was declared containment zone and the Health Department sanitised the entire district.The district officials say that the local villagers’ awareness about Covid was key to containing the disease.The villages had imposed strict restrictions on the movement of people. Ajmer Singh, sarpanch of Kandela village, said that they had put up nine nakas around the village and no outsider was allowed to enter the village.‘Affected village sanitised’The Health Department team stands out in its effort to sanitise and take effective measures at Nidani village. The village is a containment zone and will complete the period of 14 days on Saturday. Social bodies have cooperated with the district administration in distribution and supply of essential items in urban areas. — Aditya Dahiya, Deputy Commissioner“In case of emergency, a meeting of persons was organised at the nakas by the teams of ‘thikri pehra’ outside the village. The locals ensured that needy persons get food and essential items,” he said. They have eased some restrictions now as the harvesting season is at its peak.Deputy Commissioner Aditya Dahiya maintained that while the police initially had to get strict to ensure movement of people in urban areas and at the inter-district borders, the residents later realised the importance of staying home.“The Health Department team stands out in its effort to sanitise and take effective measures at Nidani village. The village is a containment zone and will complete the period of 14 days on Saturday. Social organisations have cooperated with the district administration in distribution and supply of essential commodities in urban areas,” he said.The DC maintained that unscrupulous elements tried to create problems as incidents of liquor smuggling in the region increased after the closure of the liquor shops. “The police cracked down on the smugglers and around 70 per cent of the total cases registered with the police are related to smuggling of illicit liquor in the district,” he said.The Civil Surgeon said that health officials remained alert round the clock as 1,200 ASHA workers, along with anganwari workers, worked as a unit to contain the pandemic in the district.“While the police and administration ensured adherence to the guidelines of social distancing, 19 teams of the Health Department left no stone unturned to trace out the contacts of both the positive cases and took a total of 502 samples for the Covid test. While both positive cases have now recovered fully, the report of samples taken today is awaited,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/peoples-proactive-approach-prevents-covid-spread-in-jind-75986
25-04-2020||Karnal||Karnal MC seals manufacturing unit||A battery manufacturing unit was sealed by the team of Karnal Municipal Corporation in Janakpuri Colony allegedly for continuing operation without any permission.On a tip off that a battery manufacturing unit was operational in Janakpuri on Gaushala road near old grain market, Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav constituted a team led by Gagandeep Singh, Joint Commissioner of KMC, who raided the unit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-mc-seals-manufacturing-unit-75985
25-04-2020||---||8 more test positive, but active cases down to 86||Chandigarh, April 24As 16 patients got cured in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases in Haryana came down to 86 on Friday. The cure rate improved to 67.63 per cent from 62.96 per cent, as per the health bulletin.With eight fresh cases – five from Sonepat and three from Panipat — the cumulative number of positive cases touched 267. This number stands at 281 with the inclusion of the 14 Italian nationals who have since been discharged. Of these, 186 have recovered. Nine patients were discharged from Gurugram, which reduced the active cases in the district to 12. While one person each was discharged from hospital in Faridabad, Hisar, Kurukshetra and two each from Sonepat and Kaithal.Of the state’s 22 districts 19 are Covid affected. Of these, nine are Covid free — Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, Hisar, Jind, Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Yamunanagar. A total of 18,845 samples have been taken so far, of which 16,642 came negative and results of 1,928 were awaited. The tests per million population increased to 743, according to Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajeev Arora.Five persons tested positive in Sonepat on Friday, including a 60-year-old cancer patient. The four are include a 39-year-old man, whose wife is a staff nurse in Babu Jagjiwan Ram hospital in Delhi and had tested positive, a 35-year-old woman, wife of an infected employee of Babu Jagjiwan Ram Hospital. A 31-year-old man, who works in a private firm in Gurugram, also tested positive.Among Panipat’s cases are a 34-year-old woman and her 14-year-old son studying in Usmania Madrassa near Jama Masjid in Delhi. The third patient is a Delhi Police constable who came to his native village 8-10 days ago. The Jhajjar administration declared Sulodha village as containment zone after a Delhi Police personnel hailing from the village tested positive in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-more-test-positive-but-active-cases-down-to-86-75984
25-04-2020||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar polytechnic donates kiosks to collect samples||The management of Mukand Lal group of educational institutions presented four Covid sample testing kiosks to the Health Department on Friday.   “Today, we sent two Covid sample testing kiosks to the health authorities of Ambala district and two to the Yamunanagar administration,” said Dr Ramesh Kumar, general secretary, Mukand Lal educational institutes, Yamunanagar. He said that six more sample testing kiosks would be soon provided to the authorities of state health authorities.   Anil Budhiraja, principal of Seth Jai Parkash Polytechnic, Damla, an institute of the Mukand Lal group, said the kiosks were designed and fabricated by a team of their college. He said the kiosks were designed to mitigate the dependence of healthcare workers on personal protective equipment (PPE) kits that were in short supply. “These screening booths are fabricated on the lines of a telephone booth and helps reduce risk to health workers while collecting samples of Covid suspects,” said Budhiraja.  “The kiosk provides better safety to health workers and is portable. It can be mounted on a vehicle and transported to any location. It can be useful for collecting samples in hotspots and border areas,” said Budhiraja.   Earlier, the polytechnic had designed and fabricated an automated disinfection chamber that was set up at Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, on April 10. Three more such chambers will be handed over to the government soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-polytechnic-donates-kiosks-to-collect-samples-75983
25-04-2020||Chandigarh||Panel to monitor  private labs||The Haryana Government has constituted a committee to monitor the working of ICMR-approved private labs for Covid testing. “A committee of experts is to be set up to assess/check documentation/sample processing and quality of medium/reagents of ICMR-approved private labs for Covid-19 testing,” an order issued by the Health Department said. Among the members of the committee are Dr SS Dahiya, Senior Microbiologist, Government Hospital, Gurugram; Dr Sarita Yadav, Head of the Department of Microbiology, BPS, Medical College, Khanpur Kalyan (Sonepat) or Dr PS Gill, Associate Professor, Department of Microbiology, PGIMS, Rohtak; Dr Anirudh Verma, Quality Manager, Haryana Medical Systems Corporation Limited; besides, experts from the Office of Director General Health Services and the Public Health Department. The committee may visit private labs once in 10 days to ensure quality testing for Covid, the order said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-to-monitor-private-labs-75982
25-04-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||59L households surveyed, 11K found symptomatic||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 24Plasma therapy not needed, says VijOver 11,000 persons have been identified with likely symptoms of Covid, including breathlessness or pneumonia, in a door-to-door survey of households across Haryana.Nearly 20,000 Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) conducted the Central Government-sponsored survey across the state. They reached out to as many as 59.20 lakh households and nearly 2.96 crore state residents in two rounds. They didn’t screen people, but asked a set of questions on likely symptoms of Covid and arrival of any person from outside into the household recently.As many as 1.01 lakh persons were identified with influenza-like illness, while 11,391 reported breathlessness and pneumonia. Also, 23.36 lakh persons in the state fell under high-risk category. They include pregnant women, people above the age of 60 and those suffering from high blood pressure, diabetes, cancer, TB and heart and kidney ailments. Nearly 6,070 persons were found to have foreign travel history and their surveillance was ensured.“With the identification of symptomatic people, the protocol will be developed for their testing. ASHA workers are not medically trained professionals and conducted a survey only. So medical screening will be required in symptomatic cases before carrying out tests, as some could be age-related cases too,” said a senior Health Department official. ASHA workers, who were paid Rs 1,000 each, also distributed over 5 lakh pamphlets to spread awareness about Covid.During a conference of state health ministers with Union Health Minister Dr Harshvardhan on Friday, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij suggested use of rapid testing kits for the symptomatic cases, but Dr Harshvardhan said their use had been put on hold. “Now, after their medical check-up, PCR tests could be conducted to check Covid. We will test all of them,” said Vij.He said he had raised the issue of discrepancy in Gurugram-based SRL Diagnostics lab results which showed four negative cases as positive. He said a committee of six experts had been formed to look into functioning of private labs. “The Civil Surgeons of Ambala and Gurugram have been asked to submit a fact-finding report on misreporting by SRL Diagnostics lab,” he said.Vij said the Union Health Minister praised the high cure rate in Haryana, which reached 67.63 per cent today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/59l-households-surveyed-11k-found-symptomatic-75981
25-04-2020||Gurugram||Asked for pass, trio attacks Gurugram cop||A Gurugram constable was attacked by three persons headed to Jaipur in violation of the lockdown when he stopped their car at a naka on the expressway at Manesar and asked for movement pass. The trio was arrested after registration of an FIR and their vehicle was seized.The incident took place late around11.50 pm on Thursday night when constable Hiralal was on naka duty with five other cops at Manesar stand on the Delhi-Jaipur highway. As per the complaint filed by Hiralal, they signalled a Fiat car coming towards them to stop, but its driver tried to flee. When forcibly stopped, the person driving the car — identified as Vishal of Ellenabad in Sirsa — started shouting on being asked to show his curfew pass.An FIR was registered and the police arrested car Vishal and his two friends — Prem Dutt of Rishikesh and Dinesh of Chamba in HP. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/asked-for-pass-trio-attacks-gurugram-cop-75980
25-04-2020||Karnal||3 held for murder||The police have claimed to have solved the murder case of a youth, who was found buried near the Western Yamuna Canal here on April 17. A woman, her brother-in-law and her sister-in-law have been arrested in this connection.The body was identified after pamphlets were put up. Meenu of Shiv Colony identified the body as that of Nand Kishor, a resident of the same colony whom she regarded as her brother.The Sadar police led by SHO Baljeet Singh arrested Guddi, Kavita and her husband Rajbir, residents of Balaji Colony. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-held-for-murder-75979
25-04-2020||Gurugram||Yemen national held||Gurugram police nabbed a Yemen national for staying in India with an expired passport and visa. The police said the accused identified as Mohammad Suleman Ahemad came to India in 2015 on student visa and the validity of his passport and visa expired in 2017. The police nabbed him at JMD building, Sector 65.  An FIR of overstay under the Foreigners Act has been registered. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yemen-national-held-75978
25-04-2020||
||Mother’s plea declined, no parole for Ram Rahim||Chandigarh, April 24 The authorities in Rohtak’s Sunaria jail today rejected a plea seeking three-week parole to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, lodged in prison for rape of two sadhvis and murder of a journalist. Ram Rahim’s mother Naseeb Kaur had filed the plea for parole for three weeks for her son citing her illness. Vijai Vardhan, Additional Chief Secretary, Home, confirmed that the Jail Superintendent had rejected Ram Rahim’s parole plea based on a report received from the Sirsa SP. “As per standard protocol, the Jail Superintendent sought a report from the Sirsa SP since Ram Rahim’s dera was in that district. The SP’s report said the dera chief’s release on parole could lead to breach in peace in the district. The report said the condition of Ram Rahim’s mother was stable,” said Vardhan. The issue of Ram Rahim’s parole plea had become a major controversy when Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh had expressed apprehension that the Haryana Government was planning to release him on parole due to political considerations. Ranjit Singh, Minister for Jails, denied that there was any politics involved in the case and said Ram Rahim’s parole has been rejected strictly as per rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mothers-plea-declined-no-parole-for-ram-rahim-75977
25-04-2020||Rohtak||Procurement at Sampla halted after man tests +ve||The district administration today created a containment zone in Sampla township of Rohtak after a local resident tested positive for Covid. Deputy Commissioner RS Verma ordered that procurement of wheat and mustard at the local grain market be halted as a precautionary step.At least 500 residents have been quarantined at their homes and 10 teams deployed to screen and collect samples.The 35-year-old Covid patient was employed with a plywood factory in Sampla. After the lockdown, he started selling vegetables. All those who came in contact with him are being traced, screened and quarantined. Meanwhile, the Rohtak PGIMS issued a statement, clarifying that its three Covid positive were “absolutely fine”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/procurement-at-sampla-halted-after-man-tests-ve-75730
