25-07-2020||Chandigarh||783 new cases take Haryana’s count past 30,000||Haryana reported 783 new coronavirus cases and seven deaths, taking the state’s total cases to 30,538.The state’s death toll now stands at 389.Faridabad reported three of Saturday’s seven deaths. Sonepat, Rohtak, Ambala and Jind reported a death each.At 198 cases, Faridabad also reported the highest cases of any district in the state.Rewari (125), Gurugram (98), Sonepat (50), Palwal (56), Panipat (50), Hisar (48), Mahindergarh (34), Ambala (27), Panchkula (23), Jhajjar (18), Rohtak (15), Jind (11), Kurukshetra (8), Nuh (6), Bhiwani (4), Sirsa (3), Fatehabad (4), Yamunanagar (4), and Kaithal (1), all reported new cases.Gurugram and Faridabad have the highest cases in Haryana ---the two districts together account for 52 per cent of the state’s cases and 61 per cent of the state’s deaths.Meanwhile, 701 people were released from hospitals across the state after recovery. Haryana now has 6,495 active cases. Of these, 97 are critical and are on ventilators in various hospitals and 140 are on oxygen support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/783-new-cases-take-haryanas-count-past-30-000-117854
25-07-2020||New Delhi||2021 edition of Khelo India Youth Games to be held in Panchkula||The 2021 edition of the Khelo India Youth Games will be held after the Tokyo Olympics in Panchkula, Haryana, Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju announced on Saturday.In a video conference in which he was also joined by Haryana Chief Minister Manohal Lal Khattar and state Sports Minister Sandeep Singh, Rijiju said that an official announcement of the dates will be made only after the postponed Tokyo Games. Furthermore, he also said that the government had planned to hold the fourth edition of the Khelo India Youth Games later in the year but it won't be possible now due to the COVID-19 pandemic. "We had planned to hold an edition of the Khelo India games in November-December this year but that will not be happening now because of the pandemic. So the edition of Khelo India that has been awarded to Haryana is the 2021 Khelo India," said Rijiju. "After the Olympics, I will speak to the Chief Minister and Sports Minister Sandeep Singh and will decide upon a date for the Games. Preparations for the Games will start as soon as the Tokyo Olympics end and the work on infrastructure can start right now." The Tokyo Olympics is scheduled to be held from July 23 to August 8 next year."Haryana is a centre for sports," said Khattar."In Khelo India itself Haryana took the top spot in 2018 and in 2020, we were second and won 200 medals. Our sports administration is the best in the country and the government gives more prize money for medal winners than anywhere in the country. We also give a lot of job opportunities to our athletes. Sports is a very important part of the lives of the people in our state. "Panchkula is part of a tricity with Mohali and Chandigarh and there are lots of facilities for accommodating athletes. For tourists, Panchkula is a gateway to Himachal Pradesh and people will fall in love with the natural beauty of the place. There are all sorts of facilities for sports in the city and in case the need arises, facilities in the vicinity of the city can also be used to stage a few events." IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2021-edition-of-khelo-india-youth-games-to-be-held-in-panchkula-117839
25-07-2020||Ambala||Ambala records 11th coronavirus death||A 56-year-old man died from Mullana died of coronavirus at the district civil hospital on Saturday, officials said---the eleventh death in the district from the infection.Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said the latest victim had a history of heart, kidney and lung problems and even had been through a heart surgery.  He came back to Mullana on July 13 after going to various hospitals in Punjab for treatments. He tested positive after his return.The district meanwhile also recorded 27 new cases, taking its tally to 1222. Sixteen of the new cases came from Ambala City and eight from cantonment. Mullana, Shahzadpur and Chaurmastpur each reported one case.Fifty-two people were released from hospitals after recovery, officials said.Ambala district now has 213 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-records-11th-coronavirus-death-117824
25-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Priyanka Gandhi shifts to penthouse in Gurugram||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 25Escorted by her Z-plus security and local police, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday shifted to a penthouse in DLF Aralia on Golf Course Road, Sector 42.Out to avoid any media glare and security issues, she shifted to the penthouse for the next few months in wee hours today.Following the shifting, security has been beefed up around her wing with restrictive entry only being allowed since morning. Sources claim that the security authorities have been asked to fiercely guard the CCTV footage showing Priyanka entering the society.The guards on duty were also made to submit their phones before her entry. The neighbours, too, have been advised against sharing photos and videos on social media. The realty sector, meanwhile, saw an overnight surge in property prices of society. The rentals gave doubles and there is a 20 per cent increase in sale prices being quoted since morning.A special team of Gurugram police has been deputed outside in plain clothes and the area has been put on a high-security sensitive area.“Security has been stepped up. We will not divulge anything as its sensitive,” said a senior cop, who headed security while shifting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/priyanka-gandhi-shifts-to-penthouse-in-gurugram-117776
25-07-2020||---||Karnal reports 23 new COVID-19 cases, taking district tally to 832||Karnal, July 25As many as 23 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in Karnal on Saturday, taking the number of positive cases to 832.The fresh cases include two police personnel of Nigdhu police station, one policeman of KCGMC police post, two family members of a policeman from Police Lines.Three cases have also been reported from Sector-9, one from Sector-6, two from Vazir Chand Colony, three from Ashok Nagar, five from Vakilpura, one each from Sugarcane Colony, Sitamai, New Preetam Nagar and Manmati.Meanwhile, 557 patients have also been discharged to date. The active cases in the district stand at 264. 10 patients have died so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-reports-23-new-covid-19-cases-taking-district-tally-to-832-117749
25-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||What SC and HCs have said about Section 399/402 of IPC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 25The Supreme Court and the High Courts have over the years settled the debate over the police “overhearing” the dacoity plan of the accused as in the cases under ection 399/402 of the IPC as highly improbable.But despite that most of these cases have the same story of an informant giving information to the police about five to six people, armed with weapons, planning dacoity, and when the police reach there, they overhear their plans and arrest them. And despite being armed, accused usually don’t offer any resistance.The police also do not join independent witnesses during their arrest and recovery of weapons from them.In ‘Suleman versus State of Delhi through Secretary’, which was a case of section 399/402, the Supreme Court in 1999 observed that it was doubtful that accused would be speaking so loud about dacoity plan that the police personnel standing outside a room could hear it.  In a similar case, the Punjab and Haryana High Court, in ‘Bagga alias Bangu vs State of Haryana’ in 2011, commented, “It is improbable that after the secret information was received till the police party reached at the spot, the accused were continuing to repeat their plan. It is also very improbable that at the very nick of the moment, when the police party reached at the spot, the accused started their conversation.” The same view was expressed by the high court in Piru & ors vs State of Haryana in 2015.Regarding recovery of weapons from the accused, the Supreme Court in ‘Chaturi Yadav and others vs State of Bihar’ in 1979 observed that the mere fact that the accused were found at 1 am with some of them armed with guns didn’t prove that they had assembled for the purpose of committing dacoity or for making preparations to accomplish that object.  A similar view was taken by the Delhi High Court in ‘Des Raj alias Dass vs the State’ in 2000 and the Punjab and Haryana High Court in ‘Mahavir vs State of Haryana’ in 2010 that mere assemblage and recovery of firearms didn’t prove charge under section 399/402 of IPC. Arrest of armed accused without resistanceA 2003 case of planning to commit dacoity of Karnal, ‘Jasbir Singh aka Javri aka Jabbar Singh vs State of Haryana’, reached the apex court, after conviction of six people at trial court and the Punjab and Haryana High Court upholding the punishment. A division bench of Justices Dipak Misra and UU Lalit commented in 2015 that “strangely” despite the high court considering overhearing of dacoity plan by police as exaggeration and padding on part of Investigating Officer, the accused were convicted.“It is not natural that the six accused, four of whom were armed with deadly weapons, neither offered any resistance nor caused any injury to any of the police personnel before they are apprehended by the police. It is strange that all the accused were wearing blue shirts, as if there was a uniform provided to them,” said the apex court.Similar observations were made by the Chhattisgarh High Court in ‘Santosh Kumar and Etc vs State of Chhattisgarh’ in 2006. The judgment said, “…the appellants were alleged to be armed with country-made pistols, cartridges and jute bombs and making preparations to commit dacoity, yet they neither attempted to flee nor resorted to firing to avoid their arrest by the appellants.”Despite these judgments, the police story remains the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/what-sc-and-hcs-have-said-about-section-399-402-of-ipc-117743
25-07-2020||---||Teams monitoring sale of masks, sanitisers: Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana to HC||Chandigarh, July 24The Punjab and Haryana High Court (HC) was today told that the States of Punjab and Haryana, along with UT Chandigarh, had constituted teams, which were continuously monitoring the sale of masks and sanitisers. They were also ensuring compliance of the MHA guidelines.The submission to this effect by the two states and the UT came during the hearing of a suo motu case on the quality and pricing of masks and sanitisers. Appearing before the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain, Haryana Additional Advocate-General Deepak Balyan and Punjab senior Deputy Advocate-General Monica Chibbar Sharma submitted that they were strictly complying with the MHA guidelines relating to the standard prescribed for masks and sanitisers and the price of the same etc.They further submitted that raids were conducted and action taken against those overpricing masks and sanitisers or selling substandard products, following the orders of a Single Bench. “All the counsel submit that they shall continue to ensure that the requisite quality of masks sold by chemists are not over-priced. In view of the statement of all the counsel appearing for the respondents, nothing further is required to be done in the present matter, which is accordingly disposed of,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/teams-monitoring-sale-of-masks-sanitisers-chandigarh-punjab-haryana-to-hc-117535
25-07-2020||Ambala||Gender test racket busted in Ambala||A tout was arrested for allegedly running a sex determination racket and an ultrasound machine was sealed at a private ultrasound centre during a joint raid conducted by teams of the Health departments of Ambala and Yamunanagar here today. The tout has been identified as Neeraj of Duliyani village in Ambala district. A deal was struck for Rs30,000 to carry out a test. Of this, a sum of Rs10,000 was given in advance.Deputy Civil Surgeon Balwinder Kaur said a decoy customer was sent. The tout was contacted and the teams of Ambala and Yamunanagar met to conduct the raid today. After the test, the balance amount was handed over to the tout. He got suspicious and managed to flee from the spot on a motorcycle. However, he was nabbed soon and the money was recovered from his possession.The doctor, who was present at the centre, claimed that no such activity was performed and he had no link with the tout. Only simple ultrasound was carried out, he added.“During an inspection, it was observed that the form F, which is mandatory before performing the ultrasound, was incomplete. The machine has been sealed and the case will be put before the District Advisory Committee. The tout has been handed over to the police and further investigation is on. Action will be taken against the doctor, if his role is established in the ultrasound,” said Balwinder Kaur.A case has been registered at the Mahesh Nagar police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gender-test-racket-busted-in-ambala-117537
25-07-2020||Sheetal||National-level boxer Priyanka Sharma is training hard for the Olympics||National-level boxer Priyanka Sharma got married seven years ago but that didn’t stop her from participating in competitions. Just one-and-half-month after delivering her baby girl, she was back with her punching gloves for training. After she lost her father at the age of 12, Priyanka’s elder brother motivated her to train in boxing and taekwondo. She won accolades in bodybuilding and dead lifts too. From a shy girl from Haryana to a boxer of national repute, the journey of Priyanka is an inspiring one.She moved to Ludhiana post her marriage. Priyanka is now training to compete for the Olympics. She won a silver medal at a national-level boxing competition and has represented India internationally in taekwondo. This year on January 26, she won gold for her state.What does fitness mean to you?Fitness for me is making today better and preparing for tomorrow.Lockdown woesWell, since my husband and I are gym trainers, our business has taken a hit by the pandemic. But, we have started giving online training classes. Things are looking up now. We had to start from scratch as we did not have equipment. We managed with a wooden rod with six to seven bricks tied to each end. We did shoulder-presses and dead lifts with it.The best part…Staying fit and healthy also make you look younger. I feel the best thing of being an athlete is that people cannot guess my true age.Fitness accessories that you cannot work out without?My feet are my accessory. I can manage to do CrossFit training in do gaj ki jagah, if nothing else.What do you enjoy the most while training?Dead lift and push-ups.Diet chartI count my calories and calculate the exact ratio of calories, protein and carbs for each meal.Your cheat meal would be…Golgappe. I craved for it during my pregnancy and even after that.Which exercise you haven’t tried yet?Split jumping, where you first jump and then land on the ground with a split.Who is your inspiration?My husband Ravi Gautam for he supported me. He left his well-established business to be by my side. He motivates me when I doubt myself.One desire?To participate in the Olympics and hopefully win a medal for India. Also, I wish to open my own gym some day to motivate girls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-level-boxer-priyanka-sharma-is-training-hard-for-the-olympics-117702
25-07-2020||During the peak of summer season when many areas in Kaithal town are facing drinking water shortage||Potable water continues to go waste||Farm researchers should write papers in HindiIndia is an agro-based Hindi-speaking country, then why do Indian researchers conduct scientific research on agriculture-related topics in their country and write original papers in English language then publish it in English journals of English-speaking countries. Farming Indian farmers can neither read these English magazines nor do they get any benefit from these researches. The national academy of agricultural sciences, run by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Agricultural Scientist Recruitment Board and University Grants Commission, should also promote scientists on the basis of their national interest rather than rating their research papers published in the journals of English speaking countries. Shakti singh, karnalPoverty must not come in way of potentialApropos the report "Education Minister Gujjar dials Class XII toppers" on 23 July; the minister should arrange to 'adopt' poor wards scoring well in their exams despite braving trying conditions at homes. The Tribune has been aptly highlighting such achievements from time to time. Poverty and gender must not come in the way of good student who have the potential to make good careers.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaWaterlogging in Gurugram cityWhile visiting the Panachyat Bhawan area yesterday, it seemed that we were living in a flooded area. It was covered in water about 2 to 3 feet and this is the situation in the entire city. Whenever it rains, there is waterlogging and people suffer. The concerned department should sit up and take note, so that such a situation does not arise whenever it rains.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/potable-water-continues-to-go-waste-117678
25-07-2020||Karnal||3 students bag top honours||e-faculty development programmeKurukshetra: "The quality of research is directly correlated with infrastructure, commitment of researchers and can be done by having capabilities and desire to enjoy it," said former retired professor Prof MM Goel from Kurukshetra University. He was delivering the inaugural address as the chief guest of the e-faculty development programme on "Advanced qualitative and quantitative techniques" organised by the Department of Business Administration ABES Engineering College, Ghaziabad.e-conference to be organisedFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, in association with the research cell of the Bhartiya Shikshan Mandal will organise a national e-conference on "Re-establishment of Bharatiyata in present era"on August 8 and 9, 2020. Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar said the objective of this conference was to evolve the strategies, policies, processes and programmes for recognising, revalidating and reinstating the social, cultural and spiritual ancient Bharatiya values, methodology and practices in the present system of different sectors of national development and to restore Bharatiyata in all walks of life. He said the multiple challenges and crisis had emerged as a result of the Covid pandemic. The university had decided to motivate and invite people from different disciplines and fields of development to assemble, participate, discuss and contribute through online conference in collaboration with the Bhartiya Shikshan Mandal (BSM). The last date of registration for the conference is July 31, 2020. The interested participants can submit the manuscripts of their articles for the conference on the email events@jcboseust.ac.in by July 27. The details of the conference have been made available on the university website.Managing finance in Covid timesKurukshetra: The one-day national webinar was organised under the aegis of association of mutual funds in India by the College of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, Department of Maharishi Markandeshwar Deemed University. The theme of the webinar was the strategy to manage personal finance, including mutual funds in the current situation and future of the Covid pandemic . Inaugurating the webinar, chief guest Dr Harish Sharma, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, MM (DU), Mullana, described the current global epidemic as a state of emergency and the need for finance management. Underlined Principal Dr Sumeet Gupta welcomed all speakers and guests in the welcome address and highlighted the usefulness and necessity of online seminar as a multi-dimensional medium. Organising secretary Dr Manish Kumar welcomed various teachers, researchers attending from different states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-students-bag-top-honours-117676
25-07-2020||Gurugram||Suicide bid by undertrial||An undertrial lodged in the Bhondsi jail attempted suicide at the Civil Hospital here today after testing positive for Covid.  Jail guards saw him trying to strangle himself and stopped him. He was  referred to the PGIMS in Rohtak as his condition deteriorated.  An FIR was registered against him. The undertrial, identified as Anuj Prakash (27), was arrested in a case of cheating. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/suicide-bid-by-undertrial-117605
25-07-2020||---||Man admits to killing five kids||Hisar, July 24The mother of five children who were killed by their father over the past five years has demanded that the accused father be hanged or shot for the crime.The accused father, Jumma, a daily-wager from Didwara village in Jind district, had intoxicated his two daughters Nisha (7) and Muskan (11) and threw them in a canal on the outskirts of the village.As the police were probing the case after the recovery of the bodies from the Hansi Butana canal, the man confessed to killing his daughters in front of a panchayat in the village on Thursday evening.The father revealed that he had also killed three of his children over the past five years when they were aged between two years to nine months.Jumma’s wife Reena, who is nine months pregnant, said that he should either be hanged or shot. “He has gone on record confessing that he was the perpetrator of the murders of our children. He must die for what he has done to my children,” she said.Village sarpanch Sanjeev Kumar said that villagers were perplexed when the girls went missing. Three of Jumma’s children had also died under mysterious circumstances earlier.“Villagers had doubted that some known person or relative might be involved in the murders. Hence, they held a panchayat on Thursday and asked Jumma if he suspected anybody. But he came out with a shocking confession,” the sarpanch said, adding that the villagers immediately handed him over to the police.ASP Ajit Singh Sekhawat said that Jumma has been arrested and he has confessed to the crime. On July 15, he gave intoxicant-laced eatables to the girls and later, took them to the Hansi Butana link canal. There, he threw them into the canal. He revealed that he had poisoned his nine-month-old daughter five years ago.Subsequently, he had strangled his two sons aged one and two years. The police are trying to find out the motive behind the crime, the ASP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-admits-to-killing-five-kids-117606
25-07-2020||Rohtak||Varsity founder held for scholarship scam||The State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) has arrested Jogender Singh Dalal, the founder of OPJS University located in Churu district of Rajasthan, in connection with the post-matric scholarship scam. A case under Sections 218, 409, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 13 (1) C and D of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered at the SVB police station in Rohtak on July 30, 2019. A special investigation team is probing the matter. “Dalal, who belongs to Chiri village in Rohtak district, embezzled scholarship money, running into crores of rupees, on the basis of fake admission of students from Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes. A local court has sent him to a four days’ police remand,” the SVB said in a statement.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/varsity-founder-held-for-scholarship-scam-117607
25-07-2020||ibune News Service||Oppn’s claim on registry scam unfounded, claims Khattar||Karnal, July 24Reacting to Opposition claims of a registry scam, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said those involve in corruption and scams saw a scam everywhere. The Opposition’s claims were unfounded, he said.“The registry process has been stopped to strengthen the system,” he said in a reply to mediapersons. He reviewed progress of the sewage treatment plant (STP) in Sector 37 here. Asked about the two gangrapes in the district, he said the police were investigating both cases.He said 100 STPs had been installed across the state to treat filthy water and make it usable for agriculture.Earlier, he met party workers and listened to grievances of the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/oppns-claim-on-registry-scam-unfounded-claims-khattar-117608
25-07-2020||
||Jat leader held for ‘derogatory’ post on Ahirs||Gurugram, July 24 The police on Friday arrested Jat leader Hawa Singh Sangwan for allegedly posting derogatory remarks against freedom fighter Rao Tula Ram and the Ahir community on social media. The post was later deleted. He was booked under Sections 153-A and 505 (2) of the IPC. His laptop was seized. According to a complaint lodged on Thursday, Sangwan had allegedly called Rao Tula Ram a “fugitive”. Subsequently, he was arrested from his house in Bhiwani. He has apologised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jat-leader-held-for-derogatory-post-on-ahirs-117609
25-07-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Covid patient dies, Gurugram hospital booked for lapse||Gurugram, July 24The Gurugram police on Friday registered a case of negligence against a private hospital in Sector 37 for allegedly not providing oxygen support leading to the death of a 44-year-old Covid patient.‘Didn’t get oxygen support’The case was registered under Section 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC at Sector 10-A police station after CMO Dr Virender Yadav forwarded a negligence report.According to the police, the deceased woman was admitted to the hospital on June 1. Two days after her admission, she tested positive and was shifted to the Covid ward. She was given a phone by the family when she was taken to the ward.On June 5, she called her family saying she had difficulty in breathing and despite repeated requests, she was not being given any oxygen support.She requested her family to shift her to another hospital. In a critical condition, the family took her to another hospital where she died within minutes of admission.The family alleged that the accused hospital did not provide oxygen support even while she was being shifted to the other hospital in an ambulance despite her complaining of breathlessness.The family moved the CM Window and the CMO office which after inquiry found the allegations to be true and recommended police action.After the death of the victim, family and relatives launched a campaign on social media. “We will send a notice to the hospital staff for joining the probe. The case has been registered and investigation is on. Action will be taken as per law,” said Sanjay Yadav, SHO of Sector 10-A police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-patient-dies-gurugram-hospital-booked-for-lapse-117610
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims 4 more lives in Haryana||With 780 fresh cases, the Covid tally reached 29,755 today. Four deaths pushed the toll to 382, with a fatality rate of 1.28 per cent. One death each was reported from Gurugram, Sonepat, Hisar and Nuh.Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (203), Gurugram (127), Sonepat (65), Rewari (59), Ambala (55), Panipat and Rohtak (35 each), Karnal (30), Kurukshetra (25), Mahendragarh (24), Panchkula (21), Yamunanagar and Jhajjar (20 each), Fatehabad (17), Palwal (15), Kaithal (10), Nuh (9), Sirsa (6) and Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri (2 each).In Ambala, 24 cases were reported from Ambala City and 11 from Ambala Cantonment. Cases in Kurukshetra included a 29-year-old doctor, a 42-year-old man from Bhiwani, a 34-year-old woman, a 64-year-old man and a 32-year-old man. Meanwhile, 704 patients were cured in the last 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/virus-claims-4-more-lives-in-haryana-117611
25-07-2020||Pradeep Sharma||From July 27, e-office at state Secretariat||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 24The paperless office is set to make its foray into the Haryana Government from July 27, with the state implementing the e-office project.For the first time, the use of pen and paper is set to be history in all matters relating to four major policies — outsourcing, ex gratia, casualty (compensation and jobs for dependants) and sports — at the Civil Secretariat.All administrative secretaries and heads of department have been directed to send all matters for consideration to the Chief Secretary through e-office as physical files will not be entertained.Officials concerned will dispose of files through electronic mode on desktops, laptops and smartphones, which will cut unnecessary delays and voluminous paper work.“Electronic movement of files will go a long way in quick disposal of files, especially amid Covid, as a number of officials work from home,” said a senior officer.Sources said e-office, developed by the National Informatics Centre, would provide a digital workplace solution that would pave the way for an efficient and open government by streamlining workflow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/from-july-27-e-office-at-state-secretariat-117612
25-07-2020||---||Hisar administration to serve food to Covid warriors||Hisar, July 24The district administration has withdrawn the decision to ask healthcare workers to make their own food arrangements during their stay at the quarantine centres of Haryana Agricultural University guest house and ‘dharamshala’ in Hisar.The Health Department on Wednesday issued directions to these doctors, nurses and paramedical staff to make own arrangements for food during while in quarantine.Dr Ratna Bharti, Civil Surgeon, stated that they would continue to be provided food by the administration during quarantine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-administration-to-serve-food-to-covid-warriors-117613
25-07-2020||Parveen Arora
||Cops rope in drone to check encroachments in Kaithal||Tribune News Service Karnal, July 24 With an aim to keep a check on encroachments and illegal parking in the city, the Kaithal police have provided a drone to the traffic police here. The drone camera has been roped in to keep an eye on traffic violators who park their vehicles in the no parking zone and will capture the visuals of people who encroach upon the land of the civic body. Besides, e-challans are also being issued to such violators.  Encroachments and illegal parking have made the city roads congested, leading to a traffic chaos in the city.  “Encroachments reduce the flow of traffic and increase jam like situation in the city. The removal of encroachments will be done with the help of the civic body authorities,” said Shashank Kumar Sawan, Superintendent of Police, Kaithal. He said so far, one drone was sufficient to keep a vigil and said more drones would be purchased if the need arises. The SP said they were receiving complaints from various parts of the city regarding encroachments and illegal parking, due to which they had taken the step. Sawan said it would help in keeping a vigil upon a large number of people and also reduce the burden on police personnel. Mukhtyar Singh, SHO, Traffic, said with the help of drone they had issued around 70 e-challans to the commuters who had parked their vehicles in the no parking zones. He said Chatravas Road, old bus stand road, Narwania building and Kabutar Chow were among the worst congested roads owing to encroachments and illegal parking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cops-rope-in-drone-to-check-encroachments-in-kaithal-117614
25-07-2020||Yamunanagar||Mining contractor booked for murder bid||A mining contractor has been booked on the charge of attempt to murder after he allegedly opened fire on his business partner here on July 20. On the complaint by Manoj Wadhwa of Karnal, a case was registered against Inderpal Singh of Yamunanagar under Sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC, and the Arms Act at the City police station here on Thursday. In his complaint, Wadhwa said that on July 20, Inderpal, along with eight to 10 persons, came to his office here and demanded Rs 20 lakh from the amount collected as royalty fee of mining material. He told him that he couldn’t give him the money without consulting with other mining contractors. “He got angry and started abusing me. He and those with him manhandled me. He also opened fire on me but, luckily, I escaped,” the complainant said, adding Rs 20 lakh was missing from the office. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mining-contractor-booked-for-murder-bid-117615
25-07-2020||Rohtak||Sacked cop kidnapped, killed in Rohtak||A former constable, Virender (50), who belonged to the district’s Kheri Meham village, was kidnapped and killed by unidentified assailants here on Friday, the police have said. His cousin said Virender was killed because of a land dispute.  The former cop had gone to the district court complex, from where he was allegedly kidnapped by a group of six to seven assailants. His body was found lying along the Rohtak-Jind road. As per preliminary investigation, he was crushed under a vehicle after being strangled. The body has been sent for the post-mortem examination to ascertain the cause of death. Sources say Virender was sacked by the Police Department as he remained absent from duty for long. He had property disputes with  villagers and was involved in several cases. A case has been registered under various ections  of the IPC on the  complaint of Virender’s cousin Narender. He accused Sunil, Nanha, Rajkumar, Dharmabir, Vijay, Praveen and Ajay of kidnapping and killing Virender because of a land dispute.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sacked-cop-kidnapped-killed-in-rohtak-117616
25-07-2020||
||Ambala gets Rs 7.5 cr for public works||Ambala, July 24 The state government has released Rs 7.5 crore for recarpeting and repair of major roads, parks, nullahs, streetlights and renovation of public places in Ambala Cantonment. The grant was released following the demand of Home Minister Anil Vij. “Since certain roads have developed cracks and potholes, the grant will help in repair and recarpeting of broken roads,” he said. He said 13 major roads would be covered. The work would be allotted shortly and begin immediately after the monsoon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-gets-rs-7-5-cr-for-public-works-117617
25-07-2020||Parveen Arora||HHRC seeks report on poor conditions in Karnal hospital||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 24Taking cognisance of a news report published in The Tribune highlighting that three women shared a single bed in the gynaecology ward of the local Civil Hospital, the Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) has sought a report from the Director General (Health Services) and asked it to file a report in eight weeks.The HHRC has also asked for measures that could be taken to improve the condition in the Karnal hospital as well as in other hospitals of the state. Besides, it has asked the Director General to submit a report on planning to extend gynaecology wards in all hospitals.The HHRC said denial of beds to patients was a violation of human rights. It also observed that the Karnal hospital authorities put patients at the risk of contracting Covid.The Tribune had, on July 21, highlighted the miserable condition of the gynaecology ward in the Civil Hospital here due to heavy rush of patients, including those from the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) as it had closed its gynaecology ward.Earlier, the district authorities had directed the KCGMC to restart the OPD facility. Also, the Director General and Secretary to the state government (Medical Education and Research Department) had issued directions to all government medical colleges/government aided and private medical colleges, who have been made as Covid hospitals, to start the OPD facility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hhrc-seeks-report-on-poor-conditions-in-karnal-hospital-117618
25-07-2020||
||Man accused of robberies on highways arrested||Palwal, July 24 The police have arrested a gang member in connection with incidents of loot on the Kundli–Ghaziabad–Palwal (KGP) and Kundli–Manesar–Palwal (KMP) expressway on Friday. He is alleged to be involved in half a dozen incidents of loot in the past six months in the district. SP Deepak Gahlawat said the accused was identified as Dinesh of Baprola village, New Delhi. He was nabbed by a police team after a tip-off. He said Dinesh, who carries a reward of Rs 5,000 had been a member of Bawaria Gang that targeted vehicles on the KMP and KGP expressways. He said the gang used to force the commuters to pull over after iron nails strewn by them on the expressways caused the tyres to burst. As per the modus operandi, the accused then rob the commuters at gunpoint or other weapon. He said the gang had about a dozen members and had been found to be involved in at least 40 to 50 incidents of loot in the past couple of years in the National Capital Region. The accused has been remanded to police custody by the local court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-accused-of-robberies-on-highways-arrested-117619
25-07-2020||Karnal||Seven  passport offices resume services||Seven post office passport seva kendras in the state, closed since March 23 due to the Covid-induced lockdown, restarted passport service on Wednesday with 25 appointment slots each. The offices in Karnal, Panipat, Kaithal, Yamunanagar, Hisar, Sirsa and Bhiwani, under the Chandigarh Regional Passport Office, had restarted, said Sibash Kabiraj, Chandigarh Regional Passport Officer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seven-passport-offices-resume-services-117620
25-07-2020||Rohtak||In 3 Haryana districts, ‘false’ diversification claims made only to avail grant||A large number of farmers in Rewari, Rohtak and Jhajjar districts of Haryana are learnt to have furnished false crop diversification details to allegedly siphon grants under a state government scheme, the Agriculture Department has found.Wrongs exposedfigure is 381.79 out of 1,283.7 hectaresJhajjar: The valid count stands at 1,396 out of 2,456 hectaresAn incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre is provided under the Mera Pani Meri Virasat Yojana to encourage farmers to switch from water-guzzling paddy to cotton and other crops.The revelation has exposed the government’s claims about the success of the scheme, aimed at conserving water in areas where the water table has been falling sharply.During verification, the department found that 90 per cent of the area registered under the scheme in Rewari did not witness any paddy cultivation last year, a prerequisite for availing the incentive. Similarly, such “invalid” cultivated area is over 70 per cent in Rohtak and 57 per cent in Jhajjar. The state government had in June appealed to the paddy growers to get themselves registered under the scheme by July 2.Sources said in Rewari, 551 farmers had got their 467.7 hectares registered for cultivating cotton instead of paddy this season. The corresponding figures were 1,416 farmers for 1283.7 hectares in Rohtak and 3,306 farmers for 2,456 hectares in Jhajjar.As the Agriculture Department initiated verification on the basis of the Revenue Department’s ‘girdawari’ record, it found a large number of registrations invalid.The registration of a mere 45 out of 467.7 hectares was found valid under the scheme in Rewari. In Rohtak, the valid registration figure was 381.79 out of 1,283.7 hectares while the count stood at 1,396 out of 2,456 hectares in Jhajjar, said sources.Rohtas Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), Rohtak, said the registrations had been declared invalid on the basis of two findings: ‘Girdawari’ record not showing paddy cultivation on registered land last year and farmers not switching from paddy to cotton.Jaswinder Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), Rewari, said paddy crop was transplanted in two of the five blocks in the district last year, as per ‘girdawari’ record. But several farmers from the remaining three blocks also got their land registered under the scheme, hence the registrations had been declared invalid, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-3-haryana-districts-false-diversification-claims-made-only-to-avail-grant-117589
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 38-cr paddy missing from mills||The physical verification of rice mills in Haryana has detected a shortfall of 18,883.90 MT paddy worth around Rs 38 crore, drawing attention once again to ghost purchase in the state.As many as 208 rice mills in the state delivered less than 90 per cent custom milled rice (CMR). This week, physical verification was completed in these mills, and 98 mills were found to have paddy shortfall.Ghost purchaseMillers cover shortfall of custom milled rice by taking PDS rice from other statesIn Kurukshetra, 11,960 MT paddy was found short in 39 mills, while the shortfall was 4,046 MT in 47 Karnal mills and 2,863 MT in seven Kaithal mills. In three mills of Ambala, 8.65 MT paddy was found short, while it was 6.25 MT in two mills of Yamunanagar.Earlier, close to 42,589 MT was found short during physical verification in December-January and a penalty of Rs 80-85 crore was collected from rice millers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-38-cr-paddy-missing-from-mills-117592
