25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 4 more COVID-19 deaths, 408 new cases||The COVID-19 death toll in Haryana rose to 2,858 on Friday with four more fatalities, while 408 new cases pushed the infection tally to 2,60,153, a medical bulletin issued here said.A fatality each was reported from Faridabad, Yamunanagar, Bhiwani and Jind districts, it said.  Among other districts to report new cases include Gurgaon (81) and Faridabad (61).The number of active cases in the state currently stands at 4,750 while the recovery rate is 97.08 per cent. — PTI
25-12-2020||New Delhi||IMD predicts rain and snow followed by cold wave, cold winds, ground frost from December 28 for India’s northwest||A fresh Western Disturbance will affect Western Himalayan Region and adjoining plains of northwest India from December 27 due to which scattered to fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall is expected over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan & Muzaffarabad, the Indian Meteorological Department said on Friday.Isolated to scattered rainfall/snowfall is likely over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and isolated rain/thundershowers over Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh on December 27 and 28. There will be a gradual rise by 2-3°C in minimum temperatures over next 3 days (December 25 to 27) followed by a  fall of 3-5°C in minimum temperatures over northwest in subsequent three days ( December 28 to 30), the weather office said. While no significant change in maximum temperatures during next the three days, there will be a fall of 3-5°C in maximum temperatures over Northwest India between December 28 -30.After the passage of the WD, under the influence of strengthening of cold and dry northwesterly/northerly winds from night of December 28, cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi.Cold wave conditions are also expected in isolated pockets over Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan and north Madhya Pradesh on December 28 and 29.Ground frost conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and north Rajasthan also from December 28 and 29.Fresh spell of dense to very dense fog in isolated pockets very likely over Punjab and isolated dense fog over Haryana and Delhi in the morning hours from December 29, the IMD said.
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cold weather conditions persist in Haryana, Punjab; Ludhiana reels at 1.6 degree C||Piercing cold weather conditions prevailed in most parts of Haryana and Punjab on Friday, with minimum temperatures hovering well below normal limits.According to officials of the Meteorological Department here, Ludhiana in Punjab reeled at a low of 1.6 degrees Celsius while Amritsar too registered a cold night at 2.4 degrees Celsius.Patiala recorded a low of 4 degrees Celsius, they said.In Haryana, Hisar and Karnal experienced severe chill, recording identical minimums of 2.5 degrees Celsius each.Ambala recorded a low of 6 degrees Celsius while Bhiwani’s minimum settled at 5.3 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 4.4 degrees Celsius. — PTI
25-12-2020||New Delhi||‘Gol gappa’ langar by seven firemen from Haryana at farmers’ protest site a hit||On Christmas Day, a group of seven firemen from Sirsa in Haryana began distributing free ‘gol gappa’ at the farmers’ protest site in Singhu border, and the stock was over within half-an-hour.What prompted Surender Kamboj and his friends to start this novel langar was seeing a child loitering near a stall selling ‘gol gappa’. He could not help but ask the child what he wanted.“’Gol gappa’, said the boy who did not have any money,” recalls the 33-year-old fire service personnel. What happened next amazed the child and the farmers in nearby trolleys.Kamboj and his friends from the Rania fire station bought the entire stock of the seller and started a ‘gol gappa’ langar at the spot.“The gol gappa seller had not earned anything as people have been eating at langars (community kitchen). He could sell his stock and we got a chance to do ‘sewa’ (service). It was a win-win situation for everybody,” said Ravindra Kumar, another fire service personnel from Rania.Kumar said seven fire service personnel, including him, have come to the site to support the agitating farmers. “We are a team of 21 personnel at the Rania fire station. We have decided to come to the Singhu border in three batches.”            The fire service personnel said they had permission from the head of the station to participate in the protest. A new batch will come in after every three days, they said.“All of us own agricultural land in our villages. All of us are farmers,” Davinder Singh, another fireman said. “Fire service is a responsible profession. But fighting for the rights of farmer community is a responsibility, too,” Kamboj added.It was a Christmas miracle for Mohammad Salim, the ‘gol gappa’ seller, who said Kamboj gave him Rs 1,000 which was more than what he expected.He had earned just Rs 500 in the last three days.“Everything is available for free at the langar. Anything that you would think of. Initially, I did not set up the stall thinking the protest would end in a few days. But it continued. I could not have stayed home forever,” said the 26-year-old resident of Kundli village. — PTI
25-12-2020||Karnal/Ambala||Farmers take over toll plazas across Haryana||Intensifying their protest against three farm laws, farmers took over various toll plazas across Haryana on Friday.Farmers took over the Bastara toll plaza on national highway-44 and Peont toll plaza on Karnal-Jind national highway-709A.Also read: Let farm laws be implemented for a year; if not found beneficial, we will amend them: RajnathFarmers staged a dharna and allowed vehicles to pass through without paying the toll.Farmers also took over the Shambhu toll plaza and the Chaudhary toll plaza on Hisar-Rajgarh highway.Also read: Umbrella body of protesting farmer unions to hold meeting, respond to Centre's letterFarmers claimed that the Shambhu toll plaza will remain free for three days.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni rejected the offer of Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala to mediate between the Centre and the protesting farmers. He said that they don't need any mediator.Also read: Modi releases over Rs 18,000 crore to more than 9 crore farmers"Where was he (Chautala), when the FIRs were registered against farmers," he said.On the call of farmers' union, BKU activists occupied the Panipat toll plaza on NH44 and the Dahar toll plaza. Farmers, led by BKU district president Kuldeep Balana, reached at Dahar toll plaza on NH 71 A on the Panipat Rohtak highway, in the morning and staged a protest there.Also read: 7 US lawmakers write to Pompeo on farmers’ protest in IndiaAfter that BKU activists reached at Panipat toll plaza on NH 44 and staged a protest.
25-12-2020||Karnal||Top honour for Lt Bhushan||three-day int’l seminar at KUKurukshetra: Addressing a valedictory function for the 3-day international seminar on sustainable existence and Srimad Bhagavad Gita Darshan, Kurukshetra University Vice Chancellor Prof Som Nath said, “Gita teaches us that the aim of education is to make humans knowledgeable, to see and understand the unseen as well.” The VC congratulated Prof Manjula Choudhary, director of the seminar and her team. Honorary Secretary of the Kurukshetra Development Board, Madan Mohan Chhabra said that for the last 4 years, this international seminar is being organised at Kurukshetra University which is commendable. Efforts are being made by KDB to develop Kurukshetra as a center of spiritual learning and tourism. Work on the Krishna circuit project is also underway.PG Diploma in JournalismFaridabad: Taking a unique initiative to propose PG Diploma in Journalism for working professionals, the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has invited suggestions from professionals to start the course so as to provide an opportunity to those who are in the profession, but do not possess a formal degree. The decision to this effect was taken in a meeting of the Department of Liberal Arts and Media Studies (LAMS) held under the chairmanship of Vice Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar. The VC said that the PG Diploma in Journalism would give an opportunity to those working journalists who could not complete their formal education due to some reasons. With this programme, they can get the diploma while continuing their jobs and also associate with the department as mentors and bridge the skill gap between academia and industry.GJUST, NHAI to come togetherHisar: Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, (GJUST), Hisar, and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Hisar, will share knowledge and expertise to improve infrastructure and explore new possibilities of research and employment in the area of transportation and road safety. The GJUS&T will provide its research and academic specialties and basic facilities, while the NHAI will provide scholarships to students enrolling in this field. An MoU has been signed and under this, the NHAI will also provide internship facility to a maximum of 20 students selected by the university with a scholarship of Rs 8,000 per month. These students will be selected by the department. In this internship, apart from the students of the department, teachers will also have field experience along with road safety, pavement design and evaluation, road design, identification and removal of black spots and participation in overall monitoring.
25-12-2020||Shivpuri Colony’s main road||No drainage, Street flooded||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaSharp decline in Covid casesIT is good news that after three month of spike, Haryana has reported sharp decline in Covid cases. Monthly tally for September was 21,411; October 10,078; November 20,150 and December only 5,888. Even the active cases have come down which is a relief to the people. No doubt this trend is nationwide but the state Health Department deserves appreciation. Now, it is imperative that the people of the state do not lower their guard. Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
25-12-2020||Mandi||Two from Haryana killed in Mandi car accident||Two persons were killed, one was critically injured when their car (HR 51BM-3567) fell into a gorge in Mandi district.According to the police, the driver of the vehicle lost control and the car fell down a deep gorge near Rahla Ropa. The injured victim was rushed to the Regional Hospital, Kullu.The deceased were identified as Komal (28), wife of the injured Nitish Sharma, and Ishyita (12) both natives of Haryana.SP, Mandi, Shalini Agnihotri said the cause of the accident was yet to be known. A case has been registered and investigation is under way.— TNS
25-12-2020||---||State tops in corruption, joblessness, says Hooda||Panipat, December 24Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has claimed the Congress would win the December 27 MC elections and the party’s victory would shake the foundation of the BJP-JJP government.He was here on Thursday to campaign for the party’s mayoral candidate Nikhil Madan and other nominees. He held meetings at 14 places.“The local body elections are an opportunity for the people to teach a lesson to the BJP. The government has ignored the aspirations of Sonepat residents,” the former Chief Minister said.He claimed the previous Congress government had carried out several development works in the city. “Railway lines were laid, roads were constructed, and hospitals, medical colleges and universities were built during my regime. The BJP-JJP government, on the contrary, is a byword for scams,” he claimed.Hooda further said, “The state was number one in per capita income, investment and development six years ago. Now, it tops in corruption, unemployment and crime. The law and order situation in Sonepat is so bad that no woman feels safe here.”
25-12-2020||Ambala||Will develop Ambala as smart city: Dhankar||Haryana BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar, who was in Ambala to seek votes for BJP-JJP candidates, targeted Haryana Jan Chetna Party (V) chief Venod Sharma and Haryana Democratic Front founder Nirmal Singh. He said, “Excess power shouldn’t be given to anyone as it becomes the cause of exploitation of society.” He mentioned about the Jessica Lal murder case and an FIR registered under cow slaughter law during his indirect attacks on Venod Sharma and Nirmal Singh, respectively. While addressing a gathering in support of BJP mayoral candidate Dr Vandana Sharma, Dhankar said, “We want to develop Ambala as an industrial capital and smart city.” BJP leader and North West Delhi MP Hansraj Hans also addressed gatherings in support of BJP candidates. On the other hand, senior Congress leader Ashok Arora also targeted Venod Sharma and Nirmal Singh and said that those who are contesting elections as Independent candidates or by forming their own parties cannot get Ambala developed because earlier, they used to get the development done through the Congress.  While addressing a gathering in support of Congress mayoral candidate Meena Aggarwal, Arora said, “Today, they (Venod and Nirmal) are asking for votes by saying that they have got development done and they had provided jobs. They may have forgotten that development and jobs were provided by the Congress government and not by them.” — TNS
25-12-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Traffic jams, parking woes ail Sonepat||Tribune News ServicePanipat, December 24Traffic jams, unauthorised construction and parking woes — these are some of the problems Sonepat residents have been facing for years. Legislators, they say, make promises that never see light of the day.On December 27, they will vote in the first Municipal Corporation elections of the city, hoping against hope that the new Mayor and the councillors will fix the problems.The city was upgraded to Municipal Corporation in 2015, but the elections were not held then.Residents demand clean water, proper drainage system and sufficient parking space.Sunil Jangra, a resident of ward 13, said: “The problems are many, but the most pressing one that needs immediate attention is traffic jam. As there is no parking lot in the markets, people park their vehicles on roads. This leads to jam. Besides, shopkeepers have encroached on roads, aggravating the problem.”Advocate Jitender Kumar, a resident of Arya Nagar, was not enthused by the promises made by candidates. “The same script plays out every five years. Candidates (during the Assembly elections) make big promises and, on the winning the poll, they simply forget what they had said,” he said, adding choked sewerage system, potholed roads and traffic jam were ailing the city.
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Grain markets to remain shut||Due to the I-T raids on arhtiyas in Punjab, Haryana grain markets will remain shut on Friday. The commission agents in the state have also been supporting farmers’ protests.Haryana Pradesh Beopar Mandal president Bajrang Garg said the raids were an attempt to scare commission agents. “Arhtiyas in Haryana have also been getting notices,” he claimed, adding: “It is a murder of democracy. Everyone in this country has a right to express his opinion and protest peacefully. On the other hand, the Centre and state governments have been using force and unfair means to scare farmers, arhtiyas and common man.” — TNS
25-12-2020||Deepender Deswal||Helipad dug up, Haryana Dy CM cancels Jind visit||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 24Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala’s scheduled visit to his home constituency today was cancelled after protesters dug up a helipad on the school premises where his helicopter was scheduled to land.A group of protesters dug up the helipad at Karsandhu village of the Uchana Kalan segment in Jind district. Farmers carrying black flags raised anti-government slogans and dug up the ground with a shovel.Dushyant was scheduled to attend a function in the family of a supporter in the village. His programme was cancelled though no reason was cited for cancellation of the visit. Officials of the administration visited the spot, but left after sensing the mood of farmers.The protesters stated that they would not let Dushyant enter the Bangar area in Jind until he announced support for agitating farmers. They urged him to withdraw support to the BJP government.“People of the segment gave him victory by 47,000 votes, after which he became the Deputy CM. Since we have been raising issues, he should support us. If he wants to continue supporting the BJP and be a part of the government, let it be. We will not let him step here,” said Krishan Kumar, a farmer leader.The farmers said they had high hopes from Dushyant as he was the great-grandson of Devi Lal, known as one of the towering leaders of farmers who always stood for them. They said Dushyant had snubbed them in his greed for power and they would continue to oppose him until he announced support for them. Azad Singh, a khap leader, said a mahapanchayat had decided not to allow ruling party politicians in the Jind area till they came out in support of farmers.
25-12-2020||Hisar||Farmers gherao BJP, JJP leaders’ offices||Stepping up protest against leaders of the ruling party in the region, farmers today gheraoed the office and residence of JJP MLAs Anoop Dhanak in Uklana, Hisar, and Devender Singh Babli in Tohana, Fatehabad, and also held a panchayat in Charkhi Dadri to boycott the BJP MP from Bhiwani-Mahedergarh, Dharambir Singh, and Badhra MLA Naina Chautala.Bharatiya Kisan Union held a panchayat chaired by an elder social leader, Mange Ram Nimdi, and announced social boycott of Dharambir Singh and Naina Chautala. — TNS
25-12-2020||---||Farm protests a gimmick: CM||Panchkula, December 24Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, who was in Panchkula today to campaign in support of BJP’s mayoral and ward candidates in the Municipal Corporation election, triggered a controversy by terming the farmers’ protests at the Singhu border a tamasha (gimmick).He was addressing a gathering at Aggarwal Bhawan in Sector 16 -– his first event of the day. “We need to identify those who take desperate steps and cross the line in disappointment and frustration after losing power. We can teach them a lesson only by keeping them at bay. We nowadays are witnessing a ‘tamasha’ (gimmick). They are resorting to pressure tactics by being adamant in not giving up the protest until the government repeals the farm laws. Is this a democracy?” said Khattar.“In a democracy, discussions happen in legislative assemblies, public, sabhas (gatherings) and media. There is freedom of expression in our country. But if you get involved in ‘Dhhenga Masti’ or support those who act the same way, it won’t be tolerated. Democracy is not only preserved in Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha, but the local bodies too. A lesson should be taught to those who don’t respect democratic structure at this level as well,” he said while urging the audience to vote for the BJP in the forthcoming elections on December 27.Khattar has been facing public ire for his government’s attempts to stop farmers from marching towards Delhi against the contentious farm laws and subsequently making controversial statements against the protests.Earlier, he had said that only Punjab farmers, backed by CM Capt Amarinder Singh, were protesting against the farm laws, not Haryana's farmers.Two days ago, a large number of farmers had shown black flags to the Chief Minister when his convoy was passing from Aggarsain Chowk in Ambala City.Meanwhile, the Ambala police have booked 13 farmers for waving flags at Khattar on various charges including attempt to murder and rioting.
25-12-2020||Deepender Deswal||BJP leader Birender Singh again joins dharna in support of farmers||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 24Birender Singh, BJP leader and father of Hisar BJP MP Brijendra Singh, staged a dharna in support of the protesting farmers at Chhotu Ram Chowk in Hisar town along with his supporters and other farmers today.The protesters raised anti-BJP slogans during the protest. Singh announced that he would take out a “Tiranga yatra” to awaken farmers across the state and currently holding dharna in different districts to express his support to them.Addressing mediapersons, he hoped that both farmers and the government resume discussions to end the month-long deadlock. The dharna was organised under the banner of Chaudhary Chhotu Ram Vichar Manch.The former rural development minister said the government should talk to farmers to come up with a formula for ending the deadlock and take measures in favour of farmers to bail them out of the financial crisis.He said raising the voice and issues concerning farmers could not be termed anti-party activity. He said farmers were justified in raising the demand for their betterment and financial independence as the agriculture was turning out to be a financially unviable occupation.Singh said the protesting farmers had given a fitting reply to those who termed them Khalistanis and Pakistanis by carrying on the dharna in a peaceful manner for nearly one month.On the issue of SYL being raised by the BJP, he said there was an appropriate time to raise every issue. Singh said political parties had been garnering votes by politicising the issue of SYL for nearly 50 years. He hoped that the people from Haryana and Punjab who had joined hands on the farmers’ demands would also be able to resolve the SYL issue through discussions.
25-12-2020||---||Give concrete suggestions, says Dushyant||Chandigarh, December 24Saying the new farm laws needed many amendments, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday batted for resumed dialogue between the protesting farmers and the Central Government to break the deadlock.Urging the protesting farmers to give concrete suggestions, the JJP leader said the Centre was agreeable to several suggestions and only talks could resolve the issue.He offered to mediate between the farmers and the Centre if it helped to resolve the issue. He reiterated that he would resign the day he felt that he was unable to ensure minimum support price (MSP)to farmers in Haryana.On certain farmer organisations urging the JJP to withdraw support from the Manohar Lal Khattar government, he claimed that there was no pressure on the JJP and the two parties were running a stable government in the state.Dushyant said the Centre was repeatedly inviting farmer unions to talks and it was the responsibility of these outfits to give concrete suggestions regarding their demands.
25-12-2020||Karnal||Mobiles worth lakhs stolen, traders protest||A group of unidentified burglars struck at a mobile phone shop in Assandh and stole phones worth lakhs of rupees. Following this, the traders blocked roads to stage protest and gave a three-day ultimatum for arrest of the thieves.To show their anger, traders shut their shops and raised slogans against the police inaction in the increasing crimes in the town. Newly appointed SHO Assandh Amit Sharma, outgoing SHO Jagbir Singh and DSP Gajender Singh also reached there and assured traders of arresting the culprits. — TNS
25-12-2020||kurukshetra||Sirsa varsity gets new VC||Ajmer Singh Malik of the department of public administration at Kurukshetra University was appointed Vice-Chancellor of Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Sirsa, on Thursday.  Malik thanked the Haryana Governor and Chief Minister for his appointment. — TNS
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||7 die of Covid in Haryana||Haryana reported seven deaths and 519 fresh cases on Thursday. Two deaths were reported from Jhajjar and one each from Palwal, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Sonepat and Panchkula.The maximum cases were reported from Gurugram (113). A bulletin on Home Minister Anil Vij issued by Medanta on Thursday said chest and limb physiotherapy had been started. — TNS
25-12-2020||Blurb||Property dealer shot in Gurugram||Sanjay YadavGurugram, December 24A 46-year-old property dealer was shot near Gadoli village on Pataudi road today by some unidentified men.The body was found near his abandoned car. An FIR has been registered at the Sector-10 A police station and the crime unit is investigating the matter.According to the police, the deceased has been identified as Ravinder Yadav, a resident of Manesar village. He was involved in sale-purchase of cars and also started his property dealing business two years ago. His office ‘Dream Home Reality’ was near Kherki Daula where he went daily. On Wednesday morning, he reached office as per his routine but did not return home till late night.Village sarpanch Vijay Pal, also Ravinder’s friend, told the police that around 10 pm he was on a video call with Ravinder and the phone was disconnected after he heard a crash.Around 8 am today a passerby informed the police that a body was lying in a pool of blood near Gadoli village. A police team reached the spot and Ravinder’s family was called who identified him.“We searched for him the entire night but we got to know about the incident in the morning when the police informed us. Ravinder had no dispute with anyone. We are at our wits end to understand the reason behind the murder,” said Ravinder’s brother Sudesh Yadav.A murder case has been registered against unidentified accused and the body has been handed over to Ravinder’s family after the post-mortem.Forensic expert Dr Deepak Mathur said the deceased has been shot in the neck and due to excessive bleeding he died within three to four minutes after being shot.“We are trying to identify the accused with the help of CCTV footage of nearby area. The family has not named any suspect. We are investigating the case,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, crime.
