25-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 1,240 fresh COVID-19 cases, 7 more fatalities||As many as 1,240 fresh COVID-19 cases took Haryana’s tally to 1,58,304 on Sunday, while seven more fatalities pushed the death toll to 1,727, according to a health department bulletin.Of the latest fatalities, two each were reported from hardest-hit Faridabad and Gurgaon districts and one each from Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Charkhi Dadri, the health department’s daily bulletin said.The districts which reported a big spike in cases are Gurgaon (366), Faridabad (186), and Hisar (101).The number of active COVID-19 cases in the state stands at 10,295 and the recovery rate is 92.41 per cent, the bulletin stated. PTI
25-10-2020||Chandigarh||Opposition indulging in caste politics: Chief Minister Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday attacked the opposition, accusing them of indulging in caste politics against the Bharatiya Janata Party’s development plank in the Baroda by-polls scheduled to be held on November 3.“Other parties are engaged in giving caste colour to the by-polls but we will talk about the development of Baroda; we will talk about interests of the farmers; we will talk about bringing IMT (Industrial Model Township) in Baroda; we will talk about giving employment to the youth,” Khattar said in a tweet.“Now, the decision has to be made by the people of Baroda,” Khattar said.Exuding confidence of wining the by-polls, necessitated due to the demise of Congress Member of Legislative Assembly Sri Krishan Hooda in April, Khattar in another tweet said the by-elections will mark an end of the “15-year Congress misrule” there.Khattar said he is convinced that people will vote for the BJP on the basis of development work initiated by his government.Meanwhile, Kurukshetra BJP MP Nayab Singh Saini said Khattar and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala will be campaigning jointly for the bypolls.They will seek votes for BJP candidate and Olympic medallist Yogeshwar Dutt who is locked in a contest with Congress candidate Induraj Narwal and the INLD’s Joginder Singh Malik.“On October 29, the chief minister will be campaigning in Baroda while on October 30, Dushyant Chautala will canvass in the constituency. On October 31, both will hold joint meetings and address programmes in five villages,” Saini told reporters in Gohana on Sunday.Saini said Yogeshwar Dutt has been backed by their alliance partner Jannayak Janta Party and will register a comfortable win as people will vote for development.“People have made up their mind to vote for the BJP-JJP combine. They will vote for development,” Saini said.Dushyant Chautala too on Sunday expressed confidence of winning the seat.He said supporters of the BJP and the JJP, the two parties who forged an alliance after the 2019 assembly polls, will vote for Yogeshwar Dutt.Dutt, who had contested the 2019 assembly polls from Baroda as a BJP candidate, had lost to Shri Krishan Hooda.“This time, he will get combined votes as an alliance candidate. He will get over 90,000 votes and register a historic win in Baroda,” said Dushyant.He said the JJP chief and former MP Ajay Singh Chautala will also be campaigning in Baroda.With the BJP-JJP completing one year in office on October 27, Dushyant Chautala hit out at the Congress and INLD, saying, “When we came together and formed the government with the BJP, they used to say our government will not last six months”.      “When we completed six months, they used to say the government will fall before completing a year. But today as we complete one year, I want to tell them that we will not only complete remaining four years of our term but also take Haryana on a new growth trajectory,” he said.He said during the last one year, the BJP-JJP dispensation has taken a number of steps for the welfare of people.He said the Centre’s farm laws will prove beneficial for farmers and the agriculture sector.Chautala said the state government will set up warehouses with a capacity of seven-lakh metric tonnes during the next one year. These warehouses will be constructed through panchayats, he said. PTI
25-10-2020||Ambala||BKU activists hold protest against Centre’s farm laws||A large number of activists of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), led by its Haryana president Gurnam Singh, on Sunday held a protest against the Centre’s new farm laws at Lakhnaur Sahib village near here.Police personnel were deployed in the village since morning as part of security measures.At the protest site, farmers raised slogans against the Centre and the BJP-led state government demanding withdrawal of the agriculture laws.Later, as part of their protest they burnt an effigy of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Similar protests by BKU activists were also held at some other places in the state.Later, talking to reporters, Singh said that the agitations against the new farm laws will continue till the Union government withdraws them.Earlier this month, the Kurukshetra police had booked Singh for allegedly making derogatory remarks against Prime Minister Modi.The complaint was lodged at the Shahbad police station, barely hours after the BKU leader had appealed to farmers to burn effigies of the prime minister’s during Dussehra, which is being celebrated today.The complaint was lodged by social activist Sahil.Reacting to it, Singh had alleged that the government is using such tactics to suppress the voice of farmers protesting against new farm laws.The BKU Haryana chief was booked for allegedly “promoting enmity” between different groups and the intent to provoke the “breach of peace” besides other charges, police had said earlier. --- PTIRashtriya Mahila Jaat Manch taking out a protest march against the Farmers bill and demanding for the rollback of the bill held at Rajiv Chowk to Mini Secretariat in Gurugram on Thursday. Tribune photo: S.Chandan
25-10-2020||Ambala||One held for assault||The district police have arrested Garuav, alias Toti, of Ambala Cantonment in a case of assault, said the officials here on Saturday. According to the police, Inderjeet of Ambala Cantonment had reported that the accused had assaulted him on September 23. The arrested accused was later released on bail, added the officials. TNSSnatcher lands in police netThe district police have arrested Gurdeep Singh, alias Deepa, of Mahesh Nagar near here in a case of snatching, said the officials here on Saturday. The arrested accused was produced before a local court, which remanded him to two-day police custody, added the officials. TNSWoman goes missingA 30-year-old married woman went missing from her home, said the police on Saturday. Harjinder Singh of Shahzadpur reported his wife had left home on October 22 but did not return. The police have lodged a missing person’s report and launched a hunt to trace her, added the officials. TNS
25-10-2020||Ambala||Proclaimed offender held||The district police have arrested a proclaimed offender Mukesh Kumar alias Kaka of Ambala City, who was wanted in a criminal case registered against him at Ambala City, the officials said here on Saturday.According to the police, the accused had been evading his arrest ever since he was booked by the police following which a local court had declared him proclaimed offender. The arrested fugitive was sent to 14-day judicial remand by a local court, the officials added. — TNS
25-10-2020||Ambala||2 bikers hurt in mishap||Two bikers — Ravinder Kumar and Manga Ram of Shahzadpur near here — sustained serious injuries in a hit-and-run mishap, said the police here on Saturday.According to the police, the accident took place near Kakkarmajra village in Shahzadpur when a speeding car hit the motorcycle on which the duo was riding and fled the spot. The police have registered a case, added the officials. — TNS
25-10-2020||Ambala||Man arrested for smuggling drugs||The district police have arrested Gaurav, alias Monu, of Mullana near here in a case of smuggling drugs and claimed to have recovered 15-gram heroin from his possession, the officials said here on Saturday.According to the police, the accused was intercepted on a tip-off at a check-post near Saha and his search yielded the contraband. The accused was produced before a local court, which remanded him to three-day police custody, the officials added. — TNS
25-10-2020||---||Villagers seek more money for AIIMS land||Rewari, October 24  Residents of Majra village are seeking Rs 50 lakh per acre from the state government for selling their land for the AIIMS project.  The demand has left the district authorities worried as the state government intends to buy the land for Rs 30 lakh per acre. It has started making efforts to convince the villagers about selling land at government rates in order to get land for the project.  It recently held a meeting with the landowners who turned down the government’s offer. A five-member team of the Centre led by Sunil Sharma, Joint Secretary, Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) under Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, inspected the proposed land of 200 acres for the project in Majra and nearby villages on October 1. The team found the land suitable for the project. “Thereafter, the district administration initiated efforts to buy the land from the villagers but the latter are demanding Rs 50 lakh per acre while the state government had made a commitment to buy the land at Rs 30 lakh per acre when the villagers offered the land for the AIIMS project. Now, they have raised the amount,” said an officer.  DC Yashendra Singh said they were in the process of convincing villagers to settle the issue so that the project could be executed soon.
25-10-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Hearing in Ranjit Singh murder case via video-conferencing||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24The CBI special court has issued notices to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and other accused for conducting proceedings though video-conferencing in the Ranjit Singh murder case.Ranjit Singh, a dera functionary, was murdered on July 10, 2002, for allegedly circulating an anonymous letter, in which dera followers had accused Ram Rahim of raping them.The CBI court’s notices come against the backdrop of truncated hearings since March 21 due to the Covid pandemic.The case is at the final stage of arguments.During the last hearing on Friday, CBI counsel HPS Verma submitted that the arguments on behalf of the prosecution had already been completed and that an application under Section 311 of the CrPC was moved and one defence witness was examined. Now, part arguments of the defence remained to be addressed.He submitted that the present matter be put for further proceedings through video-conferencing till the physical hearing of the matter was not feasibleCBI Special Judge Jagdeep Singh ordered, “Keeping in view the stage of the matter and other attending circumstances, let notices be issued to the accused and their counsels to explore the possibility of conducting further proceedings through video-conferencing if physical hearing of the matter does not get functional by the adjourned date.”The next date of hearing is on November 5.
25-10-2020||---||Ex-FM: Electors will show Hooda his place||Panipat, October 24 Former minister Capt Abhimanyu has accused the Congress of spreading lies on the three farm laws and said the electorate would show Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda its place in the Baroda bypoll. He told this to the media in Gohana on Saturday.  The Baroda segment is considered a bastion of Hooda. “The BJP is a party of honest leaders and it has fielded honest candidate Yogeshwar Dutt. He is known not only in the state, but also globally. He resigned from the DSP’s post to serve the people of the Baroda constituency,” former Finance Minister Capt Abhimanyu said.  He further said the Congress was responsible for the backwardness of the constituency. “Time has come to vote for the candidate who will ensure segment’s development.”  Meanwhile, state BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar on Saturday hit the campaign trail in support of BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt. He visited several villages.  “The Congress is misleading farmers about the three farm laws. It does not want farmers to make progress. Farmers need to see through the lies of the Congress,” he said while addressing people in the segment’s Madina village.
25-10-2020||---||Govt’s report card blank: Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Panipat, October 24Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday reiterated his attack on the BJP government over the three controversial farm laws and said it had no achievements to show after six years in office.Former Chief Minister Hooda said this while on a campaign trail in Khanpur Khurd, Baroda, Banwasa, Ridana, Dhanana, Ghadwal, Bhavad and Nizampur villages of the constituency.The Congress has fielded Induraj Narwal for the bypoll.“The list of works of the Congress government is so long that it would take an entire day to count, whereas the BJP does not have a single achievement to show,” he said.He further said, “Instead of waiving debt of farmers, the BJP government has increased their problems. The input cost has risen. The three farm laws will deteriorate the situation. The result of the Baroda byelection will manifest the anger of the people.”Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda campaigned in Bichpadi, Ahmadpur Majra, Jagasi, Matand, Busana and Chhtehra Majra villages.“The bypoll result, which will be announced on November 10, will shake the foundation of the state government,” he said.
25-10-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Senior leaders make beeline for segment||Tribune News ServicePanipat, October 24Electioneering in Baroda has picked up pace as the day of polling nears. The bypoll is scheduled for November 3. Senior leaders of the BJP, Congress and INLD, and their supporters are leaving no stone unturned to seek votes for the candidates.Big posters dot the roads of the segment, while nominees go door to door to woo the electorate.In all, 14 candidates are in fray. Among them are wrestler-turned-politician Yogeshwar Dutt of the ruling BJP-JJP coalition, Induraj Narwal of the Congress and Joginder Malik of the INLD.Though the poll battle is in Baroda, all parties have set up their election offices in adjoining Gohana.State BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar, Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, Sonepat MP Ramesh Kaushik, Rai MLA Mohan Lal Kaushik, and former ministers Ram Bilas Sharma and Capt Abhimanyu have visited Baroda.As for the Congress, state party chief Kumari Selja, Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Hooda and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda are spearheading the campaign of Narwal.As regards to the INLD, party supremo Om Prakash Chautala is campaigning in a special vehicle (rath).
25-10-2020||---||Sub-registrar among 18 booked for fraud||Yamunanagar, October 24Eleven sale deeds of 27 shops were allegedly registered on the basis of a forged power of attorney in Yamunanagar district. The shops situated at New Fountain Chowk here belong to Church of North India Trust Association (CNITA) and the sale deeds of those shops were executed in Jagadhri tehsil in March.A case was registered against 18 persons, including sub-registrar of Jagadhri tehsil.On the complaint of Parmod Kumar Tandi, Presbyter in charge of St Peter’s Church, New Fountain Chowk, Yamunanagar, a case was registered against Stephen Singh of Jhansi, Dip Manish Sandyang of Darjeeling district, Eno Chodup Panlook of Kalimpong district, Rajeev Anand, Sanjeev Uppal, Naresh Sahni, Gulshan Lal, Didar Singh, Sushil Kumar Jain, Amresh Devi, Subhash Jain, Ajay Jain, Alka Singhal, Arun Singhal, all residents of Yamunanagar district; Chhotu Ram, sub-registrar of Jagadhri tehsil, Narender nambardar, Shiv Ram nambardar and Ankit Bangia of Delhi.The case was registered under Sections 120-B, 406, 420, 465, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC on October 23.“The accused, after preparing a forged power of attorney dated June 1, 2017 executed 11 sale deeds of 27 shops in favour of 11 persons on March 6 by way of impersonation in conspiracy with Chhotu Ram, sub-registrar of Jagadhri tehsil, Narender, nambardar, and Shiv Ram, nambardar,” alleged the complainant.Chhotu Ram could not be contacted.
25-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Amid Covid, Durga puja goes online||Gurugram, October 24Bengalis in the city are avoiding Sindoor Khela – scheduled for Saturday and Sunday — during the Durga Mahotsav this time due to Covid.According to tradition, Durga Puja begins with ‘Chakshu Daan’ and ‘puja’ is performed with Sindoor Khela. However to follow Covid norms, the khela has been suspended this year. Many online ‘dandiya’ nights are also being organised.In the community centre at Sector 4, Kalinga Cultural and Welfare Society organised Durga Puja ‘mahotsav’ but with mandated masks and sanitisation. “Only 50 people have been allowed to come to the ‘pandal’ for darshan only. We are not having the dance performance,” said society chairman Rajender Kumar Sahu.15 more succumb, 1,299 fresh cases
25-10-2020||ibune News Service---||Farm fires rage, air quality in Ambala remains poor||Ambala, October 24 The air quality in Ambala continues to be poor with the Air Quality Index (AQI) recording average particulate matter (PM) 2.5 at around 280 on Saturday.  The average AQI, as per the Central Pollution Control Board, was 287 early Saturday morning. Though the situation improved marginally as the day progressed and particulate matter 2.5 was recorded at 280 at 6 pm, it was still poor. Local residents said along with the farm fires, incidents of setting garbage on fire and industrial pollution are also prime reasons behind the poor air quality.   As per the information available, Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) had reported a total of 408 active fire locations till Friday. Of these, 383 locations were not found on the ground till Saturday.  The Agriculture Department has got 14 FIRs registered against farmers besides recovering environment compensation charge of Rs 30,000 in 12 cases in this season so far. Girish Nagpal, Deputy Director of Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Ambala, said, “Action is being taken against farmers who have been burning paddy residue despite warning. The department has also been motivating the farmers to manage the residue instead of burning it and earn extra income as the government has been offering an incentive of Rs 1,000 per acre.” Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma said, “Strict directions have been given to the municipal councils and corporation to ensure that garbage is not set on fire. A ban was imposed on burning paddy residue and FIRs are being registered against the farmers who violate the guidelines. Besides this, challans are being issued.
25-10-2020||Faridabad||Kidnapping accused held after 1 yr||A crime branch team of the local police has arrested a 35-year-old man from Sangrur in Punjab for kidnapping a local resident last year. The police have recovered a vehicle and Rs 5,000 from the accused, who was remanded to judicial custody on Saturday.  The arrest of the accused, identified as Virbadra, alias Kala, has been made 13 months after the incident that took place on August 13, last year. The accused was wanted in 18 cases of loot, kidnapping and ransom booked against him in Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan, it is claimed.  Revealing that the accused was wanted in the case of kidnapping Harish Kumar, a resident of Hanuman Nagar here, a police spokesperson said the victim was kidnapped after he reached Punjab in connection with a real estate deal, in which the accused had asked him to come over to Punjab and abducted him to seek ransom. While Harish managed to escape, the police arrested two accomplices of the accused, Nahar Singh and Geeta, last year and the accused was arrested after a raid on Wednesday. — TNS
25-10-2020||---||All dists to have khadi shops: Dy CM||Chandigarh, October 24Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala said shops of Haryana Khadi and Village Industries Board would be made operational at all district headquarters of the state in the next six months. The high-quality products of the board will be sold at these shops.A big shop will also be opened at the rest house of the Public Works Department at Chanakyapuri in New Delhi so that Khadi products of Haryana can be sold to foreign tourists. All these shops will be attractively designed in the same standard, size and design.The Deputy Chief Minister, who also has the portfolio of Development and Panchayats Department, during a review meeting, directed the officers of the Haryana Khadi and Village Industries Board to encourage villagers to start manufacturing biscuits made of bajra, kurkure and various new products other than khadi jacket, kurta-payjama, bedsheet, quilt, pickle, honey, soap, oil, shampoo and spices.
25-10-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Over 500 guesthouses face sealing threat||Gurugram, October 24Following blatant violation of building bylaws, the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) has decided to seal over 500 guesthouses in DLF 1, 2 and 3 and Sushant Lok.A majority of these are built on plots less than 500 square yards. As per a recent survey, there are over 2,000 such guesthouses.The DTCP recently issued an order allowing such facilities on plots measuring 500-1,500 square yards and also allowed such facilities to operate along internal roads of residential societies.Earlier, guesthouses were allowed only along outer roads and service roads. However, the RWAs opposed the move and the policy was altered.The DTCP removed the provisions related to setting up of guesthouses along internal roads. According to the revised guidelines, guesthouses shall be allowed on residential plots along an existing functional sector road with service lanes.In July 2019, the department had reduced the required minimum plot size from 1,000 square yards to 500 square yards for setting up guesthouses in residential zones. It has also removed the cap on the number of guesthouses allowed in a residential sector. Earlier, only two guesthouses were allowed in a sector.“With the amendment, all guesthouses on plots from 500 to 1,500 square yards can be regularised. The DTCP will conduct a fresh survey to identify guesthouses on plots smaller than 500 square yards and along internal roads and take strict action against them,” said District Town Planner RS Batth.
25-10-2020||Deepender Deswal---||Phase II of aviation hub in Hisar gets green nod||Tribune News Service Hisar, October 24 After getting an environmental clearance from the Union Environment and Forest Ministry, the state government is set to start the second phase of the ambitious aviation hub project here. The “bhoomi poojan” of the project scheduled for October 27 will mark the first year of the BJP-JJP government in office. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said the aviation hub would be a milestone for not only the region, but also for the entire state. “The airstrip will be extended during the second phase. Besides, a taxi way, a taxi stand, parking space for planes, and terminal and air traffic control system will be constructed.” District officials said the state government was considering developing the Hisar aviation hub into an international Aerotropolis Project and Special Economic Zone (SEZ). Local MLA Kamal Gupta has submitted a proposal in this regard to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who has discussed the proposal with senior officials, including Additional Chief Secretary AK Singh. The officials have drawn a proposal of an SEZ in Hisar as 17,300 acres is available in and adjoining areas of the town. The MLA said there was a proposal of an integrated manufacturing cluster, a defence equipment manufacturing unit, an aircraft manufacturing and maintenance, repair and overhauling (MRO), a bulk pharma park, a medical hub, a media and film city, an agriculture export hub, a free trade zone, a knowledge-cum-techno park and an industry-led R&D unit.
25-10-2020||Jind||Haryana women panel member meets rape victim||Haryana State Women Commission member Suman Bedi on Saturday met the rape victim who had suffered injuries yesterday. A vehicle had hit her when she was sitting on dharna in front of the Jind SP office.Later, talking to mediapersons, Bedi said she interacted with the woman and also talked to the SP.She said prima facie, it came to light that the matter pertains to Delhi and the Delhi Police have failed to act on this case.She said that the commission would also direct the Delhi Police to take action to deliver justice to her.The victim has been sitting on dharna demanding the arrest of the accused under rape charges.She had submitted a complaint of rape and harassment for dowry against her husband and in-laws four months ago.— TNS
25-10-2020||---||Trader booked for fake income tax credit claim||Hisar, October 24 The Sirsa police on Saturday booked a Sisra trader for fraud. The police said the trader, Rakesh Bansal of New Housing Board locality, was involved in fake claims of Input Tax Credit (ITC). The Excise and Taxation Department had lodged a complaint to the police that during the assessment period 2011-12, the trader had fraudulently obtained a refund of Rs 23,24,377 by using false and fabricated documents which included sale invoices of cigarette regarding inter-state sale to Rajasthan.  The complainant stated that during the perusal of record, it was found that the accused had used forged documents of sale without making any actual movement of goods. Further, the then Assessing Authority while framing the reassessment held that there was no physical movement of goods and the papers had been prepared to obtain refund.
25-10-2020||---||Arhtiyas’ payment ‘sent’ to other accounts||Karnal, October 24Payments in crores of several arhtiyas of Taraori grain market have been “transferred” to other accounts in various districts, giving sleepless nights to arhtiyas, farmers as well as officials of the market committee.While the amount is being calculated by the officials of the market committee, an inquiry has been ordered by the Deputy Commissioner in this regard. He has assigned the duty to the ADC to determine the actual transferred money as well as where the lapses had taken place.Payments of the grain market have been stopped by the Food and Civil Supplies Department.ADC Ashok Bansal on Friday reached Taraori grain market and interacted with arhtiyas. He also checked the records of the market committee.“I have listened to the issues of the arhtiyas and a list of the total released payment has been provided to the arhtiyas association and the market committee secretary to verify the actual amount,” said Bansal.Nathi Ram Gupta, president, Arhtiyas Association Taraori, said that around 120 arhtiyas have approached him that their payments have been transferred to other accounts in Gohana, Tohana, Ratia, Ambala and other places of the state. “The payment is yet to be calculated, but it could be more than Rs 100 crore,” Gupta said, adding that they have handed over a memorandum to the market committee in this regard.On the other hand, the officials of Food and Civil Supplies Department said they transfer the payments only to those accounts which were sent by the market committees after the approval from secretaries. “We release the payment only to those accounts which were given by the market committees. We have stopped payments of Taraori grain market,” officials said.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said that as soon as the issue came to his notice, he assigned the duty to the ADC. “In the initial finding by the ADC, it has been found that payment of 65 accounts of 13 arhtiyas amounting to Rs 2 crore has been transferred to other accounts,” said the DC.The DC said that investigation was under way to determine the lapses. He said that no complaint has been received from Gharaunda mandi in this regard. He said that the actual amount would be determined once the inquiry is completed.
25-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||2 hospitals under lens for 11 Covid deaths||Tribune News ServiceRewari, October 24Two Covid-designated private hospitals here have come under the scanner of the district administrative authorities following the death of 11 Covid patients there during the past five months.Eight of the deaths have been reported from one of the hospitals while the total number of deaths due to Covid is 34 in the district.Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh has constituted a five-member committee to inquire into the cause of death of the patients, treatment extended to them in the hospitals and fee charged by the hospitals from their kin.DC CONSTITUTES 5-MEMBER COMMITTEEThe committee will be headed by Chief Executive Officer of Zila Parishad Trilok Chand as representative of the DC while Civil Surgeon Dr Sushil Mahi and three other doctors will be its members.The committee has been directed to submit its report within the next three days.Sources said the issue of 11 deaths in the private hospitals was discussed at a meeting of the Covid Management Committee held at the mini-secretariat here on Wednesday. Some officials raised eyebrows over it and demanded to find out exact reasons responsible stating that the figure comprised around one-third of the total Covid toll in the district.ADC Rahul Hooda then demanded that the DC should get all deaths inquired into by forming a committee. The DC thereafter formed a five-member committee to inquire into the matter.“The purpose for setting up the inquiry is to ascertain the treatment extended to the Covid patients in the hospitals and if the government norms were followed or not while charging medical bills from the patients’ kin,” said Yashendra.Dr Vijay Prakash, Nodal Officer (Covid), said only four out of 34 deaths had taken place at the Covid ward of the local Civil Hospital while others had occurred at PGIMS Rohtak, AIIMS Jhajjar and private hospitals in Gurugram and Delhi.
