26-04-2020||Chandigarh||7 more test COVID-19 positive in Haryana, cases near 300||Haryana reported seven new cases of COVID-19, pushing the total to 294 on Sunday, a state health department bulletin said.Four fresh cases were reported from Panipat while Hisar and Sonipat recorded two and one case, respectively, according to the health department’s daily bulletin.Nuh with 57 novel coronavirus cases, followed by Gurgaon (51), Faridabad (43), Palwal (34), Sonipat (20) and Panchkula (18) are among the worst affected.Among the total cases in Haryana are 24 foreigners—from Italy, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Thailand, South Africa and Indonesia—and 64 people from other states of India, the bulletin said.According to it, 192 people have been discharged from hospital after recovery from the infection, leaving 99 active cases in the state. Haryana has recorded three coronavirus-related deaths.As on Sunday, the state has a recovery rate of 65.30 per cent, fatality rate of 1.02 per cent, COVID-19 positive rate of 1.55 per cent (proportion of positive cases to total tests conducted), the doubling rate of cases is 18 days, while tests per million being conducted are 824, the bulletin said.As many as 20,885 samples have been tested so far, out of which 18,581 have tested negative. The reports of 2,010 samples are awaited.Among the foreign nationals who tested positive, 14 were Italian tourists and later 13 of them were discharged while one elderly woman in the group passed away recently even though she had recovered from COVID-19.The other 10 foreign nationals found positive are from Sri Lanka, Nepal, Thailand, South Africa and Indonesia, according to the bulletin. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-haryana-cases-near-300-76605
26-04-2020||Hisar||Coronavirus: Hisar man tests positive, total in district rises to 4||A coronavirus case was reported from Hisar in Haryana on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the district to four.The 60-year-old, who tested positive, is a resident of Hisar. His 63-year-old brother had died last week at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram. The deceased man too had tested positive but subsequent reports sampled him negative for COVID-19.The man’s locality in Hisar has been declared a containment zone again. The same locality was declared a containment zone when the brother of the person who tested positive today tested positive two weeks ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-hisar-man-tests-positive-total-in-district-rises-to-4-76585
26-04-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana ranks 8th best in Covid-19 cure rate in country||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 26When it comes to the cure rate of the Covid-19 patients, Haryana has been ranked eighth best in the country.As per the data uploaded on the website of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare regarding 32 Covid-19 affected states and union territories, 66.3 percent of Haryana’s Covid-19 patients have been cured so far.Manipur, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Goa have become free of infection with a 100 percent cure rate. Arunachal Pradesh had one patient, Manipur and Tripura had two each and Goa had seven.In Chhattisgarh, 32 of the 37 positive cases have recovered with an 86.5 percent cure rate. It is followed by Kerala, where 338 out of a total of 457 patients have got discharged with a recovery rate of 74 percent. The recovery rate in the union territory Ladakh is 70 percent as 14 of the 20 patients have been discharged.Haryana has so far recorded 288 positive cases, after including 14 Italian nationals, and out of them 191 have recovered.Haryana is followed by Himachal Pradesh (55 percent), where 22 of 40 have recovered, and Uttarakhand (54.2 percent), where 26 of 48 have been cured. Chandigarh has a 53.6 percent cure rate.According to Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Haryana, effective tracing of contacts, strict lockdown, and high rate of sampling are the reasons behind the state’s success.“Doctors have worked with full dedication,” said Health Minister Anil Vij.Haryana has so far registered 4,609 FIRs for lockdown violations and arrested 6,594 people.The worst cure rate in the country is in Gujarat (9.2 percent) followed by Madhya Pradesh (10 percent) and Maharashtra (14.1 percent).With three deaths, Haryana has a fatality rate of 1.04 percent.The national cure rate and fatality rate are 21.9 percent and 3.11 percent, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-ranks-8th-best-in-covid-19-cure-rate-in-country-76579
26-04-2020||Jhajjar||Coronavirus: Jhajjar man tests positive in Delhi||A resident of Gubhana village in Jhajjar district tested positive for coronavirus in Delhi, where he was employed with Municipal Corporation Delhi (MCD). His wife and children reside in the village and he used to frequently visit them.The district health authorities swung into action and took samples of five members of his family after quarantining them at their home in the village.“The man is currently undergoing treatment at a hospital in Delhi. He came to the village on April 22, a day before he tested positive in Delhi on April 23. His family members and other contacts in the village have been kept under close surveillance,” said Randeep Singh Punia, Civil Surgeon, Jhajjar.Punia said the reports of the family’s samples would come out in the evening. No one is allowed to visit his house and efforts were underway to find other close contacts of the man so that they could also be quarantined.This is the third case where a Jhajjar resident tested positive for COVID at their workplace in Delhi. Two days ago, a resident of Sulodha village here also tested positive at a hospital in Delhi where he was deputed. He is employed with Delhi police.The district administration has notified Sulodha village area as containment zone and the process has been initiated to take the sample of each resident in the village. No villager is allowed to move out and police personnel have been deployed at all entry and exit points of the village.Earlier, a young woman residing in Bahadurgarh here was also tested Covid positive in Delhi. She is employed with a private hospital there and used to come to Bahadurgarh from Delhi daily after her duty. She has now recovered from the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-jhajjar-man-tests-positive-in-delhi-76545
26-04-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Labour shortage hampers procurement in Palwal||Tribune News ServicePalwal, April 25With an acute labour shortage plaguing all mandis of the district, commission agents have asked the farmers to either delay or temporarily stop bringing produce to the market.This has put farmers in a fix as they do not have sufficient storing facilities for the harvested crop."Though my turn to sell the crop had been fixed for Saturday, I was asked by the commission agent to hold back the produce for two or three days,’’ said Raju, a farmer of Aurangabad village.Claiming that the procurement process in the Palwal market remained suspended on Saturday due to the labour shortage, Dharmender, a farmer from Kishorepur village, said he was told that his turn to sell produce might get delayed. "The question is where should I keep the harvested wheat as there is no space in my house," he said.Notably, an online token system has been introduced in the mandis for staggered arrival of the produce.Expressing concern over the glitches in the online system, Devesh Kumar, a commission agent at Hodal, said the procurement process had been badly affected not only by the labour shortage, but also due to the mismatch of record of the crop in the online system.He said most of the labourers, who were migrants, had returned to their home states due to the lockdown. This had left only 10-15 per cent of the required labour, Devesh said.Claiming that procurement had been going on smoothly, Narveer Singh, secretary, Market Committee, Palwal, said 50-60 farmers were being allowed to sell their produce daily in each mandi. He, however, admitted that farmers were advised by some commission agents to delay bringing the produce due to unavailability of labour.A total of 4.34 lakh quintal of wheat and 2,099 metric tonnes of mustard has been procured in the district so far. Farmers in a fix||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/labour-shortage-hampers-procurement-in-palwal-76328
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana shops to open today, file cleared||In Haryana, businesses in rural areas and neighbourhood shops in urban areas outside containment zones are set to open from Sunday. Dhanpat Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue, Disaster Management and Consolidation Department, said the file pertaining to endorsement of the MHA orders had been cleared by Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora. Sources said the issue was also discussed by the Chief Minister with DCs during a video-conference. To dispel any confusion, detailed guidelines will be issued by Monday, said sources.Dhanpat Singh said the shops would operate with 50 per cent staff strength. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-shops-to-open-today-file-cleared-76319
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||7 new cases, tally reaches 274 in Haryana||With four cases from Gurugram and one each from Ambala, Sonepat and Hisar, the state’s tally mounted toIn Gurugram, four women paramedics of Medanta hospital tested positive for Covid. The district health authorities wrote to the hospital highlighting a pattern of transmission and asking them to identify the source of the infection.At Ambala, a 42-year-old man of Tharva village tested positive today. He was suffering from chronic diabetes for the past 25 years. He also had kidney ailments for which he was undergoing dialysis daily for the past year.Sample collection bus launched in GurugramGurugram: The Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited has launched a special bus for sample collection in containment zones. The mobile Covid-19 sample collection bus is a modified bus that is equipped to collect samples and has technicians/phlebotomists on board.He had reported to Ambala Cantonment Civil Hospital on Thursday with serious respiratory problem following which he was shifted to the PGIMER, Chandigarh. There, he was tested and admitted for treatment.At Sonepat, a four-year-old girl tested positive. Her mother had tested positive on Friday while her father, employed at Babu Jagjiwan Ram hospital in Jahangirpuri, Delhi, had tested positive earlier.At Hisar, one person tested positive today at Dharoli village in Adampur block.A staff nurse at Babu Jagjiwan Ram Hospital in Delhi tested positive for Covid today. She is a resident of Nandwani Nagar, a locality in Sonepat, and was going to the hospital in Delhi in a car daily along with another Covid-positive staff nurse from Saraswati Vihar Colony.Her sample was collected by the hospital in Delhi on Friday. She is back at her home here in Sonepat. But her case will be counted in Delhi’s tally.After including 14 Italian nationals, the cumulative number of positive cases touched 288 today. As many as 191 patients have been discharged.With 1,425 tests in the past 24 hours, the cumulative number of total tests in the state touched 20,270 today with 17,787 coming negative and 2,196 results are pending. The number of tests touched 800 per million. On Friday, it was 743 per million. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-new-cases-tally-reaches-274-in-haryana-76377
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Want no entry for Delhi Govt staff with passes: Vij||Haryana will lodge a protest with Delhi, holding a number of its employees, including police personnel, responsible for the spread of Covid. Home Minister Anil Vij said they had sealed the border with Delhi. “Delhi Government employees who are natives of Haryana come with passes. About 2,000 Delhi Police personnel have entered the state in the past,” he said. He claimed that a majority of cases in Sonepat were due to movement of infected persons from Delhi. “We declared a Jhajjar village as a containment zone on Friday after a resident posted as constable in Delhi Police tested positive. Such cases were noticed in Gurugram as well,” he said. “We urge Delhi to make arrangements for stay of employees and not to issue passes. We are recording movement inside our territory. If Delhi does not agree, we may disallow entry to those with passes,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/want-no-entry-for-delhi-govt-staff-with-passes-vij-76376
26-04-2020||Deepender Deswal---||‘Were already following Hindu rituals’||Tribune News Service Danoda Kalan (Jind), April 25 The decision of six Muslim families of Danoda Kalan village to convert to Hinduism has enthused activists of Hindu outfits. Muslims of the region are reluctant to talk on the issue. As many as 35 members from the families of six brothers converted to Hinduism when they cremated an elderly person of the family at a Hindu cremation ground on April 18. The family of the deceased took a deliberate decision and announced that they are converting to Hinduism on the occasion. Raj Kumar Ahlawat said they belonged to the Mirasi Muslim community and had now embraced Hinduism. “It was just a thin ritualistic line of how we dispose ofour dead which was standing between us and Hinduism,” said Ahlawat, a newly initiated Hindu, adding that the demise of his father Nek Chand marked their move to Hinduism. “We have been earning our livelihood working as ‘Doms’(traditional singers). We have mentioned our caste as Hindu Dom, a Scheduled Caste in the Hindu system, in our educational documents and are also getting quota benefits.” Ahlawat works as ‘munshi’ in the local ‘gaushala’ and is an artiste who sings in ‘Saangs’, a folk song and dance theatre. He sang the songs of Pt Lakhmi Chand and Pt Mange Ram for several years in ‘Saang’ events. When The Tribune asked him about the immediate provocation to change his religion, Ahlawat said the Tablighi Jamaat episode pained them and they decided to convert for good. “We are feeling greatly relieved after embracing Hinduism,” he said. Village sarpanch Purshotam Sharma, who is a BJP supporter, said that there was no pressure on anybody to practice any religion in the village. “We came to know that Muslim (Teli) families had expressed their resentment to the conversion decision initially. But there is no ill will now and some of them (Muslims) are even keen to follow suit,” he claimed. Muslim families belonging to the Mirasi, Teli and Lohars communities distanced themselves from the decision of the six families to convert to Hinduism stating that it was their personal decision. Naseeb Singh, a political activist who contested and lost the previous poll for the post of sarpanch in the neighbouring Danoda Khurd village maintained, “The conversion was a matter of discussion for a couple of days. But nowadays, nobody likes to meddle in the affairs of others. We are least bothered about the matter,” he said. Significantly, belonging to a Mirasi Muslim family, Naseeb contested the poll as an SC candidate. Raghbir Singh, a Teli Muslim and father of three children who go to a private school, maintained that changing one’s religion is not a good decision at all. “But we cannot interfere in the matters of others. We will not be attending their family functions and events as they have exited Islam,” he said, adding that there could be some kind of coercion behind this decision by the families.  He said Naseeb maintained that there is no religious leader in the twin villages of Danoda Kalan and Danoda Khurd that have about 15 Teli, 30-40 Lohar and 100 Mirasi families of the Muslim community. Harphool Khan Bhatti, president, Haryana Muslim Kalyan Committee, stated that the community of Mirasi Muslims are taking the benefit of the SC category which is part of Hinduism. “These families are from the Mirasi community. I came to know that they inclined towards Hinduism to take quota benefit and they took the decision at this time,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/were-already-following-hindu-rituals-76375
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||App to provide services under single roof||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced the launch of the mobile app “HelpMe” to bring various apps and portals providing services to the public during Covid under one roof. In a televised address, the CM said the app working on Android OS was available on Playstore. “It will be available for download from Sunday. The app will enable the public to request for dry ration, cooked food, LPG cylinder, ambulance, doctor, movement pass and bank appointment as per need,” he said. The CM pointed out that it also enabled citizens to donate. “It has OTP-based login and detects GPS location of the requester. The request for various services will directly go to the district officer concerned,” said Vijender Kumar, Principal Secretary, Skill Development and Industrial Training. “Banks can fix appointments. Even learning resources for higher education have been provided for students in this app.  It also provides farmers with an option to sell their crop by booking a gate pass,” said V Umashankar, Additional Principal Secretary to CM. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/app-to-provide-services-under-single-roof-76374
26-04-2020||Karnal/kurukshetra||Back from Kota, 31 students quarantined||A total of 23 students from Karnal, who went to Kota in June-July 2019, returned on Saturday and were kept in a quarantine ward.  The Health Department screened them and found no symptoms. “We had sent Haryana Roadways buses to Kota to bring back the students on government directions. All 23 students of Karnal have arrived,” said DC Nishant Kumar Yadav. Dr Ashwani Ahuja, Civil Surgeon, said their medical screening was done and all were fit and had no symptoms. Seven Kurukshetra students were also brought back from Kota and quarantined. One brought by his family earlier was already quarantined. CMO Dr Sukhbir Singh said, “Seven children brought from Kota have been kept in quarantine facility.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/back-from-kota-31-students-quarantined-76373
26-04-2020||Kaithal||Kaithal arhtiyas reject FCI order on paying farmers||Wheat procurement was hit in Kaithal on Saturday when the arhtiyas in the old and new grain markets refused to follow the FCI directive on payment to farmers from their own accounts. They opined that how they could make such a huge payment to farmers from their own accounts, risking their funds and then wait for FCI clearance. Meanwhile, hundreds of farmers who brought wheat at Adani silo, Solu Majra, near Dhand, had to wait for hours as the market committee staff couldn’t issue gate pass to them.  Later, SDM and DSP reached the spot and talked to the farmers and committee staff, following which gate pass was issued. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-arhtiyas-reject-fci-order-on-paying-farmers-76372
26-04-2020||---||1,424 migrants sent back to UP, Uttarakhand||Ambala, April 25A total of 1,424 stranded migrant labourers, who were putting up in various shelter homes across the state, were sent back to their respective homes in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand on Saturday.As many as 687 labourers were sent back from Ambala, said DC Ashok Kumar Sharma.He said 23 Haryana Roadways buses were pressed into service to ferry migrants to their homes from here. Municipal Commissioner Parth Gupta was appointed the nodal officer to supervise the arrangements for their safe transportation.85 Jamaatis too return homeGurugram: The state sent back 85 Jamaatis, a majority from Nuh, to their native states following the conclusion of their quarantine period. They wanted to celebrate Ramzan with their families. Special buses and cars were arranged to drop them home while following social distancing. The Jamaatis had been living in Nuh, Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Sonepat and Yamunanagar districts since the lockdown began. OCEach migrant was provided a mask, sanitiser, food packet and water bottle. Besides, a driver, conductor, a cop and an additional staffer was also sent in every bus.As many as 3,600 migrants were putting up in 21 shelter homes in the district for the past over one month.Yamunanagar: Another 477 migrant labourers staying in temporary shelter homes in the district were sent back to their homes in UP and Uttarakhand.DC Mukul Kumar said, “We have sent 398 migrated labourers to UP and 79 to Uttrakhand onSaturday.” As many as 2,300 migrants were staying in 24 shelter homes set up at Satsang Bhawans by the district administration on March 28, soon after the government sealed the state borders banning the movement of labourers.Karnal: A total of 260 migrants, who were stranded in five shelter homes of the district, were sent back to their native places in UP.DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said they had established five shelter homes at Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan in Karnal, Gharaunda and Indri to keep the labourers. Around 500 migrants had been living here at present, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-424-migrants-sent-back-to-up-uttarakhand-76371
