26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Assembly passes 12 Bills, Section 7-A of Urban Areas Act amended||Twelve Bills were passed during the one-day session of Haryana Vidhan Sabha on Wednesday.Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (Second Amendment and Validation) Bill, 2020 was passed to amend Section 7-A whereby the existing provisions of ‘two kanals’ and ‘agriculture land’ requiring NOC before registration would be replaced by ‘one acre’ and ‘vacant land’ respectively.It is done for an effective deterrence against unauthorised colonisation, according to the government.The requirement of NOC for transfer through gift deed has also been included. The amendments have been brought after registry scam surfaced and six revenue officers were suspended and booked.Haryana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (Amendment) Bill, 2020 would amend the Act of 2005.As per 2005 Act, the fiscal deficit has to be at three per cent of the GSDP and debt liability at 25 per cent.Now, the state can avail two per cent additional borrowing of the GSDP amounting to Rs 17,172.64 crore over and above the prescribed limit of 3 per cent of the GSDP during the current financial year 2020-21.Haryana Rural Development (Amendment) Bill, 2020 would enable imposition of Rural Development Fee on ad-valorem basis, at the rate of one per cent of the sale-proceeds of fruits and vegetables.Haryana Management of Civic Amenities and Infrastructure Deficient Municipal Areas (Special Provisions) Amendment Bill, 2020 was passed to enable declaration of unauthorised colonies as deficient in civil amenities.Haryana Lifts and Escalators (Amendment) Bill, 2020 would allow Emergency Rescue Device in lifts which will give sufficient backup, in case of power shutdown, to land at the desired floor and keep it operating for at least 15 minutes.Haryana Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 would enable the government to conduct the first election of the newly constituted Corporation within a period of five years and six months, instead of five years earlier.The election of the Municipal Corporation, Sonepat was required to be held till July 5 but due to Covid, the elections could not be held.Haryana Municipal (Amendment) Bill, 2020 was passed to enable bringing No Confidence Motion against presidents of municipalities, who were elected prior to 2019 amendment.The Haryana Fire Service (Amendment) Bill, 2020 was passed to further amend the Haryana Fire Service Act of 2009 for exempting a height of 16.5 meters for four floors for residential purposes for obtaining approval of Fire Fighting Schemes and Fire NOCs.Haryana Municipal Entertainment Duty (Amendment) Bill, 2020 was passed to include various available means of entertainment via digital networking in present times—e-Cable Operators, Direct to Home Operators, Video Parlours, Pool Parlours and IPTV services.Haryana Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2020 was passed to provide relaxations and amend certain provisions of the Haryana Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. The amendment in section 140 is included for prescribing the time limit and the manner for availing input tax credit against certain un-availed credit under the existing law.The Haryana Value Added Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2020 was passed to amend the Haryana Value Added Tax Act, 2003 for providing time to finalise the assessments for 2016-17 that had to be finalised by the due dates falling between the lockdown period.Haryana Appropriation (No. 3) Bill, 2020 was passed to authorise payment and appropriation of funds from the Consolidated Fund of the Haryana.
26-08-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  ||Haryana saw Rs 11,270 crore revenue deficit in 2018-19: CAG report||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, August 26  The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has said Haryana “continues to be a revenue-deficit state” and its revenue receipts were insufficient to meet the state’s expenditure. Borrowed funds were being used to meet the current consumption instead of capital creation, it said.The comments are part of a CAG report on the state’s finances till March 31, 2019, which was tabled in the Assembly on Wednesday.  The revenue deficit in 2018-19 stood at Rs 11,270 crore, which was 17 per cent of the revenue receipts in the same year, it said.  The fiscal deficit, which is a difference of receipts and expenditure, was Rs 19,114 crore in 2017-18 and increased to Rs 21,912 crore during 2018-19. It was 3.10 per cent of the GSDP against the target of 2.82 per cent set out in Medium Term Fiscal Policy Statement (MTFPS) of the government.  The CAG pointed out that primary deficit, which is a difference of revenue receipts and expenditure but excluding payments on interest payments, rose to Rs 8,361 crore in 2018-19 from Rs 7,153 crore in the 2017-18.  “Existence of primary deficit indicates that the state would need to borrow money even for making interest payments on its borrowed funds,” the CAG said.Loans ‘wrongly’ extended to cooperative sugar millsThe recovery of loans and advances during 2018-19 was just 1.13 per cent. The co-operative sugar mills were extended loans with the condition that it would be repaid in five years in equal installments after 12 months of sanction with 9 per cent per annum interest and no loan would be given in case of failure in repayment of earlier loans.  “However, loans were sanctioned to sugar mills without ensuring the fulfilment of conditions of earlier loans, as a result of which outstanding loans increased from Rs 618.40 crore on April 1, 2009, to Rs 2,647.86 crore as on March 31, 2019,” as per the report.  The revenue expenditure during 2018-19 was 83 per cent of total expenditure. The expenditure on salary and wages, pension liabilities, interest payments and subsidies alone constituted 65 per cent of revenue expenditure. “Moreover, 87 per cent (Rs 7,415 crore) of total subsidies were only for the energy sector,” said the CAG.  The capital expenditure of Rs 15,307 crore (just 16.42 per cent of total expenditure) during 2018-19 included conversion of power sector loans amounting to Rs 5,190 crore under UDAY scheme into equity. The accumulated losses of power distribution companies upto 2017-18 were Rs 29,453 crore, said the CAG.  The overall fiscal liability of the state was Rs 1.84 lakh crore. The ratio of fiscal liability to GSDP increased from 20.23 per cent in 2014-15 to 26.05 per cent in 2018-19. These liabilities were 2.8 times the revenue receipts and 3.64 times the state’s own resources.
26-08-2020||Faridabad||Woman survives ‘leopard attack’ with minor injuries in Faridabad village||A middle-aged woman was allegedly attacked by a leopard in the fields of Sagarpur village of the district on Wednesday.She survived the attack with minor injuries on her hands, it is claimed.However, the wildlife department has said that the attack on the woman by a leopard could not be verified as its presence was yet to be established.According to locals, the incident took place around 10.15 am, when the woman identified as Kamlesh (40), wife of one Udham Singh, was working in a cotton field near the village.She told the villagers that the wild cat which came all of a sudden pounced on her but as she noticed the animal, she raised an alarm causing the leopard to leave her immediately and ran away, as some of the persons working nearby also rushed to help.The attack by the wild beast resulted in injuries as both her arms got scratches, though no bleeding took place, it is revealed. Claiming that a leopard was behind the attack, Vishnu Chaudhary, a local resident who visited the spot, said that it is fortunate that the woman survived the attack with bruises only.He said it had led to a scare and panic among the villagers as working in the fields was a normal routine. The leopard might have strayed into the village limits from the jungle of the neighbouring Jajru village, where its movement had been noticed by a CCTV camera installed at NTPC Solar Power Plant on the intervening night of August 19 and 20, it is added.“Though the police and the wildlife department have been informed about the incident, the incident has led to a scare in the area,” said Bijender Nehra, another resident. However, Wildlife Inspector Charan Singh said the attack could not be verified till the presence or movement of a leopard is proved. He said no pugmarks or signs have been found so far. The villagers have been asked to keep a vigil and inform the department if any such movement is noticed, he said.
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Day-long Haryana Assembly session begins||The monsoon session of the Haryana Assembly, which began here on Wednesday, will be of one-day duration, Leader of Opposition and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said.As per the tentative schedule earlier, the session was to last for two days, but it has been cut short now, Hooda told reporters after attending the business advisory committee (BAC) meeting, which met hours before the start of the session.“There was a consensus among the members that the House should meet for a day. The Assembly will be adjourned sine die after obituary references are moved and important legislative business is conducted,” the former chief minister said.The novel coronavirus pandemic had cast its shadow before the session was to begin, with eight legislators of the ruling BJP testing positive for the infection. They include the chief minister, two ministers and the Speaker.Hooda pointed out that the decision to cut short the duration of the session had been taken in the light of these developments.The BAC met under Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa, who will be presiding over the session.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, Home Minister Anil Vij and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kanwar Pal were among those who attended the BAC meeting.The authorities have put strict protocols in place in view of the coronavirus pandemic.Besides the MLAs and officials requiring a coronavirus negative certificate to gain entry into the Assembly complex, seating arrangement has also been changed to ensure social distancing in the 90-member House.  PTI
26-08-2020||Rohtak||Covid-19 safety protocols go for a toss at containment zones in Rohtak||COVID safety protocols are being not followed in the containment zones despite the persistent rise in the COVID cases in Rohtak district. Though barricading has been done to restrict the public movement, people are moving freely due to the absence of police personnel.Even, the containment zones are not being sanitised, raising a question mark over the district authorities’ claim about checking the spread of COVID pandemic.The district has 160 containment zones and around 2,700 persons have been infected by coronavirus while the disease has so far claimed the lives of 27 persons.“Our street was declared as a Containment Zone several days ago. Barricading was put up both sides of the house of a COVID patient but it is still unmanned hence people are moving freely. What is the use of such a sort of containment zone when safety protocols are not followed,” said Yogesh, a resident of Saini Pura.Satish Tyagi, a resident of Arya Nagar, said barricades were installed in his street after six members of a family tested positive.“No cop was deputed there so the people uprooted the barricades after one or two days. There is now no restriction on public movement in the locality. The violation of COVID protocols poses a threat to the health of other residents, said Tyagi.Similar is the situation in the majority of other Containment Zones notified in Rohtak city to contain the spread of COVID pandemic.Kuldeep Singh, SHO, Old Sabji Mandi Police Station, claimed cops had been deputed in all containment zones. “Riders visit the Containment Zones daily to take stock of the situation,” he added.Anil Birla, Civil Surgeon, said various departments had been assigned separate tasks to execute COVID protocols in Containment Zones.“Our duty is to isolate COVID patients and to carry out a door-to-door survey in the containment zone to trace those having COVID like symptoms. We are doing so in every containment zone,” Birla added.
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal tests positive for Covid-19||Haryana Agriculture Minister Jai Prakash Dalal tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday.Dalal said in a post on his official Facebook page that he had isolated himself at home.“A COVID-19 test I got done three days ago came back negative, but a second test has come back positive. I’m isolating myself at home. I request that all those who have come in contact with me in the last few days to please isolate themselves and get themselves checked as a precaution,” his post read.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, and three legislators have tested positive so far apart from Dalal.Khattar, who is currently at Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital, tested positive days after a meeting with Union Minister Gajendra Shekhawat, who announced later that he had tested positive as well.The development also comes just as Haryana Assembly reconvenes for Monsoon Session on Wednesday.
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM shifted to hospital; House session from today||With Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, a minister and four MLAs testing positive for Covid-19, the monsoon session of the state Assembly is set to begin tomorrow under extraordinary circumstances and strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol.Khattar was shifted to Gurugram’s Medanta hospital around 2.30 am while Speaker Gian Chand Gupta joined him at the facility later in the day. Cabinet Minister Mool Chand Sharma, who tested positive today, has opted for home isolation in Faridabad.Legislators Aseem Goyal (Ambala City), Laxman Napa (Ratia) and Ram Kumar Kashyap (Indri) were declared infected yesterday, while Harvinder Kalyan’s (Gharaunda) report came positive today.Medanta Medical Superintendent Dr AK Dubey said “The Chief Minister’s vital parameters are stable.” — TNS
26-08-2020||New Delhi||Kairon’s son ‘unravels’ his assassination plot||The debate on the death of former Chief Minister of joint Punjab, Partap Singh Kairon, who was assassinated on February 6, 1965, and the mystery surrounding it, has been reignited by his son Gurinder Singh.In a book, co-authored by him, suspicion has been raised against former Deputy Prime Minister, late ‘Tau’ Devi Lal. The book, titled ‘Partap Singh Kairon — A Visionary’, was launched this Independence Day. It has been co-authored by Meeta Rajivlochan, an IAS officer of the Maharashtra cadre (1990 batch), and M Rajivlochan, a professor at Panjab University.The mention of Devi Lal’s name has evinced frowns and murmurs in wide-ranging political circles.Also read: Linking Devi Lal to Partap Singh Kairon killing absurd, says patriarch’s family“I have nothing further to add...everything is in the book…,” Gurinder Singh, younger son of Kairon, told The Tribune on the phone. “The book is based on researches and findings,” Rajivlochan said. Notably, the assassination had raised a storm in the country.
26-08-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Power wires pose threat||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comPower wires pose threatIn the narrow and congested streets one can see a web of electricity wires hanging. When strong winds blow, these live wires shake dangerously and most of the times, simply break and fall down in the street. It poses serious threat to the lives of residents and animals. The power is restored after repeated requests are made to power officials. The voltage is always low and appliances don't work or get damaged. The Power Department should replace these wires with new ones soon. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaEncroachment on Kaithal roadThe stretch from old Jind road to New Anaj Mandi in Kaithal has been occupied by encroachers, but the departments concerned, including the state marketing board authorities, remain indifferent to this. As a result, the road has become a dumping ground for waste material, to stock gravel and some people have started using the encroached road to run auto repair workshops. Drains along this road remain completely choked. Residents demand action against the encroachers. Satish Seth, KaithalDon't allow minors to driveMinors have seen driving vehicles that have been involved in road accidents. I fail to understand why parents allow their minor children to drive vehicles. Frankly speaking, they should be held responsible for the mistakes of their children and be awarded punishment along with their wards. The police must act tough with the defaulters and on arrest, bail should not be granted easily. Subhash C Taneja, Gurugram
26-08-2020||Hisar||Workshop on online courses||Karnal student wins laurelsKarnal: Prashant Sharma, a student of Class IX of JPS Academy, Assandh, in the district, participated as a webinar teacher in an international company named Winsor & Newtone that deals in manufacturing of variety of art products for its acrylic tube colour promotion. He surprised all the participants of the world by his artistic knowledge and talent. He was paid Rs4,40,000 for conducting the webinar. Then as an artist, he took part in a four-day international colour promotion seminar in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan The chairman of the Academy, Yogendra Rana, Principal Mohan Singh, director Dushyant Singh Rana and fine arts teacher Tejpal Singh congratulated Prashant for this achievement.Online music programmePalwal: "Swar Tarang Sang Sadhana" programme of the faculty of humanities and applied sciences, SVSU (Shri Vishwa Karma Skill University), is a tri-weekly skill-based online music programme. In addition to the skill development of music students and faculty, the initiative also encourages the community participation of all staff, students of SVSU and from society. The programme team led by Col Dr SS Malik, along with Amarjeet Singh and Dr Raj Kumar Tiwetia has conducted the programme on every Monday, Wednesday, Friday, from 9am to10am, without break, proving the effectiveness of the online platform. it includes all aspects of Indian music such as folk, light classical, bhakti, patriotic, instrumental music, and other relevant areas, shared in an informal classroom presentation. Experts on the subject are also invited. The popularity of the programme can be judged from the regular participation varying from banchari folk artistes from remote villages of Haryana to Army generals, chief engineers, management experts, social activists and many others from all over India, Australia, the USA, and UK.
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||10 die, 1,148 fresh Covid-19 cases in Haryana||A total of 1,148 fresh Covid cases were reported in the state on Tuesday. With 10 more deaths, the toll reached 623.Faridabad reported a maximum of 132 cases, followed by Rewari (129), Gurugram (109) and Panipat (109). Kaithal reported four deaths, Faridabad two and Ambala, Karnal, Panchkula and Fatehabad one each. — TNS
26-08-2020||Yamunanagar||Woman dies in mishap||A couple on an Activa fell into the Western Jamuna Canal, near Amadalpur village of Yamunanagar, after losing their balance due to potholes on the road. The man was saved, but his wife died in the incident. Nausad of Amadalpur village and his wife Shahnaz had gone to the bank to withdraw money. — TNS
26-08-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Bailout for delicensed projects likely in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 25In the light of the Punjab and Haryana High Court order on the Ambience Mall in Gurugram, a bailout plan may be in the offing for 69 projects that fall in the similar “unauthorised” category.The mall had come up on a delicensed portion of over 18 acres originally meant for a residential complex that was relicensed afresh.Sources said the government could bring a Bill or an amendment in the monsoon session of the Assembly on regularising delicensed and relicensed projects which do not have any third-party interests. This means the project should not have changed hands. While the government is pushing for bringing it during the session, there is likelihood of it being brought as an ordinance ata later stage if it is not ready yet or the two session sittings are further reduced to one sitting due to Covid.Though the government has been maintaining that despite the Haryana Urban (Regulation and Development) Act not making any provision for delicensing, the General Clauses Act authorises it to undo what it can do, implying that the government can delicense a project partially or completely as well. “While the law does not permit it in black and white, it does not prohibit it either,” a source said.However, to cover the grey area on the matter of delicensing and bailing out various projects that may find themselves at the receiving end from the courts in view of the Ambience mall order, legal experts are known to have suggested to the government to bring a Bill or an amendment spelling out clearly the ambiguity around its powers on delicensing.A total of 2,000 licences were issued, of which 69 projects fall in the category of those delicensed and relicensed by the successive governments. A majority of the projects were reportedly delicensed and relicensed before 2014 and 18 after 2014 when the BJP formed the government in the state.What the Law says…
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Bill on ‘Right to recall’ panches in the works||Haryana will soon become the first state in the country to empower villagers with the right to recall non-performing members of the panchayat. A Bill in this connection would be tabled in the Assembly soon, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala told the media here on Tuesday.“Former Deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal had a dream that there should be a ‘right to recall’ public representatives if they lose people’s confidence and fail to come up to their minimum expectations,” he said.The Deputy CM further said the Bill to reserve 50 per cent posts in the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) for women would also be tabled. “Once this Bill is passed, it will not only open doors for rural women in politics, but also give them a platform to prove themselves.”A Bill to give 75 per cent reservation to state’s youth in the private sector would also be tabled.“Soon, sweeping changes will be made to the Urban Local Bodies, Town and Country Planning Department and Sports Department,” the JJP leader said, adding that online booking of land registration in urban areas would start next week. — TNS
26-08-2020||---||3 Bills to be tabled in House: Haryana Deputy Speaker||Chandigarh, August 25The state government is going to table 10 ordinances and three Bills in the monsoon session of the Assembly starting on Wednesday, Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa told the media here on Tuesday.He will carry out the proceedings of the House in the absence of Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, as he is admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram after testing positive for Covid.“All arrangements have been made. No one without the Covid-negative report will be allowed inside the Assembly. The test reports of all legislators have been received. Besides Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and the Speaker, five have tested positive. They are Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma, Harvinder Kalyan, Aseem Goyal, Ram Kumar Kashyap and Lakshman Napa,” Gangwa said.Of the 365 members of the Assembly staff who were tested, the report of six came positive. “The Assembly has been sanitised. The legislators will be seated in the visitors’ and Speaker’s gallery. Social distancing will be observed strictly,” he added.On the Bills to be tabled, he said one of them was on 50 per cent reservation for women in panchayats and eight per cent quota for Backward Class (A).On the duration of the House, Gangwa said, “The Business Advisory Committee will decide the matter. It will convene a meeting at 11 am on Wednesday. Some MLAs are for curtailing the duration of the session. The common view is that the session should be of one day.”One of the calling attention motions was on the registry scam, he added.No decision on leader of HouseThe big question is who will be the leader of the House in the absence of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who has contracted Covid and is in a hospital. Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa said, “It is up to the Chief Minister to nominate the leader of the House as per rules.” Home Minister Anil Vij is the senior-most minister in the Cabinet.
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Custodial interrogation must in illicit liquor case||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that custodial interrogation of an accused in illicit liquor case was essential to bust the racket. “The alleged modus operandi adopted by the accused needs to be unearthed,” the Bench said.WHY IT MATTERSConsidering the totality of circumstances, the role of petitioner, which surfaced during preliminary investigation, coupled with his antecedents, this court opines that custodial interrogation of the petitioner is essential to take the probe to its logical conclusion so as to bust the entire illicit liquor racket. — Justice Arun Monga, Punjab and Haryana High CourtThe assertion by Justice Arun Monga came on a plea by Jasbir Singh against Haryana. He was seeking anticipatory bail in a case registered at Bond Kalan police station in Charkhi Dadri on June 14 for criminal conspiracy, rash driving and other offences under Sections 120B, 279, and 336 IPC and provisions of the Punjab Excise Act.It was stated in the FIR that a tip-off was received on February 6 by the police about transportation of “huge quantity” of liquor in a vehicle from Panipat to Dadri and two persons were escorting in a car.Barricades were erected en route and on noticing the approaching car, the police signalled it to stop, but the driver, after trying to run the car over the cops, managed to flee. However, the other vehicle was stopped and countrymade liquor seized. During interrogation, two accused disclosed that they were working for the petitioner. Opposing the bail plea, the state counsel said the probe revealed that the petitioner was the “kingpin” of the illegal trade. — TNS
26-08-2020||---||Congress to raise scams in Haryana Assembly||Chandigarh, August 25A day before commencement of the monsoon session, the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) decided to raise liquor, registry and paddy scams.The CLP met under the leadership of Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and state Congress president Kumari Selja.Resolve to expose ‘anti-people’ policiesThe Congress is committed to fighting for those who have been hit by anti-people policies. The government has failed on every front, be it relief to farmers or the battle against Covid. Instead of providing relief, it is busy in scams. — Bhupinder S Hooda, Leader of OppositionA vote of thanks for Congress president Sonia Gandhi was passed over her decision to continue leading the party, which was unanimously supported by all MLAs.While Hooda, who moved the proposal, said she was the most accepted leader, Selja said the party had given respect to all leaders and no one could be above the party.It was decided to bring adjournment motions on registry and liquor scams, agricultural ordinances and sacked physical training instructors.Hooda said the ordinances had created confusion about the future of the MSP regime. “The government should ensure that crops are purchased at MSP under the formula suggested by Swaminathan Commission,” he said.“The Congress wants investigation into the liquor scam to be conducted by a sitting High Court Judge or any Central agency,” he added.Calling attention motions on the law and order situation, multi-crore paddy procurement scam, ban on cultivation of paddy on panchayat land, locus attacks and Covid were also discussed.“The Congress is committed to fighting for those who have been hit by anti-people policies. The government has failed on every front, be it relief to farmers or the battle against Covid. Instead of providing relief, it is busy in scams,” Hooda said.
26-08-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||National Green Tribunal wants dyeing units monitored||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, August 25The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) to constitute vigilance squads and take measures to check the functioning of illegal dyeing units situated in the Neharpar area (Greater Faridabad).The order, delivered on August 21 by the four-member Bench of the NGT, comes in response to a petition filed by a local activist, who had sought action against the illegal units.Activist Varun Sheokand had filed the petition in 2016. When no action was taken on the NGT’s 2017 order, in which the HSPCB was asked to shut down dyeing units, he filed a contempt petition last year, seeking action against the authorities concerned.“A report submitted by the local authorities makes it clear that the violation of environmental norms remains unchecked. The HSPCB is not performing its statutory obligation of taking action against violators. It is thus imperative that the HSPCB is suitably revamped by setting up vigilance squads,” the order reads.The order adds that the HSPCB may recover compensation from polluting units. “Further vigilance may be maintained and the status of compliance be filed on November 30,” the NGT said.
26-08-2020||Kurukshetra||Offline, online exams at Kurukshetra University||Kurukshetra University has decided to conduct all undergraduate and postgraduate final year exams through a blend of offline and online modes from September 10 to 30.Issuing a notification in this regard today, the university said the examinations for UG courses will begin on September 10 and for PG courses on September 15. As many as 261 colleges are affiliated to KU and nearly 1.20 lakh students will take the exams.The roll numbers of students will be uploaded on the university website and also on the site of the college/institute of students concerned. The questions to be answered and the allotted time to finish the exam have been reduced by 50 per cent. The datesheets will be uploaded within two or three days on the university website.Though the question papers have been reduced to 50 per cent, students will still be given three hours (one-and-a-half hour to attempt the exam and another one-and-a-half hour to download the question paper and email answersheets to the chairperson/ director/ principal of the institute concerned. Hukam Singh, controller of examination, KU, said: “The exam will be of 50 marks. In case a student doesn’t have the facility to download and scan, he can submit his answersheet in the college.” — TNS
26-08-2020||Rewari||4 held for looting, killing commuters||With the arrest of four persons, the district police today claimed to have busted a gang involved in looting and killing commuters by offering them lift at night.The accused confessed to having murdered four persons, including a couple, in the past two months with the same modus-operandi.The accused have been identified as Vishal of Datia (Madhya Pradesh), Ayush alias Mayank of Gautambudh Nagar, Ashok Kumar of Etah (Uttar Pradesh) and Mahesh of Gurugram.DSP Amit Bhatia said initially they had arrested Vishal and Ayush in connection with the murder of a labourer, Sandeep, of UP. Bhatia said Sandeep was killed on July 8 when he was returning to Kaprivaas village. “The duo had offered him lift on their motorcycle and took him to an isolated place where they first looted and then killed him,” he added. — TNS
