26-05-2020||Rohtak||Man arrested for theft case tests positive for coronavirus||A man who was recently arrested and sent to judicial custody tested positive for COVID-19, sending authorities scurrying to trace and isolate everyone who may have come in contact with him.Rohtak Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Satyawan said the 24-year-old man from Garhi Bohar village was arrested with another person identified only as Bunty in connection with a theft case. The two were kept at a local police station for a while and later sent to judicial custody to Sunaria jail.“The police post has been sanitised. Police personnel who came in contact with the man are being screened. Those who came in contact with him at the jail are being tracked down to quarantine,” Dr Satyawan said.Meanwhile, a 34-year-old man from Rohtak’s Rajender Nagar locality also tested positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-arrested-for-theft-case-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-90253
26-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||BJP plans massive outreach programme to showcase Modi government’s 1 year in office||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 26Even as the people across the country grapple with the Covid-19 pandemic, lockdown and financial crisis, the Haryana unit of the ruling BJP has come up with an elaborate plan to publicise the achievements of the Modi regime, which is going to complete one year in office on May 30.Addressing a press conference at the Haryana BJP headquarters in Rohtak on Monday, the party’s state unit chief Subhash Barala revealed that an intensive publicity campaign, including the launch of a digital drive and distribution of 25 lakh pamphlets highlighting the accomplishments of the Modi government at the Centre during one year, was on the cards in Haryana.“Ten lakh face masks and sanitisers will be distributed among the residents of Haryana during the awareness campaign,” said Barala, who was here to attend a meeting of the party office-bearers.He disclosed that all three general secretaries of the BJP’s Haryana unit had been given responsibilities of personal contact campaign, digital-media contact campaign and video-conferencing contact campaign to reach out to the maximum number of people and tell them about the achievements of the BJP government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-plans-massive-outreach-programme-to-showcase-modi-governments-1-year-in-office-90227
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hisar hottest at 48 degrees Celsius as heatwave intensifies in Haryana, Punjab||A severe heatwave swept Haryana, Punjab and their joint capital, Chandigarh, on Tuesday, with Hisar being the hottest place in the region at 48 degrees Celsius.Hisar in Haryana recorded its hottest day of the current summer so far, with the maximum temperature settling five notches above normal limits, the Meteorological Department here said.Blistering heat also swept Narnaul at 46 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal limits.Among other places in Haryana, Ambala sizzled at 44.2 degrees Celsius, up five notches, while Karnal sweltered under intense heat at 44 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal limits.Sweltering heat also swept Patiala in Punjab which recorded a high of 44.7 degrees Celsius, up four notches.Amritsar and Ludhiana also recorded above normal maximums of 43.7 degrees Celsius and 44.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also experienced a hot day at 43.1 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal limits.According to the MeT department forecast, the heat wave conditions will continue to prevail for the next two days in Punjab and Haryana. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-hottest-at-48-degrees-celsius-as-heatwave-intensifies-in-haryana-punjab-90222
26-05-2020||Rohtak||Underprivileged parents forced to take loans for smartphones as schools begin e-classes||Many schools have started conducting e-classes for their students as regular classroom teaching is not feasible due to the ongoing lockdown.The children of the well-to-do families attend the e-classes held through online meeting platforms with their laptops and smartphones.  However, attending e-classes is a tall order for the children who come from humble backgrounds and cannot afford these gadgets.“I had to take a loan of Rs 7,500 from a contractor to purchase a smartphone so that my school-going daughter and son are able to attend their e-classes and complete their school assignments,” maintains Gobind, who works as a watchman at under-construction buildings in Rohtak.Puran, who runs a small grocery shop at a labour colony in Rohtak, says he somehow managed to buy a smartphone for his school-going daughter recently so as to facilitate her studies through e-classes.“There are a number of construction workers and other casual labourers who barely manage to send their children to school. Their children are unable to attend e-classes as they cannot afford laptops or smartphones,” states Naresh, who runs Gandhi School, an informal school for underprivileged children in Rohtak.Nevertheless, some school-owners have come up with ways and means to tackle the situation tactfully.For instance, Naresh Dhall, who runs Make The Future of Country (MTFC) School for the underprivileged children at Rohtak, says they have launched an initiative in which school volunteers deliver weekly assignments at the doorstep of the students.“The assignments are then collected, checked and returned to the children, and this cycle goes on. The underlying idea behind the exercise was to ensure that the children of our school, who cannot afford smartphones or laptops and hence cannot attend e-classes, stay connected with the studies,” says Dhall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/underprivileged-parents-forced-to-take-loans-for-smartphones-as-schools-begin-e-classes-90165
26-05-2020||Bengaluru||Punjab, Haryana seem to have crossed the peak in coronavirus cases, says public health expert||Kerala, Punjab and Haryana seem to have crossed the peak in coronavirus cases, says a prominent public health specialist, who expects India to keep Covid-19 deaths at less than 8,000 in the country with strict enforcement of standard protocols and hospitals on high alert.India should not be seen as one entity when it comes to tackling Covid-19, because the population size across states and districts varies, health systems vary and level of literacy varies across and within states, said Professor GVS Murthy, Director of Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad.Therefore, it will be more appropriate to talk about state-level and district-level peaks, he said.As against total cases per million population which increased in India from 17.6 cases per million on April 25 to 99.9 per million on May 25, in Maharashtra it rose from 61.9/million in April to 383/million on May 25, Professor Murthy noted.In Tamil Nadu it increased from 23.4 per million on April 25 to 199.3 per million on May 25, and in Gujarat from 48.1 per million in April to 219 per million on May 25. Delhi has shown the steepest increase in the country from 140 per million on April 25 to 690 per million on May 25."These States (Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi) seem to be nearing the peak while those like Kerala, Punjab and Haryana seem to have crossed the peak," Prof Murthy told PTI in an interview."Since six states (Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh) contribute 70 per cent cases in the country, unless these states peak, the country peak cannot be reached.From the present trends, this can happen as early as early June to as late as the middle of July, he said|.On his assessment about "eventual" COVID-19 deaths in India, Professor Murthy said evidence from some models shows that nearly 80,000-100,000 deaths have been avoided due to the lockdown.He said data show that the daily increase in deaths across the country has been two deaths per million population over the last week.Most governments, Prof Murthy noted, have ramped up their health systems to prevent deaths by providing appropriate care."Efforts have also been made for early identification of severe respiratory illness and influenza-like illness. These are positive indicators that the country will be able to keep mortality on the lower side.""If standard protocols are meticulously followed and hospital facilities remain on high alert, direct COVID-19 deaths should be kept to less than 7,500-8,000 in the present pandemic. That would translate to four to five deaths per million population," he said.On India moving to 10th place in the world in terms of the number of cases, he said this statistic is misleading as the country’s population is much higher than most of the nations in Europe put together."Therefore, one must use a comparable population denominator like cases or deaths per million population (called case rate or death rate). When we do this, the total case rate per million population in India is 101 compared to 6,050 in Spain, 5,098 in the US, 3,825 in the UK and 3,801 in Italy," Professor Murthy pointed out.Similarly, death rate per million population in India is three per million compared to 615 in Spain, 542 each in the UK and Italy, 435 in France and 300 in the US, he said, adding that most countries in South and South East Asia have similar rates as India.Asked if he thought the COVID-19-induced lockdown should be completely lifted from June 1, Murthy said once steps have been taken to lift it in whatever measure, the same direction should be followed by easing it in a staggered manner.Clusters of cases have to be identified on a daily basis and containment measures have to be in place for such clusters. This has to be a dynamic process and reviewed based on new cases occurring in a large number."Public gatherings should not be permitted for the next couple of months. This includes cinema houses, religious or social events. If such activities have to be opened up, sophisticated sanitisation measures like ultraviolet disinfection tunnels should be set up and all people should pass through the same," he said.Public transport will need to be made available, he said, adding, measures like short distance buses rather than long distance ones will reduce the duration of contact and may be preferred. "Metros can be made operational with adequate sanitation procedures." PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-haryana-seem-to-have-crossed-the-peak-in-coronavirus-cases-says-public-health-expert-90159
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana registers 94 new coronavirus cases, highest single-day increase||Haryana reported 94 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday and one more death, the state bulletin showed---its biggest single-day jump in COVID-19 infections so far.The number of coronavirus cases has now gone up to 1,305 in Haryana, according to the daily bulletin issued by the state health department.Jind district in Haryana reported its first COVID-19 death, taking Haryana’s death toll to 17, according to the bulletin.Gurugram and Faridabad together made up for 58 per cent of Tuesday’s cases. Apart from Gurugram (33) and Faridabad (22), Ambala (5) Mahendragarh (12), Panipat (5), Karnal (5), Kurukshetra (3), Bhiwani (3), Palwal (2), Hisar (2) and Rewari (2), Nuh (1) and Sirsa (1) reported new cases.Ambala’s five cases included a truck driver who returned from Guwahati on May 24.The state previously reported a major spike on May 4, when it recorded 75 new infections.Haryana has 464 active cases. Some 63 of the state’s cases have recovered per cent. The state’s fatality rate is 1.3 per cent, while the number of tests being conducted per 10 lakh people is 4,024. Agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-registers-94-new-coronavirus-cases-highest-single-day-increase-90150
26-05-2020||Parveen Arora||Scare brings down biz at beauty salons, barber shops||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 25Indore Kumar (50), owner of Indore Hair Dresser, is sitting on a bench in his salon at Model Town and waiting anxiously for a customer for the past two-hours, but it seems an endless wait. He received only five customers during the day, while he used to attend to 35 to 40 customers daily before the enforcement of the lockdown.The same situation prevails at almost all beauty salons and barber shops which have been affected the most during the Covid pandemic. After keeping their shops closed for around a month and a half, the beauty salons and barber shops have opened during Lockdown 3.0, but the Covid scare seems to be visible on their business. Customers are not turning up at their shops.The owners of salons say due to the Covid scare, only around 10 per cent of the customers are coming to their shops for hair cut and shaving. They are worried about their livelihood as most of them have taken the shops on rent. the owners of these establishments say that they have to pay electricity charges and salary to staff members along with other daily expenses.“Though the government has allowed us to open our shops, we are not getting business like before. I used to receive 30-35 customers daily before the lockdown, but now the number has reduced to five to six daily which is not sufficient to run our livelihood,” said Indore. “We care for our customers and we use gloves, masks and sanitisers, but it is the Covid scare that is not allowing the customers to come to our shops for haircut or shave,” he added.Madan Lal (37), owner of Life of Asia hair dresser near Hospital Chowk in the city, has the same story to tell. He said, “Covid has hit our business very hard as people are hesitating to come to us, instead they are calling us to their residences for hair cut, which is time consuming and under such circumstances it is very difficult for us to run our livelihood.” He was worried about the timing of the shops and said that market timing was between 9 am and 6 pm, whereas people preferred to go to the barber shop early morning.Sahil, the owner of a beauty salon, said he had staff of 10 members, and they came in the morning and returned after attending to hardly a couple of customers. “It is very difficult to bear the expenses like rent, salary of the staff and others,” he added. He maintained that more than 70 per cent people needed hair cut as they had not visited the barber shop during the lockdown.Covid scare has hit the business hard and that can be made out from the fact that people have cut their hair at home and even shared the pictures on social media. “Due to the Covid scare, I did not go to the barber shop, but got my hair cut at home by my son,” said Jaspal, a resident of the city.Amit Kumar, another resident, said he tonsured his son at home as he did not want to go to a salon due to the Covid scare. “Since we cannot maintain physical distance at a barber shop as the barber has to maintain close contact while cutting hair and shaving,” he added.Some of the beauty saloon owners have started using safety gears like face shield, PPE kits, thermal scanner, sanitisers at their salons for the safety of customers. “We have provided PPE kits and face shield to our staff members to protect both the customers and the staff from Covid,” said Sunny, a beauty salon owner in Sector 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/scare-brings-down-biz-at-beauty-salons-barber-shops-89891
26-05-2020||Nitish Sharma||Rs 15.32-crore EPF advance claims settled in 8 dists||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, May 25Due to the Covid pandemic, a large number of employees in the private sector and outsourced workers in government departments are getting their EPF withdrawn to meet their day-to-day expenses. However, it is yet not known how many of them have lost their jobs or are yet to receive their salaries for April as the process of filing challans by companies is still on.Over 10,000 establish-ments in the organised sector are registered in eight districts and there are nearly 10 lakh accounts, active and inoperative combined. Till May 22, 7,605 claims amounting to Rs15.32 crore have been settled in the Karnal region.Nitin Singh, Regional Commissioner,  EPFOAs many as 7,605 Covid advance claims amounting to Rs 15.32 crore have been settled in eight districts falling in the Karnal region by the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) till May 22. The districts are Sonepat, Panipat, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Ambala, Yamunanagar and Panchkula.“Over 10,000 establishments in the organised sector are registered in eight districts and there are nearly 10 lakh accounts, active and inoperative combined. The Centre has announced a slew of measures pertaining to the EPFO to provide succour to workers. One such initiative is a new non-refundable advance for subscribers under the name of Covid advance, which provides immediate financial assistance to the tune of three months’ wages or 75 per cent of balance in EPF account, whichever is less. Till May 22, 7,605 claims amounting to Rs 15.32 crore have been settled in the Karnal region,” said Nitin Singh, Regional Commissioner, EPFO, Ambala.Meanwhile, 15,633 workers of 1,197 establishments had availed benefit amounting to over Rs 2.68 crore for March under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), in which 24 per cent EFP contribution comprising 12 per cent employer share and 12 per cent employee share was given as financial assistance by the government to eligible establishments.“For the PMGKY, the establishment should have up to 100 employees, with 90 per cent or more having wages less than Rs 15,000. To give relief to employers, the government has extended challan filling date for March from April 15 to May 15. A large number of employers are yet to file their challans for April as the government has decided not to impose any penalty on employers on delay of EPF contribution due to the financial crunch,” Singh said.“Over 25 lakh workers in more than 25,000 establishments in the organised sector are likely to benefit from another initiative, which has been launched to increase the take-home salary of workers. The EPF contribution has been reduced from 12 per cent to 10 per cent, benefiting both employees and the employer. The reduction has been made from May to July,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-15-32-crore-epf-advance-claims-settled-in-8-dists-89892
26-05-2020||---||Train leaves for Bihar with 1,598 migrants||Ambala, May 25 Another Shramik Express left with 1,598 stranded migrants for Muzzafarpur in Bihar today. This was the ninth train to take migrants from Ambala to their homes in Bihar in the past less than a fortnight. Earlier, 10,669 migrants had been sent home in eight trains. The passengers who took the train included those from Darbhanga, Gopalganj, Madhubani, Purnia, West Champaran and East Champaran. Besides Ambala, migrants from Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Jind districts were among those who took the train today. All passengers were medically screened and provided food packets, water bottles, biscuits, sanitisers and face masks for use during the free train journey.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/train-leaves-for-bihar-with-1-598-migrants-89893
26-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||Covid shadow on surgeries too, 5K cancelled at PGIMS||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 25Patients are at the receiving end of the Covid pandemic as around 5,000 surgeries have been cancelled at the Pt BD Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here during the lockdown to prevent spread of the virus.All these were elective surgeries and were scheduled for March-end, April and May. Those who can afford to are opting for surgery in private hospitals, but the poor have no choice but to wait for PGIMS to resume surgeries.Waiting For Govt ApprovalElective surgeries were restricted across the state due to Covid, but emergency operations are being conducted as usual. We’ve already reopened OPDs with curbs…. Surgeries will also be restarted as soon as the state issues directives.Dr HK Aggarwal, Registrar, University of Health SciencesAnil Kumar, a local, went to the PGIMS in March for an eye check-up, where doctors advised cataract surgery. They asked him to come for a follow-up the next week, but by then the OPD had been closed due to Covid. “I waited two months and have no choice but to get operated in a private hospital. My surgery is scheduled this week.”Similarly, the wait for orthopaedic surgery at the PGIMS is getting longer for Krishan of Jhajjar’s Badli village. “I suffered a ligament injury in March and am now waiting for restarting of orthopaedic surgery in the PGIMS. I cannot afford surgery in a private hospital, so all I can do is wait.”A PGIMS officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “On an average 15,384 major and minor surgeries are conducted in PGIMS every month. Of these, over 16 per cent are elective surgeries. A total 1,84,617 minor and major surgeries were carried out in 2019 and the figure was 1,83,478 was in 2018.”Dr HK Aggarwal, Registrar, University of Health Sciences, said elective surgeries were restricted across the state due to the pandemic, but emergency ones were being conducted as usual. “We have already reopened OPDs in different clinical specialities and super-specialities with some restrictions to check the crowds and ensure social distancing. Surgeries will also be restarted as soon as the state government issues directives in this respect,” he said, adding that all surgeries due in the lockdown period would be rescheduled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-shadow-on-surgeries-too-5k-cancelled-at-pgims-89895
26-05-2020||---||Eid a subdued affair this year||Rohtak, May 25The real spirit of Eid-ul-Fitr was found missing in the district on Monday following the lockdown protocols and the prevailing crisis of livelihood due to Covid.People offered prayers at their homes as gatherings in the mosque were restricted.A majority of Muslims here are daily wagers, who have lost their source of livelihood due to the lockdown, while others with small businesses are sitting idle…. So, there was no hustle and bustle this time and people confined themselves to homes.Mussrrat Khan, State Chief, Muslim Development Welfare SocietyAli Ahmad, a car painter, said it was for the first time when he and his wife did not buy anything for them on Eid-ul-Fitr due to financial crisis else they used to chalk out special plans to celebrate the festival months before. “We have bought new dresses for children as they were insisting on the same for the past some days,” he added.“Every year, we enthusiastically wait for Eid-ul-Fitr to buy new dresses, household items and prepare special food items like seviyan and kheer to celebrate but the zeal was missing this time. We couldn’t go to mosque for prayers and to exchange sweets with friends due to the lockdown. Also, our pocket did not allow us to shop this time,” said Khaleel Ahmad, auto mechanic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eid-a-subdued-affair-this-year-89896
26-05-2020||Parveen Arora||Jind leads in burning stubble||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 25Though stubble burning is banned in the state, farmers continue to burn crop residue. As many as 3,679 fire locations were detected in the state from April 15 to May 22, gathered by the Haryana Space Applications Centre, as per information given by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB). The number is almost half compared to the corresponding period last year.Jind district tops the tally with 421 incidents, followed by Karnal with 405 incidents. Dr Jai Bhagwan, senior scientist, HSPCB (HQ), said Mahendragarh district had set an example as no fire location was detected during this period.He said stubble burning had increased this month and the state witnessed 388 cases on May 12. He said 382 cases were recorded on May 18, 364 on May 14, 355 on May 8, 295 on May 15, 279 on May 17 and 250 on May 7.“Industries normally contribute around 37 per cent to air pollution. During the harvesting season, stubble burning contributes 25 per cent. It is more harmful in winter due to condensation. Vehicles contribute 33 per cent, other urban activities 20 per cent and biological contribution like methane emission and pollen the rest,” said Dr Chander Shekhar, Principal of Dyal Singh College.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jind-leads-in-burning-stubble-89897
26-05-2020||Rohtak||Cong: Revoke ban on paddy sowing||Congress MP Deepender Singh Hooda has warned the BJP-JJP government to withdraw the ban on paddy sowing or face statewide farmers’ stir.“Farmers of Fatehabad, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Shahbad have been protesting against the government diktat and we support their stance. Even JJP MLAs are opposing the move,” he said in a statement on Monday.He said if the government was genuinely worried about the depletion of groundwater, it should implement the suggestions given by LoP Bhupinder Singh Hooda.“The former CM has been advising the BJP-JJP regime to revive Dadupur-Nalwi water recharge canal, put pressure on the Centre to bring SYL water to Haryana, promote drip irrigation and ensure good prices for alternative crops, but the state leadership is not paying any heed to these suggestions.” — TNSFarmers protestKaithal: Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Monday led a farmers' protest in the Guhla-Cheeka area of Kaithal district, seeking immediate withdrawal of ban on paddy cultivation. He submitted a memorandum to Guhla SDM. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-revoke-ban-on-paddy-sowing-89898
26-05-2020||Parveen Arora||2-passenger norm adds to auto drivers’ woes||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 25Auto rickshaws may have been allowed to ply again, but the two-passenger norm makes operations financially unviable, claim owners and drivers.Anuj, an auto driver, said social distancing was coming at a big price for them. “Covid has affected our lives badly. We were sitting at home for two months, now we have been permitted to ply autos but with the restriction of two passengers at a time. Fare paid by two passengers does not even cover fuel cost. I was carrying three passengers and was challaned by the police,” he said, adding that it was very tough to survive in such circumstances.‘Tough To Survive’We’ve been permitted to ply autos but with two passengers at a time. Fare paid by two passengers doesn’t even cover fuel cost. Recently, the police challaned me for carrying three passengers. It’s quite tough to survive in such circumstances.Anuj, Auto DriverSahid, another driver, said he, like many others, has loan instalments to pay and the company will take away vehicles if he failed to deposit the amount. “The government must extend support to all auto drivers. If current circumstances prevail, I will have no option but to sell my auto rickshaw.”Vikram narrated a similar story. He said when he asked customers for higher fare to make up for the loss, they start arguing. “The government must allow at least four passengers so we would meet some expenses.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-passenger-norm-adds-to-auto-drivers-woes-89899
26-05-2020||Deepender Deswal||Countrymade liquor missing from 3 Fatehabad godowns||Tribune News ServiceHisar, May 25Officials of the Excise and Taxation Department conducted surprise checks at three wholesalers in Fatehabad district during the lockdown and detected unauthorised removal of 20,000 cases of countrymade liquor and beer from their godowns.It appears that the licensee has taken away and disposed of the stock in a clandestine manner without the knowledge or permission of the department.Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner’s Office Sources said the district administration formed a three-member committee for physical verification of the stock of three wholesalers —one L1 and two L13 licensees — in Fatehabad district. The Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner's (DETC) office submitted its report to the Fatehabad Deputy Commissioner on May 10 about the physical verification done on April 21, April 23 and May 6. The report stated that the seal at the three premises was found tampered with during the visits.The report stated that the committee found the stock missing at all three premises. At the L1 licensee's godown, which had 969 cases of beer in stock on March 31, the committee found only 513, a shortfall of 456 cases. At one of the L13 godowns, the committee found only 2,797 cases of countrymade liquor on May 6 as against total stock of 12,300 cases on March 31. The second L13 premises was found short of 10,505 cases as out of 12,371, the committee could find only 1,866 cases during physical verification. Both L1 and L3 are wholesale licences. While LI is for Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and beer, L13 licences are for countrymade liquor.The DETC office stated in its report to the Deputy Commissioner and the Excise and Taxation head office that they found unauthorised removal of the stock from these premises, stating it is a cognisable offence. "It appears that the licensee has taken away and disposed of the stock in a clandestine manner without the knowledge or permission of the department. The licensee has thus committed not only a criminal act but also act punishable under the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 as applicable to the State of Haryana shall not be less than 10 times of the amount of excise duty or consideration fee which would have been leviable if such intoxicant had been dealt with in accordance with this Act," stated the report.Fatehabad DETC VK Shastri confirmed the shortage of stock on the wholesalers' premises during the physical verification. He said he had submitted the report to the higher authorities for further action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/countrymade-liquor-missing-from-3-fatehabad-godowns-89900
26-05-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Lockdown pass touts active on social media||Gurugram, May 25The desperation to cross the state border has led to mushrooming of agents offering cross-border passes. Advertising on social media, these touts offer single and weekly passes for travel across the NCR, cross-border movement of taxis, trucks and buses and ferrying more persons than the permissible limit.The fraudsters, in a majority of cases, target desperate migrants from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal. They provide them passes, easily available through the Saral app, and charge up to Rs 5,000. With many persons highlighting the fraudulent practice, the administration has filed FIRs with the police.“Various social media posts making such offers have been brought to our notice and penal action has been initiated. We have issued an appeal to the people not to trust any tout. The Saral Haryana portal is official and accessible to all. Anybody who has a valid reason to travel will get a pass. Those who face any difficulty can easily approach various helplines set up by us,” said DC Amit Khatri.The most frequently sold passes are of taxis. Despite being allowed only two passengers, besides driver, these are plying with full capacity.Various travel agents are offering eight-seater cars and tempos with passes for travel to any part of the country. They are charging Rs 30 per km and between Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000 per person for passes.Interestingly, many of these passes are fake, downloaded through an app by cyber cafe owners. These passes have bar codes to prove their authenticity. A taxi driver revealed that they first advertised destinations or states and zeroed in on those in which maximum people were interested.“I have an Innova and an Ertiga. I have already made two trips to Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh using the passes. I cannot say anything about authenticity, but the police have not stopped us,” said the taxi driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lockdown-pass-touts-active-on-social-media-89901
26-05-2020||---||Sales dip, booze rates slashed in Rohtak||Rohtak, May 25Local liquor contractors have slashed prices owing to substantial drop in demand for liquor, especially beer, due to lockdown-related factors this year, in a bid to boost sales.Boards and banners announcing discount offers have been put up at liquor shops in Rohtak, with contractors claiming to have cut prices by up to 33 per cent. “There are hardly any social get-togethers or family functions. Bars are closed, and so are the hostels of universities and colleges. Hence, sale of liquor, especially beer, has taken a huge dip this summer. We have reduced rates considerably to push up sales,” said Sumit Soni, a liquor contractor.Sanjay Manchanda, who works for a beer company, also said sales were down owing to closure of bars, pubs and restaurants, besides the general economic setbacks suffered by people in general due to the lockdown.Persons involved in the liquor trade pointed out that stiff competition among liquor contractors and illegal sale in villages and townships had also compelled contractors to slash prices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sales-dip-booze-rates-slashed-in-rohtak-89902
26-05-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Delhi BJP chief plays cricket without mask at Sonepat stadium||Tribune News ServicePanipat, May 25The operations section chief-cum-incident commander of Gannaur subdivision of Sonepat district on Monday issued a show-cause notice to the managing director of Unique Stadium in Shekhpura village for organising a T20 cricket match on Sunday in which Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari played as well.Tiwari reached the stadium on the invitation of owner and MD Sanath Jain and played there. Operation chief-cum-incident commander Swapnil Patil Chaudhary sought an explanation from Jain as to how the match was organised during and lockdown and with whose permission. Hain has also been asked to explain whether the stadium was sanitised as many people had gathered there for the event. Social distancing norms were also flouted and no player wore a mask during the match.The notice warned Jain of action against the organisers and people present during the event for violating lockdown norms under Section 188 of the IPC if he failed to produce relevant documents. Chaudhary said stadia and sports grounds were allowed to open by the government, but sports gathering were still not allowed.“A show-cause notice has been issued to the event managers and an explanation sought within 24 hours. No one is above the law and action will be initiated accordingly,” Chaudhary said.Tiwari, however, said he had done no wrong in a widely-circulating video. He claimed as per MHA guidelines for Lockdown 4.0, stadia and sports ground could be opened without spectators by maintaining social distancing. I’ve played by following the rules, but Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is only playing politics, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-bjp-chief-plays-cricket-without-mask-at-sonepat-stadium-89904
26-05-2020||---||State’s 1st organic certification agency at Hisar university||Hisar, May 25The Haryana Government has given its approval to set up the state’s first organic certification agency at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (CCSHAU). Haryana Organic Certification Agency (HOCA) will start functioning within a month.In the absence of a government organic certification agency, growers had to rely on third-party certification by private labs or other state agencies till now. Vice-Chancellor KP Singh said both the state government and the university were making efforts to promote organic farming in the state, but due to absence of organic certification, growers were forced to get certification for their produce from outside agencies.With the setting up of HOCA, farmers will not have to go through the lengthy and costly process, he said. “There will now be no hurdle in marketing and export of organic produce from Haryana, as HOCA will also be equipped with a sophisticated testing laboratory for pesticide residue and nutritional value,” he said.The university has also set up an organic farming centre—Deendayal Upadhyay Centre of Excellence for Organic Farming (DDUCE-OF)How certification worksVice-Chancellor KP Singh said there were two systems of organic certification. The first, self-certification (participatory guarantee scheme), was not effective for export purposes. The second, third-party certification, which was mostly adopted for export purposes, involved higher cost. The establishment of HOCA will help organic growers of the state obtain third-party certification in a cost-effective manner and enable them to sell their certified produce in the domestic and international markets.— with the Vice-Chancellor as its ex-officio chairperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/states-1st-organic-certification-agency-at-hisar-university-89905
26-05-2020||Sonepat||Bullet-riddled body of shopkeeper found||The bullet-riddled body of a man running a grocery shop in Harinagar at Gannaur town in the district was found near the Rajpur water channel on Gannaur-Agwanpur road late Sunday evening.Gannaur SHO Inspector Badan Singh and the FSL team reached the crime spot and found the body of Vijay, three empty cartridges and his motorcycle from the spot. The 28-year-old was sitting in his shop on Sunday evening when he received a phone call and left on his motorcycle, but did not return, his father Raj Pal said in his police complaint. A case of murder has been registered against unidentified persons and Vijay’s body was handed over to his family after postmortem examination. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bullet-riddled-body-of-shopkeeper-found-89906
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Health Dept to sack 10K staff: Workers’ body||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/health-dept-to-sack-10k-staff-workers-body-89918
26-05-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Haryana cops let kingpin’s trucks move freely||Tribune News ServicePanipat, May 25For the past several years, Kharkhoda in Sonepat district was the transit point for liquor smugglers where police officials, including former SHO Jasbeer Singh, provided safe passage to trucks of kingpin Bhupender Singh of Sisana while misappropriating stocks by showing lower quantity seizures in official records.Revelations by ASIThis was revealed by ASI Jaipal, arrested by a special investigation team (SIT) from Rohtak, during his interrogation.The ASI claimed he was obeying the orders of Inspector Jasbeer Singh, who was dismissed from service on Wednesday, to provide safe passage to Bhupender’s trucks, said Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa.The police had allegedly seized 2,000 cases of liquor from a truck and booked the driver. However, only 1,100 cases were shown as seized in records for March. The ASI allegedly misappropriated the stock and kept 151 cases at another place. There was no mention of Bhupender in the FIR.“We have seized a huge stock of liquor in bottles without labels from godowns of the kingpin,” the SP said. The low-grade liquor was brought directly from a distillery in Rajpura and labelled as branded IMFL at Bhupender’s godown, said the SP.Dhirender Karya of Junagarh was Bhupender’s main supplier in Gujarat who allegedly managed cops there for unhindered supply of illicit liquor, he added. Bhupender travelled between Sonepat and Chandigarh to establish contact, while his brother Jitender and Satish managed the business of making fake labels of IMFL brands, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cops-let-kingpins-trucks-move-freely-89993
