26-06-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana registers eight FIRs for fake sanitisers and overpricing||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 26Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in the state and rise in the demand of sanitisers in the market, the Food and Drugs Administration has, so far, registered eight FIRs against individuals and firms over fake sanitisers and overpricing.The FIRs have been registered for cheating under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Disaster Management Act, the Essential Commodities Act and the Drugs and Cosmetics Act in different cases.Two FIRs each in Gurugram, Faridabad and Hisar, and one each in Ambala and Kaithal has been registered.A chargesheet has also been submitted in an Ambala case, where an FIR dated March 19 was registered against Jai Chandra for cheating under the IPC for manufacturing and sale of spurious and misbranded sanitisers.“During a raid on his factory,” as per the FIR, “huge quantity of three types of hand sanitisers, printed labels, two filling machines, one electric liquid filling and one manual liquid filling was found installed”.Since the matter of fake sanitisers and overpricing has reached the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the states of Haryana, Punjab and Chandigarh have to submit action taken reports by July 6.“We have registered eight FIRs so far. As many as 248 samples of hand sanitisers have been taken. The sample test reports are awaited,” said Dr Ashok Kumar Meena, Commissioner, Food and Drugs Administration.In June alone, the FDA has registered four FIRs.At Kaithal, on June 2, an FIR was registered against Kishore Kumar for cheating and forgery under the IPC, the Disaster Management Act and relevant sections of the Drugs Cosmetic Act.He was using an address of Japan on his product ‘Bestime Hand Sanitiser’. The accused was himself manufacturing the hand sanitiser by mixing ingredients in plastic drums.“The sanitiser was being prepared under extremely unhygienic conditions. Flies and mosquito were in abundance at the place of manufacturing,” said the FIR. The building used for manufacturing had no measures to avoid the risk of contamination from the external environment, including open sewage, drain, public lavatory.On June 2, a case was also registered for cheating under the IPC for overpricing under the Essential Commodities Act and the Disaster Management Act against four people.Hiten Pravin Shah, MD, and Bhowli Nhil Shah, director, Raman Weil Private Limited, were booked while Bharat Bhushan Malhotra, who was a wholesale dealer in Rohtak, and Manoj Kumar, who was a retailer in Hisar, were also named in the FIR.The Daman-based firm manufactured product ‘Bactorub Blue (Alcohol Rub in Hand Disinfectant)’ after obtaining a license under the Medical Device Rule, wherein they could be permitted to manufacture a disinfectant for medical devices only.The product was also selling at MRP of Rs 630 per 500 ml bottle even though the Central Government had fixed the price of hand sanitisers at Rs 250 for 500 ml bottle.A sanitiser unit was busted in Faridabad on June 19, where Raj Kumar and Sukhdev Singh were booked for cheating under the IPC and relevant sections of the Drugs and Cosmetic Act.Here, the accused were manufacturing products in the name of other firms. They were manufacturing hand sanitisers in unsanitary conditions. Here, one accused is under judicial custody while another is yet to be arrested.In another case, Bansi Lal Enterprises, a retail shop, was booked on June 20 in Gurugram for cheating under the IPC and overpricing under the Essential Commodities Act. The FDA team had raided the shop after receiving a complaint at the twitter handle of Gurugram DC.Also, 248 samples of hand sanitisers have been taken, the lab reports of which are awaited.
26-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Cops launch awareness drive in area notorious for narcotic sale||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 26In a novel initiative, an awareness drive against the illegal trade of narcotic drugs was launched at Khohra Kot, an area notorious for sale of such intoxicants by the Rohtak police authorities in collaboration with the District Red Cross Society, drug de-addiction specialists and voluntary social organisations.Leading the drive to mark the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, DSP (Headquarters) Gorakh Pal said the underlying idea behind the exercise was to sensitize those residents who have been arrested for drug-peddling in past.Representatives of the Special Task Force, Red-Cross De-Addiction Centre and social organisations appealed to the residents to stay away from the illegal drug trade and cooperate with the police and administration to eradicate the social evil.The DSP said the areas notorious for illegal drug trade had been identified and foot-marches were carried out to raise awareness and sensitize the residents of these areas against the illegal practice which is also a social evil.“Our teams also visited the homes of the residents who have been arrested for drug-peddling in the past,” said Gorakh Pal.The district police authorities have appealed to the residents to inform the Police Control Room on phone numbers 100, 01262-228113, 9996464100 or their nearest police station if they come across any instance of sale, purchase or possession of narcotic drugs. The residents can also inform the Anti-Narcotic Cell on WhatsApp No. 8307202071.
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Pre-monsoon rains surplus in Punjab and Haryana but deficient in Himachal||On the eve of the southwestern monsoon covering the entire country, rains during the month have been good in the states of Punjab and Haryana, but deficient in Himachal Pradesh.In Punjab, the pre-monsoon rain from June 1 to June 26 were 24 per cent above the long period average for this period, while in Haryana the surplus was 15 per cent.On the other hand, rain in June so far was deficient by 21 per cent in the hill state of Himachal Pradesh.According to data released by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Punjab received 47.8 mm rains from June 1 to June 26 as compared to the long period average of 38.6 per cent for this period.Haryana received 42.4 mm compared to 36.8 mm while Himachal Pradesh received 61 mm compared to the normal of 77.1 mm.During the past 24 hours, there has been fairly widespread rainfall activity over west Rajasthan and adjoining Punjab and Haryana in association with the cyclonic circulation at lower tropospheric levels over northeast Rajasthan.The monsoon today advanced into the remaining parts of Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab, thus covering the entire country, around 12 days in advance.The normal date for this is July 8. The last time the monsoon advanced so early was in 2013 when it covered the entire country by June 16.IMS has predicted that the monsoon this year would be 96 to 104 per cent of the long period averageIMD data shows that during June, Una was the only district in Himachal to have received above normal rainfall.The tribal areas in upper parts of the state have been hard hit, with the deficiency being 54 per cent in Lahaul and Spiti, 39 per cent in Kinnaur and 21 per cent in Chamba. Bilaspur and Hamirpur in the central part of the state also remained relatively dry with the shortfall being 46 per cent and 34 per cent, respectively.In Haryana too, rain in most districts remained below par, with Palwal, recording a deficiency of 90 per cent, being the hardest hit, followed by Panchkula with a shortfall of 56 per cent and Rohtak with a shortfall of 47 per cent.On the other hand a few districts received heavy rains, with the surplus being 153 per cent in Rewari, 130 per cent in Karnal and 117 per cent in Kurukshetra and Kaithal.Barring south-western parts, most areas of Punjab received surplus rain in June. The deficiency recorded was 55 per cent in Faridkot, followed by 47 per cent in Ferozepur and 46 per cent in Mansa. Tarn Taran, Muktsar, Patiala and Barnala were other districts where the shortfall ranged between 10 to 35 per cent.
26-06-2020||Chandigarh/New Delhi||IAF helicopter makes emergency landing on KGP expressway in Haryana||An Indian Air Force helicopter made an emergency landing on an expressway in Haryana after it developed a technical snag on Friday, officials said.There was no injury to anyone or damage to any property, they said.“A Cheetah helicopter was proceeding from Hindan to Halwara for a routine Air Force task. Approximately 14NM (nautical mile) out of Hindan, the helicopter developed technical snag and carried out precautionary landing on Eastern Peripheral Expressway,” the Defence Ministry said in a statement in Delhi.“The actions taken by the pilots were prompt and correct. No damage to any property has been reported. Recovery helicopter was launched immediately from Hindan. The helicopter was rectified and recovered back promptly and safely at Hindan,” it added.The helicopter landed on the Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal or the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, about 10-12 km from Sonepat.“The IAF helicopter made an emergency landing due to some technical snag. All police control room vehicles and police personnel were rushed to the spot. Later, IAF engineers repaired the chopper and it took off after two hours,” Assistant Sub-Inspector of Sonipat Police Sandeep Kumar told PTI over the phone.Kumar said the police reached the spot and stopped the vehicular traffic on the stretch of the road, where the chopper had landed.“No one was allowed to go near the chopper. The vehicular traffic was restored after the chopper took off,” he said. PTI
26-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram to reopen malls by next week; religious places to remain shut||After remaining shut for three months, malls and public parks in Gurugram will open from next week.However, Gurugram will impose new containment plan from June 30. Large outbreak regions (LOR) to be identified and barricaded with police barricades and movement to be restricted, a press release of the district administration said.In case of unavoidable transit circumstances, thermal and symptom screening and downloading of Arogya Setu app has been mandated.Industry in LOR’s to arrange for accommodation of their workers inside the area.Only essential commercial activities allowed and a virtual limited lockdown will be imposed.Claiming the COVID-19 transmission has somewhat stabilised, the district administration declared that while malls and parks will be opened following strict Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), the religious places will continue to be shut till further orders.Addressing a joint press conference with DC Amit Khatri and DCP Headquarters Nikita Gehlot, Municipal Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said: “We have to unlock with new normal and thus malls will be opened but we will be spelling out stringent SOPs to be followed. The public parks will also open for walks from July 1 but we are yet to decide on religious places.”DC Amit Khatri claimed that the COVID situation had somewhat stabilised in the city with 62 per cent recovery rate and plugging of all loopholes in testing or contact tracing.He, however, said that to continue the recovery from the crisis, the containment zones will be further fortified.“We will further contain high-risk clusters. There will be additional security. No free movement and extensive screening and testing all contacts and symptomatic with antigen testing kits. This will help us properly isolate infected population to curtail the transmission. We are unlocking step by step but this needs to come with caution. The high-risk areas will be restrained for the next two weeks,” said Khatri.The police and administration has been holding coordination meetings to work out the action plan for two-week long ‘limited’ lockdown.“We are at a planning stage now and will finalise the details soon,” said CP Mohammad Akil.Senior administration officials revealed that Shakti Park, Gandhi Nagar, Shiv Nagar, Shivaji Park, Friends Colony, Rajiv Colony, Anaj Mandi, Heera Nagar, Shanti Nagar, Om Nagar, Shivaji Nagar, Jyoti Park, Sector 15, Vijay Park, Devi Lal Colony, Madanpuri, Arjun Nagar and Manohar Nagar Dundahera, Nathupur, South City-1, DLF Phase-3, Silokhara, Sushant Lok, Sector 40, Sector 44, Sector 49, Sector 50, Sector 10-A and Jal Vihar are expected to go for ‘limited’ lockdown.The Gurugram-Delhi border will however remain open.
26-06-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Haryana slashes Covid treatment rates in private hospitals by 60 per cent||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, June 26Haryana has rationalised the Covid treatment rates in private hospitals, slashing them by almost 60 per cent in the NCR towns of Faridabad and Gurugram.According to an order of the state Health and Family Welfare department, the maximum rates will be between Rs 15,000 and Rs 18,000 per day.The non-NABH-accredited hospitals will now be allowed to charge only Rs 8,000 for isolation beds, including supportive care and oxygen, while an ICU bed without ventilator will be for Rs 13,000 and with ventilator (invasive/non-invasive) will be Rs 15,000.In case of NABH-accredited hospitals, isolation beds will be for Rs 10,000, ICU without ventilation for Rs 15,000 and ICU with ventilator for Rs 18,000.The package will cover the entire cost except for experimental therapies. The price will also include rates of underlying co-morbid conditions, including supportive and medicines.“As many Covid patients have diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, the support and medical care of the same will be part of the package,” reads the order. The rates, however, will not cover C-section deliveries of pregnant patients.The rates have been finalised taking recommendations of the Niti Aayog Committee and initiatives of the governments of Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Telangana.Prior to this, the Covid treatment in Faridabad and Gurugram's top hospitals ranged from Rs 23,000 for an isolation bed up to Rs 80,000 for the ICU beds per day.“The rates will be applicable from Friday and all hospitals are bound to abide by them. We will ensure strict implementation,” said Gurugram DC Amit Khatri.Faridabad DC Yashpal Yadav has also asked private hospitals to abide by them or face consequences.
26-06-2020||Karnal||Haryana reports 314 new coronavirus cases; tally rises to 12,856||Haryana on Friday reported 393 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s case tally to 12,856.Faridabad reported 194 cases followed by Sonepat (64), Gurugram (55), Bhiwani (24), Rohtak (15), Panipat (15), Jhajjar (9), Nuh (6), Yamunanagar (5), Jind (4) and Panchkula (1) and Kurukshetra (1).Thirty-three people have been discharged after recovery since morning, taking the total number of recoveries to 7,414. While there are 4,873 active cases of COVID-19 in the state as of now, 199 people have succumbed to the virus so far.Karnal has reported six deaths and seven new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total caseload in the district to 269.A 57-year-old woman of Nilokheri Kisan Basti died on Friday at KCGMC. She was admitted late last night with multiple health-related problems. The sixth death reported is of a 45-year-old man.The seven who tested positive include three members of the family of a 67-year-old man of sector 13 who died on Thursday, two persons from Jundla and one each from Nilokheri and Augondh village.Faridabad reported two more deaths and 194 cases in the past 24 hours. The total count of the district climbs to 3,132 while the death tally has reached 70.In Sonepat, a total of 64 more people, including seven members of a family in Sector-12, tested positive for the virus, taking the tally to 1,160 in the district.As many as 15 cases, including a-23-year old jail inmate and a-43-year-old jail employee, reported positive for the virus today, taking the tally to 166 in the district.Panipat Civil Surgeon Dr SL Verma said 100 patients had been discharged after the treatment and only 59 active cases remained in the district. Seven persons had died due to the virus in the district so far, he added.On Thursday, the state reported 453 fresh cases and 10 deaths. Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (143), Sonepat (105), Gurugram (89), Karnal (26), Bhiwani and Panipat (15 each), Palwal (10), Jhajjar (9), Kaithal and Hisar (8 each), Rohtak (7), Fatehabad and Panchkula (4 each), Rewari, Sirsa and Ambala (3 each) and Nuh (1).
26-06-2020||THE HSVP||Ambala’s Sector 9 in poor condition||Housing colony park needs attentionIam a resident of Nehru Park, Housing Board Colony in Ambala Cantt. The attached picture shows the miserable condition of the park here. No bench for children and senior citizens has been installed and no swing is working. No arrangement has been made for cleanliness of the park and it has turned into a waste dumping ground. This park needs immediate attention. Vijay Mahajan, Housing Board Colony, Ambala CanttIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you? The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
26-06-2020||Faridabad||Webinar on career counselling||Revamping communication skillsYamunanagar: The training and placement cell of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, organised a webinar on the topic "Revamp your communication skills to get industry ready". The speaker of this webinar was Tamosi Moitra Sarkar, a verbal aptitude and personality development coach from Bulls eye. She explained various aspects of communication and also discussed about important skills required for facing an interview. Students actively participated in the webinar and learnt a lot about various skills required to become employable.Honours degrees in engineeringSonepat: Deenbandhu Chhotu Ran University of the Science and Technology, Murthal, is the first university of Haryana which is going to commence honours degrees in different engineering courses from this academic year. University Vice-Chancellor Prof Rajindra Kumar Anayath said this step was taken not only to improve the quality of education for having better employment opportunities, but also to make the students successful entrepreneurs in creating job opportunities for others.Sports complex to be inauguratedKarnal: A newly constructed sports complex will be inaugurated by Bhupinder Singh, Director, Social Justice and Empowerment Department and Special Secretary to Government of Haryana, on June 27 at 11 am at Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Senior Secondary Public School, Dhanora-Ladwa. Anil Yadav, SDM, Ladwa, will be the guest of honour. Pawan Garg, president, school governing body and secretary Ravinder Bansal said the sports complex had been constructed at the cost of Rs. 40,00,000.KU gets Rs85 crore grantKurukshetra: The Department of Mechanical Engineering and Training and Placement Cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised a webinar on "Mechanical Engineering and Multi physics simulation softwares" in collaboration with Techlabs, New Delhi. Dr Pankaj Khatak, Chairperson, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Partap Singh Malik, Director Placement, Pushkaraj Bhandari, associate technical manager and Col Venkat Rao, regional head of Techlabs, a New Delhi based company, were present at the event.
26-06-2020||Nitish Sharma||Banquet, catering operators struggle to keep biz afloat||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, June 25The pandemic has hit the banquet and catering industry hard and the people involved in the industry are finding it hard to keep business afloat.People involved in the business claim that the wedding season was blown away by the lockdown and they are staring at unprecedented losses. There are nearly 125 banquets and marriage palaces in Ambala.Ajay Baweja, a banquet operator, said, “Fresh investments are made in February and March for the wedding season and the entire season is planned. New counters are constructed and the set-up is redesigned. There were a large number of bookings for April and May but those were cancelled and we had to refund the money. It is not only banquet owners, but also allied businesses, including decorators, waiters, photographers, light-and-sound service providers, who are also feeling the heat. It is a team work. This is going to be the worst year as there are no weddings till October.”Sudarshan Singh Sehgal, president of Haryana Marriage Palace and Banquet Association, said, “The industry is going through a tough phase. Banquet halls have taken heavy loans from banks and they have to repay the loan even if there is no business. There are fixed expenditures, including power charges, maintenance, salaries and other taxes. There was no relief for our industry in the package announced by the Centre. It should at least waive the interest and give relaxation in GST. Those who had bookings in April will try to get dates in November and we have to give priority to them.”
26-06-2020||Jhajjar||MBBS students write open letter to HC Chief Justice||MBBS students of the World College of Medical Sciences and Research here have written an open letter to the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, urging him to decide their case at the earliest. “We have been fighting a legal battle in the HC for the past two years to get our batch shifted to another college as the World College of Medical Sciences and Research lacks basic infrastructure. The HC has fixed July 8 as the next date of hearing. We are eagerly waiting for the court judgment,” said one of the students.  — TNS
26-06-2020||Nitin Jain||Power cuts give sleepless nights to Ambala residents||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, June 25Come summer, power cuts have begun giving sleepless nights to residents of Ambala twin towns.With the mercury soaring and the consumption touching a new high, the unscheduled power cuts, frequent tripping and voltage fluctuation have become the norm in Ambala Cantonment and City. The situation is even worse in rural areas.The electricity consumption in the twin towns touched a new high with the record 53.69 lakh units consumed between May 23 and 27 this year, which was over 3 lakh units more than 50.51 units consumed during the corresponding period last year.“There is hardly any day when there is no power outage. The situation becomes acute when it stretches for over eight to 10 hours,” shared Rashmi, a housewife.A local electrical goods supplier, Darshan Singh, said the sale of inverters and batteries had picked up due to the grim power situation in Ambala.“The power supply also stalls the water supply and living without power and water in this sultry weather was not less than a curse,” said Harleen, a local resident.Taking cognisance of the situation, the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) has begun work to augment the old and outdated power supply system with the installation of at least 121 new high-power transformers, replacing old electricity poles and obsolete supply lines.Confirming the development, UHBVN Superintending Engineer RK Khanna said the work had already begun to install new transformers and replace old poles and supply lines.Of the new transformers, 74 were being installed in Ambala Cantonment, while 47 would augment the power supply in Ambala City. The new transformers ranged between 100 and 400 KWA.At present, there were 12,366 transformers supplying power to over three lakh electricity consumers in the twin towns of Ambala. While 7,540 transformers were installed in Ambala Cantonment, 4,826 transformers were working in Ambala City.UHBVN officials said the power supply augmentation would help improve the power situation in the twin towns of Ambala. “We are working proactively to mitigate the problems of the consumers in the ongoing summer season,” they added.
26-06-2020||Our Correspondent
||Kaithal dera ‘mahant’ murdered||Kaithal, June 25  A “mahant” of the Shringi Rishi Ashram in the district’s Sanghan village was murdered on Wednesday night. The deceased was identified as Ram Bhaj Mahant. The badly injured “mahant” told some villagers that three men, who he identified as Kulbir, Mehra and Chavi Dass, attacked him. Some villagers recorded the statement of the “mahant” and handed it over to the police. On the complaint by village resident Amandeep, the police have registered a case against three men.  The complainant said, “On Wednesday evening, I was with the ‘mahant’ in the ashram when Kulbir came running. He said something to the mahant and the two left the ashram in Babaji’s car. The ‘mahant’ told me he was going to Kaithal. Later, I learnt that someone had attacked the ‘mahant’. He was found injured near Kahrak Pandva village.”  The “mahant” was taken to the civil hospital, from where he was referred to the PGI, Chandigarh. He succumbed to injuries on the way.
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Revoke fuel price hike: Hooda||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday lashed out at the Centre over the continuous rise in fuel prices over the past 19 days. “Diesel has become costlier than petrol. Fuel prices have a direct impact on inflation. When fuel prices rise, transport and production becomes expensive and this sets off an inflationary cycle in the economy,” he said in a statement. In Haryana, the prices of petrol and diesel have touched Rs 80 per litre mark. The former Chief Minister further said farmers had been hit the hardest as they were dependent on diesel for irrigation and transport. During the UPA Government, Hooda said, fuel prices were the cheapest and tax on fuel was minimum. “People from other states came to Haryana for the fuel. This was because the Congress kept VAT on fuel at 9 per cent. It has doubled in the BJP rule.” He added, “In times of pandemic and recession, the Centre is burdening people with inflation instead of giving them relief.” — TNS
26-06-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri
||Reshuffle in police top brass on cards||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 25 With two senior IPS officers retiring this month, a senior officer being promoted to the DGP rank, another senior officer returning from the Central deputation and the Haryana CID chief Anil Rao attaining superannuation next month, a reshuffle is on the cards for the top positions in the state police in less than a week. State Vigilance Bureau DGP KP Singh and Haryana Police Housing Corporation Managing Director KK Mishra retire this month, while 1993-batch IPS officer Alok Mittal will return to Haryana after completing his stint in the NIA. Sources said Mittal’s name was doing the rounds for heading the coveted post, 1989-batch officer Mohammad Akil, posted as the ADGP (Headquarters) and holding the charge of Police Commissioner, Gurugram, is due for promotion to the rank of DGP.  An IG-rank officer, Vikas Arora, is already back from the Central deputation while DIG-rank officer Shashank Anand, serving as the SP, Traffic, Chandigarh, is set to return to Haryana next month  With Rao retiring in July and the hunt for a “suitable” replacement for the top slot  on, sources say he may be retained in the capacity of “Adviser” to the CID since there is a precedent for the same from the Congress tenure. Former IPS officer PV Rathee, the intelligence chief during the Congress government, was retained after his retirement by the CM as Adviser to the Home and Intelligence Department. Sources say the BJP government could tread a similar path and retain Rao once he retires. This, however, is entirely the CM’s prerogative.
26-06-2020||---||Official suspended for failing to attend CM’s ‘janata darbar’||Karnal, June 25Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today ordered the suspension of district employment officer for remaining absent from ‘janata darbar’ at Dr Mangal Sen auditorium.Besides, the CM ordered an inquiry against a clerk of the UHBVN for dereliction of duty and directed that action be taken against him if found guilty. “I have ordered the suspension of the district employment officer for not being present at the meeting even after several complaints were related to his department,” said the CM.Khattar listened to the complaints of 100 persons who had been given token. The maximum 15 complaints were related to the Police Department; followed by 11 realted to Karnal Municipal Corporation; seven related to Secretary, Haryana Staff Selection Commission, Panchkula, six each to District Employment Office and XEN-UHBVN; four each to DC office, KCGMC, HSVP, ADC office and DSWO; three to CEO-DRDA and others.Reacting to a complaint related to no mutation of two plots even after registries in the name of the owners, the CM said the demarcation of land was being done with the help of drones by the Survey General of India so that land owners could get information about the property easily.The whole data would be online and the problems related to land would be resolved. On this complaint, Khattar directed Karnal Tehsildar to inquire into the matter and take action against the guilty.On a complaint filed by Deepak, a resident of DC Colony, in which he alleged that even after the inauguration by the CM, the second phase of the vegetable and fruit market could not be developed, Khattar directed for a survey in this regard.The CM also ordered an inquiry on a complaint related to embezzlement of funds in the construction of the boundary wall and gate of a stadium at Ramba village.A couple of farmers from Padhana village filed a complaint and alleged that they were not given compensation under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana for the losses which they had incurred in 2017. Khattar directed the Lead Bank District Manager to take action against the bank.Anil Khurana, a retired employee of the Education Department, alleged that he started getting family pension in February even though he is alive. The CM directed the DEO to get the error corrected. Otherwise, action would be initiated against him.
26-06-2020||Deepender Deswal
||Fake firms misused Rs 1,500 cr gift cards, evaded GST: Probe||Tribune News Service Hisar, June 25 The Central Goods and Services (CGST) Department has busted a racket of fake firms, which allegedly misused gift cards issued by banks and pocketed the commission of Rs 30 lakh over the past 10 months.  As part of its marketing strategy, banks issue prepaid instruments, also known as gift cards, to companies after the submission of KYC documents. The firms then issue the gift cards to their employees for the purchase of goods and services. Each card is worth Rs10,000 and the company earns 2 per cent (Rs 200) commission on every card. Sources say 15 lakh cards were issued on fake KYC documents and swiped at the point of sale (POS) in the past 10 months in Hisar and Fatehabad districts. The firms redeemed the value of the cards without the actual purchase of goods or services. In this case, it was Rs 1,500 crore and in the process pocketed the commission (Rs 30 crore). The firms also did not pay 18 per cent GST on the cards.  Sources say of Rs 1,500 crore transactions, nearly Rs 200 crore took place during the lockdown (from March 22 to April 20). About 1,000 cards were swiped at POS in one night. Sources say several cards were swiped at petrol pumps during the lockdown, when the movement of vehicle was minimum.  The department smelt a rat on June 11 when a Hisar-based exporter came to the GST office for the refund of input tax credit. “He revealed he received gift cards worth Rs 3.3 crore from banks and redeemed them himself. On getting the lead, the probe was launched,” said GST Superintendent Joginder Singh.  He said, “The gift cards were swiped to redeem the amount in bank accounts of fake firms without any purchase. It is a violation of the RBI guidelines and evasion of GST.” The case will be filed under the GST Act on the completion of the inquiry.
26-06-2020||Rohtak||2 burnt bodies found, 6 booked||A charred bike was also found. The youths were identified as Sandeep (25) and Sonu of Jind’s Hathwala village. A case under Sections 302 and 201 IPC was registered against the six youths of the same village on the complaint of Sandeep’s father. tns
26-06-2020||---||10 more die, fatalities 198 in Haryana||Chandigarh, June 25With 453 fresh cases, the Covid tally of the state reached 12,463 today. With 10 more deaths, 198 persons had succumbed to the virus so far, with 125 (63.1 per cent) having comorbidities and 73 (36.9 per cent) without any comorbidity.The maximum deaths had taken place in Gurugram (76), followed by Faridabad (68). The districts accounted for around 73 per cent deaths.In Faridabad, a 63-year-old man from Sector 24, a 46-year-old man from Sector 21 and a 70-year-old man from Sainik Colony succumbed to the virus. A 67-year-old man of Sector 13 died at Kalpana Chawla hospital in Karnal.A 72-year-old man from Deewan Nagar in Panipat died today. In Sonepat, a 62-year-old man from Bhuri village, a 76-year-old woman from Mahlana village, a 58-year-old woman from Sikka Colony and an 80-year-old man from Sujan Singh Park were the casualties.Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (143), Sonepat (105), Gurugram (89), Karnal (26), Bhiwani and Panipat (15 each), Palwal (10), Jhajjar (9), Kaithal and Hisar (8 each), Rohtak (7), Fatehabad and Panchkula (4 each), Rewari, Sirsa and Ambala (3 each) and Nuh (1). Over 74 per cent cases today were reported from Faridabad, Sonepat and Gurugram.In Panipat, a 22-year-old youth of New Vikas Nagar, two inmates of the district jail, a 22-year-old youth of New Friends Colony, a 1-year-old toddler from Ashok Nagar and a 5-year-old child were among the cases.According to Jail Superintendent Somnath Jagat, an undertrial from Muzaffarnagar held in a dacoity case and another from Bega village of Ganaur in Sonepat arrested in an NDPS case tested positive. They were shifted to the general hospital, he said.In Karnal, seven members of a family in Sector 7, a 23-year-old youth of Ashok Nagar and an 8-year-old boy from Karan Vihar were among the positive cases.A 37-year-old man of Ambala Cantonment, who had history of travel of Amritsar, a 46-year-old man of Ambala City, who was the contact of a patient, and a 55-year-old woman were the fresh cases.A total of 455 persons got cured in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of recoveries to 7,380, with a recovery rate of 59.22 per cent.Covid-19 Cases
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||State to launch common Group C entrance exam||A common entrance test for recruitment to Group C posts is in the offing, which will give uniformity and transparency to the recruitment process. The Haryana Government today initiated week-long consultations with nearly 30 of the 140 departments, boards and corporations to  chalk out modalities. The Haryana State Service Commission (HSSC) holds separate examinations for  different departments for recruitment to Group C posts,  depending on requisition. Commission chairman Bharat Bhushan Bharati said the HSSC was competent to hold  the  common entrance test for Group C posts. — TNS
26-06-2020||Parveen Arora
||Lockdown halts benefits to 100 pregnant women||Tribune News Service Karnal, June 25 The Covid-induced lockdown has cast its shadow on the extension of benefits to more than 100 pregnant women under Pradhan Mantri Matritva Vandana Yojana (PMMVJ). Even after the registration of their files in March, these files could not be uploaded on the website of the Women and Child Welfare Department for further processing. As per the scheme, a pregnant woman gets Rs 1,000 as incentive 15 days after registration, Rs 2,000 after six months of pregnancy and Rs 2,000 three months after delivery and vaccination of the child. As per the information gathered by The Tribune, more than 100 pregnant women got themselves registered with the department to get the first instalment of the scheme at the start of March, but their files could not be uploaded for further processing, resulting in depriving the beneficiaries of the benefits for the past three months.  When The Tribune inquired from the office, sources said that earlier due to the lockdown and now due to poor internet facility, these files could not be uploaded. “I got myself registered for the scheme in March through a government approved common service centre but now, I have come to know that my file was not processed,” said Navjoot. Raj Bala, programme officer of the Women and Child Welfare Department, said that due to the lockdown, these files could not be processed but now, they have started the process. The funds will be transferred to the beneficiaries soon. DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said that the issue has come to his notice and he would look into it.
26-06-2020||Panipat||Bus overturns in Panipat, 40 hurt||More than 40 persons sustained injuries in an accident near National Fertilisers Limited (NFL) on the National Highway-44 after a bus overturned around midnight on Wednesday.  All injured have been admitted to the General Hospital. The police have registered a case against the unknown driver of the bus under various Sections of the IPC. The bus was on its way to Amritsar from Delhi. In his complaint to the police, Parvinder Singh (59) of Delhi said he was on the way to Ludhiana along with his family. The bus left from Kashmiri Gate in Delhi for Amritsar at 11 pm and reached Panipat at 12.45 am.  The driver was driving the bus speedily and rashly. The passengers asked him to slow down a bit but he didn’t listen. As the bus reached near the NFL gate, it overturned after hitting a divider on the highway.  Satish Kumar Vats, DSP (Headquarters), along with police teams reached the spot and rushed the injured to the General Hospital in eight ambulances.  He said, “The bus was violating the pandemic guidelines. We have been verifying the documents of the bus. A case has been registered against the unknown bus driver, who managed to escape.” — TNS
26-06-2020||Kurukshetra||Crop purchase date extended||The procurement date of the sunflower crop has been extended till July 10 by the Directorate, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, from the earlier announced date of June 30. The registration of farmers has also begun. — TNS
26-06-2020||Hisar||Admn frees workers kept ‘forcibly’ at brick-kiln||A group of brick-kiln workers have alleged they were kept forcibly at a brick-kiln in Hisar’s Mangali village and were not paid their dues by the brick-kiln owner.  They got freed after a Rajasthan-based NGO intervened and the district administration resolved the dispute between the brick-kiln owner and the labourers on Wednesday. Labourer Prabhu Ram had complained to the district administration that a group of 50 labourers of 11 families were being treated as bonded labourers by the brick-kiln owner for past some days.  Acting on the complaint, DC Priyanka Soni deputed the SDM to inquire into the matter. On Wednesday, the administration assigned the tehsildar and other officials who visited the brick-kiln and got all the labourers freed.  Satbir Singh, a labour official, said that the workers had prepared 30 lakh bricks and they were paid Rs 19 lakh by the owner.  — TNS
26-06-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Liquor thefts from Sonepat godown on since Feb 2019||Tribune News ServicePanipat, June 25Liquor smuggling kingpin Bhupender Singh was reportedly using the Kharkhoda godown (in Sonepat) of police and Excise Department as a supply centre for the past year and a half, reportedly in connivance with police and excise officials.Liquor was not stolen from the sealed godown during the lockdown, but was being siphoned off since February 2019. This was disclosed by sacked inspector Jasbeer Singh during police remand.He was moving from one state to another before surrendering. The SIT was grilling him after securing five-day police remand.As per sources, Jasbeer was on the run after registration of a criminal case and suspension on April 30. It was revealed during investigation that he had switched off his old mobile phone, destroyed the SIM and bought a new mobile phone and SIM on May 3.He changed his mobile number again on May 5 and absconded, said sources. Persons involved in liquor smuggling helped Jasbeer hide. He disclosed some names to the police, the sources said.
26-06-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||School, Covid duties take toll on primary teachers||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, June 25The deployment of around 1,200 government primary schoolteachers on Covid duty has not only adversely affected studies, but has left four of them positive recently. A dozen other teachers have also fallen sick in the past one week.A letter written by Badkhal subdivision SDM recently asked the District Education Officials to relieve all those teachers from education or routine official work to make them available exclusively for Covid duty, as it has been assigned by the district authorities. However, District Elementary Education Officer Shashi Ahlawat claimed that one of the woman teachers got infected by her kin and not during the official duty. 1,200 roped in for contact tracingWhile schools have been holding online classes, a teacher, on the condition of anonymity, claimed that the compliance of Covid duty in addition to studies make their work exhaustive and it had already started showing its effect on their health as four teachers had already tested positive, besides a dozen others had fallen sick. The engagement process of the teachers has raised sharply in the past two weeks due to a spike in the Covid cases, with an average daily number of over 100.Meanwhile, Chatar Singh, president, district unit, Haryana Primary Teachers’ Association, said he had written to the area MLA and MP to intervene into the matter and spare the teachers taking online classes from Covid duty.Admitting the engagement of teachers in the pandemic-related activities, Deputy Commissioner Yashpal Yadav said it was part of the overall policy of the state government.
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||INLD: Centre trying to abolish MSP regime||INLD leader and Ellenabad MLA Abhay Chautala on Thursday alleged that the BJP-led Central Government was trying to abolish the minimum support price (MSP) regime in the country. Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, Abhay alleged that the Centre’s recent decision on letting the farmers sell their crops anywhere in the country would only benefit the big farmers while the small and marginal ones would be left at the mercy of the market forces. Coming down heavily on the increase in petrol and diesel prices, the INLD leader demanded the petroleum products should be brought under the GST regime. — TNS
26-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram set for partial lockdown||Gurugram is set to follow the Dharavi model of Covid management and announce a partial lockdown. Once the orders are passed, containment zones or clusters having multiple containment zones are expected to be locked down for about two weeks to contain Covid transmission.A senior official said a three-day window would be allowed to people and industrial units to put things in order. The residents would be confined in those areas and asked to work from home. Cases Doubling faster than in Delhi“We will go ahead containing the vulnerable areas, confining population, undertaking screening and antigen testing. Those testing positive will be isolated. The contacts will be quarantined. The district will follow micro-lockdown wherein clusters and containment zones will be locked down. It will help in curtailing the Covid transmission. We may receive final orders soon,” said a senior official.Gurugram Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri has directed private hospitals to update the Health Department about details of patients admitted daily and also the number of deaths.Sources claim private hospitals have been hosting patients from other states and the death count of such patients was also being added to the Gurugram tally.
