26-09-2020||Chandigarh||18 more COVID-19 fatalities, 1,689 fresh cases in Haryana||Eighteen more fatalities were reported in Haryana on Saturday taking the COVID-19 death toll to 1,291 while 1,689 fresh cases pushed the coronavirus tally to 1,22,267 in the state, according to a health department bulletin.Of the 18 fatalities, three were reported from Jind, two each from Panchkula, Hisar, Karnal, Ambala and Gurgaon, and one fatality each was reported from Faridabad, Palwal, Bhiwani, Yamunanagar and Charkhi Dadri, it said.Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases were Gurgaon (273), Faridabad (195), Hisar (148), Panchkula (113) and Rohtak (103).Gurgaon and Faridabad, both falling in the National Capital Region, are the worst-hit districts in the state with 19,654 and 19,123 total cases, respectively. The total fatalities in Gurgaon are 170 and 213 in Faridabad.Of the 1,291 COVID-19 deaths in the state so far, 895 are males and 396 females, the bulletin said.It said that the active cases in the state stand at 17,149 while 1,03,827 have been discharged after recovery. As of Saturday, the state has a recovery rate of 84.92 per cent. PTI
26-09-2020||---||Haryana to implement new industrial policy from Nov 1||Gurugram, September 26Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal has declared that the new Enterprises and Employment Policy, 2020, will be implemented from November 1 to commemorate Haryana Day.Khattar, who chaired a draft meeting of same along with Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, said the policy had been prepared while focusing on the MSMEs and self-reliant India (Atmanirbhar Bharat) campaign, and would not just get investments but also generate employment.“The state government’s endeavour is to ensure the prosperity of the State and provide maximum employment opportunities. We have incorporated suggestions provided given by the entrepreneurs. When the present BJP government took over the reins of the state, Haryana was at 14th position in Ease-of-Doing Business Rankings. But as a result of the efforts of the state government, the state achieved the sixth position in the rankings and also ranked third later on,” said Khattar.Admitting to procedural shortcomings that lead to poor rankings this year, he said they would reclaim their place.The Chief Minister added that with a view to ensure that every entrepreneur was registered with the state government on a single platform, Haryana Udhyam Memorandum (HUM) Portal had been launched recently.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said focus was being laid by the state government on providing employment opportunities to the people of the state. For this, the youth of the State would be made skilled to meet the growing requirement of industries for trained manpower.
26-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 2 deaths and 113 fresh COVID-19 cases||Panchkula reports two deaths and 113 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the district's death total to 79.The coronavirus tally stands at 5,663.COVID-19 deaths:An 84-year-old man from village Chownki, who was suffering from hypertension, and a 62-year-old woman from Sector 19, who was suffering from coronary artery disease, diabetes, hypertension, succumbed to the deadly disease.COVID-19 cases:The fresh cases include 12 from Sector 16, 11 from Sector 19, 10 from Kalka, 9 from Sector 21, 8 from Sector 20, 7 from Pinjore, 6 from Sector 11, 5 from Sector 15, 4 each from Sector 10, Sector 17, Sector 4, Sector 7 and Sector 8, 3 each from Amrawati Enclave and Sector 12, 2 each from Majri Chowk, Sector 25, Sector 6 and Sector 9, one each from Barona Khurd, Bator, CRPF, Khatoli, MDC Sector 4, Marranwala, Saketri, Sector 2, Sector 24, Sector 27 and Sector 5.While 1,086 cases are still active, 4,498 persons have been discharged.So far, Panchkula has conducted 63,593 COVID tests.
26-09-2020||Our Correspondent||IPL betting racket busted, 3 held||Gurugram, September 26The Gurugram Police on Saturday claimed to have busted a betting racket being run from a local flat here.Three members of a gang were nabbed while they were betting on an IPL match, police said, adding that an FIR was been registered against the accused under the Gambling Act at Badshahpur police station.Police also recovered one laptop and three mobile phones from the spot.The accused were produced in a city court on Saturday where they were granted bail.Police is now conducting raids to nab the flat owner.Acting on a tip-off, a police team of crime unit, Sector 17, raided flat number 102 of Tulip Lemon society in Sector 69 when all three accused were busy in betting, said police.When police entered the flat, they saw that the trio was talking on phones and noting information in registers while a cricket match was on.“The accused were betting on an ongoing IPL cricket match between Delhi Daredevils and Chennai Super Kings. We are investigating into the same and are looking for the flat owner,” said a police official.The accused have been identified as Kapil, a resident of Jyoti Park; Nitin of Arjun Nagar; and Avinash of Ram Nagar, Gurugram, said police.
26-09-2020||New Delhi||Unable to repay Rs 4,000, Haryana man killed and body dumped in canal||A 35-year-old man was allegedly kidnapped, bludgeoned to death and his body thrown into a canal just because he was unable to repay Rs 4000 that he owed to a local meat seller.The Delhi Police crime branch has arrested three persons in this case and recovered the Santro car used for disposing of the body.According to the police, a missing complaint was lodged at Narela Industrial area by a woman who said her husband Irshad has been missing since September 2.He was last seen with one Bhanu, a resident of Sonipat in Haryana. After the initial investigation, the Crime Branch of Delhi police arrested Bhanu, Pintu Kumar and Anil.Bhanu tried to mislead the investigators by pretending to help the victim's wife.Later Bhanu, a supplier of raw meat, confessed that he had been constantly reminding Irshad to pay an outstanding amount of Rs 4,000 on account of supply of raw meat that Irshad had bought from him."On September 2, in order to teach him a lesson, Bhanu went to his house and took Irshad along with him in his car. He said that if Irshad wasn't in a position to repay the outstanding amount, he should pay him back by working for him," said DCP Crime Monika Bhardwaj.Bhanu took him to a poultry farm in Sector B-4, Narela where the two co-accused were already present.Thereafter Bhanu started beating Irshad with a stick and hit him with his fists.When Irshad became unconscious, he was left there even as Bhanu and his associates went away.Irshad succumbed to his injuries and died. Bhanu returned late in the night to the spot and with the help of Pintu Kumar and Anil, shifted the body to his car and later dumped it in a canal near Halalpur Village, in Haryana's Sonipat district. IANS
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||MSP procurement of kharif paddy begins immediately in Punjab and Haryana: Centre||The Centre on Saturday advanced paddy procurement in Haryana and Punjab due to the early arrival of paddy this year.In its order issued today, the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution has allowed procurement of paddy in the two states from today instead of the earlier announced schedule from October 1.The order says that the step has been taken in view of early arrival of paddy this year.The Kharif Marketing Season (KMS) 2020-21 for paddy /rice is already scheduled to commence in all the procuring states from October 1, 2020, and the state procuring agencies, including FCI, are in a state of readiness for smoothly undertaking procurement operations.However, in view of early arrival of paddy in the ‘mandis’ of Haryana and Punjab, Government of India has approved the commencement of procurement operations for paddy/rice immediately in both these states from today i.e. with effect from 26th September, 2020 to ensure that farmers are facilitated in selling their produce at Minimum Support Price (MSP) expeditiously.With the Central government allowing Haryana and Punjab to advance procurement of paddy by five days beginning it from Saturday instead of October 1 as announced earlier, the Haryana government has decided to begin purchase of the paddy already arrived in the grain markets from Sunday.PK Das, Haryana’s Additional Chief Secretary for Food and Civil Supplies Department, said that the government agencies will purchase only the paddy crop which has already arrived in grain markets of the state on Sunday and Monday.He said that from Tuesday onwards, regular procurement activities for paddy crop will begin.Das clarified that paddy crop of only those farmers will be procured who have registered it on “Meri Fasal Mera Byora” portal.He said that the state government had sought permission for advancing the procurement activities in view of early arrivals of the crop and the Centre has acceded to Haryana’s request.Das said that the government procurement agencies were fully geared up for the procurement starting from tomorrow morning. The move is being seen in view of the ongoing strike of farmers against the three controversial agriculture Bills, as the biggest concern farmers have shown during their stir is that they would lose MSP once the new laws are implemented.The state government has been maintaining that there would be no threat to the MSP.The Centre, had, however, clarified that the period of milling of paddy would remain unchanged for Kharif Milling Season – 2020-21.
26-09-2020||---||Modi, Khattar effigies burnt in Haryana||Karnal, September 25On the call of the Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Samanvay Samiti for Bharat Bandh, farmers’ organisations and arhtiyas’ associations thronged the roads of Karnal, Kurukshetra and Kaithal districts on Friday against the passing of three farm Bills by the Union Government.They raised slogans against the Centre and burnt the effigies of PM Narendra Modi and CM Manohar Lal Khattar. In Kurukshetra, farmers removed the hoardings of BJP-JJP leaders and burnt them.In Karnal, farmers blocked roads at 14 places. Besides, they staged a dharna in Nilokheri and Assandh.
26-09-2020||---||Army convoy stalled by farmers in Ambala, pro-Khalistan slogans raised||Ambala, September 25An Army cavalcade was blocked and pro-Khalistan slogans were raised during a protest by farmer outfits in Ambala on Friday.On the Bharat Bandh call given jointly by over 30 organisations, including All-India Farmers Union, Bharatiya Kisan Union and All-India Kisan Mahasangh, to protest against the three contentious agricultural legislations passed by Parliament recently, hundreds of farmers from the district hit the streets to demand the legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP).Bharat bandhAs hundreds of protesting farmers had gathered on a busy Ambala-Amritsar National Highway-1 here and were holding demonstrations, a cavalcade of Army trucks from Ambala was stopped and not allowed to pass through.It took senior officers leading the heavy police force in riot gear over an hour to persuade the agitators to allow the Army cavalcade on emergency duty to pass through but in vain. Finally, the police made way for the Army convoy and let it pass through the wrong side of the highway on its forward journey.Later, an Army Gypsy was also stopped by the protesters. Instead of giving it passage, they shouted pro-Khalistan slogans, forcing the Army vehicle to move back.The heavy police force deployed in Ambala to check the movement of protesters, however, remained mute spectators.Before converging on the busy highways passing through here, the groups of agitators held a protest march in the main bazaars and streets of the twin towns to ensure that all shops and commercial establishments, except those dealing with emergency services, were closed for the day.No sooner did the protesters laid siege to the highways, the movement of vehicular traffic to and fro Ambala was badly hit and long queues of vehicles could be seen on both sides of the highway.Raising slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and both local BJP MLAs (Home Minister Anil Vij and Aseem Goel), the protesting farmers alleged that the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre was opening up the farm sector to big corporate houses and pushing small and marginal farmers to starvation.Sensing trouble, the police had blocked the Haryana-Punjab inter-state borders by erecting barricades to stop the protesters from moving ahead since morning.However, no untoward incident was reported and the situation remained under control in the district.
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Agriculture Minister JP Dalal blames Cong for agitation||Agriculture Minister JP Dalal on Friday blamed the Congress for the farmers’ agitation, alleging that it was misguiding peasants on the three farm Bills.Addressing a press conference, Dalal claimed that while an overwhelming majority of farmers were supporting the Bills, certain vested interests supported by the Congress were indulging in road and rail blockades against ‘farmer-friendly’ Bills.He said the Congress had, over the years, stood for status quo in the agricultural sector, which suited the vested interests.He said the NDA had tried to change status quo and taken revolutionary steps like the farm Bills to increase farmers’ income.He claimed that the Congress was opposing the Bills for political reasons. — TNS
26-09-2020||Deepender Deswal||Doc suspended 5 months after death||Tribune News ServiceHisar, September 25A suspension order by the state Health Department has raised a few eyebrows on its functioning. It has suspended a medical officer, who passed away five months ago!The department has even fixed Nuh as the headquarters, where suspended doctor Prem Ahalawat has been asked to report. Besides, it has asked the Civil Surgeon’s office at Nuh to frame charges against Dr Ahalawat under Rule 7 of the Haryana Civil Service (Punishment and Appeal) Rules within 15 days.Dr Ahalawat, who served as a medical officer in the Civil Hospital, Hisar, died on April 22. He was suffering from several ailments.‘Covid delayed suspension order’His suspension order was issued on August 6 by the Additional Chief Secretary (Health). On September 24, the office of the Director General (Health) marked a copy of the order to the Civil Surgeons in Hisar and Nuh.Director General (Health) Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj admitted to The Tribune that the suspension order was issued by mistake. “It will be withdrawn,” he said.Dr Kamboj further said the action was initiated against Dr Ahalawat on the instructions of a Hisar court in January, but the suspension order could not be issued then because of the Covid pandemic and procedural lapses involving two branches.On January 4, Dr Ahalawat had appeared in Hisar court as a witness in some case. District and Sessions Judge Arun Kumar Singhal, in his written orders, had stated: “He appears to be in an inebriated condition. So the Chief Medical Officer is directed to get him medically examined and to report back regarding the consumption of liquor, if any…”Subsequently, the process to suspend Dr Ahalawat was started.On September 15, the department also suspended three medical officers — Dr Rajiv Dabla, Dr Poonam Dahiya and Dr Neeraj Khatak — on the charges of submitting a wrong medical report in the court about the condition of Dr Ahalawat.However, their suspension was revoked three days later following the intervention of the Haryana Civil Medical Services (HCMS) Association, which termed the suspension order “baseless”.
26-09-2020||---||Virus kills 18; 2,024 cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, September 25With 2,024 fresh cases, the total number of Covid cases in the state reached 1,20,578 today. The death toll went up to 1,273, with 18 more deaths having been reported in the past 24 hours.Gurugram reported a maximum of 279 cases, followed by Faridabad (221), Sonepat (186), Hisar (155) and Kurukshetra (131). Karnal, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Hisar, Kaithal and Jind reported two deaths. One death each was reported from Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak, Panchkula, Sirsa and Bhiwani.
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Devi Lal was farmers’ messiah: Abhay||The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) on Friday celebrated the 107th birth anniversary of former Deputy Prime Minister Chaudhary Devi Lal in all districts of the state.Om Prakash Chautala, INLD supremo, and hundreds of party workers paid homage to Devi Lal in Sirsa’s Chautala village. “Chaudhary Devi Lal was not an individual, but an institution. The INLD is working to advance his ideology,” Chautala said.In Yamunanagar, INLD secretary general and MLA Abhay Chautala paid floral tributes to the Devi Lal’s statue.In his address, he said, “Devi Lal was the messiah of farmers. As the Deputy Prime Minister and Chief Minister of Haryana, he did a lot of work for the welfare of farmers. He ensured remunerative prices for the farm produce, initiated the norm of compensating farmers for crop loss, waived loans up to Rs 10,000, and introduced old-age pension and unemployment allowance for youth.”Waived loans up to Rs 10,000As the Deputy PM and CM of Haryana, he ensured remunerative prices for the farm produce, initiated the norm of compensating farmers for crop loss, waived loans up to Rs 10,000. —Abhay Chautala, Secretary General, INLD The INLD, he Abay said, supported the Bharat Bandh call by farmers on Friday. “To make the Bharat Bandh a success, all party leaders and workers were told to participate in it,” he added. — TNS
26-09-2020||ibune News Service||Dushyant Chautala donates  blood at JJP camp||Chandigarh, September 25The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) celebrated the 107th birth anniversary of former Deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal as ‘Sammaan Diwas’ on Friday. Street meetings, blood donation camps and plantation drives were organised across the state.In Jind, JJP president Ajay Singh Chautala inaugurated a blood donation camp. In all, 2,300 units of blood were donated, he said. He was one of the donors at the camp.“Devi Lal was a mass leader of the poor, the needy and farmers,” Ajay said.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala participated in meetings at Bhiwani and Dadri. He also donated blood at a camp in Dadri.“The policies of Devi Lal continue to serve as an inspiration for several welfare programmes. It was Devi Lal who had started the old-age pension scheme and waived farm debt up to Rs 10,000,” Dushyant said.
26-09-2020||---||CM: Corruption spread like cancer during Congress rule||Chandigarh, September 25Taking a dig at the previous Congress government in the state, CM Manohar Lal Khattar today said corruption spread like cancer, particularly in recruitments, in the past.Claiming that his government had eliminated the system of “parchi and kharchi” in government jobs, he said 85,000 youths had been provided employment in different departments on merit basis since he assumed power.ANNOUNCEMENTSHe was speaking at a national seminar on “Swadeshi Swavlamban Se Atmnirbhar Bharat” jointly organised by Haryana State Higher Education Council and Swadeshi Swavlamban Trust to mark the birth anniversary of Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya through video conferencing.He said various significant steps had been taken by the state government to make the youth self-reliant through their skill development. “Shri Vishwakarma Skill University has been set up and MOUs have been signed with 150 industries so as to provide employment opportunities to the trained youth,” Khattar said.Besides, 1.04 lakh youths have been provided work under the Saksham Yuva Scheme. In all, five lakh people have been provided employment in government and private sector in the past more than five years.Khattar said Haryana had become a preferred destination for industries to make investment and various facilities such as land on lease was also being provided to entrepreneurs for setting up their units in the state.The CM urged experts participating in the seminar to give suggestions to take the message of “Atmnirbhar Bharat” further and said their suggestions would be adopted by the state government.Education Minister Kanwar Pal said PM Narendra Modi had given the call of “Vocal for Local” and people producing or manufacturing local products should be motivated. He urged prominent people of society to come forward and become a role model for others in promoting local products.
26-09-2020||Gurugram||Domestic help jumps to death in Gurugram||A 22-year-old domestic help allegedly committed suicide by jumping off from the 23rd floor of Victory Valley society in Sector 67 on Thursday.No suicide note was recovered from the body.The police said the maid, a native of West Bengal, had come for work on Thursday, but while returning she jumped from the 23rd floor of the society.“Her family members reached the spot, and she was rushed to a hospital. However, she succumbed to her injuries during treatment. The family members alleged she was in depression. We have lodged a report of the incident,” said SHO of sector 56 police station Deepak Kumar. Police have handed over the body to her kin after conducting autopsy. — OC
26-09-2020||---||District PRO’s appointment challenged||Chandigarh, September 25A dispute over the appointment of the District Information and Public Relations Officer has reached the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Acting on a petition alleging non-appointment of the successful candidate, Justice Jaishree Thakur directed keeping the appointment in abeyance, if it had not been offered to another candidate.The order will remain in operation at least till the next date of hearing.The matter was brought to the Punjab and HaryanaHigh Court’s notice after candidate Satish Kumar filed a petition against the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) and other respondents.His counsel contended the petitioner applied for the post of the District Information and Public Relations Officer Class II (Group B) in the ex-servicemen (ESM) category. His roll number figured in the list of successful candidates declared by the HPSC. But the post was allocated to another candidate in the revised result.The counsel added the other candidate would not be entitled to appointment under the ESM category since he had applied under the general category.The notice issued by Justice Thakur was accepted by advocate Prateek Gupta on behalf of the Haryana Public Service Commission, while Deputy Advocate General SS Pannu accepted the notice on behalf of two other respondents.“In the meantime, if appointment has not been offered to respondent (other candidate), the same be kept in abeyance till the next date of hearing,” Justice Thakur added.
26-09-2020||Faridabad||Over 45 illegal constructions razed in Faridabad||A team of the District Town Planner (enforcement) today pulled down 48 constructions that had come up in three unauthorised residential areas in the vicinity of Sikrona village here.DTP Naresh Kumar said the constructions razed were eight residential buildings, four shops, one dealer office and 35 DPC (Damp Proof Course) and boundary walls spread over about eight acres.He said legal action had been initiated against the property dealers or persons who had carved out the plots in the area illegally. — TNS
26-09-2020||Faridabad||Tepid response in Faridabad, Palwal||The Bharat Bandh call got a lukewarm response on Friday with only a couple of peaceful demonstrations in Faridabad and Palwal districts. While the movement of traffic remained normal, markets and offices functioned smoothly.In Palwal, about 70 demonstrators took out a march and held a meeting at Devi Lal Park. Police were posted at important locations to prevent any untoward incident. —TNS
26-09-2020||---||Farmers block roads in Hisar, Jind||Hisar, September 25Farmers blocked roads and organised demonstrations at three places in Hisar district on the call given by farmers’ organisations for a nationwide protest against the farm Bills today.The farmers blocked the Hisar-Rajgarh road in front of the Mini-Secretariat in Hisar town and also blocked the highways in Sarsod, Adampur and Narnaund villages in the district.The protesters gathered on the roads at around 11 am and raised anti-government slogans demanding withdrawal of the farm Bills. The district administration had made elaborate arrangements to ensure peaceful demonstrations.The police diverted traffic on alternative roads at the points where farmers sat on dharnas. Despite their protest, the farmers cleared the blockade for emergency vehicles and ambulances when the need arose.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) also staged dharnas at four points on highways in Jind district. The farmer remained on dharna and blocked the road at Ramrai village.
26-09-2020||---||Liquor worth Rs 1.6 lakh seized in Palwal, 1 held||Palwal, September 25The police seized as many as 3,360 bottles of illicit liquor from the national highway near Hodal on Thursday evening.The accused, who was driving the vehicle, has been identified as Narender, a resident of Andhop village. The market cost of the seized liquor was Rs 1.6 lakh, said a spokesperson for the district police.He said the seizure was made from a truck after the police team received a tip-off. The bottles were hidden under some packets containing pottery items, he added.The driver was unable to produce documents to the police pertaining to the liquor cartons.A case has been registered under the accused and he was remanded to the judicial custody today.
26-09-2020||---||Play adds spice to farmers’ agitation||Rohtak, September 25Members of the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) staged demonstrations and blocked roads leading to Hisar, Jind, Panipat, Jhajjar and Bhiwani in Rohtak district on Friday.Apart from raising slogans against the government, activists of the Jatan Natak Manch staged a street play on the adverse consequences of the three agriculture Bills on Haryana farmers at various locations.State AIKS vice-president Inderjit Singh, secretary Sumit Singh and district president Preet Singh said the Centre and state were trying to mislead farmers by saying the MSP regime would remain intact.Balraj Kundu, Independent MLA from Meham, led the protest at Bahu Akbarpur village. They blocked the Delhi-Hisar highway.Kundu faced the wrath of farmers staging a dharna in Bhaini Maharajpur village. They raised slogans against him and asked him to leave, but the MLA did not move.He tried to address the protesters, but they did not allow him to do so. They were annoyed as Kundu objected to the flags of some organisations at the dharna site.The situation turned tense when some youths started pushing Kundu’s supporters. The police intervened and the MLA left without addressing those on dharna.
26-09-2020||---||Petrol pump manager killed||Hisar, September 25A petrol pump manager was bludgeoned to death and two employees were seriously injured by an unidentified assailant on the Sirsa road in Hisar today.The victims were asleep at night when the accused carrying a hammer attacked them and fled with some cash.The deceased has been identified as Hanuman Singh, 48, a resident of Nagaur district in Rajasthan, and the injured are Ghanshyam, 34, and Brajesh, 21, both from Rajasthan. They were employed at the Goyal petrol pump here.Hisar SP Balwan Singh Rana reached the spot and started investigation. The police also got the CCTV footage of the incident that showed the accused walking up to a cot where the victims were asleep and hitting one of them with the hammer repeatedly. The police have registered a case under sections 450 and 460 of the IPC on the complaint of petrol pump owner Sanjay Goyal.The complainant said the accused had barged into the petrol pump around 2.30 am and took away cash from the pockets of the victims and the almirah at the pump.
26-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC raps judge, wants explanation over bail||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25Virtually rapping a judicial officer for passing an order that does not meet the requirement or criteria for granting anticipatory bail, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has called for his explanation. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan has also asked the Panipat Superintendent of Police to specify on an affidavit how an FIR was registered for rape and another offence in view of the allegations in the FIR.The case has its genesis in the FIR registered on August 8 for rape, criminal breach of trust, subjecting a married woman to cruelty and other offences under Sections 323, 376, 406, 498-A, 506 and 511 of the IPC at the Samalkha police station in Panipat district.BAIL CRITERIA NOT MET The order dated September 18 does not meet the requirement/criteria of granting anticipatory bail as neither was the wife/complainant called by the court nor was her interest safeguarded while passing the order. —Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan, Punjab and Haryana high courtThe complainant, among other things, had alleged that her husband and in-laws were not satisfied with the dowry and were demanding more. It was stated in the FIR that the petitioner, her brother-in-law, used to harass the victim. It was further stated that one day, the petitioner forcibly entered her room and started imposing himself with bad intention.Seeking anticipatory bail for the petitioner, his counsel referred to an order dated September 1, vide which the complainant’s parents-in-law and sister-in-law were granted interim anticipatory bail by the Panipat Additional Sessions Judge (Fast Track Court).The counsel referred to another order dated September 18, vide which the complainant’s husband was granted the concession of interim anticipatory bail by the Judge after observing that the allegations of attempt to rape were not against the petitioner.The counsel contended that the concession was granted to co-accused, but the same presiding officer declined anticipatory bail to the petitioner on the premise that allegations of attempt to rape were against him. A bare perusal of the FIR would show that rape under Section 376 was not made out and at the most, it was a case of outraging modesty under Section 354.Granting anticipatory bail with certain conditions, Justice Sangwan directed the Panipat Additional Sessions Judge (Fast Track Court) to submit an explanation as to how the main accused, the complainant’s husband, was granted bail without reference to allegations of entrustment and demand of dowry against him, while observing that the allegation of attempt to rape was not against him.Justice Sangwan added that the allegations otherwise also could not have been against him, being the complainant’s husband, while the same concession was declined to the petitioner.“The order dated September 18 does not meet the requirement/criteria of granting anticipatory bail as neither was the wife/complainant called by the court nor was her interest safeguarded while passing the order,” Justice Sangwan asserted, while calling for the explanation before the next date of hearing.
26-09-2020||Yamunanagar||‘Will continue stir till Bills are withdrawn’||Bills have no takers, says Kisan SabhaRohtak: Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha (ABKS) state vice-president Inderjit Singh claimed that the “success” of the Bharat Bandh had yet again proved that there were no takers for the Bills which were being “imposed” by the Modi government on the people as well as on the states. Inderjit was interacting with mediapersons here on Friday. He said what was actually demanded by the farmers’ bodies was freedom from debt and not withdrawal of the state support for agricultural trade through the APMC network. TNSOne more arrested in assault caseAmbala: The police have arrested another accused involved in the attack on a team of the Regional Transport Authority on Thursday. The person arrested has been identified as Maninder Singh of Ambala. With this, the number of arrests in the case has gone up to 18. TNS
26-09-2020||The area around the railway crossing (Dhinga Khera) bearing number 68C / E2 in Karnal city is full of thorn bushes and weeds. As a result||Thick vegetation attracts animals||Maintenance of bins goes for a tossTHE administration deserves applaud for putting bins, few years ago, for wet (green) and dry (blue) garbage at required places throughout the city. However, not much heed has been paid to the maintenance of bins, with some of them either lying broken, damaged and even missing. The administration should place emphasis on the maintenance of bins. —Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaLink road cries for attentionLala Lekh Raj Miglani Marg, the main link road connecting old Jind road to new Jind bypass in Kaithal city, needs repairing. Especially so, from the turn which leads to Jind bypass. There are deep pits, in which water gets accumulated during rain. Every now and then some truck and other vehicles get stuck on this road. Even pedestrians are wary of crossing the road, as they invariably fail to gauge the depth of the pits. Though the road was built recently, it is again seeking the attention of the local administration. —Kapil Sharma, KaithalPassage dug for drain irks localsAbout six months ago, the municipal authorities of Narwana had dug up a deep drain to flush out the accumulated rainwater in the Housing Board locality, but forgot to construct the drain. As a result, shopkeepers on both side of the main road are irked and losing patience with each passing day. Even their businesses are suffering because of it. It is also resulting in traffic jams on the road during peak hours. The authorities concerned must act immediately. —Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
26-09-2020||Kurukshetra||Interdisciplinary refresher course||NSS day celebratedKarnal: On the account of NSS day celebration at RKSD PG College, Kaithal, Dr SP Verma, Programme Officer, NSS, presented the annual NSS report of the college. The activities listed down in the report included plastic-free campus, water conservation, fit India movement, various tree plantation drives, importance of being literate and educated, awareness programmes on stubble burning, road safety awareness and women health hygeine etc. Principal Sanjay Goyal appreciated the NSS units of the college in motivating volunteers for doing social service. Various NSS programme officers from different colleges across the state presented their NSS reports.Varsity pays tribute to pt upadhyayaFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has set up a reference section in the Central library on the ideology and philosophy of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya. Vice-Chancellor Dinesh Kumar today inaugurated the reference section in the library to mark the 104th birth anniversary of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay, and paid floral tribute at the portrait of Pandit Upadhyaya. Dean of Faculty of Sciences and chairman of the library Prof Ashutosh Dixit, librarian PN Bajpai and Director, Youth Welfare, Dr Pradeep Dimri also paid homage to Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya. The V-C said Pandit Upadhyaya had dedicated his life to uplift the deprived sections of society. His life and contributions were a source of inspiration for the present generation, he added. Librarian PN Bajpai said the library had also been named after Pandit Deendayal.Mega e-PTM in 700 govt schoolsKarnal: A mega e-PTM was organised in 700 government schools of the district, in which parents of around 70,000 students participated. Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav also interacted with parents and teachers through the online mode. “The purpose of this mega e-PTM was an interaction between parents, teachers and officials of the district administration. Also, to make parents aware of the status of their wards’ studies. At subdivisional level, the SDMs concerned interacted with parents and teachers through the e-platform,” the DC added. Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associates Amrita Datla said the students were being attached with e-PTM, for which a pro forma was being prepared to monitor their health.GJUST reappear exams in OctHisar: The reappear examinations for the final-year students of the university teaching departments of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST) will be held in October. Vice Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar said the date sheet would be issued soon by the university teaching departments and the Controller of Examinations of the GJUST. The students may be given the option of appearing offline or online depending upon their number and the type of examinations. The pattern of examinations will be the same as per the scheme and syllabi.
26-09-2020||Chandigarh||Commuters hit as roads blocked across Haryana||Farmers and commission agents (arhtiyas) blocked roads at a number of places across Haryana to protest the three farm Bills cleared by the Centre.Though the protests were peaceful, commuters had to face a tough time in Kurukshetra, Karnal and Kaithal as the police diverted traffic to alternative routes.Read also: In Hisar, a sit-in was organised in front of the Mini Secretariat on the road to Rajgarh. The Jind-Hisar and Jind-Karnal roads remained out of bounds for commuters throughout the day. Karnal witnessed blockades at 14 places. In Kurukshetra, the hoardings of BJP-JJP leaders were taken down and burnt.A tractor march was organised in Pinjore. In Rohtak, the Delhi-Hisar highway was blocked at Bahu Akbarpur village. The protest elicited lukewarm response in Gurugram, Palwal and Faridabad districts. — TNS
