26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 3 more Covid -19 deaths; 794 new cases take tally to 31,332||Three more COVID-19 fatalities in Haryana took the death toll to 392 on Sunday, while the total caseload climbed to 31,332 with 794 fresh instances of the viral infection, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Panchkula district reported its first COVID-19 death, while one fatality each was registered in Hisar and Kurukshetra districts.Among the districts which reported fresh cases, Faridabad reported 219 new instances of the disease, Gurgaon 121, Rewari 81, Panipat 47, Karnal 44, Rohtak 39, Ambala 32, Kurukshetra 28, Sonipat 24, Panchkula 19 and Yamunanagar 25, according to the bulletin.Haryana has witnessed a surge in coronavirus cases over the past week, with most of them from districts in the national capital region (NCR).On July 17, Haryana had reported the highest single-day spike of 795 cases, while 724 cases were added on July 22, 789 on July 23, 780 on July 24 and 783 on July 25.Active cases in the state currently stood at 6,556, while 24,384 have been discharged following recovery.The state’s recovery rate on Sunday was 77.82 per cent while the rate of doubling of infection was 23 days. — PTI
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sultry weather in Haryana, Punjab||Sultry weather conditions prevailed in Haryana and Punjab on Sunday, with maximum temperatures hovering slightly above normal in the neighbouring states, the Indian Meteorological Department here said.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 35.4 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal.In Haryana, Hisar recorded a maximum temperature of 36 degrees Celsius. Narnaul’s maximum settled at 36.3 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal.Karnal recorded a high of 34 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, while Ambala’s maximum temperature settled at 35.2 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal.In Punjab, Patiala recorded a maximum temperature of 36.3 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.The mercury settled at 35.4 degrees Celsius and 35 degrees Celsius in Amritsar and Ludhiana, respectively, a notch above normal.Monsoon has remained subdued in the region for the past two-three days. However, rainfall activity is likely to pick up from July 27, the weather department said. --- PTI
26-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Part 2 of first phase of human trials for Covid vaccine begins at Rohtak PGIMS||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 26With the successful completion of the part-I of the first phase of the human trials of Covid vaccine, Part-II of the trials has begun at the PGIMS here.Fifty volunteers had been administered the Covid vaccine across the country during Part-I of the first phase. Of these, 20 were given the vaccine at Rohtak PGIMS.“After getting the green signal from the Data and Safety Monitoring Board as well as the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, we have started Part-II of the first phase of trials, in which the vaccine has to be administered on 325 more volunteers,” stated Prof Savita Verma, the Principal Investigator of the project, while talking to The Tribune today.She added low as well as high doses will be given to the volunteers in Part-II trial, adding that the vaccine had been administered on six volunteers.Verma appealed to the healthy residents to come forward and participate in the human trials of the Covid vaccine. The interested persons can contact the PGIMS Covid helpline no. 9416447071 to get themselves registered for the trials.“As many as 150 volunteers have registered themselves for the human trials at the PGIMS so far, of whom 51 have been screened,” she said, adding that those who are found to be medically fit would be involved in the trials.She pointed out that nearly 3,000 volunteers had got themselves registered at AIIMS in New Delhi.Dr Dhruva Chaudhry, State Nodal Officer (Covid-19), who is also a co-investigator of the human-trial project, said the volunteers who had been given Covid vaccine were being monitored to check whether there are any adverse reactions.“None of the volunteers have reported any complication or adverse reaction till date,” he added.
26-07-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Happiest moment of my life as I receive hello from PM Modi, says Kritika||Tribune News ServicePanipat, July 26“It is the happiest moment for me as I received ‘hello’ from Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji. I greeted him with ‘Namastey Sir’,” said Kritika Nandal of Mehrana village of Panipat district.During the ‘Mann ki Baat’ programme held on Sunday, the Prime Minister applauded Kritika's efforts for achieving success in the CBSE Class XII medical stream. The 16-year-old girl secured 96 per cent in her recent exams. She was a student of DAV Police Public School, Panipat.Kritika told The Tribune that it was the best moment of her life as from all over the country, the PM chose to talk to her. Only four students have been selected from across India.“We were asked to keep the fact that Prime Minister would talk to me a secret, and for that, we went to NSG at Manesar and we waited for the call for three to four hours. It was all worth it and I just can’t put my happiness into words,” Kritika says.“During the programme, the Prime Minister asked me about my inspiration, goals & dreams, and his every word/suggestion will always be very important to me,” added Kritika.It's my dream to become a doctor and I would work hard to achieve my goal, she said. With proper education and knowledge, a doctor can save many lives and that's exactly what I aim to do, she asserted.“It is a proud moment for us that the Prime Minister talked to my daughter. This was only due to her success,” said Saroj, mother of Kritika.She has not only made her family proud, but has also brought laurels for the village, state and country, her mother said. She further added: “Kritika studied hard to achieve her goal and supports me in household works. She helps her younger brother in studies too.”Her father, Vinod Singh, passed away two years ago due to brain haemorrhage. Kritika was in Class XI at the time.“I am managing the house by sewing clothes. We have a buffalo and a kiryana shop that's run by Kritika’s grandfather. My widow pension helps too,” she added.Panipat Urban MLA Mahipal Dhanda, DC Dharmender Singh, along with Assistant Director Income Tax Suman Bala and some villagers visited Kritika's house in order to congratulate her on her success.Notably, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also mentioned the success story of boxer Rajni Kashyap, a 16-year-old girl of Lakhubuana village of the district, during his monthly programme ‘Mann ki Baat’ on December 30, 2018.
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Legal experts describe framing people under Section 399/402 as ‘human rights violation’||Legal experts describe framing people under section 399/402 of Indian Penal Code as a human rights violation. They think that those people are framed under these sections either have pending cases of thefts or burglaries or have been labelled as ‘trouble makers’.Some have even described sections 399/402 of IPC as a means of preventive detention as accused have to stay in jail for months.Profile of accusedThe recent trial court judgment under section 399/402 of IPC came from a Jind court on March 6, where six people got acquitted - Sunil, Satish, Naman, Balkar, Ravinder and Sashi Pal. They faced trial for more than three years during which five of them remained in jail.The Tribune studied their history and it turns out that Sunil has 12 cases, including theft, burglary, affray and was also booked under the Arms Act. Satish has eight and Ravinder has 13 cases of theft and burglary pending against them. Satish was once convicted in an affray case for 23 days. Sashi Pal has just one case of burglary pending against him. None of them has been convicted yet in any case.But, Naman has been convicted in five cases, ranging from drug peddling, rioting, burglary, theft and affray, and has one pending case of burglary. Balkar has two pending cases of planning dacoity and one each for burglary and for an attempt to commit dacoity or robbery. Besides, he has been convicted in two cases of burglaries and one of affray.  “Human rights violation”Advocate Vinod Kumar Tripathy, who practices in Panchkula, said, “I have contested cases under section 399/402 as a defence lawyer. In my opinion, thieves along with their friends are falsely implicated under section 399/402. They are usually arrested separately from their homes. It is nothing but sheer misuse of law and amounts to the human rights violation.” Defence lawyer Sameer Sethi, who practices in Panchkula, said, “Usually, in the cases under section 399/402 of IPC the police claim to have received a secret report. But the secret informer is not made a witness. We never get to know who gave the information and how. This is a dark area.”He added, “It is the only section of IPC which prescribes punishment just for planning. So, the police claim most of the cases that they have overheard the accused making the plan, which is unbelievable.”“Such cases are imposed on people whom the police think are suspects of theft or burglaries or a serious offence like dacoity or robbery. This is the modus operandi of the police. It is also used as a way to get extended police remand through the backdoor. But this is a human rights violation,” he said.       Dharampal, a former public prosecutor who also served as President of a consumer forum, says, “In reality, these cases are planted. It is a human rights violation. The conviction rate is poor as complainant and Investigating Officer are usually the same police personal and independent witnesses are not joined during arrests and recovery of weapons.”Another defence lawyer, Manbir Singh Rathi, said he was yet to see any conviction in such cases in his last 15 years of service.“Under these sections, people are falsely implicated,” he added.However, SPS Parmar, a former district attorney who now works as a defence lawyer in Panchkula, said, “If independent witnesses are joined for arrest and recovery of weapons, convictions can take place.”Two former Haryana Police DGPs were contacted for comments but they refused to comment on the matter.
26-07-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Horse-trading accused Jain brought to Manesar||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 25Unable to gain access to Sachin Pilot loyalists, the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the Rajasthan Police late last night brought Sanjay Jain, an accused in the horse-trading case, to Best Western Country Inn. He reportedly confessed to having visited the resort but gave no details, according to the SOG.“We brought him here to confirm if he had met the rebel MLAs. He led us to the other resort near ITC Grand Bharat, claiming he did visit the premises, but met nobody there,” said Additional DGP (SOG) Ashok Rathore. Jain, alias Sanjay Bardia, was arrested a week ago after his name figured in an audio tape on alleged horse-trading of MLAs to topple the Gehlot-led government in Rajasthan. Hailing from Bikaner, Jain is known to be a power broker. Claiming that he was a BJP leader, the Congress had released his pictures with former CM Vasundhara Raje. However, he is said to be close to both senior Congress and BJP leaders in the state.Sources said Jain identified the resort staff who had let him in but claimed he had met nobody there. The SOG will now go for voice spectrography on July 29.
26-07-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Deposit Rs25 cr for pollution, NGT tells Panipat refinery||Tribune News ServicePanipat, July 25The Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Indian Oil Corporation Limited’s (IOCL) Panipat refinery to deposit Rs 25 crore with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) within a month for polluting air and water.Earlier, the IOCL had deposited Rs 17.31 crore as interim environment compensation (EC) last year.The tribunal also directed the CPCB, HSPCB and District Magistrate, Panipat, to make a plan for the restoration of the environment and public health within three months.Satpal Singh, Sarpanch, Gram Panchayat, Singhpura-Sithna, had filed a complaint with the NGT in 2018 alleging that the IOCL Panipat refinery had caused air and water pollution around Bohli, Dadlana and Sithana village of the district.He alleged that air pollution caused by the refinery had caused diseases to a large number of people in the adjoining villages.“The refinery is also polluting water bodies by discharging effluents into the green belts of the villages and forest,” the complainant alleged.A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel had constituted a joint committee comprising representatives of the CPCB, HSPCB and Deputy Commissioner, Panipat, and sought an action-taken report.Following the interim report filed by the HSPCB on May 9 last year, the NGT ordered the IOCL refinery to deposit interim environment compensation of Rs 17.31 crore and also directed to assess the total environmental damage.After that, the joint committee assessed the environmental damage and recommended total environmental compensation of Rs 659.49 crore of which the refinery had deposited Rs 17.31 crore with the CPCB last year.The committee also recommended some remedial measures to the refinery to restore the environment.The NGT in its order on November 26 last year had constituted another joint committee of CPCB, National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) and HSPCB to verify the latest status of compliance by the refinery.The joint committee filed its report to the NGT on April 23 in which it stated that the IOCL refinery has not implemented remedial actions for restoration of the environment which were recommended by the joint committee earlier.The Principal Bench headed by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel on Friday — during a hearing through video conferencing — directed the IOCL refinery to take initiatives on a day-to-day basis and comply with all the observations of the joint committee positively within six months.“The issue of final liability for compensation will be decided on the next date in the light of progress in the performance by IOCL,” the order reads. The next hearing is fixed for February 17, 2021.Paying the penaltyTotal environmental compensation calculated by joint committee: Rs 659.49 crore 2019: IOCL deposits Rs17.31 croreJuly 24, 2020: NGT orders IOCL to deposit Rs25 croreFeb 17, 2021: Final amount of compensation to be decided
26-07-2020||---||1,000-km of rural roads will be laid this financial year: Deputy Chief Minister||Hisar, July 25 Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala stated that the state had set a target to lay 1,000 km of rural roads under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna (PMGSY) by the end of the current financial year. The Deputy Chief Minister said the state had got the funds for eight districts for laying the roads. “While eight districts have got the approval under the PMGSY, I hope that the rest 14 districts will get the same soon. We have set a target to lay 1,000 km of rural roads for better rural connectivity during the year 2020-21”, he said.  Dushyant said he would propose a greenfield project to the Centre from Fazilka to Kolkata which would be the part of the East–West corridor. He said the proposal would strengthen the connectivity on the East–West side as most of the connectivity is in the North-South direction. “We are also coming up with two more road projects. One of them is proposed to start from Dabwali to Agra via Jind and the other one will connect Hisar to Kundli-Manesar-Palwal via Tosham, Mahendragarh and Rewari. These projects will improve the East-West road connectivity of the state,” he added.  He said the state had got approval of 11 rural road projects for 131-km long roads in Sirsa district. He said the Panchayat Department would give 200 tonne of plastic waste to the Public Works Department to be used in the construction of roads in the sanctioned project.
26-07-2020||Karnal||ADGP reviews second phase of Karnal hospital||Haryana Police Housing Corporation (HPHC) ADGP RC Mishra on Saturday reviewed the second phase of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC), and said it would be completed in two years. The contract for the second phase had been assigned to the HPHC. While interacting with media persons here at the KCGMC, Mishra said the HPHC had started the work of boundary wall of the second phase. “There will be a 300-bed hospital, guest house, hostel, trauma centre, outdoor and indoor playing facility for students, residence for faculty and staff and other such facilities under the second phase,” he said, adding that a sum of around Rs 350 crore would be incurred on the project. He also directed the authorities to focus on the quality of the work. — TNS
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Increase validity of HTET: Selja to state govt||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja on Saturday demanded the state government to increase the validity of Haryana Teachers’ Eligibility Test (HTET) and start new recruitment of Junior Basic Teachers (JBT) to give relief to thousands of candidates.  She said no new recruitment of JBTs by the state government in its six-year tenure. “Validity of 90,000 HTET pass candidates is going to end this month. Under a conspiracy, no recruitment of JBT has been conducted by the government due to which, these HTET pass candidates did not get job,” she said. — TNS
26-07-2020||Deepender Deswal---||Agriculture Department on alert as locust swarm spotted in Sirsa district||Tribune News Service  Hisar, July 25 In a fresh attack, a swarm of locusts was spotted in Kheri village near Nathusari Chopta block in Sirsa district last night. The swarm has been active in Bhadra region of Hanumangarh district in Rajasthan.  The district administration’s task force and farmers who reached the spot carried out an operation to eliminate the locusts. The villagers said the locust swarm settled on the trees in the village.  Village sarpanch Balbir Singh said the night-long operation was quite successful as only few scattered groups of locusts were witnessed in the fields on Saturday morning while the swarm was largely eliminated. He said the crop damaged was being estimated to be in about 50 acre fields in the village.  Agriculture Deputy Director Babu Lal said they were in contact with the Rajasthan authorities which alerted them on the movement of swarm along the Bhadra region. “Our team reached Kheri village in time and spotted that a portion of the swarm had entered the village. We spotted the locusts in about 200-acre area at the outskirts of village. The swarm arrived in Sirsa district with the flow of wind,” he said adding that they had urged the farmers to stay alert during the day time and play loud sound to shoo them away. The district authorities said there seemed to be minor crop damage due to the attack so far.
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula to host 2021 Khelo India Games||Panchkula will host the 2021 Khelo India Games, said Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju during an interaction with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.However, the dates for the 4th edition of games are yet to be announced. “The dates will be announced after discussing the matter with the CM and state Sports Minister Sandeep Singh. After Tokyo Olympics, we can expect hosting the Khelo India Games. But we should start preparing our infrastructure and all other requirements well in time to make these games a success,” Rijiju added.The games are expected to be held at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Sector 3 Panchkula, which houses the facilities of football, cricket, table tennis, basketball, volleyball and other sports disciplines. The stadium with a capacity to adjust 7000 spectators has hosted many national championships. Over 8,000 sportspersons of various disciplines had participated in last edition of these games in Guwahati. Players, coaches, technical and support staff are provided transport, logistics, food and accommodation during the event.The Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports will contribute to the expenditure on the event in the ratio of 60:40.Meanwhile, Khattar ensured that the state would organise the games in a successful manner for which the preparation would start from Sunday onwards. Notably, in the last year’s Khelo India Games, Haryana topped the chart by winning 200 medals.“Panchkula is adept for hosting the Khelo India Youth Games but if needed and if everyone agrees, we can even use adjacent areas for the event. We will leave no stone unturned to make the games a success,” Khattar said.The Khelo India Games will be telecasted live on Star Sports (India). — TNS2020 event cancelledUnion Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju confirmed that the Khelo India Youth Games has been cancelled this year due to Covid
26-07-2020||Faridabad||Four Nigerians, one Liberian among 7 arrested for fraud||The police have busted a cheating racket operating through social media platforms and arrested seven persons, including four nationals of Nigeria and one Liberia, residing in Faridabad.The accused, including a woman, recently got Rs 35,500 transferred in their bank account from an Uttar Pradesh resident citing it to be customs fees for a gift parcel from London.Two of the accused are residents of the local Chawla Colony, five others arethe nationals of Liberia and Nigeria. The accused have been identified as Promise Ebre, Halimat Mohammed, Okeke Nnabugo, Kenechukwu Okanta (all Nigerians); Williams Michael from Liberia; Anurag and Nishant (both from Chawla Colony).The racket got exposed after a complaint was lodged here on July 23, by Rajbir Singh, a resident of Aligarh in UP, who told the police that some unknown persons had got Rs 35,500 as customs fees/tax for a gift parcel from London transferred to their the account, which was found functional in a branch of Canara Bank here.A police team then nabbed the seven accused on Friday evening from the city on the basis of their phone location.“The passport of Halimat has expired. William and Promise have been found to be in the possession of passports of two different countries,” claimed a police officer.The accused have been remanded to police custody for further probe. — TNSModus operandi
26-07-2020||Gurugram||Priyanka shifts to Gurugram||Escorted by her Z-plus security and the local police, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra shifted to her penthouse in DLF Aralia on Golf Course Road, Sector 42, in the wee hours of Saturday.Security has been beefed up around her wing with restrictive entry only being allowed since morning. Sources claim that the security authorities had been asked to fiercely guard the CCTV footage showing Priyanka entering the society. The guards on duty were made to submit their phones before her entry.Neighbours too have been advised against sharing the visuals on social media. The realty sector, meanwhile, saw an overnight surge in property prices of the society. The rents doubled and there is a 20 per cent increase in the sale prices being quoted since morning.A special team of the Gurugram police has been deputed outside in plain clothes and the area has been put on high security. — OC
26-07-2020||Jhajjar||Gang of thieves busted||With the arrest of two persons, the police on Saturday claimed to have busted a gang of thieves active in the region for around a year.  The accused, Mauid of Badayun and Javed of Bareli (Uttar Pradesh), were residing in a rented accommodation at Patel Nagar in Bahadurgarh town here. The police also recovered two country-made pistols and four live cartridges from their possession.  Jhajjar SP Ashok Kumar said the accused during interrogation confessed to have their involvement in more than 13 cases of stealing copper wire from power transformers. They committed their first theft in the district at Siddipur village in October 2019 and thereafter, they perpetrated 12 others thefts up to July 2020, he said. “The accused were nabbed in the area of Bahadurgarh Sector 6 police station, while acting on a tip-off. They were produced in a court, which remanded them to a two-day police custody,” he said. — TNS
26-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||Underpass flooded in Jhajjar, commuters suffer||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, July 25The railway underpass on the Talav road near Dhandhu Nagar locality here has remained inundated for over a week causing great inconvenience to road users.Pedestrians and cyclists are walking on the rail track to avoid wading through the waterlogged underpass while two/four-wheelers are forced to take a long route to reach Talav and its surrounding villages.“A considerable number of people from Talav and surrounding villages come daily to Jhajjar city on scooter and motorbike for jobs and other purposes. Many of them are now covering 3-4 km on foot as the rail underpass has been flooded for several days and the vehicles break down in the water,” said Gulshan, a resident of Talav village.Geeta, a housewife, said she used to fetch milk from Talav village daily on her bicycle. “The waterlogged underpass has compelled me to cross the rail track to go to the other side as it is the shortest way to reach there, but there is always a fear of getting injured while crossing the track on a bicycle and carrying a milk container,” she said.Om Prakash, an ex-serviceman, said many local people do agricultural work at Talav and nearby areas. They used to bring green fodder for their animals on bicycle/motorbike from there. “Now, they have to struggle with the fodder while wading through the waterlogged underpass. No one is paying heed to their plight,” he added.
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana tally crosses 30,000||With seven deaths and 789 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state crossed the 30,000 mark today. The number of deceased reached 389 with a fatality rate of 1.27 per cent.Three deaths were reported from Faridabad and one each from Ambala, Rohtak, Sonepat and Jind.A 57-year-old woman from Greenfields Colony, 50-year-old man from Adarsh Nagar and 64-year-old man from Khatriwada locality of Old Faridabad were among the casualties in Faridabad. A 56-year-old man of Mullana in Ambala also succumbed. A 79-year-old man from Kurukshetra, who was admitted to Panchkula’s Alchemist Hospital for heart disease and tested positive there, also died today. His death is yet to be included in the state health bulletin.Among the fresh cases, 198 came from Faridabad and 98 Gurugram and 125 Rewari.The cases also came from Palwal (56), Sonepat (50), Panipat (50), Hisar (48), Mahendragarh (34), Ambala (27), Panchkula (23), Jhajjar (18), Rohtak (15), Jind (11), Kurukshetra (8), Nuh (6), Bhiwani (4), Fatehabad (4), Yamunanagar (4), Sirsa (3) and Kaithal (1).In Faridabad, cases came from Ballabgarh, Old Faridabad, Dabua Colony, Jawahar Colony, AC Nagar, NIT, Sanjay Colony, Kheri Kalan, Sectors 3, 15, 16, 19, 23 and 35, Ajji Colony, Tilpat village and Chawla Colony.In Ambala, 16 from City, eight from Cantonment and one each from Mullana, Shahzadpur and Chaurmastpur tested positive.In Karnal, three cops tested positive. Besides, two family members of a cop from Police Lines tested positive. Three cases were reported from Sector 9, one from Sector 6, two from Vazir Chand Colony, three from Ashok Nagar, five from Vakilpura and one each from Sugarcane Colony, Sitamai, New Preetam Nagar and Manmati. However, these are yet to be recorded. — TNS
26-07-2020||Parveen Arora||Women to form 15% of police force: Chief Minister||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 25Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today emphasised on increasing the participation of women in the police force. He announced to increase the recruitment percentage of women to 15 per cent.“Earlier, the number of women in police recruitment was 3 per cent. That was increased to 6 per cent and later to 10 per cent. Now, we have kept a target to increase it to 15 per cent,” said the CM at the passing-out parade of the 16th batch of 400 recruits comprising 344 male and 56 female sub-inspectors at Haryana Police Academy, Madhuban.As per the authorities, these recruits had availed the opportunity to serve society during the Covid pandemic. The newly inducted recruits took oath of allegiance to the Constitution.Exhorting the new recruits, the CM said they must consider the word ‘HP’ as Haryana Pradesh along with Haryana Police while discharging their duties. “It is a proud moment for you that you are going to serve society. The police always remain on duty even if there is a holiday or festival.”Recounting the steps being taken by the state government for the modernisation of the police, Khattar said they had started a transparent recruitment process.“We’ve decided to develop a modern police station in each district. We’ve also given nod for establishing six new cyber police stations in the state. We have also started bar-coding of FSL samples,” he said.DGP Manoj Yadava said among the new sub-inspectors, 50 were post-graduates, 198 graduates and 152 professional degree holders.The CM also honoured sub-inspector Sandeep Kumar for getting first position in the course, Sahil Kumar who came second and Suraj who got the third position.Inaugurates 7 projectsCM Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurated seven projects and laid the stone of three projects, costing Rs42 crore, at Karan Stadium. Accompanied by Sports Minister Sandeep Singh, the CM also honoured 22 students of the district who brought laurels to the district, their families and schools by securing good positions in the Class XII exams.
26-07-2020||Karnal||Petrol pump employee shot at||Three miscreants opened fire at an employee of a petrol pump near Uchani village when he demanded money for the petrol filled in their bike on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The incident has been captured by CCTV camera and the police have taken the footage in their custody. TNSAmbalaTwo arrested for robberyThe police have arrested Gurbaz Singh of Ambala City and Amit Singh of Shahabad in Kurukshetra in a case of armed robbery, officials said. Jarnail Singh of Patiala had reported that on February 24, three miscreants had intercepted his canter, fired on his leg and robbed him. The accused have been remanded them to a two-day police custody. TNSTwo nabbed for assaultThe police have arrested Manoj and Malkit Singh of Mahesh Nagar near Ambala in a case of assault and robbery, officials said here on Saturday. Ranjit Singh of Babiyal near here had reported that both the accused along with two other accomplices had assaulted him and his son on May 25. The accused have been sent to a 14-day judicial remand. TNSMan held for tree theftThe police have arrested Sonu of Yamunanagar in two cases of stealing khair trees. As per the police, Naraingarh forest guard Karamjit Singh and Behrehri Khurd village sarpanch had reported that some unidentified person had stolen 108 khair trees from Chhoti Khori and Behrehri Khurd villages in April and May, 2017. The accused has been remanded him to 14-day judicial custody. TNS28 head of cattle rescuedThe police arrested and later released on bail Furkan and Mohd Asif of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh for cruelty to animals and claimed to have recovered 28 head of cattle, which were being smuggled in a cruel manner for slaughtering. tns
