26-10-2020||New Delhi||Delhi court sets aside order summoning Kanda in case of abetment of suicide of Geetika’s mother||A Delhi court on Monday set aside an order issuing summons to Haryana MLA Gopal Goyal Kanda and his former associate as accused for allegedly abetting the suicide of former flight attendant Geetika Sharma’s mother.Additional Sessions Judge Kiran Gupta set aside a magisterial court order dated March 18, 2019, issuing summons against Kanda and Aruna Chadha for abetting the suicide of Sharma’s mother, Anuradha.In its order, the sessions court noted that “it is evident the negative final report was filed by the police after investigation and after examining the family members”.The Delhi Police had filed the cancellation report in the case dealing with the suicide case of Anuradha.  Anuradha had committed suicide on February 15, 2013, and a case of abetment of suicide was registered at police station Bharat Nagar. Kanda is also facing trial in separate abetment-to-suicide case of Geetika. An additional chief metropolitan magistrate in March 2019 took cognisance of the offence against Kanda and Chadha while rejecting the cancellation report.Both of them had challenged the order of the magistrate court.“The picture which emerges from a cumulative reading and assessment of these two suicide notes is this---presumably because of death of her daughter who allegedly committed suicide due to certain acts of the petitioners, caused distress and the deceased felt disappointed, frustrated and depressed,” the sessions court said.“She was overtaken by a feeling of shortcoming which she attributed to herself. She was overcome by a forceful feeling generating within her that her death would only bring justice to the death by suicide of her daughter Geetika,” it added.The court noted that admittedly, both the accused were in custody prior to six months from the date and time of the incident and were released on bail after around one year of the present incident.“In the entire record file there is not even a single complaint or report regarding any threats extended by the petitioners or any person on their behalf. Even from the CDR of the deceased, nothing has been found that she was receiving calls or was threatened by the petitioners or any person on their behalf,” the court said.“The present one is not a case where the accused/petitioners had by their acts or omission or by a continued course of conduct created such circumstances that the deceased was left with no other option except to commit suicide in which case an instigation may have been inferred,” it added. PTI
26-10-2020||Panipat||Two men attack 37-year-old woman in Panipat with acid||A 37-year-old-woman sustained serious burn injuries on Monday after two youths on a bike threw acid on her near Deshraj Colony in the city.The woman has been admitted in the general hospital. The police reached the general hospital to record the woman’s statement.The victim has been identified as Poonam (37) of Rajiv Colony and she was working as a labourer in a textile factory.According to the information available, the woman was on the way to her home after her duty in the Bharti Textile factory.As she reached near Neel Kamal factory near Desh Raj Colony, two youths on a motorcycle reached there and started misbehaving with her.As she opposed the miscreants, they threw acid on her face and sped away.Krishan, husband of the victim, who was also working as a labourer in the factory, said that his son has informed him about the acid attack.He immediately reached home and took her to the hospital from where doctors referred her to the BPM Medical College at Kahnpur Kalan.Inspector Dalbir Singh, SHO Quilla, said the incident was reported in the evening. Two youths on a motorcycle have poured acid on her face near Neel Kamal factory in Desraj Colony.A criminal case would be registered against the miscreants after recording the statement of the victim, the SHO maintained.
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||1,153 fresh COVID-19 cases take Haryana’s tally to 1,59,457; death toll 1,737||The COVID-19 death toll in Haryana rose to 1,737 on Monday with 10 more fatalities, while 1,153 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 1,59,457, a health bulletin issue here said. Of the new fatalities, three were reported from Gurugram, two each from Hisar and Fatehabad and one each from Sirsa, Panchkula and Faridabad, it said.Among the districts which reported a big spike in new cases include Gurugram (346), Faridabad (198), and Hisar (116).The total number of active cases in the state currently stands at 10,154 while the recovery rate was 92.54 per cent. PTI
26-10-2020||Faridabad||21-year-old girl student shot dead outside Faridabad college||A 21-year-old girl student was shot dead allegedly by two youths outside the Aggarwal college here on Monday.The accused managed to flee after the murder. Though the cause of the murder is yet to be ascertained, the police have launched a manhunt to nab the culprits.The incident took place around 3.30 pm when the victim Nikita, a final year student of the B.Com course in the college, had come out after appearing in the exam.According to reports, the accused after a verbal duel tried to pull the girl inside a vehicle parked near the gate of the college in order to abduct her but as she resisted, one of the accused pulled out a revolver and fired at her.As the accused fled from the spot, the victim, a resident of SGM Nagar here, was declared brought dead, when shifted to a hospital.  “One of the accused identified as Tausif hailing from Sohna was known to the victim and a complaint against him had been lodged by the victim’s kin a few months ago for harassment and molestation but a compromise had been reached,” said Jaiveer Rathi, ACP, Ballabgarh.He said while the exact cause of the murder is yet to ascertained, he said that rejection of friendship by the girl could be the reason behind it.He said while a team of forensic science has collected evidence from the spot, both the accused were likely to be arrested soon.
26-10-2020||Gohana (Haryana)||Baroda bypoll: Hooda slams BJP-JJP govt over rising prices of essential commodities||Canvassing for the Congress candidate for the by-polls to the Baroda Assembly constituency in Haryana, former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday slammed the BJP-JJP government in the state over rising prices of vegetables and essential commodities.He also hit out the BJP-led Centre over the three recent farm laws, saying the farmers are not getting proper price for their produce and the three legislations will push them into economic distress and financial ruin.“If farmers oppose the policies of the government, then their voices are silenced by batons and sent to jail by filing false cases against them,” the Congress leader said.Attacking the Manohar Lal Khattar government over the “rising prices” of essential commodities, Hooda said: “Prices of commonly consumed vegetables and other essential commodities have increased so much that it has become difficult for the common man to run the kitchen”.The entire state is troubled by inflation and corruption, he said.“Today, prices of onions, tomatoes and potatoes have increased manifold. Pulses, rice, flour and sugar have all recorded record-high prices. Power tariff has increased, petrol and diesel prices are constantly skyrocketing despite low international prices of the crude oil.“All this is happening when people’s income and employment are decreasing. This is the reason why every section is on the streets against this government,” said the leader of the opposition in the state.Asserting the Baroda bye-election was an opportunity for people to show a mirror to this government which has failed on all fronts, Hooda said people should not consider it just an election to elect a legislator, but to send a signal “the countdown of this non-performing government”.Hooda said the victory of Congress candidate Induraj Narwal in Baroda “will be the victory of every poor and common man of the state”.“Induraj’s victory will send a message to the government and the entire state that the common man has been troubled by the policies of this government. Now he has made up his mind to teach the government a lesson. Therefore, every section of the society in Baroda should vote for the change and vote in support of Induraj,” he told the electorate.BJP has fielded Olympic medallist Yogeshwar Dutt, who is backed by saffron party’s ally JJP, Congress has put up Induraj Narwal as its candidate while Joginder Singh Malik from the INLD has entered the fray from Baroda constituency which falls in Sonipat district.The by-poll was necessitated due to demise of Congress’ Krishan Hooda in April. PTI
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||In major reshuffle, Haryana govt issues transfer orders of 34 IAS officers||In a major administrative reshuffle, the Haryana government issued the transfer and posting orders of 34 IAS officers on Monday with immediate effect.Among those shuffled are Additional Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister V Umashankar, who will now be the principal secretary to the chief minister, an official statement said here.Umashankar will also continue to hold the charge of principal secretary in the citizen resources information and information technology, electronics and communication departments.Notably, Rajesh Khullar, a 1988-batch IAS officer, who until recently was the principal secretary to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, has been appointed as the executive director of the World Bank in Washington.On October 19, former chief secretary D S Dhesi was appointed as the chief principal secretary to Khattar against a newly-created post.Among the other IAS officers who have been shuffled, most of whom are senior bureaucrats, are Sunil Kumar Gulati, Chairman, Haryana Minerals Limited, New Delhi, who has been posted as Chief Resident Commissioner, Haryana Bhawan, New Delhi and Additional Chief Secretary, Printing and Stationery department.Dheera Khandelwal, Additional Chief Secretary, Art and Cultural Affairs department, has been posted as the Additional Chief Secretary, Information, Public Relations and Languages department and Additional Chief Secretary, Environment and Climate Change department.Mahavir Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, School Education department has been posted as Additional Chief Secretary, Labour Department.Anurag Rastogi, Principal Secretary (PS), Excise and Taxation Department and PS, Transport department will also hold the charge as PS, Irrigation and Water Resource department.Vineet Garg, Principal Secretary, Labour department and Commissioner, Karnal division, has been posted as Principal Secretary, School Education department.G Anupama, Secretary to the Governor and Chief Administrator, Trade Fair Authority of Haryana, New Delhi, has been given the additional charge of Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research department.D Suresh, Commissioner, Rohtak division, has been posted as Principal Secretary, Art and Cultural Affairs department.Rajeev Ranjan, Director General, Tourism, Haryana and Secretary, Tourism department, has been posted as Commissioner, Gurugram division, Gurugram.Pankaj Yadav, Chief Administrator, Haryana Shaheri Vikas Pradhikaran, has been posted as Secretary, Home-I department.Amneet P Kumar, Director General, Medical Education and Research, Haryana, and Secretary, Medical Education and Research department, has been given the additional charge of Chief Executive Officer, Ayushman Bharat Haryana Health Protection Authority.T L Satyaprakash, Secretary, Home-I department and Chief Operating Officer, India International Horticulture Market, Ganaur, has been posted as Director General Development and Panchayat, Haryana.Ashok Sangwan, Commissioner, Gurugram division, has been posted as Chief Administrator, Haryana Shaheri Vikas Pradhikaran, Panchkula.Chander Shekhar, Secretary, Haryana Human Rights Commission, has been posted as Commissioner, Hisar division.Sanjeev Verma, Managing Director, Haryana Seeds Development corporation has been posted as Commissioner, Karnal division.Anita Yadav, Additional Director, Haryana Institute of Public Administration, Gurugram has been posted as Commissioner, Rohtak division.Ramesh Chander Bidan, Deputy Commissioner, Sirsa, has been posted as Director, Social Justice and Empowerment and Special Secretary, Social Justice and Empowerment Department.Pardeep Kumar, Director, Elementary Education, Additional Secretary, School Education department, has been posted as Deputy Commissioner, Sirsa.Sushil Sarwan, Director, Development and Panchayat departments, has been posted as Additional Secretary, Finance department.The state government also issued the transfer orders of two IPS officers on Monday with immediate effect.Shatrujeet Kapoor, Managing Director, Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam and Managing Director, Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam, has been posted as Principal Secretary, Transport department.Shashank Anand, DIG, CID has been posted as the Managing Director, Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited. PTI
26-10-2020||Jhajjar||23-year-old man gunned down in Haryana's Jhajjar; crime captured on CCTV||A 23-year-old man was gunned down by a group of unidentified assailants on the Kaccha Beri road here on Sunday night.The victim has been identified as Ashutosh alias Aman of Kheri Khummar village.The assailants fled the spot in an SUV after the murder and the incident was captured on a CCTV camera installed near the spot.The police have started an investigation after booking a case of murder but no arrests have been made yet.The crime was committed at 9:30 pm when Ashutosh arrived at the Kaccha Beri road on a motorbike. Sources said he was called there by the assailants. In the CCTV camera footage, Ashutosh, along with two other youths, was seen standing on the road. An SUV stopped there. Two youths got down from it and opened fire on Ashutosh from a close range while the two other youths fled the spot. Ashutosh died on the spot.The police have sent the body to the civil hospital for postmortem examination. It also recovered 15 empty bullet shells from the spot.Sources said the police were now making efforts to round up two youths present on the spot so that it could get a lead about the assailants. Cell phone details of the deceased were being analyzed to identify the killers.
26-10-2020||---||Himachal model reduces stubble burning, says  agri varsity VC||Dharamsala, October 25Farmers of Punjab and Haryana, who were burning paddy straw causing severe environmental damage, have some learning to do from farmers of the state.As per HK Chaudhary, Vice-Chancellor of CSK HP Agriculture University, the farmers of Punjab, Haryana and other states should adopt straw management model of state’s farmers to utilise it efficiently.Uses of paddy straw suggestedHe said not even a single case of stubble burning was reported in the state since long. The farming community had developed and used various technologies to utilise this bio-resource scientifically. Now, the agriculture university had identified and developed some scientific interventions for better utilisation of paddy straw, including using straw in animal feed, he said. Chaudhary said the university had recommended various ways and means to utilise this valuable by-product of rice cultivation in animal feeding.
26-10-2020||Yamunanagar||Mining firm booked for altering Yamuna river flow||
26-10-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Election campaign goes digital||Tribune News ServicePanipat, October 25With their focus on reaching every voter in the rural constituency of Baroda, political parties have gone digital in their election campaigns. Political slogans from loudspeakers mounted on autorickshaws are no more heard in the constituency.The BJP and Congress have gone digital to convey their respective messages to voters by using WhatsApp groups, SMSes and other digital platforms.Traditional election campaigning is nowhere to be seen now as political parties have shifted their focus to campaigning on digital platforms to connect directly with voters in the constituency.A member of Deepender Hooda’s team, who is managing the campaign on a social media platform, said they had decided to use technology and adopted it for the Baroda byelection for the first time.“We have managed campaigning up to the booth level and appointed ward pramukhs. We have formed WhatsApp groups of all 54 villages. Between 100 and 150 persons have been added to the groups,” said the team member.“Information related to former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda and Congress candidate Induraj Narwal has been shared on these groups. WhatsApp groups have been created community wise too,” he added.“We have collected details of voters and are trying to connect directly to them by sending voice messages, group SMSes and live coverage of programmes of senior party leaders and the candidate,” he further said.Sanjay Bhatia, Member of Parliament from Karnal, said the BJP had always been experimenting with new technology in elections. He said they were approaching voters through the digital platform as the Baroda bypoll was being held amid the pandemic.The BJP had created between two and five WhatsApp groups of voters in all 54 villages and was regularly in touch with them. A team had been calling up voters to seek support for party candidate Yogeshwar Dutt, the sources said.The BJP had set up a media centre in Gohana around three months back and deputed a special information technology team there for social media handles. The BJP deployed 54 special vehicles with screens to telecast ‘Mann ki Baat’ of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday.
26-10-2020||Deepender Deswal||Bulk drug park proposed in Hisar: Dy CM Dushyant Chautala||Tribune News ServiceHisar/Sirsa, October 25The state government has submitted to the Centre a proposal to construct a mega bulk drug park in Hisar for manufacturing of basic raw materials such as key starting materials, drug intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients that are used to produce some of the essential medicines.“Around 2,000 acres owned by Government Livestock Farm (GLF) in Hisar has been earmarked for the proposed project, which will be funded by the Centre,” Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said on Sunday.The Haryana State Infrastructure and Industrial Development Corporation (HSIIDC) will develop the project after the approval from the Centre.The Union Cabinet, in partnership with state governments, has approved three mega drug bulk parks in the next five years with the financial implication of Rs 3,000 crore.Will usher in growth I hope Centre will approve the drug park in Hisar. It will usher in development and jobs in Hisar and the adjoining region. The state government will ensure the industry gets a hassle-free and favourable environment. —Dushyant Chautala, Deputy CMThe Centre will provide grant-in-aid to the states with the maximum limit of Rs 1,000 crore per drug park, which will be equipped with a solvent recovery plant, a distillation plant power, a steam unit and a common effluent treatment plant.Sources say the state government had earlier considered Panipat for the drug park but for the congestion of space there, it opted for Hisar.The Deputy CM hoped that the Centre would approve the drug park in Hisar. “It will usher in development and jobs in Hisar and the adjoining region. The state government is keen for the project. It will ensure that the industry gets a hassle-free and favourable environment,” he added.
26-10-2020||---||BJP against farmers, employees: Hooda||Panipat, October 25Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday termed the BJP government in the state as anti-farmer, anti-employee and anti-people.Hooda was campaigning in support of Congress candidate Induraj Narwal in Kohala, Nooran Khedi, Ishapur Khedi, Rana Khedi, Gagana, Hooda Ala and Butana villages.He said the focus of the earlier Congress government was ensuring the best possible price to farmers for their produce.After implementation of the three anti-farmer laws, farmers would have no protection in case of fall in prices, he said.Hooda said the condition of employees was similar. He said their allowances were being constantly cut and they were not getting salary on time. The government was constantly reducing jobs and many services were being privatised, he said.Narwal said his victory would be the victory of farmers, labourers, workers, shopkeepers, small traders and the common man.
26-10-2020||---||It’s all about development, not power, claims Subhash Barala||Panipat, October 25Former BJP state chief Subhash Barala said the Baroda byepoll was not the election of gaining power but of development of the constituency.Barala was interacting with workers of BJP and JJP at Gohana late on Saturday evening during the joint BJP-JJP coalition workers’ meeting.Appealing to the party workers, Barala said only seven days were left for the polls so the campaigning should be at its peak.INSO national president Digvijay Chautala said former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda had been misleading people in the constituency for a long time. He sought votes from people here and developed the Kiloi constituency, he alleged. “We have to pacify people in the constituency who can resolve their problems and develop the constituency,” Chautala said.Agriculture Minister JP Dalal, MP Sanjay Bhatia, JJP leader KC Bangar, Bhupender Malik and coalition leaders were present during the meeting.Besides, Kurukshetra MP Naib Singh Saini said he had been going from village to village in the constituency and people had decided to go with the power in the state.Saini said former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda had developed only Rohtak but Manohar Lal Khattar had developed all 90 constituencies of the state equally.Taking a dig at Hooda, Saini said farmers were not opposing the farm laws and only the party workers of the Opposition were opposing these. He sought votes for BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt.Meanwhile, Sports Minister Sandeep Singh visited various villages of the constituency on Sunday and sought votes for wrestler-turned-politician Dutt.
26-10-2020||Parveen Arora||Karnal hospital to be shifted from century-old building||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 25The local Civil Hospital will be shifted from its century-old building to a new one that will come up in Sector 32 near Shaheed Udham Singh Chowk here.The state government has approved the construction of the building, which will house 200 beds. Earlier, the government had given approval for 100 beds. After the matter was pursued, the capacity was doubled, said a district health official.The drawing and constructional approvals are being finalised again. The authorities are hopeful that the new hospital building will get the administrative approval soon and the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) will provide additional five acres for the project. Already, 10 acres has been earmarked for the hospital.Looking backThe foundation stone of the Civil Hospital was laid on April 17, 1911, by Major CH Buck IA, the then Deputy Commissioner, Karnal (then a part of Punjab province). At that time, the hospital was named King Edward Memorial Hospital.Cut to 1980s. City residents had pooled in money and got constructed the out-patient department (OPD) block.In 2010, then Congress government had converted the Civil Hospital into Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC). The land was handed over to the KCGMC in December 2012, but on April 13, 2017, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced to restart the Civil Hospital from the old building. After a gap of five years, the hospital started functioning in Karnal in December 2017.Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said, “The process for the new hospital building started in 2015. Around 10 acres were given to the Health Department in Sector 32, but the need for more land arose because two high-tension electricity lines passed over around four acres.”The new building will have Cath Lab facility, MRI scan, CT scan and dialysis, along with administration wing of the Civil Surgeon’s office as well as residential accommodation for the staff.
26-10-2020||---||Door-to-door garbage collection to resume||Ambala, October 25Door-to-door garbage collection will resume shortly in Ambala. Tenders for allotment of work to private parties are being finalised and will be allotted shortly. The work had been stalled since September last year when contractors left over non-payment.Following directions of the Local Government directorate, civic bodies worked out the process and responded to queries for fixation of tender amount, said MC officials.They said the MC had suggested Rs 13.7 crore as tender amount and Rs 2,650 per tonne for segregation and transportation of waste. After finalisation of the tender amount by the department, work would be allotted, they added.In the absence of regulated door-to-door garbage collection, residents were either forced to pay exorbitant charges or dump daily waste at public places, leading to insanitary conditions.
26-10-2020||Panipat||Youth killed in  Samalkha, friend booked||A 20-year-old youth was stabbed to death in Parao Mohalla in Samalkha late on Saturday night.The incident was captured on a CCTV camera installed nearby. The police registered a case under Section 302 IPC against the deceased’s friend for allegedly murdering him. The deceased has been identified as Murad, 20, of Sarai Mohalla Khadi Ashram in ward-6 of Samalkha.Ajij Ahmad, uncle of the deceased, said he was living along with his family in quarters in Sarai Mohalla Khadi Ashram and his nephews Murad and Nawab were also living with him.Murad along with his friend Sunny of Azad Nagar went out on Saturday evening but did not return home till Sunday morning. They started searching for him in the morning. Meanwhile, they received information about a body lying on a street in Parao Mohalla. After reaching the spot, they identified Murad’s body, which was lying in a pool of blood. In the CCTV footage, they saw that Sunny had stabbed his nephew, killing him on the spot. — TNS
26-10-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Over 1,500 killed on 2-laned Gurugram-Alwar NH in 7 years||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, October 25“Khooni Sadak” is how the residents of Nuh call their lifeline — Gurugram-Alwar national highway (NH 248-A). The highway is the sole connectivity for the most economically backward district of the state to Gurugram and Rajasthan and thousands of locals use it daily.As compared to other highways of the state, it is poorly lit two-laned road that has claimed around 1,500 lives in over 2,500 accidents in the past seven years.The highway touches 18 villages and since almost a decade the residents have been seeking its widening into six lanes. Villagers said though the foundation stone for widening of the road was laid on November 3, 2008, it is still a far-fetched dream.Infrastructure in a shamblesThe consecutive terms of the Khattar government have left Nuh infra in a shambles. Roads haven’t been repaired and the projects launched by us have been shelved. We’ve been trying to contact the authorities but there’s no accountability. —Aftab Ahmed, Nuh MLA“There is hardly any home in these villages that has not lost a member to this road. My own son died here five years ago. He was just 21 and was on a motorcycle to get medicine for his mother when a canter hit him. Since then I have been protesting and seeking upgrade of the road but to no avail,” said Iftiquar Siddiqui of Nagina.The internal roads of the district are worse. Riddled with potholes, illegal speed breakers and broken dividers, the roads have no streetlights and have not been repaired for as long as 10 years.District roads like Meoli road, Ranika Road, Malab road, Sonkh to Rehna road, Alawalpur road and Dewla Nangli road feature among the poorest roads in the state and the locals blame unified authority and accountability for it.“We don’t have any Municipal Corporation and half roads are under PWD or even marketing committees. The working is archaic where everything from allotment of tenders to execution of work takes years. While in other districts issues like this are raised on various platforms, including the CM window, but we are unheard so nobody bothers,” said Noordin Noor, former chairman, zila parishad.
26-10-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Now, 3 kanal cap on guesthouses||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 25In a major departure from the past, guest and boarding houses will now be allowed only up 1,500 square yards (three kanals) in Haryana.To cash in on the need for creating “pay and use facility” in residential sectors in the post-Covid scenario, the state government has come out with a new policy for the construction of guest and boarding houses to provide affordable short-term accommodation.‘Pay & use facility’K Makrand Pandurang, Special Secretary, Town and Country Planning, said, “The minimum area norms have been fixed at 500 square yards (one kanal), while the maximum area norms have been pegged at 1,500 square yards (three kanals). Earlier, there were no permissible area limit for guest and boarding houses.”The plot should be situated on lanes having either 500 square yards or 1,000 square yard plots. The plot must abut existing sector and service roads.Meanwhile, to encourage competition, there will be no restriction on the number of guest and boarding houses in a particular residential sector.The owners will not be allowed to sell or bifurcate the guest or boarding houses as these buildings would not be covered under the Haryana Apartment Ownership Act, 1983.They would solely be used as a short-term “pay and use facility” for a period less than one month.
26-10-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Power theft: Department to recover Rs 34.97 cr penalty||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 25The power and irrigation police cell of the power department has set a target of recovering a penalty of at least Rs 3 crore from those booked for power theft in the past four years.The penalty of Rs 34.97 crore is yet to be recovered from a total of 6,175 cases, which were under investigation or pending to be resolved, it is learnt.Revealing that 32,207 cases had been registered between January 1, 2016, and October 20 this year, sources in the department concerned said 6,175 cases were still under investigation and due to slow process Rs 34.97 crore were stuck. A total penalty of Rs 113.19 crore has been imposed on 32,207 cases registered in this period by the police wing attached to the power department.“We have been directed to recover Rs 3 crore each month to clear the pending amount within a year,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.He said the department had detected power theft at 4,596 spots this year. Of these, 2,278 cases are those from whom the penalty amounting to Rs 14.78 crore is yet to be recovered. A penalty of Rs 1.05 crore had been imposed in a case of major theft detected in July this year in a village located near the Yamuna river, in which power was being supplied illegally to farmhouses located in UP. Half of the penalty imposed on this case is yet to be recovered.“We are coordinating with the police wing to speed up the recovery of the pending amount of theft cases,” said a senior official of the DHBVN.
26-10-2020||---||7 more die; 1,240 cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, October 25With 1,240 fresh cases, the total number of cases in the state went up to 1,58,304 on Sunday. The death toll reached 1,727 with the addition of seven more deaths.Gurugram reported a maximum of 366 cases, followed by Faridabad (186), Hisar (101), Rewari (66), Sirsa (65) and Mahendragarh (64).Gurugram and Faridabad reported two deaths each while Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Charkhi Dadri reported one death each.Mohinder Singh, office secretary of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee, succumbed to Covid at a private hospital in Mohali on Saturday night.Mohinder Singh, who was in his 80s, had been the office secretary of the state unit at the Congress office in Chandigarh for the past over two decades.
26-10-2020||---||Copies of farmer laws burnt in Karnal||Karnal, October 25Members of the Anndata Kisan Union (AKU) took out a march and burnt copies of the three farm-related Acts outside the Mini-Secretariat here on Sunday to protest against the new laws.Gurmukh Singh, national president of the AKU, led the protesters, who burnt an effigy of the Union government. He said the three farm-related laws would have an adverse effect on the economy.He said farmers would not get profitable returns from their produce and this would make their condition pathetic. He maintained that the mandi system would be hit and labourers would be rendered jobless.The AKU president said the Union government had forced farmers to protest on a festival. He demanded a rollback of these laws.
26-10-2020||---||Release farmer leaders: Kisan Sabha||Rohtak, October 25The state committee of the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) has condemned the arrest of leaders of the Kisan Sabha and Bhartiya Kisan Union in Bhiwani while demonstrating against the three farm laws. It has demanded immediate release of all leaders and activists who have been detained.State AIKS vice-president Inderjit Singh, working secretary Sumit Singh and vice-president Preet Singh on Sunday said farmer leaders Daya Nand Punia, Balbir Thakan and several others were rounded up in Siwani, Bahal, Tosham and Bhiwani when they were burning the effigies of the three farm laws, corporate giants and BJP leaders.It’s dictatorial ruleFarmers will not allow the Centre to implement the laws at any cost. Agriculture is the lifeline of people and if the government is bent on cutting it off, people will cut the power line of this dictatorial regime. —Inderjit Singh, State AIKS Vice-prezInderjit said people would not allow the laws to be implemented at any cost. “Agriculture is the lifeline of people and if the government is bent on cutting it off, people will cut the power line of this dictatorial regime,” he stated.
26-10-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Rs 52.8 crore spent, but still no place to dump waste||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 25Despite spending Rs 52.8 crore on solid waste management in the city in the past three years, the waste disposal crisis is far from being over.The municipal corporation (MC) is faced with a major hurdle in the waste disposal due to over-stacking and non-availability of space at the main dumping site of Bandhwari village on the Faridabad-Gurugram highway.The move to set up an alternative site in Sector 74 has also been put on hold due to stiff opposition from local residents who have already launched a dharna.“Things seem to have gone out of control as the authorities are left with no place to dump over 850 tonnes of daily waste of the city,” said a source in the MC, adding that Bandhwari site was likely to be closed soon.“While Rs 52.80 crore have been shelled out for garbage disposal since September 2017, the problem has become serious now,” said PP Kapoor, a social activist, who gathered information about the money spent through an RTI recently.“As the MC has been left with no choice but to look for other alternatives, the alleged corrupt nexus and the irregularities in handling the matter stand exposed,” Kapoor claimed. The Gurugram MC had paid Rs 73.21 crore for this work in this period, he added.As a penalty of Rs 1.57 crore has been imposed for poor work in the past three years, the contract has not been cancelled despite the condition of annulling it if the penalty is more than Rs 7 lakh.MC chief engineer Thakur Lal Sharma said the civic body was looking for smaller dumping sites at more than 20 points and was working on the formula of “reduce, recycle and reuse”. “The authority of annulling the contract lies with the state government,” he pointed out.
26-10-2020||---||Six held for duping people on pretext of tower installation||Faridabad, October 25The police have arrested six persons for duping a local resident on the pretext of installing a mobile phone tower on the rooftop of his house in Sector 3 here.The arrested persons, identified as Tarun, Naveen, Ashish, Deepak, Vineet and Amit Kumar, had been running a racket to dupe people in the name of tower installation.Lured with Rs90L advance offerThe police said the accused used to publish advertisements through various media channels inviting applications, adding the accused used to lure their clients by offering a monthly rent of Rs 80,000 besides, the advance payment of Rs 90 lakh and a job to two persons from the family in case the mobile tower installation was sanctioned.This offer made Darbari Lal, a resident of Sector 3 here, to apply for the same. One of the accused posing as an official of the telecom company asked the applicant to deposit money in name of NOC, sanction and GST, the victim was made to transfer Rs 30,800 about a month ago.However, when no response was received, the victim lodged a complaint last week.
26-10-2020||Yamunanagar||SUV carrying illegal  khair wood seized||ChandigarhPre-certification for advertisements a mustCandidates and political parties will have to take pre-certification from the Media Certification and Monitoring Committee for publishing advertisements in print media on November 2 and 3. As per EC directions, no party, candidate or any other organisation or person can get an advertisement published in newspaper on Nov 2 and 3 without obtaining pre-certification. tns
26-10-2020||Sirsa||Online alumni meet organised||Workshop on synopsis writingRohtak: The Institute of Management Studies and Research (IMSAR) of Maharshi Dayanand University here organised a two-day online workshop on synopsis writing with an aim to provide a clear view and deeper understanding on the preparation of a synopsis for research. Prof Raj Kumar, director, IMSAR, and Prof AK Rajan, Dean (Academic Affairs), inaugurated the workshop and shared their views on synopsis writing besides focusing upon the role of a good start. In the concluding session, Prof Balwinder Singh from Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, shared his views on the topic ‘Concluding research through open source software’. He underlined the use of open source software while conducting research.Webinar on research methodologyYamunanagar: The research cell of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, organised a webinar on the topic of 'Research methodology'. Ishani Patharia, assistant professor, department of commerce, BPS Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat, explained the process of identifying the research topic and how to conduct the review of literature in a simple manner. In the second session, Seema Malik, assistant professor from the same university, deliberated on the types of data, measurement and scaling, research objectives and different statistical techniques required for conducting the research.Online children festivalPanipat: The children festival-2020 is being organised by Bhagat Phool Singh Women's University. Vice Chancellor Prof Sushma Yadava said the Haryana State Child Welfare Council celebrates the children's festival every year with great enthusiasm. Keeping in view Covid, the state-level festival is being organised online on the theme "Parivartan Se Pragati ki Aur". Various competitions on dance, singing, face painting, card making, essay writing, speech competition, candle making, fine dramatics, urn decorating and rangoli making will be organised. The VC appealed to the children and parents in the state to take part in this online competition and show their talent to the world and win prizes. Prof Yadava invited everyone to register on https://childwelfareharyana.com/balmahotsav/.Vocational courses introducedAmbala: Saraswati Vidya Niketan at Chandpura, Ambala Cantonment, introduced various CBSE-certified vocational courses. The aim of this vocational education is mainly to prepare students for a particular and relevant profession, business, job or occupation. Professional courses like beauty and wellness, banking and insurance, medical diagnostic, computers, etc are introduced with absolute arrangements. Desired and expected training will be provided to the students by Ritu Gabba, who is skilled and experienced in the field of beauty and wellness.
26-10-2020||Last week||Spurious pickle factory worries consumers||Potholed streets irk residentsResidents of Shahabad Markanda have been suffering due to the poor condition of streets and roads for years. Just four years ago, the roads and streets were repaired and crores of rupees were spent for laying interlocking tiles in the entire town. The repair works were done in a hurry for the reasons best known to the authorities. Soon after, the digging up of roads started for sewerage work, aggravating the condition and turning them accident-prone areas. Since then residents have been suffering and no one is answerable for it. The municipal authorities need to act at the earliest. —Dr Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaAmbala road excavatedThe railway road in Ambala Cantonment, connecting the bazar to the highway, has been excavated. That road was one of few stretches in Ambala that was free of potholes. However, now it has been dug up and is full of potholes. —Deepak Jain, Ambala.Need to update Aadhaar details for arms licenceThe District Magistrate, Karnal, issued an arms licence in my name in 1993 and at that time my address was House No. 932, Kot Mohalla. In 1995, I left that house and built a new one and renewed my licence at the same address for 10 years. In 2005, I again shifted to my new house in Karnal and got it registered in my licence. Since then it is my permanent residence and my Aadhaar card too has this address. After the police verification in the last 15 years, my arms licence has been renewed five times at this address. But this time, a new computerised slip has been pasted on the licence in which my 25-year old address of Kot Mohalla has been shown. The state government should direct all DMs of the state to update the current Aadhaar card addresses of all arms licence holders in their records at the earliest. —Shakti Singh, KarnalWake up call for governmentReferring to news article "Give sanitation staff their due as health workers" is a wake-up call for the Central Government and citizens to rise above caste, creed, religion and colour for a futuristic India, which is actually secular as envisaged and guaranteed by the Constitution. Even the varna-ashram system recommended by Gita says that the classification is based on qualifications and not birth, but the same is forgotten and seldom followed nowadays. Is the death of sanitation worker while cleaning sewer or septic tanks not ring the alarm bells in the power circles encircling politicians, bureaucrats, religious heads and judiciary, etc? —Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
26-10-2020||---||Agitating farmers burn effigies of PM Modi on Dasehra||Ambala, October 25Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Ambala and Kurukshetra instead of demon king Ravana’s effigies on Sunday on the occasion of Dasehra to mark their protest against the three farm laws and cases registered against BKU leaders.Punjab: Farmers burn effigies of PM Modi, business tycoons over lawsSome BKU leaders were detained early in the morning. The police were deployed at Lakhnaur Sahib in Ambala and Pipli in Kurukshetra to foil the protests. The farmers changed their proposed locations and burnt effigies of the Prime Minister. The detained leaders were later released.After burning an effigy in Jalbera village, farmers reached the fields near Lakhnaur Sahib and burnt effigies of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and the PM.Will continue to protestWe are thankful to the farmers who turned up in large numbers and burnt the effigies. The government cannot suppress the voice of farmers by getting us arrested. Farmers will continue to protest till the farm laws are withdrawn. —Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU (charuni) Chief“The police started detaining our activists early in the morning. The police tried to arrest me, but I managed to come,” said BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni. He burnt the effigy in Ambala.“We are thankful to the farmers who turned up in large numbers and burnt the effigies. The government cannot suppress the voice of farmers by getting us arrested. Farmers will continue to protest till the farm laws are withdrawn,” he said.In Kurukshetra, after finding a heavy police posse at the Pipli grain market, farmer leaders changed the venue and burnt the effigy in Shahabad. They loaded the effigy on a tractor, took out a march in Shahabad, raised slogans against the BJP government and burnt the effigy near the residence of CM’s political secretary and former Shahabad MLA Krishan Bedi amid heavy police deployment.The protesters were led by BKU spokesman Rakesh Bains, Karam Singh Mathana and Jasbir Mamumajra. The police used water cannons to douse the flames. The farmers and policemen had heated exchanges. Two effigies were burnt in Shahabad and one in Pehowa.After some BKU leaders were detained early in the morning, Charuni released a video, asking farmers to burn effigies at the village level and post videos of the protests on social media.Ambala SP Rajesh Kalia said a complaint had been lodged by Anti-Terrorist Front president Viresh Shandilya that burning effigies might hurt their religious sentiments and disturb the law and order situation as they could try to stop the protesters.As a preventive measure, a farmer leader who had been mobilising farmers was detained and later released.
26-10-2020||Rohtak||Pioneering kidney transplant||Campaign against polybagsRewari: Nandini Yadav (17), a student of Class XII who along with her younger brother Harsh has been on a mission against single-use plastic, has adopted Chandawas village here to motivate the people to shun polybags. “Under the move, I will not only distribute cloth bags among villagers but also encourage them to sew the bags on their own. People of the village has taken a pledge to make the village single-use plastic free,” said Nandini who has so far distributed over 10,000 cloth bags in the past five years. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has also appreciated her efforts on twitter. Besides, the district administration has also announced to make her brand ambassador.Leading plasma donorFaridabad: In the scenario when the menace of Covid is unabated, it is the plasma donation that has given hope to many patients. Sunil Masta, a local resident, has taken plasma donation seriously and has emerged as the highest donor in the district. He has donated plasma seven times after his recovery in June. “Sunil Masta (54) has set an example by donating plasma most times in the district and perhaps in the state. It requires will power and adequate number of antibodies,” says Umesh Arora, District Plasma Donation Coordinator. Revealing that Sunil’s antibodies were still on a par with the standard and he was capable of donating plasma regularly, he said it was his courage and attitude to help others that has helped in the recovery of several patients. Sunil, a manager in an automobile firm, said he recovered from Covid in the first week of June. Revealing that about 400 ml of plasma is donated at one time, an official said that two to three patients benefit from a single donation.
