27-09-2020||Chandigarh||16 more die of COVID-19 in Haryana; state reports 1,515 new cases||Sixteen more coronavirus-related fatalities were reported in Haryana on Sunday, taking the death toll to 1,307, while 1,515 fresh cases pushed the total infections in the state to 1,23,782.Of the 16 fatalities, three were recorded from Hisar, two each from Faridabad, Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar. One each death took place in Kaithal, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Panchkula and Bhiwani, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases on Sunday included Gurgaon (274), Faridabad (178), Hisar (116) and Rohtak (100).The active COVID-19 cases in the state currently are 16,485, while 1,05,990 have been discharged after recovery, as per the bulletin.As of Sunday, the state has a recovery rate of 85.63 per cent. — PTI
27-09-2020||---||Haryana gets Rs 5,444 cr in first instalment for MSP operations support during Kharif season||New Delhi, September 27National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC), the apex financing organisation of Union Agriculture Ministry has sanctioned as first instalment, funds amounting to Rs 19,444 crore to the states of Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Telangana for Kharif paddy procurement under Minimum Support Price (MSP) operations, according to an official statement.These amounts have been sanctioned to assist the states/ State Marketing Federations in undertaking paddy procurement operations in a timely manner through their respective cooperative organisations. Chhattisgarh gets the highest amount to the tune of Rs 9,000 crore. Haryana has been sanctioned Rs 5,444 crore and Telangana Rs 5,500 crores.This proactive step by NCDC during the COVID pandemic will give the much needed financial support to farmers of these three states who account for nearly 75% of production of paddy in the country. The timely step will help the state agencies start procurement operations immediately. It will provide the much needed support to farmers to sell their produce at the government notified minimum support price.Managing Director, NCDC, Sundeep Nayak said in response to the clarion call given by the Prime Minister, NCDC was ready to assist more states in carrying out MSP operations for giving fair value to farmers in the light of historic farm related legislations.
27-09-2020||Faridabad||Spurious ghee racket busted in Faridabad; 2 arrested||A team of the CM Flying Squad on Sunday busted a racket of packing and supply of spurious ghee into the market.A case under various sections including 272, 273, 420 and 120- B of the IPC has been registered in this connection against two persons.   According to the officials concerned, the accused identified as Ravi and Rajesh based in Sector 3 here had been carrying out the work of packing ghee in the packets of some well known brands like Amul, Mother Dairy and Milkfood in an illegal manner and had been supplying these into the market for past several months. The racket of preparing or packing the ghee was carried out from a room located on the rooftop of their shop- cum-residence, it is claimed. The raid that started around 12 noon was on till 6 pm.  Revealing that the team recovered about 45 kg of ghee packed or awaiting to be packed in the containers and cartons having the wrappers of well known brands, the officials said the number of wrappers seized from the shop has been over 150.   “The accused who have been booked under various sections of the IPC, could not produce the documents or licence of the work they were engaged in proving that it was spurious ghee sold under established brands in the market,” said  Devender Yadav, DSP CM Flying Squad, who led the raid.He said the spot was raided after information that a racket of packing and supply of spurious ghee under some well-known brands was done from here.He said about 100 toffees of bhaang (Cannabis) have also been recovered from the spot. The police had recovered about 270 kg of spurious ghee on June 1, last year in a similar action.A truck carrying the ghee packed under the Amul brand in an illegal manner was seized by the officials concerned. Three persons had been arrested after registration of a case.
27-09-2020||New Delhi||Congress dares JJP to quit ruling BJP alliance in Haryana over farm Bills||A day after the BJP’s oldest ally Shiromani Akali Dal quit the ruling alliance, the Congress demanded that all NDA supporting outfits should join hands to oppose the three farm related Bills which, it said, would prove a death knell for Indian farmers.The Congress fielded organisational chiefs of Haryana and Punjab, Kumari Selja and Sunil Jakhar respectively, to urge all parties to join forces against farm Bills the way the parties opposed the land acquisition Bills forcing its withdrawal.Kumari Selja, former Union minister and Haryana Congress chief, today dared JJP, the ruling BJP ally in Haryana, to break ranks and stand with the farmers.Selja and Jakhar also said all parties that offer issue based support to the BJP should “open their eyes and join forces with the farmers”.“The soul of Choudhary Devi Lal must be cringing today to see JJP’s Dushyant Chautala supporting the BJP on black Bills that will turn farmers into bonded labourers,” Jakhar said.Jakhar also took the occasion to attack the Akali Dal for “opportunism” saying the Akali Dal did not leave the NDA but was forced to quit.“The PM and BJP leaders did not even once nudge Harsimrat Badal to return once she resigned from the Cabinet. No one gave time to the Akalis to even meet and they had to quit the NDA,” said Sunil Jakhar.Derek - your stand against the #AgricultureBills in parliament is well known. Appreciate your support.@derekobrienmp https://t.co/PcvQ3mmPco  Jakhar also said that the Akali Dal and JJP are both agriculture dominated parties and today both dragged their feet on opposition to the farm related ordinances which eventually became Bills.Selja also said both Devi Lal and Akali Dal patriarch Prakash Singh Badal were like co brothers and just as Akalis have quit the NDA, the JJP should also quit BJP ruling alliance in Haryana.“The JJP must quit the BJP government in Haryana because JJP always spoke for farmers in the state,” Selja said.The former Union minister earlier said the whole country watched the way black laws were passed by the government.“The BJP used brute majority to throttle democracy, and broke the back of farmers who are the spinal cord of Indian food chain. The Congress has regularly opposed these Bills and we are fighting with farmers. The government wants to leave farm welfare to private players. If government leaves farmers to the mercy of corporates, the sector will be emaciated.”She slammed the Akali Dal for “enacting a drama by quitting NDA”.Selja appealed to all parties including parties supportive of BJP — YSRCP, TRS, JDU, LJP included — to come and stand with farmers.“Don’t shut your ears to farmer voices. NDA allies and others who are their supporters in Bihar — JDU, LJP — will be asked to answer. Bihar elections are due and farmers are already high and dry due to abolition of the APMC Act in Bihar in 2006. The farmers will be reduced to bonded labour and slaves. Experiment has failed in Bihar. The country will not spare these NDA allies if they don’t take a stand against anti farmer BJP,” said Selja asking the RLP in Rajasthan to also rethink.She said in Haryana, JJP‘s Dushyant Chautala should also open his eyes.“Don’t delay your decision to walk out of the BJP in Haryana. How can you be silent? Haryana farmers are asking questions,” Selja said to Dushyant.Jakhar called farm Bills slow poison and said the real impact of a weakened MSP will surface after states like Bihar, Punjab and Uttarakhand go to polls.“By the time the impact seeps in, it would have spread like slow poison and would be too late to help. These Bills should be called corporate welfare Bills and not farm welfare Bills,” Jakhar said adding that the Bills end state regulation in running agricultural affairs placing the farmers at the mercy of corporates.The Congress reiterated its demand for the withdrawal of farm Bills urging President Ram Nath Kovind once again not to sign them.
27-09-2020||Chandigarh||Procurement in Punjab, Haryana begins from today||Amid the farmers’ agitation, the Centre today allowed Haryana and Punjab to begin paddy procurement from tomorrow (September 27) instead of October 1. Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan reviewed preparations for the same. PK Das, Haryana’s Additional Chief Secretary for Food and Civil Supplies, said initially procurement would be started in four districts — Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal and Ambala — where about 4 lakh quintals of paddy had arrived in mandis. Regular procurement would begin from Tuesday.Das said that Hafed, Haryana State Warehousing Corporation, Food and Civil Supplies and the Consumer Affairs Department had made adequate arrangements for hassle-free procurement. He made it clear that paddy would be purchased only from farmers listed on the “Meri Fasal, Mera Byora” portal.By preponing procurement by five days, the government hopes to allay farmers’ apprehension that the MSP regime may be dismantled once the new laws come into force. The milling period remains unchanged. — TNS
27-09-2020||Karnal||Probe lathicharge on farmers in Pipli: Abhay Singh Chautala||INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala on Saturday demanded a judicial inquiry into the lathicharge on farmers in Pipli on September 10.“The government used lathis to suppress the voice of farmers instead of listening to their issues. A judicial inquiry should be initiated into the lathicharge,” he said.Abhay was at Panchayat Bhawan, Kurukshetra, where INLD workers staged a sit-in against the three farms Bills and the lathicharge on farmers. They handed over a memorandum to the SDM. — TNS
27-09-2020||Karnal||Two nabbed for looting Rs 1.25 crore in Karnal||The police have claimed to have cracked a robbery case with the arrest of two men.On September 19, an accountant and a driver of a private firm were returning to Chandigarh after collecting a payment of Rs 1.25 crore. When they reached Butana, they were robbed. The investigation brought out that the driver, identified as Sunil, had hatched the conspiracy to loot the money. He and his aide have been nabbed. — TNS
27-09-2020||Faridabad||6-yr-old dies in mishap in Faridabad||A six-year-old boy was killed and his eight-year-old sibling injured when a water tanker hit them on a road in NIT area here this evening. The driver has been arrested.The accident took place around 6.20 pm when Kunal (6) and his elder brother Lucky were cycling near their house.A water tanker hit the boys resulting in the death of Kunal and injuries to Lucky, said a local resident. Their father Rakesh Kumar is a labourer.Yamunanagar: A boy was killed and another was injured when a tractor-trolley hit their bicycle in Nagal Patti village of the district. The deceased has been identified as Azam (14) of Bombeypur village of the district.Azam (14) and Sakib (7) had gone to the nearby Nagal Patti village on Friday afternoon.Their cycle was hit by a tractor-trolley in Nagal Patti village about 4.15 pm. Both boys received injuries and were rushed to a hospital. Azam was declared brought dead. — TNS
27-09-2020||---||Potholed Faridabad road claims man’s life||Faridabad, September 26A 29-year-old engineer lost his life after he was run over by a truck here on Friday night. The motorcycle-borne victim lost balance due to potholes on the passage connecting Hardware Chowk and Pyali Chowk.The accident has sparked anger among the residents, who have demanded an action against the authorities responsible and compensation for the victim’s family.The accident took place at 8 pm on Friday when the victim identified as Sachin Sharma, working with a private firm in New Delhi, was returning home from job. He came here from Chennai recently, where he was actually posted on an assignment, but his family is based in Janata Colony of the NIT area here.As per an eyewitness, Sachin was run over by a truck after his two-wheeler slipped after hitting a pothole. He died on the spot. The accused truck driver fled and the police reached the spot after about 20 minutes.Blaming the negligence on part of the civic authorities for the death, Varun Sheokand, a social activist, said a PIL would be filed in the High Court if no action against the officials concerned was taken within a week. Claiming that debris was dumped on the accident spot on Saturday morning to cover the pothole, he said a protest would be held soon to expose the civic body’s functioning.Meanwhile, SK Sharma, coordinator of the Road Safety Organisation, and Denson Joseph, a lawyer, said compensation should be paid from the salaries of the erring officials.MC Commissioner Yash Garg, however, remained unavailable for comments, but Deputy Commissioner Yashpal Yadav said the matter would be probed.
27-09-2020||---||Congress march against farm Bills tomorrow||Chandigarh, September 26The Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) will organise a march on September 28 in Chandigarh. On October 2, there will be protests across all Assembly segments in the state.HPCC president and former Union Minister Kumari Selja, former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Haryana in charge Vivek Bansal and All-India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Randeep Surjewala held a press conference here today in this regard.Speaking on the occasion, Selja said, “It was Indira Gandhi which first gave the guarantee of Minimum Support Price (MSP). It has now been reduced to just a mention in the tweets of leaders of the ruling party. There is no law to check hoarding. The law on contract farming will turn our farmers into labourers.”Hooda said, “We want the government to pass a fourth Bill for ensuring MSP on every purchase even beyond the mandi. The MSP should be based on the C2 formula as explained by the Swaminathan Commission which implies at least 50 per cent more than the weighted average cost of production.”“When the UPA government waived farmers’ loans, a benefit of Rs 2,136 crore was given to Haryana farmers. The interest of Rs 830 crore was waived too. During my regime, power bills of Rs 1,600 crore were waived,” he added.
27-09-2020||---||New policy for industrial jobs to locals from November 1 in Haryana||Gurugram, September 26Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has declared that the new Enterprises and Employment Policy-2020 would be implemented from November 1 to commemorate Haryana Day.Portal launchedTo ensure that every entrepreneur is registered with the state government on a single platform, the Haryana Udhyam Memorandum (HUM) Portal has been launchedKhattar, who chaired a draft meeting of the policy along with Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, said the policy had been prepared focusing on the growth of the MSMEs and Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign and it would not just get investments but also generate employment.Skill trainingThe state’s youth will be imparted skills to meet the requirement of industries for trained manpower. Dushyant Chautala, Deputy CM“The government’s endeavour is to ensure the prosperity of the state and provide maximum employment opportunities to its youth in industrial sector. We have incorporated suggestions given by the entrepreneurs. When the present BJP government took over the reins of the state, Haryana was at the 14th position in the Ease of Doing Business rankings. But as a result of the efforts of the government, the state jumped to the sixth position and to the third rank later,” Khattar added.Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief MinisterState on upswingThe government’s focus is providing the youth with jobs in the industrial sector. When the BJP took over the reins of the state, Haryana was at the 14th position in the ease of doing business rankings. Our efforts brought the state to third position at one point of time.Admitting to the procedural shortcomings that led to poor rankings this year, he said they would reclaim their place.The Chief Minister said with a view to ensure that every entrepreneur was registered with the state government on a single platform, the Haryana Udhyam Memorandum (HUM) Portal had been launched recently.Meanwhile, Dushyant said the government was focused on providing employment opportunities to the people of the state. For this, the youth of the state would be imparted skills to meet the growing requirement of industries for trained manpower, he added.
27-09-2020||---||BJP’s Sonali Phogat denies getting party worker thrashed||Hisar, September 26BJP leader Sonali Phogat has refuted the allegations of getting party worker Subhash Sharma, chief of Kajla mandal in Hisar, thrashed at her residence last week.In a statement, Phogat, who contested the Assembly elections from Adampur on BJP ticket, said Subhash had levelled false allegations. She said Subhash had forwarded an obscene video to a woman party worker and spoke ill about a person in an audio after which he expressed regret over these incidents on September 17.Sonali Phogat, BJPFalse propagandaMy opponents have launched a false propaganda against me to malign my image. They don’t want me in Adampur Assembly segment. Phogat said following this, even she didn’t act on the matter. She said Subhash even attended the party functions on September 17, 18 and 20 in presence of the BJP district president, but didn’t speak about the assault or show his injuries.Phogat said a propaganda had been launched to malign her image by people who don’t want to see her in the Adampur Assembly region, where she had been active.Subhash, however, said he was forcibly taken along with Sonali Phogat to attend the party events after he was assaulted by her aides at her residence on September 17. He also denied the allegations of forwarding an obscene video to a woman worker and any financial wrongdoing in the party works.
27-09-2020||---||Haryana State Pollution Control Board fines NHAI Rs 5 lakh for violating environment norms||Panipat, September 26The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has imposed Rs 5-lakh fine on the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) for allegedly violating environment norms.Besides, the HSPCB served a show-cause notice to the NHAI under the air Act and to the HSIIDC, Kundli, in Sonepat district under the Solid Waste Management Act and also issued directions to clean the HSIIDC campus.Plumes of dustLapses in the management of solid waste in the HSIIDC industrial area at Kundli foundPlumes of dust at construction sites on NH-44 from Panipat to Mukarba Chowk in DelhiThe NHAI directed to control the spreading of dust on construction sites on the NH-44Bhure Lal, Chairman, Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA), had last week pointed out several lapses in the management of solid waste in the HSIIDC industrial area at Kundli and also saw plumes of dust on several construction sites of widening project of the NH-44 from Panipat to Mukarba Chowk in Delhi when he visited Panipat and Sonepat last week.The EPCA chairman had directed HSPCB regional officer Bhupender Singh Chahal to impose fine of Rs 5 lakh on the NHAI for violating norms.Chahal said: “In compliance with the EPCA Chairman’s direction, Rs 5 lakh fine has been imposed on the NHAI and a notice has been served to the Project Director, NHAI, for not following environmental laws properly under the air Act, 1981.”The NHAI has been directed to control the spreading of dust on various construction sites on the NH-44, he added.Besides, a show-cause notice has been served to the HSIIDC, Kundli, under the Solid Waste Management Act for violating solid waste management rules and directions issued to clean the sites properly.
27-09-2020||---||Covid patients in Ambala can now book beds online||Ambala, September 26In probably the first-of-its-type initiative, the Covid patients can now book their bed online in the government and private hospitals across the district.Besides, the persons suffering from the virus and recuperating under home isolation will be monitored online and doctors will visit them for examination and advice.FACILITIES AVAILABLEAs many as 1,600 beds have been made available for Covid patients at government facilities in the district. Besides, beds are aslo available in private hospitalsAlmost 500 beds are equipped with oxygen facilities. Of these, 30 are at Covid care centre“This will be made possible through a specially designed mobile app and the official website of the district administration,” Ambala Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma told The Tribune here recently.The project, which is Sharma’s brainchild, will be formally launched by Health Minister Anil Vij in a day or two. Under the project, the number of beds available at different government and private hospitals and Covid care centres will be made available on the mobile app and the website.“Patients requiring a bed can check the availability status on either the mobile app or the website and book their bed at their nearest facility,” the DC said.Ashok Kumar Sharma, Deputy CommissionerSpecial Mobile app developedBookings can be done on a specially designed mobile app and the district administration’s official website… Patients can check the availability status of bed on the mobile app or the website and book it at the nearest facility.The booking will be valid for three hours and the confirmation with timings of validity will be intimated through SMS. “On reaching the facility within the stipulated time period, doctors on duty will examine the patient and admit, only if required,” Sharma said, adding that in case doctors feel the patient’s condition is not serious and does not require hospital admission, he/she will be sent back home after thorough examination and advice.For the home-isolation cases, doctors will visit the patients on their doorstep and examine them. “The status of every patient under home isolation will be updated online with colour coding by the visiting doctor,” the DC said.Three colours — green, orange and red — will distinguish the condition of the patient under home isolation. Green colour will depict normal condition, orange will show condition above normal and below serious, while red colour will specify serious condition.Sharma said doctors would identify the patient’s condition on the colour parameters after examination and later, if it changes, the patient can make changes online. “This will be personally monitored by me as well as the civil surgeon and no sooner any patient under home isolation turns serious, he/she will be shifted to the nearest hospital for requisite medical intervention,” he said, adding that the rate card of the bed facility in both government and private facilities would also be displayed online.
27-09-2020||Gurugram||IPL betting racket busted in Gurugram, three gang members arrested||The local police busted a betting racket being run from a flat and caught three members of a gang red-handed.The accused have been identified as Kapil of Jyoti Park, Nitin of Arjun Nagar and Avinash of Ram Nagar, Gurugram. An FIR has been registered under the Gambling Act at Badshahpur police station. The police have seized a laptop and three mobile phones from the flat. The accused were granted bail by a court on Saturday.A police team of the Sector 17 crime unit raided flat number 102 of Tulip Lemon Society in Sector 69 and caught the accused betting on an IPL match. “We are trying to nab the flat owner,” said Head Constable Harbir. — OC
27-09-2020||---||Manethi land ‘not suitable’, another site proposed for AIIMS||Rewari, September 26The district administration has proposed a site in Majra village for the ambitious AIIMS project, making a case against Manethi village where the premier hospital was planned initially. It has submitted a report in this connection to the Department of Medical Education and Research for perusal.200 acres requiredAt least 200 acres of consolidated land is required for the project, but Manethi residents offered 175 acresBesides, some landowners in Manethi village were unwilling to sell off their landOn the other hand, residents of Majra village are willing to offer 316 acresThe department had sought the report to review the project’s progress with the Secretary (Coordination) at the Cabinet Secretariat, New Delhi, and officials of the Centre’s Health and Family Welfare Department.An officer, on the condition of anonymity, said at least 200 acres of consolidated land was required for the project, but Manethi residents had offered 175 acres.Besides, some landowners in Manethi were unwilling to sell off their land. “Hence, the site is unsuitable for the project,” he said.On the other hand, the officer said, “residents of Majra village are willing to offer 316 acres. Land of the adjoining Bhalkhi village can also be bought, if required. These points have been mentioned in the report”.The AIIMS will be constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the project during his visit to Kurukshetra in February 2019.A 225-acre site in Manethi village was initially proposed for the project, but the Center’s Forest Advisory Committee termed it as “non-specific” stating that the site was part of the Aravalli Plantation Zone where construction was banned.Alok Nigam, Additional Chief Secretary (Medical Education and Research) said the Rewari administration’s report would be read carefully before taking a decision.
27-09-2020||---||Covid-19: 1,689 cases, 18 deaths in Haryana||Chandigarh, September 26Haryana recorded 1,689 fresh Covid cases and 18 deaths today taking the overall Covid-positive tally to 1.22 lakh.Three deaths were reported from Jind while two deaths each were reported from Gurugram, Ambala, Karnal, Hisar, Panchkula and one death each from Charkhi Dadri, Yamunanagar, Bhiwani, Palwal and Faridabad.A 67-year-old male from Sector-86 in Faridabad succumbed to Covid.A 54-year-old diabetes patient in Ambala city and a 72-year-old hypertension and cardiac patient in Shahzadpur died too. So far, 1,291 people have lost their lives due to the viral disease in the state with 1,130 having co-morbidities.The maximum fresh cases were recorded from Gurugram at 273 while 195 came from Faridabad, 148 from Hisar, 113 from Panchkula and 103 from Rohtak.Meanwhile, 2,554 people recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the tally of recovered cases to 1.03 lakh.
