27-08-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  ||Liquor scam: Khattar, Vij on same page; Dushyant differs||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, August 27  CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Home Minister Anil Vij seem to be on the same page on liquor scam as vigilance probe is ordered.  Though Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, who holds the charge of excise and taxation, claims there is no scam as there are record earnings of excise department in the first quarter.  Khattar approved all the four recommendations of Vij regarding vigilance probe, action against Excise and Taxation Commissioner (ETC) Shekhar Vidyarthi, action against former Sonepat SP Pratiksha Godara and departmental enquiries against excise and police officials.  Earlier, a Special Enquiry Team (SET), probing liquor scam, had indicted Vidyarthi and Godara and several police and excise officials. The SET was formed on May 11 on the recommendation of Vij to which the CM had approved.  The SET gave its report on July 31 after which Vij sent it to CM along with his recommendations on August 6. On August 10, Principal Secretary to CM sent the file to Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora for further action while mentioning that CM “expects that this would result in not only coordinated but also expeditious action on every recommendation and proposal”.  What made CM order probe A communication, dated August 25, from personnel department to Chief Secretary, mentioned that CM has approved for vigilance probe on the issue mentioned on page 34 of SET report, “…There is huge shortage/Excess during a short period. It has also been learnt that huge shortage/excesses have been reported by other districts as well but the information is not being supplied by the Department (excise department) for the reasons best known to it. ETC has already admitted issuance of permits/passes in some districts during lockdown period and has supplied information vide his letter dated June 1. There was no rationale for physical movement of stocks during the lockdown period. Hence, it is evident that there was huge unauthorized movement of liquor during lockdown.” “The complicity of some of the excise officers in this regard is writ large on the face of it and the collusion on the part of some of the police officials also cannot be ruled out which needs to be probed because it was the period when there was a complete lockdown and movement of not even a single soul except those involved in essential duties was permitted,” adds the issue.    Role of ETC and former Sonepat SP Chief Secretary called for explanation from ETC Shekhar Vidyarthi on August 25 on three counts, as pointed out by the SET.  The SET says that he didn’t issue written instructions immediately, after decision to close down the liquor vends was taken in a meeting attended by Deputy CM, Principal Secretary Excise and Taxation, Collector, all the Deputy Excise and Taxation Officers (Excise) and him on March 26.  The SET adds that he didn’t cooperate to visit NV Distillery site in Ambala. It is pointed out that he should have ensured installation of CCTVs and issuance of SOPs for them in distilleries. The CCTVs were introduced in 2011-12 in excise department but no SOPs were issued for streamlining the process.  Besides taking action against other excise officials, Chief Secretary has written to Principal Secretary, Excise and Taxation, on August 25 to implement the recommendations made by SET and give a monthly report on it.  On Godara, the SET points out that despite the knowledge that Bhupinder Dahiya, main accused in Kharkhoda liquor case, was a smuggler of illegal liquor, she provided him two gunmen and “surprisingly even recommended an arms licence to him”. Even in the recommendation letter to DC, she had mentioned five FIRs against him. The SET says that the role of Godara in the case needed to be probed.  Chief Secretary has written to Home Secretary on August 25 to take action against her after seeking explanation. She has also called for action against police officials, as mentioned in the SET report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/liquor-scam-khattar-vij-on-same-page-dushyant-differs-132294
27-08-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Scared of encounter, Lawrence Bishnoi moves Punjab and Haryana High Court||In the wake of the recent encounter of UP’s dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey, gangster Lawrence Bishnoi has moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court highlighting his fear of suffering the same fate at the hands of Haryana Police.Currently lodged in Bharatpur jail for allegedly plotting to murder actor Salman Khan, Bishnoi is wanted for many heinous crimes across the state and Haryana Police have sought his custody on a production warrant.Bishnoi has submitted a petition in Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking security cover and his transfer on production warrant should be in handcuffs. “Haryana Police registered a case number 252 against me at Dabwali in Sirsa district and applied for production warrant. I want security cover and measures like handcuff as I fear being killed in encounter,” reads the petition. Not only Bishnoi but many other gangsters too have highlighted such fears and sought security moving to local or high court.Amongst those who have moved court seeking similar covers are gangster Kaushal, Amit Dagar, Manish etc. “Gangster Bishnoi had approached the court earlier for the same this is just a pressure tactic they use every time to evade questioning in concerned cases,” said B Satheesh Balan, IG, STF, Haryana.It may be noted that Bishnoi is a notorious gangster and former SOPU leader. He has over 20 cases registered against him including cases of attempt to murder, extortion, snatching, carjacking and under the Arms Act in Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana.In January 2018, he had given life threat to Salman Khan ahead of a court hearing of 1998 blackbuck poaching case and his men were nabbed doing recce of his house in Mumbai.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/scared-of-encounter-lawrence-bishnoi-moves-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-132261
27-08-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 2 deaths and 94 COVID-19 cases; death toll 15||Panchkula reported two deaths and 94 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the district's death toll to 15.Coronavirus tally stands at 1,923 in Panchkula.A 75-year-old man, who is a resident of Sector 17, succumbed to the deadly disease at Civil Hospital, Sector 6.He had diabetes.Another, 60-year-old woman from Manakpur village, who was suffering from diabetes, passed away at the same hospital due to COVID-19.While 730 cases are still active, 1,178 patients have been cured and discharged.Till date, Panchkula has conducted 31,000 COVID tests, of which 28,005 have come out negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-reports-2-deaths-and-94-covid-19-cases-death-toll-15-132238
27-08-2020||---||Union minister KP Gurjar tests positive for Covid||Faridabad, August 27Local MP and Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment, Krishan Pal Gurjar on Thursday tested positive for Covid.Stating that he has isolated himself and has shifted to his Delhi residence, Gurjar said he got tested after developing symptoms a couple of days back. However, he added that all his family members have tested negative.Gurjar’s camp office in Sector 28 here has been sanitised and closed down. “All the staff members and locals who came in contact with me have been advised to get tested,” said the MP. He is second senior BJP leader in the district after Haryana Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma, to get infected with coronavirus.Meanwhile, 21 officials of the district administration, including the Estate Officer, HSVP, 10 employees of his office and same number of employees of the RTA office here have test positive for Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/union-minister-kp-gurjar-tests-positive-for-covid-132230
27-08-2020||New Delhi||NGT directs Haryana govt to take prompt action to remove illegal constructions in Aravalli||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Haryana government to take prompt action to remove illegal constructions in Aravalli forests.The green panel also dismissed the plea filed by 10 farm house owners seeking review of its order holding that the land in question is forest land and construction raised thereon are illegal.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted the submission of the Haryana government that forest areas since been identified and steps are being taken for restoration by removing the encroachments which will require some further time.The Haryana government told the tribunal that District Level Committees were constituted to identify the forest areas and District Committees have furnished their respective reports. “A report of District Gurugram has been filed by the Deputy Commissioner, Gurugram mentioning the steps taken to identify the Aravalli forests with reference to the Notifications under the Punjab Land Preservation Act, as applicable to Haryana. “Steps have been taken for correction of revenue record. Prosecution has been initiated against the violators. Show cause notices have been issued to the owners of farm houses/ structures in violation of law,” the tribunal noted while asking the Haryana government to file a status report in the matter.The issue for consideration before NGT relates to illegal constructions raised in forest land.  The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Haryana native Sonya Ghosh seeking the NGT's intervention demanding that all construction activities be banned in the deemed forest areas of the state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ngt-directs-haryana-govt-to-take-prompt-action-to-remove-illegal-constructions-in-aravalli-132224
27-08-2020||New Delhi||BSP supremo Mayawati seeks report from Haryana leaders on Baroda by-election||BSP supremo and former UP Chief Minister Mayawati has asked the party's Haryana leaders a report preparations regarding the upcoming by-election in Baroda assembly constituency in Sonipat district.Mayawati wants to assess the ground situation in Baroda to take a call on whether BSP should contest the by-election.BSP Haryana in-charge CP Singh confirmed the development.The by-election has been necessitated by the demise of Congress MLA Srikishan Hooda.Baroda is a rural constituency. Former Chief Minister and Congress leader BS Hooda is considered to have clout in the area.The mood of central leaders of the political parties suggests that the coming electoral battle has assumed importance.Hooda will try to prove that his party's dominance and that his popularity remains undiminished, especially in a rural area, despite being out of power. The ruling BJP-JJP will also field a joint candidate.It would be a setback for the BJP in case the Congress wins as its moral standing would take a hit.The BSP sees an opportunity in the expected tussle among BJP-JJP, Congress and the INLD in Baroda which is preponderated by the Jat voters."If they put up a Jat candidates, the BSP will field a non-Jat nominee," a senior BSP leader said.Baroda was once a reserved SC seat. There are about 50,000 SC votes in it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bsp-supremo-mayawati-seeks-report-from-haryana-leaders-on-baroda-by-election-132183
27-08-2020||---||Karnal reports 65 fresh COVID-19 cases||Karnal, August 27Karnal reported 65 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the number of cases to 2,408 in the district.Among the fresh cases, four cases surfaced from each from Sector-8, Royal City and Janak Puri while three cases each were reported from Sector-6. Bhim Nagar and Jatto Gate.Two cases each were recorded from Shiv Colony, Sector-16, Sector-4, Nilokheri and Butta colony.Rambag Colony, Santri in Indri, Sector-12, Madhuban, Uchana, Dabri, Labakri, Balaji Colony, Nyaypuri, Indri, New Sham Nagar, Pritam Nagar, Anand Vihar, Dhobi Mohalla, Sadar Bazar, Ram Nagar, Basant Vihar, Ekta Colony, Vakilpura, Badarpur, Saini Colony, Ballah, Solo, Bairsal, Butana, Nigdhu, Aibla, Keshav Vihar, Vikas Nagar, Sainik School and CSSRI reported one case each.So far, as many as 1,630 patients have been cured and discharged while 25 had died due to this virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-reports-65-fresh-covid-19-cases-132175
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||1,555 registries violated law since 2013: Deputy Chief Minister||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, who holds charge of revenue, told the House today that 1,555 registries in Mahendragarh, Karnal, Sonepat, Rewari, Panchkula, Bhiwani, Faridabad and Kaithal violated Section 7A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act since 2013. He was replying to a calling attention notice by INLD’s Abhay Chautala on the registry scam. Dushyant said disciplinary action in these cases had been initiated against Sub-Registrars and Joint Registrars concerned. He rejected Abhay’s claim of a scam involving 30,000 registries in 32 towns. He said one Sub-Registrar in Sohna and five Joint Registrars in Gurugram were suspended and six cases filed against them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-555-registries-violated-law-since-2013-deputy-chief-minister-131975
27-08-2020||andigarh||Dues of realtors over Rs15.2K cr||Property developers have dues to the tune of Rs 14,457 crore and Rs 818.46 crore pending towards external development charges (EDC) and infrastructure development charges (IDC), respectively. Though Question Hour was dropped during the session, replies to queries by members were tabled right after obituary references today. In reply to a question by INLD MLA Abhay Chautala on pending EDC and IDC charges and reasons for non-recovery, the government said Rs 652.98 crore and Rs 23.56 crore, respectively, had been recovered from colonisers. Giving a detailed break-up, the reply mentioned that EDC dues had been arrived at by adding the principal amount (Rs 8,037.99 crore), interest (Rs 1,659.67 crore) and penal interest (Rs 4,759.88 crore), while pending IDC included principal amount (Rs 410.06 crore), interest (Rs 10.02 crore) and penal interest (Rs 398.38 crore). The government said the department did not grant permission and approvals to colonisers who had defaulted on payment. It was mentioned that several notices under the rules were issued and 39 licences cancelled. To another question by Congress MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi on a scam in procurement of paddy, Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala said in a physical verification drive for stock in July, shortage of 18,884 tonnes was found in 98 mills and recovery was being made from millers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dues-of-realtors-over-rs15-2k-cr-131976
27-08-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana Government to assess situation, may reschedule university exams||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 26Despite having issued an examination schedule for universities, the government will assess the situation and reschedule them, if need be.This assurance was given by Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar during the monsoon session of the House today after Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal expressed concern over exams at a time when Covid cases were on the rise.“On the one hand, we are reducing the monsoon session to just one sitting due to Covid even after we all have been tested while on the other, we expect children to take exams. The government should go right up to the Supreme Court to contest taking of exams,” she said.Gujjar replied that the government would take all precautions while conducting exams to ensure safety of students. “Their years of education will go waste if we pass them without exams and issue them a degree. When they apply for a job, it will always be seen as a ‘Covid degree’, which does not evaluate the worth of candidates.”Later, he said: “We have merely issued the schedule. It can be reconsidered, just like we reduced the House sitting after assessing the situation.”Earlier, Congress MLAs demanded that the session should not be cut short since there were many issues. However, Gujjar said Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda had agreed to reducing the session to a day since the CM, Speaker and nine MLAs were infected.Abhay Chautala of the INLD said he gave 12 calling attention motions. “Only two have been accepted. If I am not satisfied with the replies, I should be allowed supplementary questions,” he said.Though Hooda accepted that he had agreed to limiting proceedings to a day, he said he was assured that only very urgent matters where court cases were involved would be taken up while the rest of the issues would be deferred.Deputy Speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa said 700 persons were on the Assembly premises. “Twelve personnel deployed in the force have tested positive. We’ll only adjourn the session after the sitting and carry forward the business to another day, maybe next month, when the situation improves.”12 Bills passed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-to-assess-situation-may-reschedule-university-exams-131977
27-08-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||CAG: Revenue deficit continues to ail Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 26The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has said Haryana “continues to be a state with revenue deficit” and the receipts of the government are not sufficient for meeting the expenditure and “borrowed funds are used for meeting current consumption instead of capital creation”.The CAG report on state finances till March 31, 2019, was tabled in the Assembly today. The CAG said revenue deficit in 2018-19 wasRs 11,270 crore, which was 17 per cent of the revenue receipts of the same year.The fiscal deficit, which is a difference of receipts and expenditure, was Rs 19,114 crore in 2017-18 and increased to Rs 21,912 crore during 2018-19. It was 3.10 per cent of the GSDP against the target of 2.82 per cent set out in Medium Term Fiscal Policy Statement of the government.The CAG pointed out that primary deficit, which was a difference of revenue receipts and expenditure but excluding payments on interest payments, was enhanced to Rs 8,361 crore in 2018-19 from Rs 7,153 crore in 2017-18.“The existence of primary deficit indicates that the state will need to borrow money even for making interest payments on its borrowed funds,” CAG said.The recovery of loans and advances during 2018-19 was just 1.13 per cent. Cooperative sugar mills were extended loans with the condition that it will be repaid in five years in equal instalments after 12 months of sanction with 9 per cent interest and no loan will be given in case of failure in repayment of earlier loans.“However, loans were sanctioned to sugar mills without ensuring the fulfilment of conditions of earlier loans due to which outstanding amount increased from Rs 618.40 crore on April 1, 2009, to Rs 2,647.86 crore as on March 31, 2019,” the CAG report said.The revenue expenditure during 2018-19 was 83 per cent of the total expenditure. The expenditure on salary and wages, pension liabilities, interest payments and subsidies alone constituted 65 per cent. “Moreover, 87 per cent (Rs 7,415 crore) of the total subsidies were only for the energy sector,” said the CAG.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cag-revenue-deficit-continues-to-ail-haryana-131978
27-08-2020||
||House passes obituary references||Chandigarh, August 26 Obituary references were passed today to pay rich tributes to those persons who had passed away since the end of the previous session. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala paid tributes and read out obituary resolutions. Deputy Speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa, Home Minister Anil Vij and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda paid tribute to departed souls. The House paid homage classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj, former Karnataka Governor Hansraj Bhardwaj, Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon, former minister Mange Ram Gupta, MLA Sri Krishan Hooda and former MLA Mani Ram. Tributes were also paid to freedom fighter Dhara Singh of Kulasi village in Jhajjar, 25 martyrs who sacrificed their lives while safeguarding the country, 20 soldiers who died in the Galwan Valley, Covid warriors and victims and two cops killed during night patrol at Butana in Sonepat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/house-passes-obituary-references-131979
27-08-2020||---||BJP leader, father booked for ‘fraud’||Panipat, August 26The police have booked husband and father-in-law of Ward No. 8 BJP councillor allegedly for fraud in plot registration in Panipat city after four months of a complaint given by a naib tehsildar.Notably, the naib tehsildar had sent a complaint to the city SHO to lodge a case against councillor’s husband and BJP leader Vijay Sehgal and his father Daulat Ram for fraud in registration of a property on June 29.Naib Tehsildar Anil Kaushik in his complaint to the SHO said Daulat Ram had made a transfer deed of a shop on 25 sq yards in Ward No. 12 on March 17 in the name of his son Vijay Sehgal.During investigation, it was revealed that the registry produced in the tehsil office was of May 22, 1982, and the shop was in the name of Nebraj of Ram Nagar and not in Daulat Ram’s name.It was alleged that Vijay had allegedly scanned his father’s name in place of Nebraj and produced the copy of registration in the tehsil office and on the basis of the fake registration the property was transferred in his name.SHO City Inspector Yogesh Kumar said a case had been registered against Vijay Sehgal and Daulat Ram under Sections 120B, 419, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 472, 473 and 474 of the IPC. The probe is underway, he said.Meanwhile, members of a social youth organisation had also staged a protest against police inaction into the matter five days ago near the Mini-Secretariat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-leader-father-booked-for-fraud-131980
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Congress, INLD stage walkout||To protest the betrayal after not-so-urgent matters, including Bills, were moved by treasury benches while members were not allowed to raise other critical issues, the Congress staged a walkout. Sole INLD legislator Abhay Chautala also left after being disallowed to raise matters of concern.The Congress, led by Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Hooda, staged a walkout when the first Bill — Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Haryana Amendment Bill — was deferred and Haryana Rural Development (Amendment) Bill was moved by Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala.Hooda said he had been told that only urgent matters would be taken up. “These Bills are not urgent and can easily be deferred. Why is the government in a rush? These can be taken up later,” he said. However, the treasury benches went ahead with passing the Bills, after which the Congress MLAs staged a walkout.Abhay wanted to raise the issue of loot during the pandemic and the adverse impact of the lockdown. Before that, he sought to know the problem in a discussion when everyone in the House had tested Covid negative. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-inld-stage-walkout-131981
27-08-2020||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra University exams from September 10||The Kurukshetra University (KU) has decided to conduct the examinations of undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses from September 10. A university spokesperson said in view of the UGC Net exam scheduled in mid-September, examinations at the KU would now commence from September 10.  He said the datesheet of undergraduate last semester/year classes, including engineering courses, had also been prepared. The spokesperson said the datesheet of UG classes had been uploaded on the university website (www.kuk.ac.in) and the information regarding its issuance had been given to the principals of all affiliated colleges so that the students could be informed about the schedule of examinations. The datesheet of PG classes is, however, being prepared and will be uploaded on the university website soon, he added. The spokesperson said the KU had also declared the result of 10 intermediate classes on the basis of the direction given by Director General Higher Education, Haryana. The results of BCom 2nd and 4th semesters, BBA 2nd and 4th semesters, BSc (IT) 2nd and 4th semesters, BA (Mass Communication) 2nd semester and BSc (Home Science) 2nd semester have been declared. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-university-exams-from-september-10-131982
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||‘Staffer guilty of misconduct not on a par with colleagues’||The Chandigarh Bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has dismissed the petition of now retired HCS officer Pankaj Chaudhary for promotion to the IAS, saying an employee found guilty of misconduct cannot be placed on a par with other staff. Chaudhary had filed the application for seeking directions to the government to consider her case for promotion to the IAS by issuing requisite integrity certificate. The applicant had prayed that the respondents be directed to reserve one IAS post of Haryana cadre for her. Though she was eligible for promotion since 2012 , the government withheld her integrity certificate as one criminal case and two disciplinary cases were pending against her. After hearing the arguments, the Bench said there was adequate reason for the state government to withhold integrity certificate against the applicant, especially in view of criminal proceedings against her, and the charges involved doubtful integrity. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/staffer-guilty-of-misconduct-not-on-a-par-with-colleagues-131983
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||1,397 cases in Haryana, a new high||In the biggest single-day spike, Haryana reported 1,397 fresh cases today, taking the total tally to 58,005. With 11 more deaths, the toll reached 634. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-397-cases-in-haryana-a-new-high-131984
27-08-2020||Faridabad||Faridabad woman hurt in ‘leopard attack’||A middle-aged woman was allegedly attacked by a leopard in the fields of Sagarpur village of the district on Wednesday. She, however, survived the attack with minor injuries on her hands. Meanwhile, the Wildlife Department has said the attack on the woman by a leopard could not be verified as its presence was yet to be established.  According to locals, the incident took place around 10.15 am, when the woman, identified as Kamlesh (40), was working in a cotton field near the village. She told the villagers that the big wild cat, which came all of a sudden, pounced on her but she raised an alarm, causing the leopard to leave her immediately and run away.  The attack led to panic among the villagers. The leopard might have strayed in the village limits from the jungle of the neighboring Jajru village, where its movement had been noticed by a CCTV camera installed at the NTPC Solar Power Plant on the intervening night of August 19 and 20.  “Though the police and the Wildlife Department have been informed about the incident, which has led to a scare in the area,” said Bijender Nehra, a resident. Wildlife Inspector Charan Singh, however, said no pugmarks or signs had been found so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-woman-hurt-in-leopard-attack-131985
27-08-2020||Jhajjar||Youth shot dead by bike-borne assailants in Jhajjar village||A youth, identified as Sonu, was shot dead by two motorcycle-borne assailants on the Beri-Kalanaur road in Beri town here on Tuesday night. The assailants fled after perpetrating the crime, while the police have started investigation after registering a case of murder against four persons.  Sources said Sonu along with two other youths was consuming liquor at his fields on Tuesday night. He engaged in a scuffle with one of the youths who reportedly called up his two friends and they fired upon Sonu. He died on the spot. Ramphal, Investigation Officer, said three teams had been formed to nab the accused, while the body had been handed over to the kin. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-shot-dead-by-bike-borne-assailants-in-jhajjar-village-131986
27-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||MTP can't be denied to rape victim of tender age: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 26The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that technicalities cannot come in the way of terminating the pregnancy of a tender-aged rape victim as denying termination on technicalities will result in forcing her to live with trauma for the rest of her life.The ruling came in case of an 11-year-old rape victim, whose pregnancy had progressed to 23rd week. The medical board had initially expressed the opinion that the pregnancy fell beyond the period prescribed in the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, and termination would be undertaken only after permission from the court.Justice Avneesh Jhingan ruled that the victim was of tender age, had suffered the ordeal of rape and conceived at an age where she did not possess maturity and physical health to be a mother. “She herself is of age to play and grow and to expect her to be a prospective mother and take care of a child will neither be proper nor practical,” Justice Jhingan asserted.Referring to her medical condition, Justice Jhingan asserted that there was, in the opinion of the medical board, danger to the victim’s life and injury to her mental health was imminent in case the pregnancy was allowed to continue.Justice Jhingan noted that the state counsel, during the course of hearing, was requested to re-verify the degree of risk involved in continuing with the pregnancy and in its termination and the opinion, after re-verification, clarified beyond doubt that the risk was more in continuation.Allowing the writ petition filed by the victim through her natural guardians, Justice Jhingan permitted the victim to undergo medical termination of pregnancy. “She may present herself within three days in Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Karnal. The hospital shall admit her to carry out the procedure for medical termination of pregnancy under supervision of the head of the department or the senior-most doctor of the department concerned,” Justice Jhingan added.Before parting with the order, Justice Jhingan observed it was expected that the authorities would extend all facilities to the petitioner as required and confidentiality to the extent possible would be maintained by the hospital. In order to meet eventualities which might occur later, Justice Jhingan directed preservation of sample from the foetus for DNA testing.The Bench was earlier told that an FIR in the matter was registered at the Assandh police station in Karnal district on August 10 under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Sections 376-A, 376-B, 452 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code on the statement by the victim’s mother.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mtp-cant-be-denied-to-rape-victim-of-tender-age-high-court-132003
27-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Man killed over Rs2,500, one held||Gurugram, August 26A fruit seller was allegedly killed for not returning Rs 2,500 that he had taken as a loan from another fruit seller. The police have registered a case against the man who lent money to the fruit seller and arrested him. The accused revealed that he was in financial crisis due to Covid-19 and wanted his money back.According to the police, the deceased has been identified as Bablu (50), a native of Bhiwani, and the accused has been identified as Om Prakash of Ludhiana. Both fruit sellers ran stalls near the bus stand. A dispute was going on between them over Rs 2,500 as Om Prakash had given the money to Bablu around four months ago. Last night, Bablu died after allegedly being hit by Om Prakash on the head. In the morning Gaurav, Bablu’s friend, found his body and called the police. An FIR was registered under Section 302 of the IPC and police later nabbed the accused.“The accused said when he asked Bablu for money three days ago, Bablu slapped him and it was then that he decided to kill him. We are questioning the accused,” said Inspector Jasveer Chahal, SHO, Sector 14 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-killed-over-rs2-500-one-held-132007
27-08-2020||Yamunanagar||Radaur MLA gets threat||A man in Yamunanagar district has been accused of threatening to shoot Bishan Lal Saini, Congress MLA from Radaur. On the complaint of the MLA’s personal assistant Ajay Kumar, a case was registered against Dalbir Singh of Sadura village and others. TNSChandigarhNow, register by August 31The government has extended the last date for registration under the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ scheme till August 31. Earlier, August 25 was the last date for registering on the portal. TNSKarnalNew crop varieties outThe Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research has released three new high-yielding varieties of wheat - DBW-187, DBW-303 and DBW-48 - and one of barley - DWRB-182. These are among the 12 varieties released by the Varietal Identification Committee. TNSAmbalaOne arrested for assaultThe police have arrested Amit of Ambala for assault and criminal intimidation following a complaint by Vishal Kumar. The accused was later released on bail. TNSMan held for raping minorThe police have arrested Suraj for abducting and raping a minor. A local court remanded him in one-day police custody. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/radaur-mla-gets-threat-132008
27-08-2020||Parveen Arora||Dream come true for sports stars||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 26Former chief coach of the Indian kabaddi team Krishan Kumar Hooda and hockey player Deepika Thakur have been named for the National Sports Awards — Dronacharya Award and Arjuna Award, respectively.Elated Krishan Kumar, who is posted as SP at the Haryana Police Academy (HPA), Madhuban, said: “I am so happy that I have been chosen for the Dronacharya Award for my achievements in the field of kabaddi as coach”. “It is like a dream come true. I was the chief coach of the Indian kabaddi team from 1999 to 2001. I have contributed a lot to the Indian Kabaddi team and trained so many players, who have brought laurels to the country at the international level, including the Asian Games,” he added.THOSE PICKEDIndian Kabaddi team ex-chief coach Krishan Kumar Hooda has been named for Dronacharya Award while hockey player Deepika Thakur for Arjuna Award.Born in Sanghi village of Rohtak, Krishan Kumar said at present, he was the chief coach of Dabang Delhi team for the last two seasons of the Pro Kabaddi League. “When I joined as the chief coach, the team was placed 12th but it climbed to the second position in the last season,” he added.“I have trained the state kabaddi team as well as the Haryana Police team, which have won several medals in the past,” he said. Krishan Kumar was earlier awarded a Police Medal by the President.Meanwhile, Deepika Thakur, one of the experienced players of the Indian hockey team, has so far played one Olympics game, three each of Commonwealth Games, Asian Games and World Cup. She hails from Yamunanagar and got married in Karnal in 2017. She is a mother of a year-old boy.“I have been trying for this prestigious award for the last four years and finally, I have been named for this. I have no word to express my feelings.I am so happy,” Thakur said.She has been associated with the Indian team for the last 15 years and has won several medals at the national and international level. “This award will be a milestone for me and it will motivate players like me to achieve their goals,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dream-come-true-for-sports-stars-132009
27-08-2020||Rewari||IGU conducts final year exams||CUCET exams from September 18Mahendragarh: After the completion of online application process for the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET)-2020, the entrance exams will be conducted at the examination centres set up across the nation from September18 to 20. “In all 27 examination centres have been established under the Central University of Haryana (CUH), Mahendragarh, for the exams,” said Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad.Webinar series at GJUSTHisar: The Department of Bio and Nano Technology, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST) here is conducting a webinar series of expert lecture for the students and faculty of biotechnology and life sciences. Experts from various eminent organisations from across the nation and abroad are invited to share their research experiences and skill to enlighten students. The webinar was streamed live on Facebook and its recording will be available on YouTube for those teachers/students/researcher. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar praised the webinar series conducted by the department. He said they had practically transformed the Covid-19 pandemic into an opportunity of live interaction between student learners and educator experts from across the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/igu-conducts-final-year-exams-132010
27-08-2020||THE under construction over-bridge in Gurugram had collapsed recently and two labourers were seriously injured due to this mishap. Similar incident occurred near IFFCO Chowk and MGG road where a road caved in and luckily no major accidents happened there. It is a matter of grave concern that quality of work and material invested in public infrastructure such as highways||Govt should ensure quality of roads||Subhash C Taneja, GurugramPeople should follow prevention guidelinesWhile traveling from Hisar to a village, negligence among people towards wearing mask or practicing social-distancing, especially in rural areas dismayed me massively. Villagers were seen playing cards and puffing hubble-bubble in groups, ignoring threats posed by of coronavirus infection. Life in rural areas is based on reciprocity and inter-dependence that makes it incapable of maintaining social distancing but wearing mask is the easiest way of preventing the spread of infection and breaking the chain. People living in rural areas are more vulnerable to the virus due to poor sanitation and hygiene in the localities there. To keep the virus at bay, the BDPO with the assistance of concerned village sarpanch should sensitise people and ask them to follow government guidelines.Baljeet S Deep, HisarStray dog menace continues in HisarPopulation of stray dogs has reached alarming levels in Hisar. Stray dogs can be seen in every corner here. They chase stray cattle on streets and are a major cause of road accidents and other such mishaps. Children and elderly people are more prone to stray dog attacks. The Municipal Corporation is not at all concerned about public health concerns due to stray dogs. Chances of spread of diseases such as rabies increase manifold due to stray dog menace. In the present times of Covid pandemic, there is a need to sterilise them so that the population of stray dogs is controlled and spread of diseases is checked.Krishan Kapoor, HisarIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-should-ensure-quality-of-roads-132011
27-08-2020||Sushil Manav||12 Haryana Bills passed in 90 mins||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 26The Haryana Assembly today passed 12 Bills in just over 90 minutes in the monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha, which lasted less than three hours. Walkout by the Congress-led Opposition, which wanted deliberation on key Bills, couldn’t deter the BJP-JJP government from tabling the Bills.Held under extraordinary circumstances in the absence of CM ML Khattar, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, Agriculture Minister JP Dalal, Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma and four legislators — all positive for Covid-19 — the session began at 2 pm and was adjourned sine die well before 5 pm. Five other MLAs — Kiran Choudhry, Dura Ram, Pradeep Chaudhary, Gopal Kanda and Ram Niwas — stayed away. As many as 23 Vidhan Sabha staffers also tested positive for the virus today.The session was curtailed to a few hours after the business advisory committee (BAC) of the Assembly met this morning. “It was decided the business has to be transacted in shorter duration in view of the pandemic,” said Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa.Leader of the Opposition BS Hooda said: “The members should have been given an opportunity to debate, but the government was hell bent on passing the Bills without discussion.”Legislations clearedBills to undo 2017 amendment to the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, and amend the Haryana municipal, goods and service and value added tax Acts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-haryana-bills-passed-in-90-mins-131860
