27-05-2020||---||PIL in SC challenges imposition of Hindi as official court language in Haryana||New Delhi, May 27The Haryana government’s decision to enforce use of Hindi language in all courts and tribunals across the state has been challenged in the Supreme Court.According to The Haryana Official Language (Amendment) Act, 2020, “In all Civil Courts and Criminal Courts in Haryana subordinate to the High Court of Punjab and Haryana, all revenue Courts and Rent Tribunals or any other court or tribunal constituted by the State Government, work shall be done in Hindi language.”Notified earlier this month, the amendment says the State Government shall provide the requisite infrastructure and training of staff within six months for the commencement of the amended Act.Five lawyers have challenged the validity of the Haryana Official Language (Amendment) Act, 2020, terming it  “arbitrarily” on the ground that it created an unreasonable classification between Hindi and non-Hindi speaking advocates. Petitioners Sameer Jain, Sandeep Bajaj, Angad Sandhu, Suvigya Awasthi and Anant Gupta urged the court to strike down the amendment.They said the amendment was with the assumption that everyone practising law in Haryana not only knew Hindi but was also fluent in it. To say that imposition of Hindi was for people of the state and necessary to get justice was “wholly irrational”, they added. They said level of fluency and expertise needed to argue a matter in Hindi was much higher than just a simple understanding of the language.“English is a widely spoken language in our country and precluding its use before various Subordinate Courts is manifestly arbitrary with no legal rationale and having far reaching consequences for the people living and working in the State of Haryana,” they said.Contending that the amendment precluded the use of English which was used widely to conduct legal proceedings, the petitioners said, “This has impinged upon the right to freely practice the legal profession and earn a livelihood as guaranteed under Article 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution.”They said imposition of Hindi was not fit for the state as it was an industrial hub and home to multi-national companies, where people from every strata of the society reside and majority of them were not fluent in Hindi.
27-05-2020||Jhajjar||Jhajjar: Factory director kidnapped, rescued after encounter, three held||Two teams of district police on Wednesday managed to rescue a factory director from the clutches of miscreants after an encounter near Dahkaura village under Bahadurgarh sub-division here.The police also arrested three miscreants who suffered bullet injuries in the cross-firing in Aasodha-Dehkaura area.The miscreants identified as Sumit, Vishal and Sandeep of Bahrana village here have been admitted to Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh.Ashok Kumar, Jhajjar SP, informed the miscreants had kidnapped Vishal Jain, director, Super Circle Private Limited, when he was returning to Delhi from his factory in Aasaudha village this noon.The miscreants pressurised him to call his wife and sought Rs 50 lakh on pretext that he had met with an accident, he added.“Suspecting something fishy, Vishal’s wife contacted the factory partner—Manoj Kumar—who later approached the Bahadurgarh police. Acting swiftly on the complaint, we traced the location of Vishal’s mobile in Aasodha area. Two teams were constituted, which launched a hunt for the miscreants,” said the SP.He maintained the team managed to locate the miscreants who were arrested after the cross-firing. The director was rescued safely. Three country-made pistols had been recovered from the possession of miscreants, he added.
27-05-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Covid-19: Delhi-Gurugram border declared ‘high-risk’ zone||Gurugram, May 27As 13 police personnel posted on the Delhi-Gurugram border have tested positive the borders have been declared high risk zone.Those posted there for last one month have been replaced and cops have been provided with PPE kits to be adorned during duty. The cops however have refused wearing PPE citing it unfeasible in soaring temperature.“It’s 45 degrees and we find it difficult to work in regular uniform. PPE kits will be suicidal in this heat. There is no way we can wear it stand in sun and execute duties. We realise the risk we are at but owing to checking of passes we have to be near people,” said an ASI posted on expressway border.It may be noted what highlighted high vulnerability of cops, 12 personnel recently posted on Palam Vihar border have tested positive. They were the ones attacked and pelted with stones by over hundred Delhi residents, primarily migrants who tried to enter Gurugram claiming to be industrial workers. As social distancing went for a toss, they tested positive for the coronavirus. The police department following the incident has grown more cautious. “The borders are high-risk areas and we have withdrawn all cops we deem vulnerable from there. We have also changed duty rooster. As many as 35 professional and personal contacts of 12 cops who tested positive have been quarantined. Only Sarhaul border is open for visitors while only essential service allowed from Kapashera border,” said a senior police officer. “We are taking more stringent precautions and have asked our personnel to maintain social distancing. Only young and healthy cops are posted at the border. We are also providing them immunity boosters. All coronavirus positive cops are being treated and are recovering,” said police commissioner Mohammad Akil.
27-05-2020||New Delhi||CBI books Karnal-based rice mill, 3 directors in Rs 100-cr cheating cases||The CBI has booked Karnal-based Shakti Basmati Rice Pvt Ltd and its three directors for allegedly cheating the State Bank of India (SBI) to the tune of over Rs 100 crore, officials said on Wednesday.Directors Shyam Lal, Parveen Kumar and Suresh Kumar allegedly obtained facilities from the SBI’s commercial branch in Haryana’s Karnal by misrepresentation of facts, a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) spokesperson said.The company, which manufactured grain mill products (rice), allegedly diverted the loan amount for introduction of share capital, inflated the sale and purchase figures, and devalued stocks to show losses to justify diversion of funds by selling stock out of books, the officials said.The company allegedly failed to repay the loan amount resulting in the loss of Rs 100.46 crore to the bank.The agency has also booked unnamed public servants in the case, the officials said. — PTI
27-05-2020||New Delhi||Heat wave likely to continue during the next 24 hours: IMD||The ongoing heatwave over several parts of north and central India is likely to continue during the next 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department said on Wednesday, even as the southwest monsoon made further advancement in parts of Bay of Bengal.North and central India have been reeling under a severe heat wave and temperatures have soared over 47 degrees Celsius at a few places."Due to the prevailing dry north-westerly winds over plains of northwest India, central India and the adjoining interior parts of eastern India, the present heat wave conditions are very likely to continue during next 24 hours," the IMD said.Heat wave conditions at many places with a severe heatwave in isolated pockets are very likely over Vidarbha, west Rajasthan, the IMD said.Heat wave conditions are also likely in some pockets over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan, and in isolated pockets over Punjab, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Saurashtra and Kutch, central Maharashtra and Marathwada, Telangana and north interior Karnataka during the next 24 hours, the IMD added.A western disturbance is likely to give some relief on May 29 and 30. During this period, parts of north India are likely to witness dust storms and thunderstorms.Western disturbance is a cyclonic circulation which originates in the Mediterranean Sea. Traversing Central Asia, it brings rains to the hills and plains when it comes in contact with the Himalayas.On the progress of the southwest monsoon, the national weather forecasting centre of the IMD said it has further advanced into some more parts of the South Bay of Bengal, most parts of Andaman Sea and Andaman and the Nicobar Islands."Conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some parts of Maldives-Comorin area and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea, remaining parts of the Andaman Sea and some more parts of south and the central Bay of Bengal during next 48 hours," it added. PTI
27-05-2020||New Delhi||Haryana, Punjab to be fishery export hub||The Centre is planning to develop North India into a fishery export hub.Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Giriraj Singh today said prawns and other export varieties of fish would be promoted in saline waters of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and western UP.Will cover 2.25L hectaresHub will be spread across 2.25L hectares in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, UPFocus will be on prawns, other export varieties of fish in areas having saline water“We will promote prawns and other species that can be exported. After (positive) results from assessments, we took it up with state governments,” said Singh. The Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) aims at enhancing fish production to 220 lakh metric tonnes by 2024-25 from 137.58 lakh metric tonnes in 2018-19 at an average annual growth rate of about 9 per cent. It will be “economic revolution through blue revolution”, said Singh, adding the country exported fish valued at Rs 46,589 crore during 2018-19 fiscal.The PMMSY would result in doubling export earnings to Rs 1,00,000 crore and 55 lakh jobs in fisheries sector over the next five years, he added. The scheme envisages an estimated investment of Rs 20,050 crore.
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana department on alert as locusts reach Rajasthan||With locusts entering Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring Rajasthan, the fear of the insect swarms invading Haryana has put the state farmers and the agriculture department officials on high alert.Districts on alertSirsa, Fatehabad, Hisar, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendragarh and Rewari (alert along dists neighbouring Jaipur and Fazilka)Voracious pests The state government had already put seven districts--Sirsa, Fatehabad, Hisar, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendragarh and Rewari —on alert in view of the repeated invasions by locust swarms from Pakistani side since February. But the threat seems serious this time in view of huge insect swarms gathering over Jaipur, a city merely around 160 km from Mahendragarh.“Necessary steps for its control have been taken in the districts sharing boundary with Rajasthan and Punjab’s Fazilka,” said Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department. He said sufficient stock of pesticides had been arranged and would be distributed among farmers on 50 per cent subsidy in case of need.Kaushal said a response team under the department Director General, Vijay Singh Dahiya, had been constituted to coordinate with deputy commissioners, who had been named nodal officers.Surender Dahiya, department Additional Director and in-charge of response team operations, said the locust swarms were coming from East Africa and entering India via Pakistan.
27-05-2020||---||Soon, online transfer policy for Edu Dept non-teaching staff||Chandigarh, May 26The much-touted online teachers transfer policy is set to be replicated for the Education Department’s non-teaching cadre.It is learnt that the policy was part of the state government’s decision to implement online transfer policy in departments with sanctioned strength of 500 or more to instill transparency in the process. According to the policy, employees completing five years of service at a particular station would be eligible to take part in the online transfer process.Stating that a transparent institutional mechanism for transfer is sought to be created through the policy, a source said canvassing in any form by the employees would be treated as “extraneous influence” on the due process.The transfer would purely be done on merit points secured by the employee on the basis of his or her age, gender, marital status. Staff with serious ailments or special children would get some weightage in the transfer criteria. Besides, employees posted in difficult areas outside their home districts such as Morni Hills in Panchkula district and Nuh district of the Mewat region would get special incentives that included 10 per cent of the basic pay plus DA.A senior functionary said implementation of the online transfer policy would curtail the discretion of politicians and bureaucrats as rampant favouritism was reported in transfers in the Education Department.
27-05-2020||---||Two held for murder||Hisar, May 26 A youth was hacked to death by two youths in Devigarh Punia village of Barwala subdivision in Hisar district last night. The accused were arrested. According to information, Deepak was attacked with sharp-edged weapons by two youths, identified as Ramniwas and Mohit. The police said the victim was a friend of the accused, but their relations turned sour over his friendship with a girl. The accused called Deepak to a sports ground last night, where they reportedly assaulted him, leading to his death. Barwala SHO Kuldeep Singh said the accused hatched a conspiracy to eliminate Deepak after he reportedly started interfering in the friendship between Ramniwas and a girl. The SHO said the police recovered the sharp-edged weapon used for committing the crime.
27-05-2020||Yamunanagar||One killed in road mishap||A clerk posted at the Deputy Commissioner’s office was killed and another employee injured seriously when the motorcycle they were riding hit an electricity pole in the wee hours yesterday.   The deceased was identified as Anil Kumar of Umra village inf Hisar district. Saurav of Tejli village in Yamunanagar, posted as Group D employee, sustained serious injuries. Anil had gone to drop Saurav home in Tejli village after a party to celebrate the latter’s birthday on Sunday when the motorcycle hit the pole around 1 am on Monday. Anil died on the spot and Saurav, who received serious injuries, was admitted to a private hospital. After postmortem examination, — TNS
27-05-2020||Parveen Arora||107 million tonne & counting: India eyes record wheat output for 4th year||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 26The country has once again achieved a milestone in wheat production in crop year 2019-20 as per the third advance estimate released by the Union Agriculture Ministry.As per the estimate for the current season, the country has produced a record 107.20 million tonnes (MT) so far. This is around 4MT higher than last season’s production of 103.6 MT. Scientists of the Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research (IIWBR) here said it was a record yield for the last four years. “The efforts of farmers, scientists and government bore fruit in the shape of record wheat production in the country. So far, the country has produced 107.2 million tonnes, surpassing the previous production of 103.6 MT. In 2017-18, the total yield was 99.7MT and in 2016-17 it was 98.5MT,” said Dr GP Singh, Director, IIWBR.Singh said that amid the ongoing lockdown, the numbers were good news for the country. He is hopeful the production will go up further as the fourth and final estimate is yet to come. “The country had fixed a target of 102MT this season and we are hopeful the production will touch 110MT after the fourth advance estimate,” he said.Extended winter works wonders
27-05-2020||Ravinder Saini---||Ink unit made disinfectant sans licence: Probe||Tribune News Service Rewari, May 26 The ink and coating unit caught manufacturing disinfectant without licence had sold the commodity worth Rs 24.76 lakh to several states like Maharashtra, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. It had supplied the disinfectant to government offices in Haryana as well. These facts have come to light during preliminary inquiry conducted by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) after inspecting M/S Yansefu Inks and Coating Private Limited in Bawal on May 22 while acting on a tip-off that disinfectant was being illegally manufactured. Surprisingly, the Mahendragarh Deputy Commissioner (DC) had issued a certificate of appreciation to the firm for supplying 30,000 litres of disinfectant. “The disinfectant qualified the government’s evaluation criteria and ensured the highest standards of quality for sanitation,” read the certificate. Sources said the firm had applied for permission to produce hand rub and cleaner. The FDA got information about illegal manufacture and sale of disinfectant. The firm was using isopropyl alcohol, a colourless chemical liquid having disinfectant properties, which was already being used in the manufacture of inks and coatings. A FDA team comprising Rakesh Dahiya, Senior Drug Control Officer, Amandeep Chauhan, Drug Control Officer, and Surabh Mittal, Drug Inspector, visited the firm for inspection of licence for manufacturing category B cosmetics. “The firm was manufacturing disinfectant solution and mist without licence. Its officials could not produce any licence when we asked for it. A total of 58 invoices of disinfectant mist and solution were recovered from the spot. This shows that the firm was making profit during the pandemic by manufacturing commodities in violation of rules,” Chauhan said. He pointed out that the firm was using isopropyl alcohol to manufacture the disinfectant. Since the chemical was also used in making inks, its stock was already available with the firm, he asserted. “During the visit, there was no segregated premises where the firm manufactured disinfectant solution and mist. It cannot be ensured that the product was free from cross-contamination as the firm manufactured inks for food packs,” he stated. Mahendragarh DC Jagdish Sharma said they had received the supply of disinfectant through Dharambir Singh, MP from Bhiwani-Mahendragarh, and the quality was found to be as per standard.
27-05-2020||Gurugram||12 cops test positive in Gurugram||Twelve police personnel, attacked by ‘industrial workers’ trying to cross the Palam Vihar border on May 20, have tested positive for Covid. They were at a checkpoint when hundreds of people not wearing masks, seeming like migrants but claiming to be industrial workers, tried to enter Gurugram. When stopped, they pelted the police with stones. Their samples were collected the same day, which had now tested positive. The police personnel were put in isolation, with members of their families and professional contacts being quarantined and samples taken. The police issued a high alert, withdrawing all personnel above 50 years of age with diabetic or cardiac ailments from checkpoints. The Ayush Department provided immunity booster kits to cops. “They are asymptomatic so far and will recover soon. It can be called an occupational hazard, but we will do all it takes to keep the force safe. We have withdrawn the vulnerable from nakas,” said Commissioner of Police Mohammad Akil. — OC
27-05-2020||---||94 fresh cases in biggest spike yet in Haryana||Chandigarh, May 26Haryana saw its highest single-day spike in coronavirus cases so far, with 94 recorded on Tuesday. The morbid milestone came on a day total tests crossed 1 lakh in the state. The surge takes the state’s Covid tally to 1,305, according to the daily health bulletin.Worst-hit Gurugram yet again reported the highest number of cases at 33, followed by Faridabad (22), Mahendragarh (12), Ambala and Panipat (5 each), Karnal, Bhiwani and Kurukshetra (three each), Hisar, Rewari and Palwal (two each) and Nuh and Sirsa (one each). This is a rise of 7.7 per cent in the last 24 hours.The first case in the state was recorded on March 17. It recorded over 25,000 tests on April 28, 50,000 on May 9 and 75,000 on May 16 and over 1 lakh on May 26. The tests per million as of today stands at 4,024. The doubling rate fell to 17 days against 18 days on May 25. With 22 persons cured, the recovery rate fell slightly to 63.14 per cent against 66.12 per cent on Monday.A 53-year-old woman of Indira Colony, Faridabad, succumbed to the viral disease, but her death is yet to be recorded in the state health bulletin. She was suffering from a kidney disorder and was hospitalised recently after testing positive. If included in the state tally, this will be Faridabad’s seventh casualty and the state’s 18th.Among the fresh cases in Gurugram are 12 cops. Faridabad’s 22 new cases include seven women. While one of them is a 20-year-old who delivered a baby recently, the other is a 22-year-old medical intern at ESIC Hospital and three are factory workers in the 20-28 age group. Among the new male patients is a 65-year-old resident of Sector 28, a 69-year-old from Krishna Colony and an 11-year-old from Bharat Colony. Besides these, three male members of a family from NIT tested positive.Of Mahendragarh’s cases are two health officials, a Delhi cop, a barber and a student. One case each has been reported from Brahmanvaas, Rambaas, Mausampur, Chhapra Bibipur, Shyampura, Khativaas, Jajadiyavaas, Saidpur, Khod, Chamdheda, Dhani Faizabad and Akoda villages. All the patients have history of travel to high-risk states like Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat.In Panipat, a 28-year-old woman and three men aged 30, 42 and 22 years — all belonging to Noorwala area in the city — tested positive. They had all come from Delhi. Besides, a 30-year old man of Vikas Nagar also tested positive.In Karnal, a 42-year-old woman of Nirmal Vihar and a 37-year-old man of Kunjpura working in an IT company in Noida and staying in Delhi also tested positive. The man had come to Kunjpura to meet his parents. A 28-year-old woman of Sector 8 who went to Varanasi to join a new job also tested positive. Before her joining, a sample was collected for testing following which she returned to Karnal on Monday. Her report was received on Tuesday.The three cases in Kurukshetra included a 28-year-old driver from Gobindgarh who used to bring vegetables from Ghaziabad, a 46-year-old agent at a vegetable market in Ladwa and a 60-year-old woman from Jandheri village of Shahabad who used to visit Ambala for dialysis.Among the fresh cases in Rewari were a constable posted at Kosli police station and a cancer patient from Juddi village. In Palwal, a 28-year-old woman from Kushak village and her eight-year-old son tested positive. It is reported that they caught the infection from the woman’s husband, who tested positive some days ago and had visited the family many days ago.The wife of an ambulance driver in Bhirawati village in Nuh tested positive. Her husband earlier tested positive in Gurugram. In Sirsa, a youth of Bani village in Rania block tested positive. He was arrested in a case of liquor smuggling and was released on bail on May 22, following which he went home.
27-05-2020||Sushil Manav||‘Ghar se Taiyari’ — e-programme to hone competitive exam skills||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 26Job aspirants from Haryana preparing for competitive examinations for recruitment to banks and other Central and various state government services can now sharpen their skills from their homes. The Department of Employment, Haryana, has launched an online programme by the name of ‘Ghar Se Taiyari’. It provides free access to practice papers for over 100 competitive exams and is available through the website of the Employment Department and through its Saksham Yuva portal (see box). Launched in partnership with OnlineTyari, a test prep platform run by learning firm Embibe, the programme will particularly be beneficial for candidates unable to go for coaching during the ongoing Covid disruptions.“Many students of the state are interested in getting a government job and this is a good opportunity for them to assess their preparation,” said Trilok Chand Gupta, Additional Chief Secretary, Employment Department. He said the government was committed to connect students with government jobs and all efforts will continue to provide other similar opportunities to aspirants.Director General, Department of Employment, Dr Rakesh Gupta candidates could log in on the website and create their accounts by entering required information. “The department will have access to a dashboard that will provide details on usage of the platform and performance of each candidate. This will enable the department to assess effectiveness of the programme,” he said.Test preparation just a click away now
27-05-2020||---||Back in segment after 70 days, Khattar reviews development||Karnal, May 26Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday visited his constituency for the first time after the enforcement of lockdown and reviewed the development works.He was on the target of the Opposition leaders for the last several days for remaining absent from his constituency during the Covid outbreak.More relaxations likely in June: CM"Almost all sectors have been hit due to the lockdown, but we are making efforts to revive them. We’re expecting more investors too…. After reviewing the situation and depending on the MHA guidelines, more relaxations may be given next month if the situation gets better."Manohar Lal Khattar, CMThe CM last visited his constituency on March 16. “Last I came to Karnal on March 16, but I always reviewed the situation here along with other districts. I have to keep an eye on the Covid situation across the state, so I couldn’t come to my constituency,” he said while interacting with the media in a digital press meet.The CM also hinted at more relaxations in June.Khattar admitted that a vacuum had been created in various sectors due to the migration of labourers and said they had been imparting skill training to unemployed people of the state, so that this crisis could be solved.About the health facilities, the CM said they had sufficient arrangements even if the Covid cases rise.Meanwhile, he also advocated private schools for seeking only tuition fee for the lockdown period or charge it in the coming months. Khattar further said the average power bills would be rectified. The CM admitted delay in fund transfer to farmers and said payment till May 10 had been transferred to commission agents and the balance would be done in a couple of days.Sends 127 migrants homeThe CM also went to Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan to see off 127 migrant labourers in five buses to MP. He also inspected a depot in Prem Nagar and checked the distribution system. Earlier, he reviewed the Smart City project and directed the officials to speed up the work.Visits Ambala relief campAmbala: The CM halted in Ambala and met the stranded migrants on Tuesday noon. He was on his way to Karnal from Chandigarh. Khattar visited the relief camp being run by an NGO, “Mera Aasmaan”, on the Chandigarh-Delhi highway. Local MLA Aseem Goel briefed the CM about the arrangements made for the migrants at the camp.
27-05-2020||Kurukshetra||‘Formulating policies on groundwater’||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday said the state had been formulating policies to save groundwater.It has also been taking feedback from farmers to improve the policies and better implementation on the ground level, Khattar said this during a meeting with district officials and a few selected farmers at Pipli Parakeet on Tuesday.Interacting with the farmers, the CM asked them to cultivate maize instead of paddy to save groundwater.He said: “The groundwater level has depleted to over 40 m in several blocks and it is a matter of concern. The state has formulated ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ scheme under the crop diversification programme to save water.”“Farmers are being motivated to save water and for this, they’ll have to go for crop diversification and grow maize, pulses, vegetables, millet and cotton. The state will buy the entire crop on MSP and incentive of Rs7,000 per acre in lieu of diversification will also be given.” —TNS
27-05-2020||---||Haryana Assembly Speaker talks tough on state share in Assembly building||Chandigarh, May 26Reacting sharply to Punjab Assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh’s refusal to give Haryana its share in the Vidhan Sabha building, Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said the state has been seeking its right and not alms from the neighbouring state.‘Space crunch hits work’Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said due to paucity of space, both employees and MLAs were not able to dispense their Vidhan Sabha duties “properly”. He said that was especially the case during the Haryana Assembly sessions when ministers couldn't call emergency meetings in the building.“I have read media reports about the denial of our right (in the Vidhan Sabha building). We will seek the opinion of the Advocate-General Haryana. I will also complain to Chandigarh Administrator VP Singh Badnore. It is the UT Administration that is taking care of the Vidhan Sabha building,” Gupta said. Haryana Home Minister Anil VijFollow agreement of 1966On the controversy, said" It is sad that Punjab politicians mistreat Haryana. The agreement of 1966 should be fully followed.”.He said after he wrote to his Punjab counterpart last year over Haryana’s due share, secretaries of both Punjab and Haryana assemblies were to meet, but that did not materialise. “I even spoke to Rana KP Singh to urgently resolve the issue, but in vain,” said Gupta. Punjab is Congress ruled, while Haryana has a BJP government.Haryana was carved out of Punjab on November 1, 1966. According to Gupta, on October 17, 1966, under then Chief Engineer, Capitol Project, Chandigarh, the Vidhan Sabah building (66,430 sq ft) was divided into three parts. An area of 30,890 sq ft (46.5%) was allotted to Punjab Vidhan Sabha, 10,910 sq ft to Punjab Vidhan Parishad Secretariat (16.4%) and 24,630 sq ft (37.1%) to Haryana Vidhan Sabha Secretariat.Punjab got its 62.9% share, but Haryana is yet to get its full share of 37.1%. As per Gupta, 20 rooms out of Haryana’s share were still with Punjab. Giving details, he said two rooms in the basement (towards the north-east direction), four rooms on the ground floor in the south-west direction and 14 rooms on the first floor (in north-west direction) were part of the state’s share but with Punjab.Gupta has also been spearheading efforts to restore Haryana’s share in Panjab University. Haryana is also embroiled in a legal battle with Punjab over the Sutlej-Yamuna-Link (SYL) canal.
27-05-2020||Gurugram||CM Flying Squad unearths tax evasion scam in Gurugram||The Chief Minister’s Flying Squad has unearthed tax evasion by registration of commercial vehicles using fake undervalued bills in Gurugram in 2017.An FIR has been registered against officials of the SDM office and touts at Shivaji Nagar police station. The police have now sought a list of officials and staff deployed at the Vehicle Registration Authority (North) in 2017.Complainant Devender Kumar, DSP of CM Flying Squad, Faridabad, found bungling of road tax, leading to loss to the exchequer while reviewing FIR No. 191 of Ballabgarh City Police Station, .“A va JCB machine (HR26 DG3778) was registered with the registration authority (North), Gurugram, in 2017. In bill and tax invoice, the vehicle’s value was shown as Rs10.32 lakh and Rs61,940 was deposited as 6% tax of total value. The probe found that the vehicle’s actual cost was Rs22.80 lakh and tax of Rs1.36 lakh should’ve been paid. Owners were evading tax with the help of touts, computer operators, staff and officials of the registration authority. Even the bills and other documents submitted were fake,” the complaint read. — OC
27-05-2020||Hisar||Three held with heroin worth Rs 40L in Sirsa||The Sirsa police have arrested three persons in the district and recovered 400-gm heroin worth around Rs40 lakh from them.A district police spokesperson said the accused — Charanajit Singh of Shamshabad Patti, Gurmail Singh of Bhambhoor and Nishan Singh of JJ Colony, Sirsa — were coming from the Fatehabad side in a car. They were nabbed by a CIA team on Covid naka duty on NH-9 near Ding Mor. The team checked the vehicle and recovered 400-gm heroin from it.Initial probe revealed the trio had brought the heroin from Delhi to supply it in the district. A case under the NDPS Act had been registered against them and the probe is on, he said. — TNS
