27-06-2020||Chandigarh||7 more COVID-19 deaths in Haryana, 543 fresh cases||Haryana on Saturday reported seven more deaths due to coronavirus, while 543 fresh cases pushed the tally in the state to 13,427, the state health department said.Gurgaon reported two fresh fatalities, while Faridabad, Sonipat, Karnal, Jhajjar and Rewari districts one each, according to a daily health bulletin.With this, the death toll due to COVID-19 in the state has mounted to 218.Among the districts which reported fresh cases include Faridabad with 191 infections, Gurgaon 126, Sonipat 63, Bhiwani 52, Rohtak 24, Mahendragarh 26 and Rewari and Panipat 14 each.Gurgaon and Faridabad, the worst-hit NCR districts, now have a total of 83 and 71 fatalities, respectively, the bulletin said.Gurgaon alone accounts for 5,070 of the total cases, while Faridabad has 3,325. According to the health bulletin, 8,472 patients have been discharged after recovery. The number of active cases in the state stands at 4,737.The state’s recovery rate on Saturday was 63.10 per cent. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-more-covid-19-deaths-in-haryana-543-fresh-cases-105318
27-06-2020||---||Kumari Selja flays Khattar government over locust attack||Chandigarh, June 27Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee chief Kumari Selja has expressed concern over the locust swarm entering the state.Selja said due to the failures of Manohar Lal Khattar government, the farmers of the state were facing heavy losses.She urged the state government to take immediate steps to save crops from locusts and compensate those farmers, whose crops have been damaged.Selja said the locust swarm caused heavy damage to crops in Mahendragarh, Rewari, Jhajjar, Gurugram, Faridabad and other parts of the state. Besides, danger of locust swarm was surfacing in other parts of the state as well.Also read: Locusts enter Haryana from Rajasthan, settle in RewariShe said due to the failures of the government, the farmers were already in a tense situation in this pandemic and lockdown.The farmers had to suffer heavy losses due to rain and hailstorm that occurred before harvesting. But the government has not yet compensated the farmers for this loss. Farmers have also suffered big losses in crop procurement. At the same time, the increase in diesel prices in this sowing season has broken the back of farmers, said the Congress leader.Epidemic, unplanned lockdown, increase in diesel prices and now this locust swarm outbreak has become a problem for the farmers of the state, she added.Selja said for the last several days, the locust swarm was expected to enter Haryana, yet the government did not make any preparations to deal with it. Today, due to the failures of the government, farmers have to suffer huge losses.She said the government should immediately take steps to save crops from locust swarm and give compensation to farmers, whose crops have been damaged, by conducting special girdawari without any delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kumari-selja-flays-khattar-government-over-locust-attack-105308
27-06-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak PGIMS to begin plasma therapy to treat Covid patients||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 27The local PGIMS authorities have decided to employ plasma therapy for the treatment of Covid patients having moderate symptoms and those whose conditioning is found worsening.Prof (Dr) Dhruva Chaudhry, the State Nodal Officer for Covid control programme, has appealed to the persons who have recovered from Covid and do not have any other chronic/critical ailment to come forward and donate their blood plasma for the noble cause.“We have employed different lines of treatments on Covid patients at the institute. We have decided to employ plasma therapy as it has been found effective in treating patients with moderate symptoms and prevents their condition from worsening,” he stated.Professor Chaudhry maintained that nearly 90 per cent of the persons found Covid-positive do not require hospitalisation and recover by themselves.“Up to 80 per cent of the patients admitted to hospitals also overcome the disease smoothly and only the remaining ones require intensive care involving oxygen or ventilator support,” he asserted.    Meanwhile, a local youth, Dikshant Arora, who has recently recovered from Covid, came forward to donate his blood-plasma for the treatment of Covid patients at the PGIMS today.Arora has also appealed to the persons who have recovered from Covid to donate their plasma which can save the lives of other patients who have tested positive for the dreaded disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-pgims-to-begin-plasma-therapy-to-treat-covid-patients-105299
27-06-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Dermatological manifestations found in Haryana’s mild and moderate Covid cases: Study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 27A study published in Dermatologic Therapy journal has found skin infections in close to 13 per cent cases in asymptomatic, mild and moderate Covid patients at the Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College and Hospital, Nuh. The study, published on June 16, included 102 positive cases, with 95 males and seven females. As many as 27 cases were suffering from mild or moderate symptoms among them, while the rest were asymptomatic.Dr Ashish Dalal, Dr Vishal Aggarwal and Dr Ravi Beniwal of Nuh medical college and Dr Deepak Jakhar of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation Medical College and Hindu Rao Hospital, New Delhi, contributed towards the research paper. The authors have claimed it to be the first such study from India.Thirteen patients (12.7 per cent), with five symptomatic and eight asymptomatic, were found to have skin infections. Three (2.9 per cent) had red-coloured rashes, two (1.9 per cent) had wheal and eight (7.8 per cent) patients had itching without any specific skin signs.“Trunk was the most frequently affected area, followed by the hands and feet. No palm or sole involvement; and oral cavity is involved. None of the patient had any pre-existing skin diseases,” says Dr Dalal. The presence of red-coloured rashes was only seen in symptomatic patients.“The present study elaborates various dermatological findings in SARS-CoV-2 positive patients from North India. It is first such study from India. Covid-19 as a disease majorly affects pulmonary, cardiovascular, renal and other internal systems of the body. Skin manifestations were reported late in the course of this pandemic and still there is paucity of literature characterizing the dermatological presentations,” said Dr Dalal.All patients, under the study, along with symptomatic treatment, were given tab hydroxychloroquine (HCQS) 400 mg twice daily on day one, then 200 mg twice daily for ten days. If patients showed fever, then after ECG evaluation, tab azithromycin 500 mg once a day for five days was added to the treatment.None of Nuh patients showed swelling and colour changes of tips of fingers, fluid filled lesions, patchy disclouration of skin, which have been found in studies in other countries.“Different ethnicity, skin of color, differences in the infective strains of SARS-CoV-2 and inclusion of only mild-to-moderate disease in our patients may be the possible explanation. This study suggests that asymptomatic and mild-to-moderate disease may show non-specific and subtle dermatological manifestations. The presentation and frequency of cutaneous manifestations in COVID-19 may vary in different population groups,” said Dr Jakhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dermatological-manifestations-found-in-haryanas-mild-and-moderate-covid-cases-study-105297
27-06-2020||Parveen Arora||BJP leader Sonali Phogat questions khap panchayat for not supporting her||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 27BJP leader and TikTok star Sonali Phogat on Saturday accused members of khap panchayat for not supporting her and instead acting as mute spectators when a man was assassinating her character.“Am I not their daughter,” she questioned the members of khap panchayat after a meeting with party general secretary and Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia at Sector-14 Krishna Mandir here.“In the presence of around 500 people one person had raised questions on me and my family, accusing me of using illegal means to get a ticket. I would like to ask that all the women who are working in politics, how they do so,” she said.The video of this man went viral and lakhs of people have watched it, but the members of khap panchayat did not dare to ask him why he was assassinating my character, said Sonali.She also expressed her anguish at mediapersons. “I am an old worker of the party and have been working for the last 13 years. I got a ticket due to my hard work which I have been doing for the party. It is wrong to say that I got a ticket due to TikTok,” she said.Sonali along with the district body of Hisar met Bhatia and both leaders claimed that the meeting was related to organisational activities of the party. However, Bhatia later said Sonali’s case was also discussed.“The party’s Hisar body met me and we have discussed organisational activities. Since the issue of Phogat is in court, it's not good to comment on it,” Bhatia told the mediapersons.Sonali Phogat had thrashed market committee secretary Sultan Singh during a visit to a purchase centre in Balsamand village in Hisar on June 5. The police had registered cross cases against both.Sonali had accused Sultan Singh of misbehaving with her. She was arrested and later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-leader-sonali-phogat-questions-khap-panchayat-for-not-supporting-her-105284
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Former CM Hooda slams Haryana Govt on 'failing to stop locust attack'||Former chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda slammed the Haryana Government on Saturday for completely failing to stop the locust attack.“Had steps being taken to deal with the locust attack in time, the farmers would have been saved from major losses. But the government, despite having knowledge, did nothing and left the farmers alone to defend their fields and crops,” said the former chief minister.“Instead of doing anything to save the farmers, the government appealed to them to clap and bang utensils to drive the locusts away. Therefore, locust swarms from Pakistan via Rajasthan caused a lot of damage towards Mahendragarh, Rewari, Gurugram, Mewat and Faridabad. Millet, cotton and other crops have been destroyed,” he added.The leader of opposition demanded the government to initiate special drives to assess the loss in all the districts and pay compensation to the farmers immediately."There shouldn't be any delay in assessing the damage of making the payment, because the farmer are in distress due to damages suffered due to unseasonal rains and hailstorm," he concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-cm-hooda-slams-haryana-govt-on-failing-to-stop-locust-attack-105263
27-06-2020||Vijay C Roy||Punjab, Haryana, Himachal in fray for bulk drug park||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 26CENTRE TO GIVE Rs 1,000 CRORE PER PARKThe northern region is set to compete with the southern and western region to set up bulk drug parks. The Centre is likely to announce the setting up of three such parks next month to promote local manufacturing of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and reduce dependence on China.Under the scheme, the Central government will give a grant to states with a maximum limit of Rs 1,000 crore.Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh have come forward with their proposals and would compete with Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra.These parks are part of measures to boost domestic manufacturing of critical key starting materials (KSMs), drug intermediates and APIs in the country.Punjab plans to set up the park at Fatehgarh Sahib. It is also in the process of sending a proposal for Bathinda as land is vacant there after the shutdown of thermal plant. Haryana plans it in Panipat where it has 900 acres in its possession.Himachal is eyeing such park at Nalagarh. The state has 1,700 acres in its possession for the project.Rajesh Gupta, president, Himachal Drug Manufacturers Association, said, “Besides Nalagarh, the state is looking for land near Rupnagar district.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-haryana-himachal-in-fray-for-bulk-drug-park-104956
27-06-2020||Hisar||Webinar on use of CeRA resources||Govt schoolkids clear JNV entranceAmbala: As many as 38 students of government schools of Ambala have cleared the entrance exam of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalay, Kanwla, (Ambala), for Class VI this year. Deputy District Education Officer Sudhir Kalra said, “The entrance test was held for 80 seats this year for Class VI and 2,359 children had appeared for the test in January this year. For the first time, the selection from the government schools are in double digits and 38 children of the government schools have made it to the list.”Webinar on effective advertisingRohtak: “Effective advertisements make immediate connect with consumers and masses. A media student aspiring to join the advertising sector must learn the art and craft of being compassionate and should communicate emotionally with people”, advertising professional Surajit Guha stated this at the Swayam Siddha webinar organised by the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication of Maharshi Dayanand University. Guha spoke on “Advertising career post the Covid-19 ” and said to be an effective advertising professional, one needed to be a good observer of society and people. Guha said advertisements must be utilised to convey meaningful social messages. Head of the Department (JMC) Prof Harish Kumar said if the advertisement was captivating, it would be embedded forever in the minds of consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/webinar-on-use-of-cera-resources-105060
27-06-2020||---||BSF jawan cremated with state honours||Hisar, June 26 The mortal remains of BSF head constable Om Prakash from Samain village in Fatehabad district were consigned to flames with state honours today. Recently, the BSF jawan died on duty in Jammu and Kashmir. Tohana MLA Devender Singh Babli, BJP state president Subhash Barala and SDM Naveen Kumar were among others who paid tributes to the martyr.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bsf-jawan-cremated-with-state-honours-105036
27-06-2020||---||Toll plaza to come up in Rewari||Chandigarh, June 26The Subana-Kosli-Nahar-Kanina road will have a toll plaza near Gujjarwas village in Rewari district on State Highway 22.While commercial vehicles crossing the new toll plaza will be charged, tractor-trailers, cars and two wheelers will be exempted from toll.A notification of the PWD (B&R) has fixed toll for trucks and Canters at Rs 200 per round trip. Trucks with more than 10 tyres will be charged Rs 300 per round trip. Buses having state carriage permit will be charged Rs 200 per round trip, with daily pass costing Rs 300. Monthly pass will cost Rs 6,000. Charges for buses with contract carriage will be Rs 200 per round trip. Former minister Ajay Yadav criticised the state government’s move to set up a toll plaza amid Covid, when people were already financially stressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/toll-plaza-to-come-up-in-rewari-105037
27-06-2020||Parveen Arora||Half of pollution check centres in Karnal not on VAHAN platform||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 26More than half of the pollution checking centres in the district have not been registered on the VAHAN platform, as a result of which owners of vehicles registered before 2017 have not been issued pollution under control (PUC) certificates.The Supreme Court had, on August 10, 2017, issued directions to the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways to link all pollution checking centres with the VAHAN database so that no fake certificate could be issued. The other objective was to keep vigil on exorbitant price charged by centre owners. All centres were to be registered online by September 2019. But this has not been done. Of the 83 pollution checking centres in the district, only 35 are registered on the VAHAN platform. These centres do not have the data of vehicles registered before 2017. RTA officials say manual or offline PUC certificate cannot be issued by any centre.Dr Vivek Sharma, a city resident, said: “I went to three PUC centres and, to my surprise, all three were not registered with VAHAN. When I could not get a PUC certificate, I sent a mail to the Transport Commissioner and apprised him of the matter. In response, I was asked to approach the RTA office. Till now, no solution has been found.”Satish Jain, Assistant Secretary, RTA, said: “A couple of days ago, the RTA had sealed three PUC centres which were not registered online. The data of vehicles registered before 2017 is not uploaded online. As a result, PUC certificates are not being generated. We have written to the National Informatics Centre for uploading the data.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/half-of-pollution-check-centres-in-karnal-not-on-vahan-platform-105038
27-06-2020||Karnal||Dairy owners get ultimatum||The municipal corporation (MC) has served a 15-day ultimatum on dairy owners in Karnal to start construction at allotment sites on the Pingli road. The MC has asked them to deposit 20 per cent of the allotment amount. It has warned them that their dairies will be sealed if they fail to comply with directions.“We have served notices on 29 allottees ,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Municipal Commissioner. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dairy-owners-get-ultimatum-105039
27-06-2020||Our Correspondent---||House panel seeks expenditure details from Chinese firm||Gurugram, June 26 Amid the ongoing India-China standoff, the Haryana Vidhan Sabha Committee on Local Bodies and Panchayati Raj Institutions has got tough with Eco Green, a Chinese solid waste management company working in Gurugram. On the committee’s directions, the Vidhan Sabha Secretariat has asked Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Urban Local Bodies, to submit a reply on the expenditure on the solid waste management, and non-compliance of terms and conditions by Eco Green. The committee has shot off a letter to the ACS, demanding clarification on the money spent in one year on the solid waste management in Gurugram. It has also sought details of the public money spent on creating sanitation awareness.  “How many times has Eco Green been fined? How many times has it not paid fines? There have been instances of people giving segregated waste to the company, but it mixes it and dumps at the Bandhwari landfill,” the letter states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/house-panel-seeks-expenditure-details-from-chinese-firm-105040
27-06-2020||---||Covid deaths cross 200 mark||Chandigarh, June 26With 13 deaths in the past 24 hours, the number of fatalities crossed the 200 mark in Haryana.So far, 211 persons have died with 71.6 per cent being from Gurugram (81) and Faridabad (70). The fatality rate is 1.64 per cent in the state.Today, the deaths were reported from Gurugram (5), Hisar (5), Faridabad (2) and Karnal (1).In Faridabad, a 70-year-old woman from Jawahar Colony and 56-year-old man from Old Faridabad succumbed to the viral disease. A 57-year-old woman of Nilokheri Kisan Basti died of Covid today at KCGMC, Karnal. She was brought with multiple ailments late last night.Meanwhile, 421 fresh cases were reported today with 68.1 per cent being from Gurugram (194) and Faridabad (93). The cumulative Covid tally reached 12,884 today.Cases were also recorded from Sonepat (35), Bhiwani (24), Rohtak (15), Mahendragarh (10), Jhajjar (9), Palwal (8), Ambala (7), Karnal (7), Nuh (6), Yamunanagar (5), Jind (4), Panchkula (2), Kurukshetra (1) and Sirsa (1).Among the cases in Ambala district, five came from Ambala City, including three of a family including a five-year-old child, and two from Ambala Cantonment.A 12-year-old boy of Khanpur Kolian, Kurukshetra, tested positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-deaths-cross-200-mark-105041
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||8 FIRs against sanitiser firms||The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) has registered eight FIRs for cheating in connection with production of fake sanitisers and overpricing following the Covid pandemic. Two FIRs each have been registered in Gurugram, Faridabad and Hisar and one each in Ambala and Kaithal. Four of these FIRs have been registered in June. The issue of fake sanitisers and overpricing has reached the HC, with Haryana, Punjab and Chandigarh having been directed to submit action-taken reports by July 6. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-firs-against-sanitiser-firms-105042
27-06-2020||---||Central, state govts hiding failures: Selja||Mahendragarh, June 26 State Congress chief Kumari Selja has cornered the Centre for the China transgressions into the Indian territory, rampant increase in fuel prices and rising unemployment rate. “The governments at the Centre and in the state have failed on all fronts. Both are misleading the people by hiding their failures,” she told the media on the sidelines of “Saheedo Ko Salaam Divas” observed by the local unit of the Congress in Narnaul here on Friday. The event was organised to pay tributes to 20 Army personnel killed in violent clashes with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley. She also hit out at the Centre over the continuous increase in petrol and diesel prices. “In many cities, petrol prices have touched the Rs 80 mark. Instead of providing people with some relief, the state government is adding to their problems,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/central-state-govts-hiding-failures-selja-105043
27-06-2020||Hisar||Gift card fraud: 1 lakh PAN cards misused||Central GST officials have found 950 mobile phone sets and 29,000 SIM cards kept in bags at a home in Fatehabad district during a raid.This has led to the exposure of a Rs 1,500 crore financial fraud wherein persons owning fake firms used to procure gift cards from banks and sold or self consumed those by swiping on POS machines to pocket commission and evade GST.Banks issued 15 lakh cardsThe officials also found data of one lakh PAN numbers from a person who was also involved in the fraud. The transactions of gift cards worth Rs 1,500 crore in past 10 months in Hisar and Fatehabad districts have come to light which are in violation of RBI guidelines.Sources said the Central GST has frozen debiting from the bank account of one of the major parties in the case.The case will be filed on completion of the inquiry. “On the seizure of 950 mobile phones from a person in Bhattu village in Fatehabad district, the person immediately deposited duty of Rs 17.1 lakh for the phones,” an official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gift-card-fraud-1-lakh-pan-cards-misused-105044
27-06-2020||Ravinder Saini||Locusts enter Haryana from Rajasthan, settle in Rewari||Tribune News ServiceRewari, June 26Swarms of locusts covering 8 km in length and 3 km in width on Friday entered the state from Rajasthan and settled in various villages of Khol and Jatusana blocks in Rewari district in the evening after passing through Mahendragarh district.The locust attack kept the administration in Rewari and Mahendragarh districts on their toes throughout the day. Farmers left no stone unturned to stop the swarms from settling in their fields and protect their cotton and bajra crops. Farmers in villages where locusts were flying low forced the swarms away by banging ‘thalis’.Jaswinder Singh, Deputy Director, Agriculture, MahendragarhOfficials on their toesWe got an input early in the morning that locusts had reached the Jhunjhunu region in Rajasthan and might enter Mahendragarh district. Our team rushed to bordering villages to take stock of the situation. The swarm entered Dhanchauli and Rambaans around 10:30 am. Their number may be more than 10 lakh.The swarms initially tried to settle at Khaleta and Siha villages under the Khol block in Rewari district after coming from Mahendragarh, but farmers gathered in large numbers and banged utensils and beat drums to push locusts away. The locusts flew over 36 villages of Mahendragarh district and minor damage to the cotton crop was reported from Thana village.Officials kept an eye on the movement of locusts throughout the day and senior officers kept a tab from the state headquarters. Additional Director (Agriculture) Surinder Dahiya reached the spot while Additional Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal issued directives to the district authorities.“A total of 593 tractor-mounted pumps have been put in operation and farmer groups have been activated. Hafed and Haryana Land Reclamation Development Corporation have replenished the stock of insecticide,” said Kaushal, adding that the operation against locusts would commence soon.Agriculture Minister JP Dalal would visit Rewari on Saturday to take stock of the situation. Rewari DC Yashendra Singh said they were taking all measures to protect the crops from locusts.He further said locusts had reached Berali, Biharipur, Parkhotampur, Bohatwaas, Gopalpur, Gudiyani, Lala, Baldhanpur Berali and Musepur villages under the Jatusana block. “Spray will be carried out where locusts settle. All arrangements have been made in this regard,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/locusts-enter-haryana-from-rajasthan-settle-in-rewari-105045
27-06-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Haryana caps Covid treatment rates||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, June 26Haryana today capped the cost of Covid treatment in private hospitals, slashing the rates being charged in Gurugram and Faridabad by 60 per cent.The authorities in Gurugram announced opening of malls and parks from next week, bringing cheer to the residents. At the same time, it hinted at stern measures in over 100 containments zones. Gurugram DC Amit Khatri said there was no plan to re-impose lockdown.How much to pay*(*Cost at non-NABH facilities) Rates at NABH facilities: Rs 18,000, Rs 15,000 and Rs 10,000In an order issued by Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, the maximum rate at non-NABH accredited facilities for patients requiring ICU stay with ventilator care (non-invasive/invasive) has been fixed at Rs 15,000 per day. The cost will be Rs 13,000 for those requiring ICU facility without ventilator care. For isolation beds, including supportive care and oxygen (moderate sickness), the daily rate will be Rs 8,000. For National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH) hospitals, the treatment cost per day for the three categories of patients will be Rs 18,000, Rs 15,000 and Rs 10,000, respectively.In the 100 containment zones, the administration plans aggressive tracing and isolation and extensive antigen testing. All movement will be curbed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-caps-covid-treatment-rates-104967
