27-04-2020||---||Villagers object to cremation in Ambala, attack police party||Ambala, April 27A police party was attacked with stones at Chandpura village in Ambala Cantonment where people objected to cremation of a 82-year-old woman, suspecting her to be a Covid patient.The cops had to fire shots in the air to disperse the mob. However, the police denied any use of force.Though the chronic diabetes patient, who died at Ambala Cantonment Civil Hospital this afternoon, had no Covid-like symptoms, the doctors took her sample as a precautionary measure to allay apprehensions, if any. The report was awaited.No sooner the bereaved family members reached the village with the body, the villagers stopped them from performing her last rites. Sensing trouble, the police were called but the villagers remained adamant.“We tried our best to pacify them to allow the cremation but they instead pelted us with stones, following which we rounded up around six persons, paving the way for cremation late in the evening,” said DSP Ram Kumar.He added that situation was brought under control and legal action was being initiated against the attackers.
27-04-2020||Rohtak||Rohtak-origin doctor treats Covid patients with her own blood plasma in USA||A doctor belonging to Rohtak, who is a practicing nephrologist in the USA, has set an example by overcoming the COVID-19 disease and treating patients with her own blood plasma.Dr Pooja Bhatia Malhotra is a daughter of Rohtak-based senior advocate Amarnath Bhatia.As per her family sources, Dr Pooja runs a hospital in New Jersey where dialysis is conducted. In the last week of March, she contracted Covid herself from one of her kidney disease patients who had not tested positive for Covid by then.The doctor recovered from the disease and went back to her hospital, where she has been treating patients with her own blood plasma.“After having tested positive for Covid, my sister stayed at her home in strict isolation and took the requisite treatment. After about 17-18 days, she recovered from the disease and started attending her patients again. She has donated her own blood plasma for the treatment of Covid patients,” said Dr Pooja’s brother, Vishal Bhatia.Dr Pooja’s father, advocate Amarnath Bhatia, stated that he was proud of his daughter who was serving as a frontline warrior against the Covid pandemic which has gripped many countries.
27-04-2020||Sanjay Yadav||ESIC nurses want better facilities||Gurugram, April 27The ESIC nurses in Gurugram have accused the authorities of being biased towards doctors in the allocation of rooms.The Haryana ESIC Nurses Welfare Association claimed that while the doctors had been allotted rooms at PWD guesthouse they were lodged at a facility set up at the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), which even lacked basic hygiene.The association alleged that the nurses at the SCERT were forced to use common bathrooms, which put them at contagion risk.The nurses have refused to put up at the centre.  "Staff nurses are complaining about lack of basic facilities at their quarantine centre in the SCERT. As the staff nurses come under the state health department, I have informed the Civil Surgeon and the Commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram. However, I have not received any response till now," said Dr Shubhra Gupta, MS, ESIC, Gurugram.“The facility lacks basic hygiene. Both doctors and nurses are equal partners in the fight against COVID-19 and both are at contagion risk. We cannot have one getting better treatment while the other is put at risk,” said Lal Sharma, treasurer, ESIC Nurses Welfare Association.“In one shift, 20 staff nurses work in COVID hospital on daily basis and they need to be isolated in the most hygienic manner. We have brought this to the notice of the DC also, and have been assured of action," Sharma added.
27-04-2020||Jhajjar||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 7 new cases from Faridabad, Jhajjar, Ambala||Haryana on Monday reported seven more COVID-19 cases from Jhajjar (5), Faridabad (1) and Ambala (1) districts.Jhajjar district, which had so far been safe from the COVID-19 pandemic, reported five cases of COVID on Monday, putting the district health authorities on its toes.A 30-year-old commission agent, hailing from Lal Khania locality in Jhajjar tested positive. He used to bring vegetables/fruits from Azadpur Market in Delhi to the Jhajjar vegetable market. His sample, along with other commission agents and vegetable vendors, was taken two days ago during the random sampling.A resident of Vivekanand Colony in Bahadurgarh has tested COVID positive. He is employed with the Health Department of the Delhi government and used to travel from Bahadurgarh to his workplace in Delhi daily. The three other COVID cases are close contacts of a Covid positive Delhi cop hailing from Sulodha village in Jhajjar district.Faridabad reported one more positive case on Monday morning, taking the district's tally to 46. A 50-year-old CEO of a health institute in New Delhi, a resident of sector 28 here, tested positive for COVID-19. Four members of his family have been quarantined and isolated. He reported a fever four days ago. He has been admitted to the ESI hospital in Faridabad.Another positive case takes Ambala tally to 14A 66-year-old woman in Ambala tested positive for COVID on Monday, taking the district tally to 14, an official of the district health department said.The patient was, for the past 15 years, undergoing kidney treatment and dialysis at PGIMER in Chandigarh, where she tested positive this morning. The district health and police personnel rushed to the area and sealed it before collecting samples of the patient's contacts.
27-04-2020||---||April showers hamper wheat operations||Chandigarh, April 26Widespread rain across Haryana today damaged the wheat lying in the open at various grain markets even as farmers rued the inadequate arrangements at purchase centres to deal with the showers.Too early to talk of crop lossIt is too early to comment whether the rain has caused any major loss to the wheat crop. The government will set up a team to assess the loss, if any. — A senior official of Agriculture DepartmentThe rain that lashed Karnal damaged the wheat produce lying in the open while arhtiyas maintained that the slow lifting of the grain also contributed to their problems. Farmers have been forced to suspend harvesting for a couple of days as they alleged that there were insufficient arrangements at the procurement centres to cover the produce lying in the open.In Kaithal, rain accompanied by strong winds caused damage to the grain lying in mandis and hampered harvesting operations at several places, adding to the worries of farmers. At some places, the accumulated rainwater increased the woes of the procurement agencies as water-soaked bags of grain cannot be lifted and the rush in the mandis leaves little space for drying it.In Jhajjar, around 2,000 quintals of wheat lying in the open in purchase centres was soaked, claimed Chand Singh, president of Jhajjar Grain Market Commission Agents Association. The authorities, however, denied any damage.Meanwhile, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare Department, Sanjeev Kaushal stated that 3.08 lakh metric tonnes of wheat was procured from 21,144 farmers in the state on Sunday.
27-04-2020||Strap||Nodal officers to check attacks on medicos||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 26The Haryana Government has appointed nodal officers at the state and district level to ensure the safety of medical professionals and frontline workers in view of Covid pandemic to prevent incidents of violence against them. The nodal officers will be available to redress safety issues regarding the functioning of medical professionals.An official spokesman said in compliance with the Home Secretary, the government’s demi-official letter, the Haryana Government has already appointed DIG (Law and Order) as the state nodal officer (SNO) and all Police Commissioners, Senior Superintendents, and Superintendents of Police as district nodal officers.He said the district nodal officers shall regularly submit reports to the SNO who shall submit action taken reports (ATRs), in consultation with Director General of Police, to the Home Department accordingly. He added that the details of the preventive measures taken and the appointment of the nodal officers should be widely publicised amongst the medical fraternity, including the local or district chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMAs) as well as to the public at large to create a sense of security and confidence. Also, the members of the IMA must be kept apprised of the actions taken regularly.As per the spokesman, directions have been given to take all necessary measures to ensure adequate protection to healthcare professionals and frontline workers, and to prevent any incident of violence against them. The instructions also stated that strict action should be taken against those who obstruct the performance of last rites of the medical professionals or health care personnel posted in the frontline who died of Covid infection while discharging their services.He said the Supreme Court (SC), in its order pronounced on April 8, stated that the Government of India, the respective States and Union Territories, and the respective Police authorities should provide necessary police protection to the doctors and medical staff employed at hospitals and places associated with Covid positive patients or those suspected of Covid, or those quarantined. Also, the court has directed to provide protection to doctors and other medical staff who visit places to conduct screening of people.He said the Union Home Ministry, on the directions of the SC, has asked all State/UT or District authorities to take strict penal action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, or any other law in force, against offenders, who obstruct government health officials, or other health professionals and or related persons, who are authorised under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in the discharge of their lawful services.
27-04-2020||Sanjay Yadav---||Community radios proving boon as RJs run campaigns||Gurugram, April 26 Amid the Covid scare, community radios of Nuh are proving a boon to keep people informed and check the spread of rumours. The Health Department has tied up with 11 radio jockeys (RJs) to maintain seamless communication with locals. The jockeys are busy broadcasting special programmes and awareness campaigns through two community radio stations, Radio Mewat and Alfaz-e-Mewat, in Nuh district where 57 Covid cases have been reported so far. Radio Mewat (FM 90.4), that has a listener base across 165 villages, has not only been sharing credible health intelligence, but also has been running a special telephonic helpline where seven RJs, working in shifts, are taking calls on Covid doubts and queries and broadcasting resolutions to make people aware of symptoms and care of Covid. “We are running a special programme where we broadcast interviews with religious leaders on Covid and they urge people to strictly obey Covid precautions. Women RJs are reaching out to women and broadcasting women-specific programmes. We are also broadcasting Covid specials for farmers. We are spreading messages of administration and government pertaining to Covid to a larger section of people,” RJ Imran Khan of Radio Mewat said. Another channel, Alfaz-e-Mewat (FM 107.8), caters to 225 villages and regularly relays information received from the District Collector, Chief Medical Officer and other government functionaries to listeners.  “The special live programme ‘Lockdown 19 din aur’ is a huge success as it concentrates on nitty-gritty of lockdown. We have shows like ‘Aaj ka hero’, which is based on personal accounts of Covid warriors. We also run special jingles to emphasise social distancing. A Gurugram psychologist is also helping the station. All our four RJs are doing their best to eliminate Covid fear through awareness,” said RJ Shakir of Radio Alfaz-e-Mewat.
27-04-2020||Parveen Arora||Unsung warriors keep eye on violators from control room||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 26Amid the ongoing lockdown due to Covid pandemic, hundreds of police personnel are fighting at frontline, but there is a team of 12 members who are putting their best foot forward in the battle against Covid.These police personnel are keeping a tight vigil from police control room on the movement of people round the clock with the help of 129 CCTV cameras which are installed at 31 different locations of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (MC) limits.As per the officials, earlier, the duty timing of a cop was eight hours, but now they are working 10-12 hours daily. A couple of them are even discharging the duty for 24 hours after a break of a day.“We are keeping a vigil on the roads of the city round the clock. We inform the concerned PCR or the police station whenever we observe gathering of people or violation by the residents,” said Inspector Geeta, in-charge of CCTV unit. She said prior to enforcement of lockdown, their main focus was on traffic rules violators and criminals, but now they were assisting field staff in the strict implementation of lockdown.“Since, there is a shortage of police personnel, so we all have divided duties and are giving our best. I am working for around 12 hours daily while, earlier the duty was of eight hours. It is a time of crisis for everyone, so we all should do our best to check the spread of Covid,” said Ramesh Chander, head constable.Surinder Singh Bhoria, Superintendent of Police (SP), lauded the efforts of the police personnel on Friday during his visit there. He referred to them as unsung warriors who were working tirelessly in this fight. “Apart from my team members who are keeping a vigil at different nakas, the team of control room is doing its job tremendously,” he added.By giving prompt information to the field staff about any lockdown violation, these police personnel were doing their part in the implementation of lockdown, he said.
27-04-2020||Kurukshetra||Six-laning of road resumes in Kurukshetra||In a major relief to Thanesar residents, six-laning of the road from Pipli to Kurukshetra University resumed on Saturday. The project had been started in December 2018 and was scheduled to be completed by December last year, but only about 4 per cent of the work was done. The tender was terminated and a fresh tender awarded by the PWD (B&R). Work was scheduled to resume on March 25, but could not due to the lockdown. An amount of of Rs 57 crore was to be spent on the project, of which Rs 44.23 crore was for civil work and the remaining amount on drains, paver blocks and electrification. “Work has resumed with machinery and material available. The minimum labour is being engaged and directions have been issued to follow Covid-related guidelines,” said Amit Manuja, XEN, PWD (B&R). “We have engaged seven labourers and will have around 15 in a few days. Our machinery is stuck in Uttar Pradesh and we have got permission to bring these here. We need around 50 lakh feet of stone, but only around 2 lakh feet is available,” said Ashok Mittal, contractor. “I have told the contractor to complete work on one side. I have asked him to repair the railway overbridge road on priority. The project must be completed in 15 months,” said Subhash Sudha, Thanesar MLA. — TNS
27-04-2020||Ravinder Saini---||Bride’s family gifts masks to groom, kin||Tribune News Service Rewari, April 26 Masks and sanitisers have replaced expensive gifts at wedding functions. At Gulabi Bagh here, the family of a bride gifted protective kits to the groom and guests accompanying him. Also, it was ensured that social distancing norms were followed. Only five persons attended the wedding.    The priest sanitised the “mandap” and “jaimala” before starting the “pheras”. Everyone was spooted wearing a mask. The groom — Deepak Kaushik — works at the DC office in Jhajjar and his father Devender Kaushik is posted at the Jhajjar SDM office, while the bride, Neeru Sharma, is a graduate.  “The marriage was fixed on April 25. We did not want to postpone it, so we decided to marry the two off in the presence of family members,” Devender said. “We wanted to lay emphasis on the importance of social distancing in such times. It’s a way to send across the message that precautions can save us all from the deadly virus. Masks and sanitisers are a must. We expect others to follow suit,” the bride said.
27-04-2020||---||Undertrial dies in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, April 26 An undertrial died at the trauma centre of Civil Hospital here on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Raman Valmiki of Yamunanagar. He was lodged in connection with a case of attempt to murder. Jail Superintendent Ratan Singh said a district court sent him to the jail on April 22. He said the undertrial vomited around 1 pm yesterday. He said the undertrial was taken to the trauma centre. Dr Vijay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, said the patient died around 2 pm. “The postmortem was conducted by a board of three doctors under the supervision of a judicial magistrate,” he said. Kin of the deceased raised slogans against the jail administration outside the mortuary. The body was handed over to the family today. DSP Sudhir Taneja said the cause of death would be ascertained from the postmortem report.
27-04-2020||---||Leopard spotted in Kurukshetra village||Kurukshetra, April 26 Panic gripped residents of Chandpura dera on the outskirts of Hamidpur village in Babain block of Kurukshetra after a leopard was spotted by a villager on Sunday morning.  A 25-member team of the Wildlife Department reached the village and laid traps to catch the leopard. Rampal Singh, Sub-Inspector Wildlife, Kurukshetra, said, “A young leopard was spotted by villagers and teams have been deployed to catch it. Two cages have been kept to trap the animal.” Tejbir, Inspector Wildlife, said, “We have not sighted the leopard yet, but we have spotted some pugmarks of the animal. We have been told that the big cat climbed a tree and later went towards a maize field. The pugmarks suggest the animal is still hiding in the field. There are veterinary doctors and experts ready to tranquilise the leopard. The police have also restricted the movement of residents. Efforts are on to rescue the leopard.”
27-04-2020||---||Food inspector commits suicide||Kurukshetra, April 26 An inspector of the Food and Civil Supplies Department allegedly committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance on Friday. The Kurukshetra police has registered a case of abetment to suicide against the District Food and Supplies Controller (DFSC) and other officials of the department on his wife’s complaint. The deceased, Ashish, currently had charge of the Jhansa and Thol grain markets in Kurukshetra and was also looking after the ration depots of Kurukshetra City. His wife Anu Malik lodged a police complaint, alleging Ashish took the extreme step due to harassment by department officials. Anu and Ashish got married in 2015 and they have a three-and-a-half-year old son. The Kurukshetra police registered a case under Section 306 of IPC at Thanesar City police station. SHO Jaspal Singh said the case was registered on the complaint of Ashish’s wife and his body was handed over to the family after postmortem.  “Anu Malik has levelled allegations against the District Food and Supplies Controller and other officials of the department, but has not mentioned any name in the complaint. Neither is there a statement of the deceased nor has a suicide note been recovered,” he said.
27-04-2020|| ---||700 units in Faridabad apply to resume ops, 63 get nod||Faridabad, April 26 Launching the approval process to permit the functioning of industrial and manufacturing units after the easing of the lockdown conditions, the authorities today approved the applications of 63 units. A total of 700 units have applied for the permission so far. The district has a total of 25,000 units employing a workforce of around 5 lakh. Claiming that the approval process has been started formally, a spokesperson of the district administration said that three separate committees have been set up to process the applications for approval. Revealing that the first lot of 63 applications from various types of units having manpower of 6,421 persons were sanctioned today, Ishwar Singh Yadav, GM, DIC (District Industries Centre), said that all the pending applications were expected to be processed within a few days.  He said the units given approval would be given a certain time period to sanitise and clean the premises and take all measures to ensure that there is no risk of the spread of Covid during operations.  For this, he said that a physical inspection would be carried out by experts before the operations are actually launched.  “The permission could be withdrawn without prior notice if the norms are found to be violated,” he said. Permission has also been granted to another nine units engaged in construction work in the past 24 hours, he added. According to the officials concerned, while the committee headed by the DC will decide the applications of the units having 200 or more workers, a second committee headed by the ADC would provide permission to units having worker strength between 25 and 200. A third committee — headed by the SDM of the area — would assess the applications of units employing less than 25 workers. “We are eagerly awaiting the permission. Four days have already passed after the portal for applications was opened,” said a spokesperson of the Faridabad Industries Association (FIA).
27-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Double whammy for growers||Kaithal, April 26Rain, accompanied by strong winds, not only damaged wheat in mandis, but also hampered harvesting at many places in the district.Already, farmers are finding it difficult to sell their produce, and now untimely rain has resulted in accumulation of water in fields.Officials of procurement agencies are also worried as wheat-soaked cannot be stocked in godowns. They can’t even open the bags and dry the wheat, given the heavy rush in mandis.Now, farmers won’t be able to bring rain-soaked wheat to mandis for a few days. “It’s a double whammy for us,” said farmers, adding that government policies had already made things difficult for them and now with rain damaging the produce, they wondered how they would cope with the loss.Meanwhile, government agencies purchased 1.84 lakh MT of wheat till Saturday evening, said Deputy Commissioner Sujan Singh.
27-04-2020||---||Rain dampens wheat in mandis, farmers suspend harvesting||Karnal, April 26Sunday morning showers dampened wheat lying in the open in various grain markets of the district, forcing farmers to suspend harvesting for a couple of days.Arhtiyas said slow lifting of grain and inadequate arrangements to cover the produce had worsened the situation.“We have requested the authorities to speed up lifting, but to no avail. Also, shortage of labour is aggravating the woes of farmers,” said Rajnish Choudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association.As per information, about 34.46 lakh quintal of wheat was procured till Saturday evening, of which around 8 lakh quintal has been lifted, while the remaining is lying at 170 procurement centres.The farmers fear rain at this time may lead to shrinking of grain. “A week ago, rain had an adverse effect on the crop and reduced the yield to around 6-7 quintal per acre. Another spell will only result in losses,” said Malak Singh, a farmer.The government should ensure proper arrangements to protect the produce in mandis.Pawan Rana, another farmer, said: “Meri Fasal, Mera Byora” portal is not working. The government should ensure procurement of produce of non-registered farmers too without any delay.”Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said due to rain, they had decided not to ask the farmers to bring their produce on Monday. “We will only procure wheat which is lying in the grain markets tomorrow. Procurement agencies have been directed to strengthen lifting,” he added.Relax procurement norms: Cong to govt
27-04-2020||---||Modi calls up former minister||Karnal, April 26 Former Industries Minister Shashipal Mehta was surprised to receive a call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday.  The Prime Minister called him to enquire about his well-being. As per the former minister the Prime Minister also enquired about his family as well as residents of Karnal district.  “At 9.43 am, I received a call from Prime Minister Office and it was a surprise for me. The Prime Ministerenquired about my health and backache. When I was elected an MLA from Karnal constituency in 1996, the Prime Minister was the convener of BJP Haryana and CM Manohar Lal Khattar was the organising secretary. I was hospitalised due to backache in 1996 and the Prime Minister still remembers my pain,” said the former minister while talking with The Tribune.  During the 4.30-minute long call, the Prime Minister also asked about the status of Karnal amid lockdown.
27-04-2020||---||495 migrant labourers sent back to UP||Karnal, April 26 Day after sending 260 stranded migrant labourers back to their native places in UP, the district administration on Sunday sent back 495 more migrant labourers to their native places in UP in 17 buses. They were staying here at shelter homes for the last one month and were excited to go back to their homes. “I came from Ludhiana and remained here at the shelter home. Now, I am happy to go back to my home as I am going to meet my family after a long time,” said Ramu, a migrant labourer. Another labourer Anirudh said they were given all kinds of facilities here at the shelter home, but they wanted to go back to their homes. “We are thankful to the district administration and volunteers of the dera, who have provided us all kinds of facilities,” he said. “The Karnal authorities have established five shelter homes in Radha Soami Satsang Bhawans. Out of total 805 labourers, 260 were sent back on Saturday, while 495 have been sent on Sunday,” said DC Nishant Kumar Yadav. The remaining labourers will be sent after getting nod from the Bihar Government, he said.  The labourers have been provided with masks, sanitisers, food pakets and water bottles so that they do not face any kind inconvenience. “During their stay, they did yoga and played games,” he said.
27-04-2020||Gurugram||Work-from-home may go on till July-end: Gurugram top official||Various MNCs, BPOs and IT-enabled services here may have to allow their employees to work from home till the end of July, says VS Kundu, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority CEO-cum-Additional Chief Secretary. He said several real estate projects had got the green signal to resume construction within norms of social distancing. The district administration had issued an advisory in mid-March, asking MNCs, BPOs, IT companies, corporates and industries to allow work from home. “As of now, it appears that this advisory will continue till the end of July. All those who have offices in Gurugram should continue to work from home to the extent possible,” he said. He said a few construction sites had been allowed to resume work. “Construction sites where labourers are staying on the site or within walking distance are allowed to resume work while adhering to social distancing norms,” he said. — PTI
27-04-2020||---||Sonepat-Delhi border sealed, screening must||Panipat, April 26Haryana has sealed its border in Sonepat district with Delhi to check the spread of coronavirus, officials said on Sunday.Sonepat Deputy Commissioner Anshaj Singh issued the order under Section 144, stating that 14 of the district’s 19 Covid cases were directly or indirectly connected with people who travelled from Delhi to the district. The DC also issued orders to stop the movement of residents and government employees from Delhi to Sonepat till May 3.Following the directions, the police sealed inter-state borders and started double-checking after five persons tested positive in the district. However, movement of people continued following which SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa ordered SHOs to seal the borders strictly and start double-checking system wherein two checking pickets were set up near the border at a distance 100 metres. “No person will be allowed to cross the borders without screening,” the SP said.The DC also designated Shahzadpur village, Rail High Rise Apartment in Ward 10, Khoobru village of Gannaur, Nandwani Nagar locality in Sonepat city and Ahmadpur village as containment zone after positive cases were reported. He also declared adjoining areas as buffer zones. Entry in containment zones has been strictly banned by the administration. The administration has also deployed duty magistrates for contained zones to stop the spread of the virus.
27-04-2020||Mukesh Tandon---||ASI in trouble over quarantine breach||Tribune News Service Panipat, April 26 After a Covid positive ASI kept visiting the police station and also produced an accused in a local court at Samalkha, SP Manisha Chaudhary on Sunday sought a report from the Samalkha DSP, seeking explanation for the negligence.    As per information, the woman ASI’s brother, who is a constable with the Delhi Police, came home at Khoobru village in Gannaur of Sonepat district on May 19. As he was unwell, the ASI took him to the Panipat general hospital on April 23, where he tested positive for Covid.  The next step was to test other family members. The local police quarantined his mother, father, younger brother and even the ASI. After all of them tested positive, health officials sent them to the BPS Medical College in Khanpur Kalan. But the ASI kept coming to work.  As tracing the ASI’s direct contacts may take time, the department has decided to put all police officials under quarantine, it is learnt.   “As many as 70 police officials, including the  Samalkha station house officer, are under quarantine,” said the SP.  “We have identified 22 primary contacts of the ASI and the Health Department has sent their samples for testing. I have sought a detailed report on the issue,” she said.  The SP has directed all SHOs to ensure that no police official goes home, except in case of emergency, and stay at the police stations only. Special nakas have been laid at the Haldana border on the national highway. Meanwhile, the SP said Inspector Mahender Singh, in charge, anti-narcotics branch, would officiate as the Samalkha SHO. She added that 45 police personnel too had been posted at the police station to manage the affairs.
27-04-2020||---||Eight more cases, tally goes up to 282||Chandigarh, April 26With more cases of reported infection spread by movement of Delhi Government employees emerging in the state, Health Minister Anil Vij has said Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora talked to her Delhi counterpart today over not allowing passes to those employees who are natives of Haryana.Now, 846 tests per million in stateVij had earlier pointed out that a number of cases due to movement of Delhi Government employees, particularly police personnel and staff working in hospitals, were emerging.In Panipat, a Delhi Police constable infected four members of his family who tested positive today. They comprised his parents, brother and sister, who is posted as ASI at the Samalkha police station in Panipat.The Delhi Police constable, a resident of Khoobru village in Sonepat, had come to meet his family members. As his sister was posted in Samalkha, about 50 police personnel were quarantined.Besides Panipat, fresh cases also surfaced in Faridabad (2), Sonepat (1) and Hisar (1). The state’s tally reached 282. With 14 Italian nationals, the count would be 296.In Faridabad, a 25-year-old youth from Lakadpur village, who was undergoing treatment for kidney disorder in New Delhi, was referred back to the district after he was found positive.The second case pertains to a 34-year-old commission agent at a vegetable market, who is a resident of Kheri Kalan village.In Hisar, a 60-year-old man, whose elder brother died during treatment at Medanta hospital in Gurugram on April 22, tested positive today.His elder brother had tested positive and his cremation was performed in Hisar. Samples of persons who were present during the cremation had been taken. In Sonepat, a 52-year-old farmer of Ahmedpur village, who had gone to the Azadpur vegetable market in Delhi to sell his brinjal crop on April 20 and reported with flu-like symptoms on April 24, tested positive.The Jhajjar administration took samples of five members of a family after a resident of Gubhana village here was found positive in Delhi, where he is employed with the Municipal Corporation Delhi. His wife and children reside in the village and he often used to pay them a visit.A total of 199 patients had been cured in the state with a recovery rate of 67.2 per cent. The number of samples taken so far is 21,467, with 19,241 testing negative and results of 1,930 awaited. The figure for tests per million population reached 846 today.
27-04-2020||Deepender Deswal||Strict cops, amenable public show results in Fatehabad||Tribune News ServiceHisar, April 26Compliance of lockdown norms by the people and strict vigil by the police at inter-state and inter-district borders have been effective measures in checking the spread Covid in Fatehabad district.The district, which shares borders with Punjab and Rajasthan, has sealed its inter-state borders and tightened vigil on inter-district borders.“Initially, we had to be tough in both rural and urban areas to enforce the lockdown. Gradually, people started cooperating,” said Superintendent of Police (SP) Rajesh Kumar.The SP maintained that smuggling of liquor and drugs was a challenging task for the police during the lockdown as unscrupulous elements and criminals were trying to cash in on the lockdown.“The police issued 1,825 challans and impounded 421 vehicles in about a month. I have been checking various police nakas almost everyday,” he said. He added that the police had succeeded in persuading residents to stay indoors.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Munish Bansal, said a man who had tested positive in Jandwala Bagar village was quarantined and the entire village declared containment zone.“A total of 25 teams of the Health Department have been deployed for testing and sampling in the containment zone. Asha workers and anganwari workers have been on their toes during the lockdown,” he said. He added that they were still alert and could not afford to relax.Social organisations were making their contribution, especially in taking care of the poor and stray cattle. Shri Shyam Welfare Society president Vijay Saharan was leading social activists in supplying food to the poor and migrants stuck due to the lockdown. The society also served feed to stray cattle in urban areas.After initial strictness in villages, residents seemed to have relaxed ‘thikri pehra’ in view of harvesting. Karan Singh of Bhirdana village said villagers had developed the habit of social distancing. “We kept strict vigil for a month at all nakas and not a single person was allowed inside the village. Harvesting has picked up and farmers and labourers need to move from one place to another to reap crops,” he said.
