27-11-2020||Chandigarh||29 more COVID deaths, 2,135 new cases in Haryana||Haryana on Friday reported 29 more fatalities linked to the coronavirus, bringing the death toll to 2,345, while 2,135 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection tally to 2,28,746, according to a bulletin.According to the state health department’s daily bulletin, the fatalities included five from Faridabad and four each from Gurugram and Rohtak districts and three each from Hisar and Fatehabad districts.Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases included Gurugram (698), Faridabad (468), Hisar (157) and Rohtak (104).Haryana has an active case count of 20,400 and COVID-19 recovery rate of 90.06 per cent. PTI
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Centre always ready for talks, dialogue would fetch solution: Khattar to farmers||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday sought to assure agitating farmers that the Central Government is always ready for talks with them and a solution can come out through the dialogue.Khattar extended the assurance amid farmers from Punjab and Haryana striving to reach the national capital as part of their “Delhi Chalo” call to protest against the three central farm laws.Khattar appealed to farmers to directly talk to the Centre regarding their legitimate issues.“The Central Government is always ready for talks,” Khattar said in a tweet.“I appeal to farmer brothers to directly talk to the Centre for all their legitimate issues,” he added.केंद्र सरकार बातचीत के लिए हमेशा तैयार है।मेरी सभी किसान भाइयों से अपील है कि अपने सभी जायज मुद्दों के लिए केंद्र से सीधे बातचीत करें। आन्दोलन इसका जरिया नहीं है- इसका हल बातचीत से ही निकलेगाKhattar told farmers that the path of stir could not be a medium for the resolution of problems and asserted that a solution will emerge from talks.Farmers have been protesting against the Centre’s farm laws, fearing that the new laws would lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.They have been demanding the repeal of these laws.The Centre has invited several Punjab farmers outfits for another of talks in Delhi on December 3. PTI
27-11-2020||Sanjay Yadav||4 sisters found murdered in Haryana’s Nuh; mother booked for crime||Gurugram, November 27A woman is believed to have slit the throats of her four daughters before trying to kill herself in Piproli village in Haryana’s Nuh, police said on Friday.A complaint from the woman’s husband, Khurshid (38), said he returned home in the early hours of Thursday to find his wife, Farmeena, lying in a pool of blood writhing in pain, while his three daughters--- Muskan (6), Miskina (4), Alshifa (3), and four-month-old Arbina--- lay nearby with their throats slit. The woman is alive but critical, and is currently undergoing treatment at that Shahid Hasan Khan Hospital, Nuh Superintendent of Police Narender Bijarnia said.Police said Farmeena has a daughter from a previous marriage whom Khurshid had sent away to her maternal uncle a month ago despite his wife’s objections. Farmeena is also believed to have accused her husband of threatening to kill her, police sources said.The couple have been married for eight years.Police said she has been booked for murder.Vivek Chaudhary, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Punhana---the tehsil that the village comes under---said Khurshid had blamed his wife’s action on the lack of a male progeny---an angle police are now looking into. He also said a kitchen knife was used to slit the children’s throats while they were still asleep.  “We are speaking to family and neighbours who are hinting at frustration of not bearing a male child as the key motive,” Chaudhary said.
27-11-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Farmer climbs atop police vehicle during protest, turns off water cannon; photo goes viral||A picture of a young protester jumping and climbing onto a police car, to turn off the water cannons is being widely circulated online. The water cannons were being used to disperse the farmers.  As the police reached out to him after he turned off the water-canon, he jumps his way out—like a scene from a movie. The picture is being treated as strength of farmers, who despite the tear gas and the biting cold of water canons, still marched forward.The young protestor has been identified as Navdeep Singh, from Ambala district, who is a graduate and was protesting along with farmers from over 250 villages.ਖੱਟਰ ਸਰਕਾਰੇ ਜਿਹੜੇ ਪਾਣੀ ਦੀਆਂ ਬਛਾੜਾਂ ਅੱਜ ਤੁਸੀਂ ਮਾਰੀਆਂ ਇਹ ਪਾਣੀ ਸਾਡੇ ਪੰਜਾਬ ਚੋਂ ਹੀ ਆਉਂਦਾ ਜਿਸ ਦਿਨ ਭਾਖੜਾ ਨੂੰ ਠੱਲ ਪਾ ਤੀ ਫੇਰ ਪੀਣ ਨੂੰ ਵੀ ਤਰਸੇਂਗੀ।#ModiAgainstFarmers #ChaloDelhi #farmersdillichalo pic.twitter.com/Z2gyNE1nQb  This young protestor jumped on to the the water cannon, turned the tap off and jumped right back on to his trolley, during yesterday's protest at Punjab-Haryana border. #BharatBand #bharatbandh pic.twitter.com/doXYQ5cWTC  This youth getting all praise from Punjab farmers for his act at Kurukshetra Hry, he reached water canon vehicle stopped it saving farmers from high velocity water and jumped bk on tractor trolley to continue journey towards Delhi to protest against farm laws @BKU_KisanUnion pic.twitter.com/iYDlnuglDl  "I was a studious child, never did these kind of things like climbing and jumping. But the bravery shown by protesters gave my courage," he told Punjabi Lok channel, reports The Quint.I climbed from a tractor trolley on to the truck and reached the tap. I turned it off, but a policeman had also climbed (on to the truck) chasing me. But by that time, my brother had brought his tractor near and I jumped on it," he adds, detailing his movements which were captured on camera.He mentions that the police 'hit him on the feet with sticks,' but he doesn't have anger against them, as "They too, are the sons of farmers."
27-11-2020||New Delhi/Chandigarh||Delhi Chalo march: After clash, farmers allowed to enter Capital; Burari ground new epicentre of protest||After facing tear gas, water cannons and clashing with security personnel, hundreds of farmers entered the national capital on Friday to hold peaceful protest at a north Delhi ground, but there were still thousands at border points who were undecided to go to the identified demonstration site and a clarity in their decision is expected on Saturday.Around 600 farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws headed to Sant Nirankari Ground, one of the biggest in the national capital, following several hours of confrontation with the police at different border points with Haryana.After a meeting between farmer leaders and senior police officers, the Delhi Police allowed protesters to hold demonstration peacefully at Nirankari Ground, but senior farmer leader Darshan Pal later said they would stay put at border points on Friday night and a decision on whether to go to the identified protest site or not will be taken on Saturday.At the Tikri border, some groups of farmers were escorted by police personnel around 3 pm amid tight security and taken towards the identified protest site. But those gathered at the Singhu border, one of the main routes used to access the city from Punjab, had not entered the city till late evening.Carrying flags and shouting slogans, thousands of farmers gathered at various entry points into the national capital in a determined bid to push their way through as part of their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march while police blocked them with barricades, tear gas shells and batons.Earlier, more Punjab farmers crossed the state’s border with Haryana, some of them after facing water cannons and teargas as they headed towards Delhi to join thousands who had already reached the national capital’s borders.But by evening, all Haryana Police barricades at the border with Punjab and along the highway to Delhi were lifted, allowing traffic to run as before.Traffic on the highway to Delhi and other roads was restored, with the Haryana Police removing barricades meant to thwart the “Delhi Chalo” protest against the Centre’s new farm laws.“The barriers which had been put up earlier have been lifted. Vehicular traffic is plying normally,” Karnal Range Inspector General of Police Bharti Arora told PTI over phone.After braving water cannons and clashing with security personnel, thousands of farmers started entering the national capital on Friday from the Tikri border following permission by Delhi Police to hold peaceful protests at the city’s Burari ground.Thousands of farmers gathered at various entry points into the national capital were allowed in on Friday to hold a peaceful protest at a north Delhi ground, defusing some of the tension building up since morning around the city’s edges and beyond.Also read: Protesting Punjab AAP MLAs detained from outside PM's residence in DelhiFarmers say entering Delhi is not the aim; a concrete decision on three Acts is the only way outFarmer climbs atop police vehicle during protest, turns off water cannon; photo goes viralThe concession came after hours of a standoff that saw police using teargas shells, water cannons and multi-layer barriers to block the protesters and the farmers pelting stones and breaking barricades in some places in their determination to push through as part of their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march against the Centre’s new farm laws.“After holding discussion with farmer leaders, the protesting farmers have been permitted inside Delhi to hold peaceful protest at Nirankari Ground in Burari. We appeal to all farmers to maintain peace,” said Delhi Police PRO Eish Singhal.At the Tikri border, farmers were escorted by police personnel amid tight security around 3 pm and taken towards the Nirankari Ground, one of the biggest in the city.                 But those gathered at the Singhu border, one of the main routes used to access the city from Punjab, had not entered the city till evening.                 As the issue snowballed, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said no government in the world can stop farmers fighting the “battle of truth”.In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said the prime minister should remember that whenever arrogance takes on truth, it gets defeated.“The Modi government will have to agree to the demands of the farmers and take back the black laws. This is just the beginning!” he tweeted with the hashtag ‘IamWithFarmers’.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday welcomed the Union government's decision allowing farmers to enter the national capital and hold peaceful agitation.Earlier in the day, agitating farmers at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu border had pelted stones and broke barricades as they clashed with Delhi Police which used tear gas shells to disperse them.Police said farmers have been allowed to hold peaceful protest at the Nirankari Ground in north Delhi."I welcome the Centre's decision to allow farmers to enter Delhi to exercise their democratic right to protest. They should also now initiate immediate talks to address farmers' concerns on the #FarmLaws and resolve the simmering issue," Amarinder Singh said in a tweet.Punjab farmers’ bodies claimed that the Union Government has allowed them entry into Delhi with a permission to hold their agitation at the Burari ground.Farm union leader Jagmohan Singh confirmed that farmers from 30 unions have reached near Delhi."Delhi police have given us an offer of holding a dharna at Burari Maidan in Delhi, but we will discuss this will all the unions," he added.BKU Ekta Ugrahan leader Shingara Singh Mann, who had entered Haryana from Dabwali, along with a farmers' convey, has crossed Sirsa as of now."Haryana police has not stopped us anywhere. Although there were hurdles on the highway, they have been removed by the farmers. We are moving ahead to Delhi. We have got information that Delhi police is planning to open borders for farmers and is offering them protest site in Delhi.”Delhi police removed barricades from the Tikri border and allowed protesting farmers to enter the national capital.Face-off between farmers, police near Delhi borderDespite heavy security deployment, groups of agitating farmers from Punjab and Haryana reached near two Delhi borders on Friday morning after breaking police barricades on the way as part of their protest march against the Centre's new farm laws.Clashes broke out at multiple places and Delhi's borders resembled a virtual battle zone with restless crowds of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, milling around and a sea of police personnel keeping them at bay. Drones circled the air and plumes of smoke from teargas shells could be seen from far.Beyond the border points, the tension spilled over on highways where groups of farmers squatted on the road, and stood in trucks and tractors, waiting impatiently to make their way to the national capital.  The Delhi Police has enhanced deployment of tear gas, security personnel, stationed sand-laden trucks and water cannons and used barbed wire for fencing at the Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border) to prevent the protesters from entering the city. Police were also deployed on Delhi's border with Faridabad and Gurgaon.A faceoff occurred between farmers and police at the Singhu border near Kundli as the agitating farmers who want to move towards Delhi resorted to stone-pelting and the police used tear shells to disperse them. The Delhi Police used tear gas shells to disperse a group of farmers who had reached the Singhu border, while at the Tigri border security personnel used water cannons to disperse farmers trying to enter the national capital.Plumes of smoke were seen as security personnel used multiple rounds of tear gas to disperse the protesting farmers at the Singhu border.At the Tigri border, farmers clashed with police and also tried to remove a truck, which was placed as a barricade, by tying it to a tractor with the help of a chain.Multi-layer barricading was in place at the Singhu border --- a direct route from Punjab to Delhi --- to prevent farmers from entering the national capital.Drones are also being used by security personnel to keep a strict vigil on the movement of protestors in bordering areas.Also read: Langar preparations under way to serve thousands of protesting farmersHundreds of farmers staged a dharna at Tikri border in Delhi and decided to wait for other farmers before entering the national capital.Breaking: About 3000 vehicles with thousands of farmers have crossed Sapla and are heading towards Tikriwal Delhi Boarder.  The farmers accused the Delhi police of detaining protesters and deflating the tyres of their tractors.A senior Delhi Police official said the forces have used tear gas shells to disperse a group of farmers who had reached the Singhu border point which connects Delhi with Haryana.The officer said the forces are using tear gas to disperse protesting farmers, but at the same time they are also "informing them that in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, any kind of rally and dharna is not allowed in the national capital."“The permission has been denied for any kind of dharna or protest in view of surge in COVID-19 infections in the city and whoever tries to enter Delhi the police is empowered to take legal action against such person,” said another police officer.Security has been strengthened at the border and sand-laden trucks and water cannons have been stationed, the officer said, adding that barbed wire is also being used for fencing at the Singhu border to prevent the protesters from entering the national capital.Punjab farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, have announced they will go to Delhi through several routes—Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa. Tensions appeared to have been escalating at all the border points.Farmers have assembled near the borders in tractor-trolleys laden with rations and essentials for their proposed Delhi march. Authorities in Haryana have imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) in several parts of the state to prevent assembly of the protesters.However, farmers' bodies have announced that they will hold a dharna wherever they are stopped from moving towards the national capital.Punjab farmers are demanding the repeal of the new farm laws, which, they said, should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with the stakeholders. They also want a guarantee on the minimum support prices (MSP).AIKSCC and Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has sent a letter to the Commissioner of Police Delhi and requesting him to let farmers enter Delhi and protest peacefully in the capital.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Haryana) leader Gurnam Singh welcomed farmers from Punjab to Haryana and urged them to maintain peace and not attack the police. He asked them to follow the lead of farmers from Haryana.A 45-year-old farmer died while two others were injured when a truck hit their tractor-trolley near Mudhal village in Bhiwani en route the “Delhi Chalo” agitation.Massive traffic chaos gripped the expressway in Gurugram on the second consecutive day owing to the heavy barricading of Delhi Gurugram-Sirahul border. A jam of about one hour threw traffic out of gear as vehicles stood lines up at borders were allowed entry only after thorough checks in view of the ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest of the farmer outfits.Gururgam police had deployed 900 personnel on 13 borders connecting city to Delhi, Nuh, Rajasthan, Rewari, Sohna and Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway.In all over 125 barricades have been put around borders which is leaving congestion with Sirhaul being the worst hit. The congestion not only left commuters to Delhi harried but also those headed to or back from Rajasthan.What added to woes of the public is the suspension of metro services and public transport services to Delhi."There is traffic congestion but we are trying to maintain peace and keep city unaffected from the protest march. We had and are still appealing to people no to head to Delhi till urgent," said CP KK Rao.In Ambala, farmers removed the police barricades and threw them into the Ghaggar river passing beneath the bridge on which they are having a face-off with the Haryana police and RAF, who are equipped with riot-control gadgets.Indiscriminate use of water cannons and tear gas shells failed to deter the protesters, who are renting the air slogans against the Centre and Haryana government while waving black and red flags.In Jhajjar, Delhi police used tear gas shells and water cannon to stop the farmers at the Tikri border, adjacent to Bahadurgarh.A march of Punjab farmers reached the Haryana-Punjab border at Shambhu. Braving water cannons and tear gas shells, thousands of protesters are adamant to break open the police barricades for gaining entry to Haryana for continuing their 'Delhi Chalo' movement.In Karnal, farmers from Punjab continued to march towards Delhi. They were marching on tractors and SUVs on the National Highway-44 and the Kaithal-Karnal roads. Police have erected fresh barricades near Karan Lake to stop the farmers. Farmers staged a dharna when Taraori police tried to stop them from moving ahead. However, after a brief faceoff, farmers were allowed to go ahead. The Taraori police were trying to divert them.Karnal police have registered two FIRs -one against BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni and another against unknown farmers of Punjab for breaking barricades in Karnal on Thursday.BKU Ugrahan members have started preparations to start march for New Delhi from Khanauri border of Punjab-Haryana.In Sangrur, preparations have started at the Khanauri border to start the march for New Delhi. BKU Ugraha members, in around 4,000 vehicles, will start the march in around two hours.Farmers managed to enter Haryana by breaking the barricading at Dabwali border. Farmers today threw away triple-layered barricading and huge cement pillar stones deployed by Haryana police at the Dabwali border to stop them.A 6-7 km long convoy of tractors and trucks entered Haryana through Dabwali town in Sirsa district as Haryana police personnel remained mute spectators and did not restrict the entry of farmers. Even though water cannons were deployed at the spot, seeing farmers in such a large number, police did not use it.Apart from this, farmers in even private cars were also seen joining the protest and heading for Delhi Chalo protest from here. Many teachers have also joined the protest.A youth with a stick also climbed atop a water cannon of the Haryana police and tried to damage it as well at Dabwali border.A large number of youths in broke the barricades within a few minutes and entered the Sirsa district amid slogans of "BKU Ekta Ugrahan zindabad" and "Jo Bole So Nihal". The youth were also seen wearing the t-shirts with a photo of Bhagat Singh.—With PTI
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Panel set up to draft law against  ‘love jihad’: Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij today said the government had set up a three-member committee to draft a law against “love jihad” to check forcible religious conversions on the pretext of marriage.Comprising Home Secretary TL Satyaprakash, ADGP Navdeep Singh Virk and Additional Advocate General Deepak Manchanda, the panel would study a similar law enacted by other states, including MP and UP.Vij had recently said in the Assembly that the state government was considering a law against “love jihad”. The minister was replying to a calling attention motion on the murder of Ballabhgarh girl Nikita outside her college allegedly by a youth, Tauseef, who wanted to “kidnap her for marriage”. — TNS
27-11-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Drones to check violation of Covid norms in Gurugram||To intensify action against Covid protocol violators in crowded areas of the city, the Gurugram police have launched special drone surveillance here on Thursday.The drones will cover 18 key crowded areas of the city and cops would issue challans to the offenders. The special drive was started from Khandsa road and then moved on to Sadar bazaar and bus stand of the city.Awareness toolIn addition to keeping an eye on violators, the drones will also be used as awareness tools for making people aware of the importance of the Covid protocols and also warning people.“During the operation, people, including shopkeepers, who violate the rules, are being monitored through drones and police teams are deployed at the identified places. The Gurugram police are also taking prompt action against the offenders. People are being made aware about the protocols through voice messages using the drones,” said Police Commissioner KK Rao.In addition, the Gurugram police while interacting with representatives of the market also asked them to maintain social distancing in the market and motivated the shopkeepers and people coming to the market to wear masks. Masks were also distributed by the police to poor and needy people.A total of 938 challans were issued on Wednesday for violation of the mask norm while 95,694 challans had been issued by the police so far.
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 25 more deaths, 2,122 cases||With 25 deaths and 2,122 fresh cases, the Covid tally on Thursday jumped to 2.27 lakh. Five deaths alone were reported from Faridabad, followed by three each in Hisar, Rohtak and Bhiwani, two each in Gurugram, Rewari, Panchkula, Jind and Kurukshetra, and one in Karnal.So far, 2,316 people have died with 2,030 having co-morbidities. A total of 2,267 people recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of discharged persons to 2.04 lakh. There are 20,778 active cases in the state.The maximum fresh cases today came from Gurugram at 698, followed by 457 from Faridabad, 101 from Sonepat, 95 from Panipat, 94 from Rohtak and 93 from Rewari. — TNS
27-11-2020||Hisar||Haryana Agricultural University develops bio-fortified millet||Scientists in the bajra section of the department of genetics and plant breeding in Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (HAU) have developed a new bio-fortified variety of millet.The HHB 311 variety has been notified and released by the Crop Standards, Notification and Approval Central Sub-Committee of the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation in the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare.The variety has been developed by Dr Ramesh Kumar, Dr Dev Vrat, Dr Virendra Malik, Dr MS Dalal, Dr KD Sahrawat, Dr Yogendra Kumar, Dr SK Pahuja, Dr Anil Kumar, Dr LK Chugh, Dr Narendra Singh, Dr Kushal Raj, Dr M Govindaraj and Dr Anand Kanati.Vice-Chancellor Samar Singh said the variety contained high iron and zinc content at 83 mg and 42 mg per kg, respectively. “The HHB 311 variety has the potential of 18 quintal yield per acre. This variety is resistant to downy mildew and matures in between 75 and 80 days,” he said.
27-11-2020||Rohtak||BJP, RSS leaders volunteer for Phase III vaccine trials||Quite a few leaders of the ruling BJP and the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) are coming forward as volunteers for the clinical human trials of indigenous Covid vaccine Covaxin going on at Rohtak PGIMS.After Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij took the initiative and became the first volunteer in Phase III of the ongoing trials, former Haryana minister and senior BJP leader Manish Grover got the vaccine administered on Thursday.Grover maintained that he suffers from diabetes as well as hypertension, but had got the vaccine after undergoing the requisite medical tests and getting clearance from the doctors.“I am proud to be part of the Covid vaccine trials and appeal to the residents to come forward and get the vaccine administered to get rid of the pandemic,” he stated.Advocate Rakesh Sapra and former district BJP president Ramesh Bhatia also got the vaccine along with Grover.Prof OP Kalra, Vice-Chancellor of Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, said more than 400 persons had got themselves registered as volunteers in the third phase of clinical human trials of the vaccine at Rohtak PGIMS. Of them, 176 had already got the vaccine administered.RSS functionaries Subhash Ahuja, Vijay Kumar and Ishwar Singh have also volunteered for the trials and got doses of the vaccine.
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Staff union strikes work across Haryana||The Sarv Karamchari Sangh declared its strike successful as it claimed that lakhs of regular and temporary employees participated in it.The strike was observed as 10 central trade unions had given the call against privatisation of public sector enterprises.Sangh president Subhash Lamba said, “If the government does not give up its rigid stand and continues to take anti-worker decisions, we will launch a movement.”He said employees protested outside their offices and processions taken out at many places. He added that the employees condemned the state government over stopping farmers and using force.“A total of 2,250 Haryana Roadways buses did not ply on their routes,” said Lamba. He said the main demands were old pension policy, regularisation of temporary employees, end of contract system and privatisation, withdrawal of farm laws and reinstatement of 1,983 PTIs.
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||JJP cancels Bhiwani rally||The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) has decided to cancel its proposed rally on December 9 in Bhiwani to mark its second foundation day.As per the party’s statement on Thursday, the party leaders and workers suggested JJP’s national president Ajay Singh Chautala to call off the proposed rally as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of Covid following which he decided to cancel the rally.Chautala on Thursday had reached in Sirsa and Fatehabad to meet party leaders and workers.He said JJP workers had contributed vastly for the interests of the state and safety of the citizens. He said the rally would be held later when the Covid threat ends.
27-11-2020||Hisar||Wrestlers Bajrang, Sangeeta tie the knot, take 8 ‘pheras’||Wrestler Bajrang Punia tied the knot with Sangeeta Phogat in a private ceremony in Balali village of Dadri district on Wednesday.Sangeeta Phogat is the younger sister of the Dangal girls—Geeta and Babita. Sangeets is also a wrestler.Keeping in mind the COVID protocols, a limited number of guests were present at the function.Punia, who is a Khel Ratna and a Padma Shri awardee, and top-most wrestler in his weight group in the world, belongs to Khudan village in Jhajjar district and is presently, living in Sonepat.The newly-wedded couple took eight ‘pheras’. The eight ‘phera’ was dedicated to the girl child as they vowed for the ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’—a government campaign.Sangeeta’s father and coach expressed his happiness over her marriage.Punia has represented India in 65kg weight category, and has won three medals, including one in silver, and two bronze, in world wrestling championships. — TNS
27-11-2020||Rohtak||Radiography Day observed||KU organises lecture seriesKurukshetra: The Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology of IIHS, KU has started a series of lectures on “Recent trends and perspectives in biosciences”. As a first lecture of the series, a webinar was organised on Wednesday on “Advances in global health: Perspectives from developmental biology” on Google Meet and Facebook Live at the Facebook page of IIHS, KU. Dr Elisha R Injeti, an associate professor and director for research and development from Cedarville University, USA, was the speaker of the day. He talked about the relevance of developmental biology to manage non-communicable diseases especially cancer, stroke and COPD. He explained the fundamentals of good health in global context and elaborated the significance of prenatal development with adult health in a lucid way. He also correlated various aspects of health such as physical, mental and social to developmental biology. About 150 students of biological sciences attended the webinar.IGU professor awarded patentRewari: Dr Savita Sheoran, associate professor at Computer Science and Engineering, Indira Gandhi University (IGU), has received a patent certificate from the Government of India for her scientific innovation namely “An improved method of data broadcast in wireless environment”. Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar said Savita along with two other professors — Rakhee from BITS Pilani (Rajasthan) and Seema Verma from Banasthali Vidhyapeeth (Rajasthan) — have been granted the patent for 20 years. “In their invention, the professors have developed a broadcast system capable of balancing energy consumption and access latency for ubiquitous devices. The system relies on innovative indexing schema to keep the mobile devices in doze mode and active only when desired information is available on channel saving a lot of battery power, almost at the negligible cost of access latency,” said Gakhar.
27-11-2020||TO prevent flood-like situation with the breach of augmentation canal near Mainmati village||Fear of canal breach near Karnal village||Docs must utilise govt infrastructureTO provide better dental care facilities, the government had provided Rs 3 lakh modern dental chairs in a poly clinic about three years back. But the irony of the situation is that not even a single patient has ever availed its benefits. The infrastructure is lying wasted and not being used effectively. The lone dental surgeon, who does other hospital duties, has never done OPD for dental patients. The DHS Haryana should take a note of it and should streamline the system. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaGovt must ensure safe disposal of face masksTHE general public seems to be totally oblivious to the disposal of face masks as these can be seen strewn everywhere after being discarded. One day, we saw some masks lying on a road and stray cattle were feeding on them, which can pose a big threat to the animals. Amid the pandemic, people need to be taught about ways to handle biomedical waste to prevent the harmful effects of careless handling of it. The government should immediately issue instructions for their proper disposal and the offenders must be issued challan on the spot by the police. Ramit, Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaState needs to think about protecting green coverNO sympathy can be shown towards anybody who harms the natural resources, including trees and plantation in the state. The increased incidents of cutting of trees in the name of development are very unfortunate. To escape the drastic effects on the nature, the replantation drive needs to be observed throughout the year rather than just an annual ritual on Van Mahotsav. The government can also think about roping in unskilled labourers, under the MGNREGA scheme, into the plantation drive and also for digging ponds. It is worth mentioning that late Prof Ragner Nurkse opined that we can generate employment for the disguisedly unemployed people by employing them in digging up the land which can be used with little reorientation as ponds for rain-harvesting techniques to escape droughts-like situations as well as floods in the state. The state government for ensuring prevention of trees and water resources can effectively utilise the schemes, including MGNREGA. MM Goel, KurukshetraPeople must wear mask, ADOPT social distancingPEOPLE must not take Covid lightly and take all necessary precautions to prevent the spread of the pandemic. We should follow the required guidelines such as wearing a face mask, using sanitiser and adopting social distancing whenever we meet other persons be it our relatives, friends or unknown persons. The spread of virus can be checked if we continue to follow the preventive measures properly. This is the only effective way in the present time to check the alarming rise in the number of cases and also the reason why the situation is worsening in the nation. Ritik Singh, KaithalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
27-11-2020||Ambala||Farmers face water cannons||Three-tier police nakas and use of force failed to stop Punjab farmers from entering Haryana on Thursday. Thousands of peasants passed through Ambala after breaking police barricades at Shambhu on the Patiala-Ambala highway and Saddopur on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway.The young and old, women and children braved water cannons and teargas shells by the huge posse of Haryana Police, accompanied by Rapid Action Force (RAF) to continue their march to Delhi.Peasants took control of the highways passing through Ambala towards Delhi after a face-off with the police. They threw away iron barricades and moved heavy concrete boulders placed on the middle of the highways.The determined protesters pushed aside earth-laden dumper placers and fire tenders to make way for over 1,000 tractor-trolleys, buses and other vehicles into Haryana. Many walked on foot while waving black flags as part of the anti-government movement, leaving cops on duty helpless.The farmers had brought JCB machines, iron chains and a road roller to break open police nakas. Some of them pelted police personnel with stones and bricks, resulting in minor injuries on them. As the tension rose and the situation turned into a free-for-all, the cops started moving aside to avoid a clash.Some police personnel had a narrow escape when the protesters pushed aside an earth-laden dumper placer towards them and it started sliding towards them, but stopped after hitting the toll plaza wall.Punjab farmers breached the naka at the Shambhu border around 11 am and marched into Haryana. They threw barricades into the Ghaggar and faced the police, equipped with anti-riot gadgets, leaving a few of them injured.After the peasants crossed, the police parked heavy vehicles in the middle of the highway to stop the protesters, but to no avail. The appeal by BKU leader Balbir Singh Rajewal not to break barricades and squat indefinitely, failed to stop the farmers.“Till the time the PM takes back these farm laws, we will not return home,” said Kashmir Kaur (40) of Ludhiana.“We had made arrangements to prevent the movement of protesters, but they came with JCB machines and other equipment to break barricades,” said DC Ashok Kumar Sharma.
27-11-2020||Karnal||In Karnal & Panipat, barricades breached||After crossing two barricades in Ambala and Shahabad on Wednesday, thousands of farmers led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni overpowered one of the strongest barricades installed by Karnal and Panipat police here at Karan Lake on NH-44.The barricades had three layers. One of police personnel, second one of six to seven trucks which were parked on the bridge of Western Yamuna Canal to stop the movement of farmers, followed by barricades of stones and iron. But these proved insufficient in stopping the farmers.Despite the use of water cannon and tear gas, farmers continued their journey to Delhi against the three agricultural laws.They raised slogans against PM Narendra Modi and CM Manohar Lal Khattar.After spending the night at Samanabahu, farmers started their journey at around 10 am from Samanabahu. To give the police force the slip, farmers once left their trolleys in the middle and started moving on bikes. Later, they called up their tractor trolleys and assembled near Karan Lake barricades at noon.After taking langar and holding a meeting of the core committee, the farmers decided to break the barricades as they had done in Ambala and Kurukshetra districts.They started their march at 1.45 pm and after the call of the core committee of moving ahead, the farmers started their march. Once, they removed the trucks parked on the road with the help of tractors and later, they lifted barricades of stones and iron. It took around 35 minutes to remove the barricades.They crossed Karan Lake barricades at 2.25 pm and stayed at Baldi bypass Karnal Gurdwara. After having tea, they proceeded further.At 4.50 pm, they reached Bastara toll plaza where members of Akhil Bhartiya Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti joined the march. They entered Panipat district around 5.40 pm.Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC, said, “We have captured the whole incident and action will be taken against those who broke the ‘naka’.”Panipat: Farmers from Gohana reached Panipat after breaking open the barricading of the Panipat police at five places. Meanwhile, farmers on eight tractor-trolleys came from Gohana side and the police tried in vain to stop them near Shahpur village.Sidelights26 protesters detained at SamplaA group of farmers owing allegiance to the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) that was marching towards Delhi was taken into custody by the police near Sampla township in Rohtak district. AIKS Rohtak unit vice-president Capt Shamsher Singh said the police deployed near the toll plaza used force on the peacefully marching farmers and manhandled even the girls, women and elderly persons participating in the march. The Kisan Sabha's district secretary Sumit Singh stated that as many as 26 persons had been taken into custody by the police near Sampla toll plaza.Poor response in Rohtak, JhajjarThe protest by farmers evoked a poor response in Rohtak and Jhajjar districts on Thursday, with only a few peasants joining the agitation. Though leaders of the Congress and INLD had extended their support to farmers, no prominent leader of either party was seen during the protests in both districts. State Congress spokesperson Krishan Murti Hooda slammed the state government for using water cannons on protesting farmers and placing blockades on highways to stop farmers from marching to Delhi.
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Capt, Khattar spar on Twitter||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar clashed over farmers’ unrest on Twitter on Thursday.In the afternoon, Amarinder tweeted, “For nearly two months, farmers have been protesting peacefully in Punjab without any problem. Why is Haryana government provoking them by resorting to force? Don’t the farmers have the right to pass peacefully through a public highway?”“It’s a sad irony that on #ConstitutionDay2020 the constitutional right of farmers is being oppressed in this manner. Let them pass @mlkhattar ji, don’t push them to the brink. Let them take their voice to Delhi peacefully,” he tweeted.After more than two hours, Khattar reacted. In a series of tweets from his personal handle, the Haryana CM told Amarinder to stop inciting farmers. He tweeted, “@capt_amarinder ji, I’ve said it earlier and I’m saying it again, I’ll leave politics if there’ll be any trouble on the MSP-therefore please stop inciting innocent farmers.”“I’ve been trying to reach out to you for the last three days but sadly you decided to stay unreachable. Is this how serious you are for farmers’ issues?” he tweeted.In the evening, Amarinder responded, “Shocked at your response @mlkhattar ji. It’s the farmers who’ve to be convinced on MSP, not me. You should’ve tried to talk to them before their #DilliChalo. And if you think I’m inciting farmers, then why are Haryana farmers also marching to Delhi?”
27-11-2020||Ambala||BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni booked for murder bid||Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni has been booked under charges of attempt to murder and rioting for an incident that happened near Farauli village in Ambala on NH-44 when the farmers forcefully drove away their vehicles, forcing police to step aside and make way.The case has been registered on the complaint of head constable Pradeep Kumar, who is posted at Mohra police post. Pradeep has alleged that farmers tried to run over the policemen and had a scuffle with them. The police personnel had a narrow escape.Gurnam and his supporters also violated Covid guidelines by not wearing masks. They also caused obstruction in government duty and broke barricades. — TNS
27-11-2020||Karnal||Biting cold, drizzle fail to dampen farmers’ spirit||A light drizzle on a chilly Wednesday night and farmers unwinding in the open along the National Highway 44 after a long day marked by protests and marches — that’s how the day ended for farmers who began their protest march from the Mohra mandi in Ambala.The weather, though, was no dampener on the enthusiasm of the farmers, most of who could hardly sleep. With limited trollies and fewer cots available at a dhaba near Samanabahu village where they camped, farmers spent the night staying awake and keeping vigil.Fearing detention by the police, most of the young farmers sat cuddled in blankets and stayed up through the night ensuring that their leaders and elder farmers rested enough to lead them through another day of protests.“It was a cold night and temperature dipped further because of the rain. We spent the night in trolleys without fear,” Sombir, a farmer of Ambala district, said, adding that they would make the “Delhi Chalo” protest against the three farm laws a success.“We kept our spirits high by discussing our strategy. Langar and tea were served throughout the night,” said Gurjant Singh, another farmer while having a sip of tea.Labh Singh, another farmer, said: “Farmers are used to spending nights in the open. It was nothing new for us. We are determined to march towards Delhi to protest against the Centre.”Jai Singh, another farmer from Ambala district, said: “Farmers harvest the crop after spending nights irrigating the fields. Our night-long vigil in chilling weather will bear fruit.”The barricading near Karan Lake by the Karnal administration forced some commuters to spend the Wednesday night in their vehicles on the NH-44.Among them were a newly married couple and members of the wedding party. “I got married on Wednesday. My family, wife and I were on our way home in Delhi when our cars stopped because of the jam. We have no option, but to spend the night in the car,” Lucky, the groom, said.Some commuters travelled several kilometers on foot as the taxi they had hired had refused to take them further.
27-11-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Farmers' agitation: BJP in Catch-22 situation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 26The farmers’ “Delhi Chalo” protest has meant trouble for the BJP-JJP government from the word go. While it has landed the BJP on the horns of a dilemma, its alliance partner’s image as the farmer face in the state has taken a beating.The BJP finds itself in a Catch-22 situation in the midst of the protests. While it does not want the protesters to reach Delhi since its party government at the Centre is at the receiving end, it does not want to take any stringent action against the protesting farmers.“The BJP is in a spot when it comes to this particular protest. That Haryana could not hold back the farmers will reflect poorly on the state leadership while any action against the protesters will be counter-productive. This protest and dealing with it has been a very tightrope walk for the leadership, which the state leadership seems to have handled to the best of its ability,” a party leader said.While the urban-centric BJP “dent” might only be cosmetic, the protests and the silence of the JJP will leave a lasting impact on the party and its support base since farmers are its primary vote bank and the party claims to be the farmers’ voice in Haryana. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee has already started to question Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala’s silence on the protests.Earlier, when the farm laws were passed, Dushyant faced similar questions from farmers’ organisations, which urged him to quit the government.
27-11-2020||Panipat||Farmers camp at Panipat toll plaza||Farmers reached the Panipat toll plaza on NH-44 on Thursday evening and decided to halt for the night. The Panipat and Sonepat administration made elaborated arrangements to stop farmers.The Sonepat administration sealed the borders with Delhi and Panipat to stop farmers’ entry. The Delhi Police also sealed the borders and deployed paramilitary forces.Panipat and Sonepat police detained some BKU leaders as a preventive measure. Charuni said the government had put up nakas and barricades at various places, but farmers moved ahead. — TNS
27-11-2020||Jhajjar||Busy night, cops on their toes||The police deployed on the Delhi border and other points in the district to stop agitating farmers from marching towards the National Capital spent the Wednesday night on the road in chilly weather conditions. Senior police and administrative officers, too, remained on their toes throughout the night.The Rohad toll plaza and the Sector 9 Delhi bypass in Bahadurgarh here were the main points where a heavy posse of police personnel was deployed on Wednesday evening following the inputs that farmers would try to go to Delhi at night. No farmer, however, turned up.“It was a cold night, but we remained alert and checked every vehicle crossing the toll plaza. We kept senior officers updated on the situation at regular intervals. Food packets were provided, while mobile toilets were set up,” said Sub-inspector Satish Kumar, who had to leave the wedding of his relative in Sirsa to join duty on the Delhi border.There were, sources say, more than 60 cops who could not attend the wedding of their relatives or friends because of call of duty. Even Superintendent of Police Rajesh Duggal had to skip the wedding of his friend’s son in Rohtak.Vijay, a constable deployed at the Rohad toll plaza, said it was hard to discharge duty in the open, especially in chilly conditions, but they were up for the challenge. “Our spirits are high no matter how long the protest continues,” he said, adding the SP visited them on Thursday morning and boosted their morale by appreciating their night-long vigil.
27-11-2020||Hisar||Blockades gone||The authorities failed to stop the farmers on Thursday. Farmers entered Haryana via the Munak border near Tohana. A cavalcade of farmers reached Agroha in Hisar by evening. Farmers near Dabwali in Sirsa and Data Singhwala in Jind kept sitting on dharna on the borders. — TNS
27-11-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Adamant farmers break barricades in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 26Hundreds of thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana, on way to the national Capital as part of the “Delhi Chalo” protest against the Centre’s recent agriculture laws, on Thursday pushed their way through heavy police deployment, braved water cannons and tear gas and brought down barricades to reach the national highway.There was a confrontation between the Haryana Police and the farmers at the Shambhu border. The farmers, riding tractor-trailers and raising slogans, outnumbered the police personnel and forced their way into Haryana. The use of water cannons and tear gas shells proved of little use as the protesters removed the barricades and dumpers parked in the middle of the road to obstruct their movement.25,000 women protesters25,000 women are taking part in the protest. “Over 4,000 tractor-trailers have been arranged for them,” said SS Kokrikalan, BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan)Stray incidents of stone-pelting were reported at the Shambhu border though none was injured. Sources claimed private and government vehicles were damaged in Kurukshetra, Karnal and Agroha. A toll plaza was damaged too. Farmers led by Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Gurnam Singh Charuni, camping in Karnal for the night, and those making their way into Haryana through Munak in Tohana, Agroha in Hisar, Kaithal and the Khanauri border faced water cannons. In Gurugram, Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav and a group of protesters were detained by the police. By afternoon, the farmers from Punjab and Haryana had virtually swamped the highway till Panipat. The police, despite the barricades raised at several places, let them proceed after a brief face-off.With a large number of farmers camping in Panipat, security at the nearby Karhans village has been tightened. The national highway has been dug up and stone pillars raised to stop the farmers. The Sonepat district administration has established a temporary jail at the IFCI building at Sewali village on NH-44.Capt, Khattar fight it out on TwitterIt’s cheap politicsStop inciting innocent farmers. Time for your lies, deception and propaganda is over. Let the people see your real face… avoid cheap politics. ML Khattar, Haryana CMBlind to problemsSeems your govt has been so busy creating the bogey of non-existent ‘love jihad’ that you couldn’t see the problems of farmers on the ground. Capt Amarinder Singh, Punjab CMTraffic snarls, Delhi Police step up checkingNew Delhi: Commuters from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh faced traffic snarls at several border crossings as the Delhi Police intensified checking in view of the ‘Delhi Chalo’ march by Punjab farmers who are scheduled to reach Delhi through five highways.Routes used by farmersLalru | Shambhu | Patiala-Pehowa | Patran-Khanauri | Moonak-Tohana | Ratia-Fatehabad | Talwandi-SirsaShiromani Akali Dal calls it a black dayUsing force against farmers on Constitution Day. It’s a ‘black day’ for ‘annadattas’ of the country. SAD
