28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports three coronavirus cases, tally stands at 295||Haryana reported three more coronavirus cases on Monday, officials said.The wife of a Delhi policeman who had tested positive for coronavirus was diagnosed with Covid-19 infection in Jhajjar’s Sulodha village on Tuesday.Two relatives of a staff nurse of Babu Jagjiwan Ram Hospital in Jahangirpuri, Delhi, tested positive in Sonepat, taking the district’s tally to 24.Tuesday’s numbers take Haryana’s tally to 309 if 14 Italian nationals are counted and 295 without that count.Haryana health department’s daily bulletin says the state has 81 active infections.The state has reported three deaths so far.  '78 per cent patients are men'Health Minister Anil Vij quoted data from the state health department on Tuesday morning to say that 78 per cent coronavirus patients in Haryana are male and many of the total cases fall in the young age group bracket.Besides, Tablighi Jamaat members account for 46 per cent of the cases.As on April 25, data pertaining to 273 positive cases in the state revealed that 78 per cent per cent patients were male while 22 per cent were female, he said.Seventy-four cases were of people in the 25-34 age group, 53 cases were in the 15-24 age group, 22 in the 65-74 age category while no patient was above 85 years of age.“The Tablighi Jamaat people accounted for 46 per cent of the cases, international travellers 14.5 per cent, health staff 18.7 per cent, domestic travellers 6.2 per cent. Contacts of positive cases accounted for 48.18 per cent cases, while contacts of Tablighis were seven per cent, vendor/shopkeepers etc. accounted for 28.10 per cent,” he said.Haryana saw the maximum weekly spike of 86 new cases between April 7 and 13 when majority of the cases related to attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation were detected. The religious congregation attended by several thousand people was held in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month where a many were reported to have contracted the virus, apparently from foreign delegates.            The worst-affected districts of the state with maximum number of positive cases are Nuh (57), Gurgaon (51), Faridabad (46), Palwal (34), Sonipat (24) and Panchkula (18).Rohtak’s vegetable markets closed for publicRohtak district administration decided to temporarily close vegetable markets at Rohtak and Sampla for the public, instead keeping it restricted only to retailers.Deputy Commissioner RS Verma said vegetable vendors would instead put up stalls at the HSVP ground for the public.“From now on, the shops of the arhtiyas (wholesellers) will open by the odd-even formula. Action will be taken against those selling fruits and vegetables without a valid license or registration,” the deputy commissioner said, adding that the same mechanism would apply to Sampla.The odd-even formula is a strategy used to prevent crowding. Under this, odd-numbered shops would put up stalls on the ground on one day, and even numbered shops the other.  The district administration has also ordered books and stationery shops open in the district. With agencies
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Minimum AC use, maximum fan use: Haryana advisory to tackle coronavirus||An advisory issued by the Haryana Government has advocated restrictive use of air-conditioners (ACs) in residential and commercial premises while urging the maximum use of fans and exhaust fans with proper ventilation to check the spread of coronavirus.In his advisory to different departments, the Engineer-in-Chief of the PWD, recommended that the ACs should not be used in offices or be used very restrictively.The ACs, both window and split, it said, should be operational in the vacant room in the absence of people to the cool the premises.“Before the entry of people in the room, the AC must be switched off to avoid contamination through mixed air circulation by the AC. Thereafter, ceiling fan should be kept running with adequate ventilation,” the advisory said.Stressing the need for proper ventilation, the advisory stressed the need for opening the windows for proper ventilation. It recommended against the use of portable coolers that did not draw outdoor air.Advising against the use of centralised AC system, it feared that contamination could propagate inter-personally within room as offices were occupied by more than one person.Similarly, in healthcare facilities, the advisory stressed upon more natural ventilation through opening of windows and doors.The advisory noted that the virus spread due to droplets coming out after coughing and sneezing. It is highly infectious after these droplets mix with dust particles and set on different materials.It said if the environment was cool and air-conditioned, these remained for a longer time.”Proper ventilation and increase in temperature reduce the magnitude of the virus in that particular area,” it said giving rationale behind issuing of the advisory.The advisory*Don’t use AC or use it in vacant room only.*Use fans, exhaust fans with proper ventilation.*Don’t use centralised AC system.*Say no to portable coolers.*Use maximum natural ventilation by opening doors, windows in healthcare facilities.
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Cong accuses Khattar govt of ‘dilly-dallying’ on wheat procurement||The Congress accused the BJP-JJP government in Haryana on Tuesday of betraying the state’s farmers by “dilly-dallying” on the issue of wheat procurement.The state government has amended its decisions with regards to crop procurement six times in a short span, the main opposition party claimed.“They made six U-turns in a period of nine days which reflects the anti-farmer mindset as also a designed conspiracy not to procure wheat crop at the minimum support price of Rs 1,925 per quintal,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters via video-conferencing.He claimed that the “frequent changing of decisions and the new diktats have brought the wheat procurement system to the brink of ruin”.“Till April 27, only 21.60 lakh metric tonnes of wheat have been procured, as against 91 lakh metric tonnes during the corresponding period of 2019,” Surjewala said.He said farmers were already facing a lot of hardship and now an order has been issued under which “crop procurement will not take place for a day on April 29 at the procurement centres in the state”.Surjewala further said the government last month had promised to give Rs 50 to Rs 125 per quintal bonus on wheat to farmers, but chose to remain silent when procurement began on April 20.“In another U-turn, the Arhitiyas or commission agents were first asked to open new accounts in seven private banks, a decision which they withdrew later. Earlier, the government had said procurement will be made through gram panchayats, a decision which was also reversed later,” he added.The Congress leader referred to an April 27 order of the state government regarding wheat procurement and said the chief administrator  of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board had directed secretaries of all mandis “to ensure that the payment should be given directly into the farmer’s bank account by procurement agencies”.Earlier, the government had said that it would make payment to arhitiyas, who would then pay farmers.Replying to a question, he said there is a systematic conspiracy on the part of the state government in defeating the system of procurement. “Their intent seems to harass farmers as also the commission agents and the labourers so much that at the end of the day, the farmer is constrained to sell the wheat crop under distressful conditions at prices much lower than the MSP,” he said.“What else explains that in nine days, they have to change their stance on six different occasions? The only reason is there is mal-intent on part of the Khattar government in procuring the wheat crop,” he added.“They want to leave the farmers at the mercy of market forces to ensure that MSP does not have to be given and the wheat crop is left for distress sale by the farmer at the mercy of certain middlemen,” Surjewala alleged.Replying to a question, he said Chief Minister Khattar had not visited a single mandi or grain market while his deputy, Dushyant Chautala, visited only couple of them to take stock of arrangements.On accusations levelled against him of violating social distancing norms during his visit to the mandis, Surjewala said he always followed the norms and even wore a mask.At the same time, he said, “Every leader – be that of the ruling or the opposition party – has a right to listen to problems and highlight them. Yes, social distancing and wearing masks is a must. But they (ruling party leaders) will not go themselves and not let others go lest their shortcomings are highlighted.” PTI
28-04-2020||New Delhi||Despite Covid-19, Centre focuses on 400 LMT of wheat procurement for season; Punjab and Haryana top contributors||According to the Centre, the procurement of wheat is progressing at a very fast pace in all States and the country is expected to achieve the target of 400 Lakh Million Tonnes for the season despite the Covid-19 crisis.As much as 88.61 LMT wheat has already been procured for the Central pool till Sunday of which major contributors have been Punjab (48.27 LMT) followed by Haryana (19.07 LMT), says the government.Though according to experts the bigger question could be whether the farmers in the grain bowl States can reap the benefits of a bumper due to the prevailing situation and also the weather conditions.Agriculture expert Sudhir Panwar says the FCI is procuring but the private players are not taking the risk and quite a big number is missing from the markets.Besides, while yield per acre has also been less in some parts of Punjab, Haryana and Western UP due to unseasonal rains and hailstorms this year, the recent rains may have caused further damage by adding to the grain moisture content that may surpass the FCI limits.“Quality of grading may be affected. The effect of the latest rains will start showing in the next five/six days,” says Panwar.Though according to the Centre, every effort is being made to ensure farmers are not put to any kind of distress and going by the present pace, the target of 400 LMT for the season is likely to be achieved.Considering the looming threat of the spread of Covid-19, procurement is being undertaken with all precautions and ensuring social distancing in the mandis.Continuing the healthy pace of dispatch of food grains from surplus to consuming regions, Food Corporation of India (FCI) crossed the 2000 number in terms of trainloads dispatched during lockdown period, said officials.On Monday, as many as 2,087 of trainloads carrying about 58.44 Lakh MT were dispatched to meet requirements of food grains under various Central schemes.Unloading of 1,909 rakes carrying 53.47 LMT stocks was also done during this period, despite severe constraints posed due to declaration of hotspots and containment zones in many of the key unloading centres in consuming states, they added.It is expected that with a gradual easing of restrictions by central and state governments, the pace of unloading will be enhanced further in the coming days.
28-04-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Watch: Elderly Panchkula man living alone gets emotional as cops come calling with a cake on his birthday||A sweet gesture by Panchkula police brought an elderly man to tears on his birthday amid the lockdown.  The man, who is residing alone in Sector 7, was greeted by the local police with a cake on Tuesday.  The cops wished him good health. The elderly man broke down into tears, and thanked the cops for "making his day".The video of the heartfelt moment was shared by the Commissionerate of Panchkula on Twitter. "Lockdown Birthdays can be special too. We wish Sh. Karan Puri of Sector 7, Panchkula a Very Happy Birthday", the tweet read. Lockdown Birthdays can be special too. We wish Sh. Karan Puri of Sector 7, Panchkula a Very Happy Birthday 🎂@Nijhavan_v @cmohry @police_haryana @nsvirk @ipspankajnain @ANI pic.twitter.com/RRKCrvD9SE
28-04-2020||Jhajjar||Coronavirus: One more case in Jhajjar, district tally rises to 6||The wife of a Delhi policeman, who had tested positive for coronavirus, tested positive for the deadly disease in Jhajjar's Sulodha village on Tuesday.With the latest case, the district's COVID tally has risen to 6.Earlier, the mother, father and one-and-half-year-old daughter of the policemen had also tested positive. The cop, who tested positive in Delhi some days ago, is taking treatment at a Delhi hospital.A vegetable seller hailing from Lal Khania area in Jhajjar town had tested positive on Monday. He used to bring vegetables and fruits from Azadpur market in Delhi to the local vegetable market.A pharmacist of Vivekanand Colony in Bahadurgarh town was also found COVID-positive. He is employed with a private hospital at Delhi and was a daily passenger from Bahadurgarh to his workplace in Delhi.
28-04-2020||Chandigarh/Gurugram||Coronavirus: Gurugram restricts entry, sends health teams to district border for screening||Gurugram district authorities announced on Tuesday that they were restricting entry into the district, hours after Health Minister Anil Vij announced he was considering the measure to stop the spread of coronavirus. Gurugram Police Commissioner Mohammad Akil said said his department had deployed additional forces at the border and was stepping up frisking.“We have stepped up security at the borders. Several people with passes travel for unnecessary reasons. We have to stop this. We are increasing frisking even on roads. No non-urgent travel is being allowed,” he said.Gurugram Health Department officials said those entering or leaving the district will be screened thoroughly.  Gurugram’s Chief Medical Officer JS Punia said people will be screened every time they enter or leave the district.“Anybody who crosses the border will be screened each time the person gets back to the district, no matter how many times in a day that is. We are taking this because of instances of inter-district transmission in the state and the country”.Three medical teams will work in the night as well, he said.The state government said earlier in the day it considering sealing all shared borders with Delhi to prevent spread of the virus from the national capital.Health Minister Anil Vij had said earlier in the day that after sealing the Delhi-Sonepat border, where even those with valid passes were not allowed to crossover, the state government was considering similarly sealing all borders with Delhi, including those in Gurugram and Faridabad.“So far, 18 cases have come to notice where visiting Delhi government employees have been the source of infection,” Vij said.Along with these cases, three family members of a COVID positive Delhi cop and a pharmacist employed in a hospital in Delhi tested positive in Jhajjar district on Tuesday. The pharmacist used to travel to his workplace from Bahadurgarh daily.In Faridabad, an officer of a health institute in Delhi tested positive. He used to travel to Delhi daily.Earlier, a Delhi police constable of Khoobru village of Sonepat tested positive on April 24, while he was on a visit to his native village. He infected four more of his family members, who tested positive on April 26.On April 18, another Delhi police constable of Rasoi village, who was posted outside Nizamuddin Markaz, had tested positive. On April 20, a man and woman, who had come in contact with this constable, also tested positive.Two staff members of Babu Jagjiwan Ram Hospital in Jahangirpuri in Delhi tested positive. They were hailing from Sonepat and further infected three more from their family.“Delhi CM (Arvind Kejriwal) should take care of his employees. He should make arrangements for their stay in Delhi only,” said Vij.He added: “Earlier, Delhi allowed Tablighi Jamaat workers to enter other states without testing. Fortunately, we were able to track about 1,700 of them and out of them 120 tested positive”.In reply to a question, he said that about 2,000 Delhi police personnel keep coming to Haryana to meet their families.“I have told the CM. If we have to save the state, we have to seal the borders with Delhi, where several cases are coming,” he said.Haryana Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora had talked to her Delhi counterpart over the issue.
28-04-2020||---||Haryana freezes recruitment, LTC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 27Haryana today announced one-year moratorium on new recruitments in the state government and also announced a freeze on LTC facility for its employees for a year.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced the decision during an interaction with a section of the media in Chandigarh today.BIG BLOW TO YOUTH, SAYS CONGRESSThe Donald Thinks D-Day Is About HimKhattar govt’s insensitive decision is a blow to dreams and aspirations of Haryana’s youth. We want to request the government to kindly take back the order.Randeep Surjewala, Congress Leader“We have taken certain decisions to cut expenditure in view of the Covid crisis. We have decided to put a moratorium on new recruitments to government jobs for a year. We have also told government employees that they will not get any LTC for a year. The steps have been taken to ensure that we don’t have to incur any new expenditure,” said Khattar.The state government has already announced a freeze on DA hike following the Central Government’s announcement.
28-04-2020|| ||65-year-old  jumps into canal, rescued||Faridabad, April 27A 65-year-old woman, who jumped into the Agra canal near Chandawali village here, was rescued by three Home Guard jawans here this noon.The incident took place when the woman, who was walking over the bridge near the Byepass road, jumped into the canal around 1 pm. However, her act was noticed by jawans, who had been deputed on traffic duty, near the spot. The jawans, identified as Ramchander, Shivender, and Rajkumar, rushed to the spot and jumped into the canal. They managed to save her after about 10 minutes. The woman had been found mentally disturbed and had been kept in police care till her kin were traced out, said a police official.
28-04-2020||---||Token system adds to marginal farmers’ costs||Karnal, April 27The state government’s norm of calling a limited number of farmers per day to the madis to ensure social distancing is not going down well with small and marginal farmers.A majority of the farmers do not have a storage facility and they have to bear extra expenses of around Rs3,000-Rs4,000 per trolley for loading and unloading of wheat to store and later to bring it to the grain market for sale when their turn comes.“The new system of making farmers wait for their turn is proving expensive as a majority of small and marginal ones do not have tractor-trailer as well as JCB machines for loading the grains,” said Balkar Singh, a farmer.“I have to wait for two more days for my turn, which is an expensive affair for me. I do not have sufficient space to store wheat. I have arranged some space at a nearby place, but I have to arrange a tractor-trailer to bring the produce to the store room and labour to unload it. Later, I have to repeat the process for loading wheat for which I have to arrange a JCB and tractor-trailer to bring it to the grain market. The whole process costs around Rs3,000-Rs4,000 per tractor-trailer,” said Angrej Singh, another farmer.Ravinder Mehla, Baldi village farmer, said labour charges Rs500-Rs700 to unload a tractor-trailer and a JCB machine costs Rs1,000-Rs1,200 to load the grain. Besides, if a farmer doesn’t have a tractor-trailer then he has to pay Rs1,200-1,700 per round, depending upon the distance from the store room to the mandi. Earlier, they had to arrange a tractor-trailer only to bring the produce to mandis.
28-04-2020||Ambala||Less labour, Ambala Agri Dept to opt for direct seeding of rice||Though paddy transplantation is scheduled to start from June 15, the Agriculture Department has raised a demand for 250 DSR (direct seeder rice) machines for Ambala district to prepare for labour crunch due to Covid. At present, two-three DSR machines in the district sees planting of paddy over nearly 86,000-hectare every year.    The DSR technique involves direct seeding of rice than the conservative transplantation method. It requires lesser water, labour and power and is considered a better technique in view of the depleting water table as well.  Pardeep Chauhan, a farmer from Sambhalkha village, said he grew paddy (Pusa-1121) over 26 acres, of which DSR technique was adopted on three acres. “Undoubtedly, the DSR technique works out cheaper, but I failed to get better returns due to excessive weeds. I have been using this technique for the last few years, but have not increased area under it due to issue of excessive weeds. This year, however, it seems there will be an increase in area under the DSR technique due to labour crunch.” He said the labour crunch would be severe across the state. “Last year,  labourers here sought Rs2,000 to Rs2,200 per acre for sowing but this year the prices are going to increase,” he said. Deputy Director Agriculture Girish Nagpal said, “Seeing the current situation we have sought 250 DSR machines for Ambala. This technique saves labour and resources and reduces cultivation cost. We have also recommended a package, including hybrid seeds along with weedicides, for farmers so they could have higher yield.” — TNS
28-04-2020||---||Rain spells trouble for wheat farmers||Ambala, April 27 Medium to heavy rain that lashed the district on Monday morning added to farmers’ woes. While inadequate arrangements to protect wheat produce being brought to mandis and procured produce was causing trouble at mandis, the standing and harvested crop still lying in the open got drenched in the downpour. The rain, which began at 9 am, continued till 12 noon and inundated mandis and purchase centres, following which foodgrains got soaked in rainwater due to certain reasons such as shortage of tarpaulin sheets, gunny bags, tardy lifting and leaking sheds at most of the centres. Farmers and commission agents accused the Market Committee and procurement officials for turning blind eye towards their plight. “We have been pleading for tarpaulin sheets as the sheds were leaking and rainwater was entering the site where we had kept our produce but to no avail,” rued a farmer, Sulakhan Singh, at a local mandi. State Arhtiya Association’s district president Duni Chand Danipur said slow lifting and inadequate supply of gunny bags was damaging the procured produce lying at the mandis. Similarly, standing wheat crop in the fields suffered damage due to the downpour. Reports of the harvested produce kept in the open at several villages, as the farmers waited for their turn to take it to the mandis, were also received from various villages. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said 1,06,460.6 MT of wheat was procured in the district till Sunday evening, of which 30,219.1 MT was purchased by the Food and Civil Supplies Department, 72,265 MT by Hafed and 3,976.5 MT by the Haryana Warehousing Corporation.  He claimed that adequate arrangements were made at the mandis and purchase centres to ensure smooth wheat procurement. Similarly, 439 MT mustard crop from 332 farmers in 292 villages was purchased by Hafed at two centres —Shahzadpur and Saha — in the district till Sunday evening. Hafed DM Vedpal Malik said 333 MT of procured mustard was already lifted from the mandis.  Harvest, procurement hit Kurukshetra: Unexpected rainfall has not only hampered wheat harvesting, but has also affected the procurement process in different purchase centres in the district. Rakesh Kumar, a farmer in Shahabad, said “Rain has affected the harvesting and it will also damage the grain. We have already suffered huge losses this year. The state government should give some relaxation in moisture content and procure the crop at the earliest.” Krishan Malik, secretary, Shahabad grain market, said “The rain has affected the procurement process as the moisture content has increased. The stocks arrived were already stacked and covered. There will be no scheduling for Wednesday.” Meanwhile, Thanesar grain market secretary Harjeet Singh said: “Luckily, rain didn’t caused much damage here. Around 37,563-quintal wheat arrived on Monday.” In Kurukshetra district, around 2,13,593 MT of wheat have arrived so far, of which 79,398 MT have been lifted till April 26.
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Govt to blame for  damages: Hooda||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda expressed concern over the deteriorating weather and collapse of the state government’s crop procurement system. He said after intermittent rains, disturbing images of grain wastage have come out from across the state. Hooda alleged that wheat was getting damaged in grain markets as well as in fields due to delay in procurement and failure of the government system in mandis and purchase centres.  He said despite repeated warnings by the Opposition, the crop grown by farmers was being wasted because of the government’s lackadaisical attitude. Hooda said during the lockdown, the Opposition and the government had several interactions and their biggest demand was for the farmers. “We had urged the government to make all arrangements to buy mustard and wheat on time. In return, we were assured that farmers will not face any problem. But as soon as the purchase started, the tall claims of the government started getting exposed. First, mustard was sold below MSP of Rs4,425 for Rs3,800 and now wheat is being wasted,” he added. “The government is neither able to purchase all crops coming to the mandis nor is it able to lift the grain that is being purchased. There is a shortage of gunny bags required to pack the grain and neither there is tarpaulin to cover it,” Hooda said. — TNS
28-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Nurses allege bias in quarantine facility||Gurugram, April 27 The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) nurses have accused authorities of being biased towards doctors in allotment of quarantine facility. The Haryana ESIC Nurses Welfare Association has claimed that while doctors have been allotted rooms at PWD guesthouse for self-isolation, they have been lodged in a facility set-up at SCERT without even basic facilities. According to them, amidst various other issues the fact that they have to use common toilets and bathrooms is putting them at the risk of infection. The nurses have refused to be put up there.  “Staff nurses are complaining about lack of basic facilities at SCERT quarantine centre. As the staff nurses are under the state Health Department, I have informed the Civil Surgeon and Commissioner of MCG and am yet to get a response,” said Dr Shubhra Gupta, MS of ESIC, Gurugram. “There is a lack of basic hygiene at the facility. Both doctors and nurses are fighting against Covid and facing infection risk equally. We cannot have one getting a better treatment while the other is put at risk. In one shift, 20 staff nurses are working on daily basis so they need to be self-isolated in the most hygienic manner possible.
28-04-2020||---||Maruti  plant to resume ops||Maruti  plant to resume ops Tribune News Service  Gurugram, April 27 Following the Manesar plant, Maruti Suzuki has now been permitted to resume its operation with approximately 150 workers in a single shift. The company had been granted permission to operate its Manesar plant with around 4,000 workers on April 21. The company however claimed that it would stick to maintenance and preparation work for the time being and not resume manufacturing till May 3 owing to disrupted supply chain with majority of vendors falling in red zone. The industry has got all the measures needed to be taken such as touch-free sanitisers and sanitisation tunnels etc.
28-04-2020||---||Ambala villagers oppose Covid victim’s cremation, attack cops||Ambala, April 27 A police party was attacked in Chandpura village in Ambala Cantonment where villagers objected to the cremation of an 82-year-old local woman, whom they suspected died of Covid. Cops had to fire shots in the air to disperse the mob, though the police denied use of force.   The woman, a chronic diabetes patient, died at the Ambala Cantonment Civil Hospital on Monday afternoon. She displayed no Covid-like symptoms, but doctors took her sample as a precautionary measure and to allay apprehensions. The report was awaited.   As soon as bereaved family members reached Chandpura village with the body, residents stopped them from performing her last rites. Sensing trouble, the police was called but the villagers were adamant not to allow the cremation.   “We tried our best to pacify villagers to allow the cremation, but they instead pelted stones on us, following which we rounded up six persons. Finally the body was cremated late in the evening,” said DSP Ram Kumar. He said legal action was being initiated against the attackers.
28-04-2020||---||Testing over 3K samples a day, fully prepared: Khattar||Chandigarh, April 27Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has urged the Government of India to take quick steps to remove the prevailing uncertainty around dates of competitive examinations such as Combined Defence Services, JEE and NEET for admissions into NDA and engineering and medical colleges.Speaking at a video conference of Chief Ministers chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, Khattar said the state was fully prepared to meet any eventuality in the Covid crisis and efforts were being made to revive economic activities in a safe manner.Sharing details about how the state was tackling the pandemic spread, the Chief Minister said the present statistics were quite promising. “We are testing 3,115 samples every day. Of the total 22,243 tests conducted till date, only 299 were positive. All those who tested positive have been admitted to hospitals for treatment. After treatment, 205 patients have recovered and since been discharged from hospital,” he said, adding three lives have been lost in the state due to Covid.Khattar said the state government was focusing on screening and testing. On the installation of Aarogya Setu app, the CM said that so far, 32.21 lakh people have downloaded it. He said presently there were 155 containment zones in the state where the lockdown was being strictly implemented, while mentioning the arrangements in place.He said industrial and construction activity had been restarted where there were arrangements to keep the labour at the place of work (in situ), excluding the containment zone. As many as 18,750 workers were working in situ in 415 such units. Over 2 lakh labourers were working in 1,448 brick kilns. However, stringent measures were being implemented in Panipat, Gurugram, Faridabad and Panchkula where some Covid cases had come to light.About agricultural activities restarted in the state, the CM said utmost care was being taken in the procurement of wheat and mustard. He said all employees, arhtiyas, farmers, and labourers working in mandis had been given a free life insurance cover of Rs 10 lakh for Covid.
28-04-2020||---||Two more from Faridabad recover||Faridabad, April 27 Two more Covid positive patients have been discharged from the district on Monday. Meanwhile, the number of persons who have recovered from Covid after hospitalisation and have been discharged here has gone up to 37. Persons among the recovered patients have been identified as Tablighi Jamaatis and residents of Nepal who had been present at a mosque in Badkhal village, when their samples were collected three weeks ago.  “They will however be confined to quarantine centre here for the next two weeks for routine supervision,” said Dr Ram Bhagat, Deputy Civil Surgeon, Faridabad. Around four to six more patients are expected to be discharged within next 24 hours, he said adding that report of 45 samples taken was awaited.  In Palwal district, the number of total positive cases remains at 34, as no fresh case has surfaced in the past nine days. As many as 29 patients have been discharged after recovery. Samples of all 31 students and parents, who had been bought here from Kota have tested negative.
28-04-2020||---||10 cases in a day, tally reaches 292||Chandigarh, April 27As the state battles infection spread from people employed in Delhi, the Covid-positive case tally touched 292 today with 10 fresh cases. After including 14 Italian nationals, who took treatment at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram, the state’s tally reached 306.Jhajjar became the 20th Covid-affected district today with five cases while two cases were reported from Sonepat and one each from Ambala, Faridabad and Panipat.In Jhajjar, the mother, father and one-and-half-year-old daughter of a Covid-positive Delhi police personnel came out positive at Sulodha village. The cop who tested positive in Delhi some days ago is taking treatment at a Delhi hospital.A vegetable seller hailing from Lal Khania area in Jhajjar town also tested positive today. He used to bring vegetables and fruits from Azadpur market in Delhi to the local vegetable market.A pharmacist of Vivekanand Colony in Bahadurgarh town was also found Covid-positive. He is employed with a private hospital at Delhi and was daily passenger from Bahadurgarh to his workplace in Delhi.Two police personnel tested positive in Sonepat. One is a cousin of the Delhi cop and a resident of Khoobru village and has infected four of his family members too. The other was posted in Gur Mandi area, which is a containment zone as three residents had tested positive earlier.A woman tested positive in Panipat. She came from Delhi with her husband on a motorcycle on Sunday night. Their bike slipped and police got them admitted in a hospital. After tests, she was found positive while her husband tested negative but is kept under quarantine.In Ambala, a 63-year-old woman, who is a chronic diabetic and kidney patient, tested positive while a 50-year-old CEO of a health institute in Delhi, who is a resident of Sector 28 in Faridabad, came out positive. The CEO used to daily go to his office and is suspected to have got infected there.Meanwhile, 14 patients got cured in the past 24 hours with eight from Faridabad, one from Gurugram and five from Nuh. So far, 213 patients have got discharged in the state. The recovery rate is now 69.6 per cent.Health Minister Anil Vij said, “Our state is among the top three best-performing states in tackling Covid. It is the overall contribution of doctors, police personnel and urban local bodies department.”With 5 new cases reported in 24 hrs, Jhajjar no more safeJhajjar: Jhajjar district, which was so far safe from Covid pandemic, reported five cases on Monday, putting the district health authorities on its toes. Three among them are the family members of a Covid positive Delhi cop hailing from Sulodha village here, while one case has surfaced in each of Jhajjar and Bahadurgarh towns.All persons have been admitted to PGIMS, Rohtak. Family members of the Jhajjar and Bahadurgarh men have been isolated at civil hospital here, and their samples have been sent to laboratory for test. Their reports are likely to come out late in the evening.Sulodha village is already under Containment Zone while Lal Khania Mohalla in Jhajjar and Vivekanand Colony in Bahadurgarh have also been brought under the ambit of Containment Zone on Monday following the emergence of the Covid cases.“Mother-father and one-and-half-year-old daughter of a Covid positive Delhi Cop have been found Covid positive in Sulodha village. The cop who tested positive in Delhi some days ago is currently admitted in a Delhi hospital,” said Randeep Singh Punia, Civil Surgeon.He said a 30-year-old vegetable seller hailing from Lal Khania tested positive. He used to bring vegetables and fruits from Azad Market in Delhi to local vegetable market. His sample, along with samples of other commission agents and vegetable vendors, was taken during the random sampling.A resident of Vivekanand Colony in Bahadurgarh town was also found Covid positive. He is employed as a pharmacist with a private hospital in Delhi and was daily travelling from Bahadurarh to his workplace in Delhi, he added.“Health condition of both the men is stable and they have a travel history of Delhi, which is one of the high-risk states for Covid, while three others of Sulodha village got infected from the Delhi cop, hence, all cases are somehow connected to Delhi. The vegetable market has been closed and sanitised,” Punia added.State notifies incentive for Covid warriors
28-04-2020||Kurukshetra||Two days after official ends life, video alleging abetment surfaces||Two days after an inspector of the Food and Civil Supplies Department allegedly committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance, the police are now probing the angle of abetment by one DFSC and two inspectors of the department. This comes after a video of the deceased inspector, Ashish Dangi, surfaced in which he has blamed the three officials for his extreme step. The video was shot while he was undergoing treatment at a private hospital. While mentioning about the officials allegedly responsible, in the video, Ashish Dangi claimed, “The officials used me for their benefit. I gave them Rs 50,000 but they demanded more money. All are corrupt. There is no value of innocent people. Sorry son, I couldn’t fulfil your dreams.” Congress leader Ashok Arora said, “One man has lost his life and it is not a small thing. The government should take the matter seriously and form a high-level committee to probe the case. The deceased has claimed that he has given Rs50,000 to officials and has also indicated corruption.”  Superintendent of Police Astha Modi said, “Initially when the police team had reached the hospital, the doctors had declared the food and civil supplies inspector unfit for statement. No suicide note was provided to us.” —TNS
28-04-2020||---||8 booked for lockdown violation at cremation||Yamunanagar, April 27The police have registered a case against eight identified persons and several unidentified persons for allegedly assembling in violating of the lockdown.The suspects had assembled to join the cremation of Raman Valmiki (32) of Chuna Bhatti area of Yamunanagar on Sunday. Raman was lodged in jail as an undertrial prisoner in an attempt-to-murder case and died at trauma centre, Yamunanagar.On the complaint of sub-inspector Rajeev Kumar, a case was registered against the suspects under several Sections of the IPC including 152 (assaulting or obstructing public servant when suppressing riot etc), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 51 (whoever refuses to comply with any direction given by government) of the Disaster Management Act at City police station, Yamunanagar, on Sunday.Jail Superintendent Ratan Singh said a district court had sent Raman Valmiki to jail on April 22
28-04-2020||Nitin Jain---||Migrants give a new look to shelter home||Tribune News Service Ambala, April 27 Nearly 113 stranded migrant labourers are staying at a government school at Kakkarmajra village in Naraingarh sub-division of Ambala district since March 25. For over a month now, they have been provided three meals a day, other basic amenities like medication, recreation and counselling. Now, these migrants have started giving a new look to the Government Senior Secondary School which had been turned into a temporary shelter home for their stay. Naraingarh SDM Aditi said, “As they were sitting idle and getting bored, they offered to utilise their time in revamping the campus which we allowed while ensuring social distancing and other protocols.”
28-04-2020||Saurabh Malik ---||No sympathy for drug traffickers: High Court||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 27 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has allowed the custodial interrogation of an accused in a drug case, even though neither was he named in the FIR, nor any contraband was recovered from him.  The Bench ruled that the accused was nominated in the case on the basis of a disclosure statement made by a co-accused and it could certainly be taken into consideration. Sympathy could not be showed to the accused, lest it proved counterproductive and resulted in an increase in drug trafficking, the HC said. “Drug trafficking is rising at an alarming rate in this region, which has ruined the lives of young men and women. Drug peddlers for a small monetary consideration make youth to use drugs for a small time excitement/kick. The drug peddlers have successfully destroyed the social fabric of our society and led youth to the wrongful path. Such persons need to be dealt with firm and stern action and no sympathy can be shown to them lest that should prove to be counterproductive and result in increase in drug trafficking.” Justice Harminder Singh Madaan ruled. The accused had moved the High Court against the State of Haryana for pre-arrest bail in an FIR registered at Ratia city police station in Fatehabad district on October 3, 2019, for the offences under the provisions of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. The Bench was told that a police party on patrol duty apprehended another accused. He was found to be in possession of 2.2 kg of “ganja” on being searched. During the course of interrogation, he disclosed that he had purchased the contraband from thepetitioner-accused. Justice Madaan said the petitioner was not named in the FIR and recovery was not made from him. Besides, he was nominated in this case on the basis of disclosure statement of a co-accused. But that disclosure statement could certainly be taken into consideration since it provided lead in the investigation. “Custodial interrogation of the petitioner is definitely required for complete and effective investigation so as to find out the source from where he is getting the contraband and his modus operandi in bringing the contraband and supplying it to various persons. In case custodial interrogation of the petitioner is denied to the investigating agency, that would leave many loose ends in the investigation,” said Justice Madaan while dismissing the plea.
