28-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram, Faridabad malls to reopen from July 1||After remaining shut for four months, malls in Gurugram and Faridabad will open from July 1, the Haryana Government said on Sunday.Also read: Curbs in eight Gurugram wards from June 30 to July 14While malls opened in other districts in May they remained shut in both cities owing to high COVID numbers. Gurugram has reported the highest number of coronavirus cases in Haryana—5,070—and 83 people have succumbed to the disease in the district.Following the orders, Gurugram Municipal Corporation has released a list of SOP’s for mall operators, shopkeepers and visitors to follow to negate the possibility of COVID spread.“The malls have faced economic jolt for four months and as the entire country is headed to unlock we wish to do the same balancing it without a fight with COVID. The SOP’s are to be strictly followed and any violation will attract action. Any relaxation comes with responsibility and I hope everybody follows it,” said MCG Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh.As per orders, gaming arcades, cinema halls and play areas will remain closed. The SOP’s include barring of entry to senior citizens, children and pregnant women and mandate downloading of Arogya Setu app.List of SOP’s
28-06-2020||Karnal||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 214 new cases; state count reaches 14,641||Haryana reported 214 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s case tally to 14,641.Faridabad reported two more deaths and 131 new coronavirus cases in a span of 24 hours. The developments take the death toll in the district to 73 from 3,454.Karnal reported the 16 new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 289. Five members of the family of a 57-year-old woman of Nilokheri Kisan Basti who died of COVID-19 two days ago, four people from Sector 13, two from Sadar Bazar and one person each from Taraori, Nilokheri, Bijana, Shivaji Colony tested positive on Sunday.Panipat reported 18 new cases, taking tally to 189 positive patients in the district.Sonepat reported 49 new coronavirus cases, taking tally to 1,246 in the district.On Saturday, the state reported seven deaths and 543 fresh cases. The fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (191), Gurugram (126), Sonepat (63), Bhiwani (52), Mahendragarh (26), Rohtak (24), Rewari (14), Panipat (14), Nuh (10), Jhajjar (9), Karnal (4), Panchkula (3), Sirsa (3), Yamunanagar (3) and Fatehabad (1).
28-06-2020||---||5-km-long locust swarm, Haryana on alert||Chandigarh, June 27Haryana has issued a high alert, particularly in the NCR districts, after a locust swarm, 5 km in length and 2 km in width, entered Mahendragarh and Rewari districts from Rajasthan on Friday evening and moved towards Gurugram and Faridabad, threatening to damage vegetation.The swarm, seen over 12 villages of Jatusana and Khol blocks of Rewari, moved towards Jhajjar and entered Gurugram’s plush areas this morning, covering the skyline in parts of the city. Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture, said the department sprayed insecticides to eliminate the insect. “Tractor-mounted spray guns were deployed wherever necessary,” he said. The swarm later split into two, one moving towards Palwal and the other towards Sonepat. Kaushal said cotton and millet fields covering 2,000- 2,500 hectares of land had been affected and the estimated damage was 5-10 per cent. State Agriculture Minister JP Dalal visited the affected villages and promised compensation to the farmers after a special girdawari.Untimely Rains to blameClimate change is facilitating breeding and movement of locusts. Untimely rains and increased cyclonic activity have helped them breed faster. —Devinder Sharma, Agri expertTalking to the media in Rewari, he said Mahendragarh, Bhiwani, Jhajjar and Rewari districts had been alerted on Friday itself. To a query, the minister said nothing could be done while the locusts were air-borne. “WhatsApp groups have been formed at the village level to keep the farmers informed of their movement ,” he added.A report from Delhi said the swarm from Jhunjhunu (Rajasthan) moved in groups towards Gurugram and Palwal and from there towards Uttar Pradesh. The Union Agriculture Ministry said that control operations were underway in Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The Delhi Government too issued an alert.India had last month battled a devastating desert locust outbreak with the crop-destroying swarms attacking Rajasthan and then spreading to Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.
28-06-2020||---||Curbs in eight Gurugram wards from June 30 to July 14||Gurugram, June 27Stepping up its Covid management, the Gurugram administration is all set to impose lockdown-like curbs in eight municipal wards after identifying them as large-outbreak regions.Also read: Gurugram malls to reopen from July 1The curbs shall come in force on June 30 and will remain till July 14. it aims at bringing down the city’s alarming infection rate and break the transmissionchain.From barricading and securing the perimeters with the help of the police to mandating industries in these zones to arrange for accommodation for workers, the administration will simultaneously start intensive public health campaign, including screening and door-to-door rapid testing.The areas that have been categorised as large-outbreak regions include Ward Numbers 4, 16, 17, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 35. The city has so far reported around 5,000 cases, with 2,000 being active ones.As per the plan, the Gurugram police have already started identifying the exact boundaries, entry and exit points and putting up barricades to restrict movement.In case of unavoidable movement, the authorities will have to ensure Aarogya Setu app is downloaded and all symptomatic residents will be tested for Covid while exiting these regions.Also, the industrial activity will be permitted in these areas only if the workers stay inside the factory premises. Only essential shops and commercial establishments will be allowed to be open.The large-outbreak regions will be fully sanitised and intensive sampling and rapid testing, door-to-door screening and thermal scanning of all residents will be done. In case of massive spread, children below 10 years, pregnant women and senior citizens will be isolated.
28-06-2020||---||Faridabad Civil Surgeon among 543 fresh cases||Chandigarh, June 27With seven deaths and 543 fresh cases, including the Civil Surgeon of Faridabad, the Covid-positive tally in the state reached 13,427 on Saturday.The Civil Surgeon has been put under home isolation. He is the fourth doctor from Civil Hospital, Faridabad, to have tested positive. Earlier, a Deputy Civil Surgeon, a surgeon and a gynaecologist had tested positive.The deaths were reported from Gurugram (2), Faridabad (1), Sonepat (1), Karnal (1), Jhajjar (1) and Rewari (1) onSaturday.A 53-year-old man from Sehatpur village, Faridabad, succumbed to the viral disease. A 44-year old timber merchant, a resident of Sector-13 of Karnal city, died at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC).An 84-year-old man hailing from Bahadurgarh town died at Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak.The fresh positive cases were reported from Faridabad (191), Gurugram (126), Sonepat (63), Bhiwani (52), Mahendragarh (26), Rohtak (24), Rewari (14), Panipat (14), Nuh (10), Jhajjar (9), Karnal (4), Panchkula (3), Sirsa (3), Yamunanagar (3) and Fatehabad (1).The localities from where the fresh cases came in Faridabad included Ballabgarh, Old Faridabad, Bhood Colony, AC Nagar, Dabua Colony, Sanjay Colony, Subhash Colony, Kheri Kalan village, Sector-3, Sector-23, Sector-15 A, Sector-16, Palla, Mahaveer Colony, Jawahar Colony, Bharat Colony and Panhera Khurd village.In Mahendragarh, nine cases came from Narnaul city and one each from Dholera, Baapdoli, Naayan, Ghataser, Dokhera, Nangal Choudary, Sarai, Dublana, Kheri, Satnali, Jadwa, Digrota, Malda, Bhurjat, Ucchhat, Khera and Bawana villages.Seven cases came from Dhaaruhera, five from Shakti Nagar (Rewari) and two from Gulabi Bagh in Rewari district.Among the fresh cases from Jhajjar, two came from Bahadurgarh and one each from Kablana, Badli, Chhudani, Matan, Yadav Colony and Ladrawan village.A 23-year-old jail inmate and 43-year-old jail employee were among the positive cases in Panipat.Covid-19 CasesDiSTRICT-WISE COUNT
28-06-2020||---||Probe found 99L bottles missing, claims Surjewala||Chandigarh, June 27Describing the Special Enquiry Team (SET) probe into the liquor scam as a “cover-up”, AICC Communication incharge Randeep Surjewala on Saturday alleged that an internal inquiry, by the Excise and Taxation Department and DCs, found a shortage of 99.41 lakh bottles and 19.10 lakh bottles in excess in a period from March to May.He said this at a press conference on Saturday.Surjewala described the “shortage” in the stock of English and country-made liquor at the wholesale outlets (L-1 and L-13) and liquor vends as a case of “unauthorised and illegal sale at exorbitant prices during the prohibition period in the lockdown”.On excess bottles, he alleged that it was “a clear-cut case of excise theft and duping the state exchequer”. “Under public pressure, a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was formed to probe the scam. On May 10, the SIT caught a brazen instance of theft and liquor smuggling from a sealed government godown in Sonepat. The instances and murmur of smuggling started emanating from other districts also. The Khattar government suddenly swung into action and dismissed the SIT,” he claimed.The next day the CM announced the formation of the SET. “The SET constitution has no sanctity under Section 2(h) and 2(o) of the CrPC, 1973. The SET has no power to confiscate documents, conduct raids, summon records from the Excise and Taxation or Police Departments or arresting the accused,” he said.He said till today, the Excise and Taxation Department had not shown any documents to the SET. “Does it establish ‘operation cover-up’ instead of probing the ‘liquor scam’? Is the Khattar government protecting the ‘liquor mafia’, instead of punishing it? Will the CM answer?” he asked.
28-06-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Skin infection in 13% mild cases: Study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 27A study published in the Dermatologic Therapy journal has found skin infections in close to 13% cases in asymptomatic, mild and moderate Covid patients at Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College and Hospital, Nuh.The study, published on June 16, included 102 positive cases comprising 95 males. As many as 27 cases were suffering from mild or moderate symptoms while the others were asymptomatic.Dr Ashish Dalal, Dr Vishal Aggarwal and Dr Ravi Beniwal of Nuh medical college and Dr Deepak Jakhar of North Delhi Municipal Corporation Medical College and Hindu Rao Hospital, New Delhi, contributed to the research paper.Thirteen patients (12.7%), including eight asymptomatic, were found having skin infections. Three (2.9%) had red-coloured rashes, two (1.9%) had wheal and eight (7.8%) patients had itching without any specific skin signs.“Trunk is the most frequently affected area, followed by hands and feet. None of the patients had any pre-existing skin diseases,” says Dr Dalal.Red rashes were only seen in symptomatic patients.“The present study elaborates various dermatological findings in SARS-CoV-2 positive patients from North India. Covid majorly affects pulmonary, cardiovascular, renal and other internal systems of the body. Skin manifestations were reported late in the course of this pandemic and still there is a paucity of literature characterising the dermatological presentations.”All patients were given hydroxychloroquine 400-mg tablets two times on the first day and then 200 mg twice daily for 10 days. If patients showed fever, after ECG evaluation, azithromycin 500-mg tablets were give once a day for five days in addition.None of Nuh patients showed swelling and colour changes of finger tips, fluid filled lesions, patchy disclouration of skin, which have been found in studies in other countries. “Different ethnicity, skin color, differences in the infective strains of SARS-CoV-2 and inclusion of only mild-to-moderate disease in our patients may be the possible explanation. This study suggests that asymptomatic and mild-to-moderate cases may show non-specific and subtle dermatological manifestations,” Dr Jakhar said.
28-06-2020||Rohtak||PGIMS to offer plasma therapy||The PGIMS authorities have decided to employ the plasma therapy for treating Covid patients. Prof (Dr) Dhruva Chaudhry, state Nodal Officer for Covid control programme, has appealed to the people, who have recovered from Covid and don’t have any other chronic/critical ailment, to come forward and donate their plasma. “We have employed different lines of treatment on Covid patients here. A youth, who has recently recovered from Covid, came forward to donate his plasma on Saturday,” Prof Chaudhry said. —TNS
28-06-2020||---||50K houses for workers on city outskirts||Chandigarh, June 27The Haryana Government has decided to formulate a new scheme in which as many as 50,000 houses would be built in the periphery of the municipal limits for those who need to travel from the outskirts of cities for work.What the scheme offersAs per the scheme, houses will be given on freehold or leasehold basis. The scheme will be formulated with a buyback option in which the owner — at any given point of time — will have an option to sell the same house back to the government.As per the scheme, houses will be given on freehold or leasehold basis. The scheme will be formulated with a buyback option in which the owner — at any given point of time — will have an option to sell the same house back to the government.A decision in this regard was taken at a review meeting of the ‘Housing for all’ Department on Saturday chaired by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.The Chief Minister, empathising with the problem of all such commuters travelling a distance of several km to reach their work destinations, said, “The purpose of this scheme is to provide housing facilities to all such people who presently have to travel long distances to reach their workplace. However, with the construction of these houses, they will get housing facilities near their work area.”In order to promote industries in Haryana, it was also decided to allow 10 per cent of floor area ratio (FAR) for housing on industrial plots for entrepreneurs setting up industries in the state, so that they can arrange accommodation facilities for their workers within the industry premises.Besides this, it was further decided that a similar provision would also be made for the industrial plots located in the Industrial Estates of Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) for the same purpose.Meanwhile, the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation will also construct houses for the industrial units which will be given to them on rental basis to accommodate their workers.
28-06-2020||Our Correspondent---||2 ATM robbers held||Kaithal, June 27 In a joint operation by a team of Kaithal police and Saharanpur police (Uttar Pradesh), two members of an interstate gang operating in Delhi, Haryana, UP, Punjab and Uttarakhand were held after a chase and brief encounter. They were allegedly involved in uprooting six ATMs and stealing cattle. The duo has been identified as Farman, a resident of Baigi Nazar village under police station Gangoh (Uttar Pradesh), and Kala alias Gulsher of Pbahari in Yamunanagar district.  The police have seized a pick-up vehicle, a 12 bore gun, three live cartridges, two uprooted ATMs, Rs 4.5 lakh cash and equipment used for cutting ATMs.  During interrogation, the accused have confessed that they uprooted ATMs by tying it to a rope, then opened up the machines at desolate places, took out cash and concealed the damaged ATMs under wild growth on the banks of the Yamuna river. SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said here on Saturday that a joint operation by the two teams was carried out late on Friday night and a barrier was set up on Saharanpur-Delhi road near Chindwara crossing.  When two vehicles were signalled to stop, they took a u-turn and tried to speed away but were chased by the police teams. The occupants of one vehicle opened fire at the police. The police overpowered two of them, but the others managed to escape.  The SP said 29 cases had been registered against the accused in various states.
28-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Be more sensitive in detention matters, HC tells lower courts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 27Expressing surprise over an Additional Sessions Judge declining bail to an accused not specifically named in an FIR and proceeding against him only on the basis of disclosure statement, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the subordinate judiciary in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to be more sensitive in such matters.“It is hoped that in such blatant detention matters also, the sessions court will be more sensitive to the accused, who approach the district judiciary for their freedom, and who are unnecessarily forced to approach the High Court on account of lack of exercise of jurisdiction, even in valid cases, which is coming to the notice of this court time and again,” Justice GS Sandhawalia asserted.The assertion came on a petition by Mandeep Singh for regular bail in an FIR dated March 29, 2019, for attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy and other offences under Sections 307 and 120-B of the IPC and provisions of the Arms Act registered at the Chhappar police station in Yamunanagar district.Virtually rapping the judge, Justice Sandhawalia asserted that surprisingly, the judicial officer, in her order dated May 11, noticed that trial had not commenced and the petitioner had not been specifically named in the FIR, yet she came to the conclusion that veracity of allegations against the petitioner was to be examined only after conclusion of trial.Declining bail to the accused on the basis of gravity and seriousness of offence, coupled with the manner of its commission, the judicial officer had observed that he might hamper prosecution evidence if released.“The reasons given by the Additional Sessions Judge are not justified in the facts and circumstances. The court has failed to take into consideration that the petitioner has been detained on a disclosure statement, which may not stand scrutiny in the court of law. Apparently, prima facie, the investigating officer has overstepped his jurisdiction in his keenness to solve the crime, which has not been appreciated by the Additional Sessions Judge,” Justice Sandhawalia observed.Before allowing the bail plea, Justice Sandhawalia took note of the fact that the complainant, as per the FIR, had not seen anyone open fire at his house, but only heard a loud noise and seen bullet marks on his house door in the morning, besides three empty and a live cartridge.On the basis of suspicion, three persons had been named in the FIR, but the petitioner was not one of them. He was arrested only on account of disclosure statement recorded by the investigating officer and had been in custody since December 12, 2019.
28-06-2020||---||Khap not backing me: Sonali||Karnal, June 27 BJP leader and TikTok star Sonali Phogat on Saturday accused members of khap panchayat of not supporting her and instead sitting as mute spectators when a man was “assassinating her character”. “Am I not their daughter,” she questioned the members of khap panchayat after a meeting with party general secretary and Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia at Sector-14 Krishna Mandir. BJP leader Phogat had thrashed market committee secretary Sultan Singh during a visit to a purchase centre in Balsamand village in Hisar on June 5. The police registered cross cases against both of them. Phogat had accused Sultan Singh of misbehaving with her. She was arrested and later got bail. “In the presence of around 500 people, one person had accused me of using illegal means to get ticket,” she alleged and said that the video of this man had gone viral, but the members of khap panchayat did not dare to ask him why he was assassinating her character. “I am an old worker of the party and have been working for the past 13 years. I got ticket due to my hard work. It is wrong to say that I got ticket due to TikTok,” she added. Phogat — with the district body of Hisar — met Bhatia and both leaders claimed the meeting was related to organisational activities of the party. However, Bhatia said that her case was also discussed. But as the issue is in court, he would not comment on it.
28-06-2020||---||Financial woes make Karnal trader end life||Karnal, June 27 A 43-year-old shopkeeper, Rajendra Rajpal, has committed suicide by hanging himself in Sector 13, Karnal. He had no income from his lehenga shop at Karan Gate amid the Covid threat.  According to his family members, marriage ceremonies are not taking place anywhere due to the spread of the Covid pandemic so he had no customers for lehengas. This was the reason behind his mental stress. Pritpal Singh Pannu, friend of the deceased, said, “Rajendra’s business wasn’t going well for quite some time so he was under stress.” The police are investigating the case. The two sons of the deceased have donated his eyes.
28-06-2020||---||Criminal carrying Rs 25K reward held||Palwal, June 27 The CIA branch of the local police has arrested a 27-year-old criminal carrying a reward of Rs 25,000.  According to police officials, the accused identified as Manpreet alias Mannu, a resident of Janacholi village in the district, had been involved in an incident of loot and murder that took place on November 16 last year when a truck was intercepted on Manpur-Sevli road in the district for loot.                                            It is reported that the accused including Manpreet, who were armed, had shot dead the driver, identified as Lokesh hailing from UP, after he resisted the loot of cash amounting to Rs 25,000 possessed by him at that time. The accused managed to flee with the loot at that time. While the police had managed to arrest Rahul and Sonu, associates of Manpreet, soon after the incident, Manpreet had been dodging the police since then. “Manpreet was nabbed from Janacholi on Friday after a tip-off,” said Inspector Ashok Kumar, in-charge, CIA cell. The accused is wanted in a couple of other cases, including forcing a person to commit suicide and threatening another resident of Chandhut village, it is claimed. He was remanded in judicial custody on Saturday.
