28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana government says CM Manohar Lal Khattar making satisfactory progress||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who is currently admitted to a hospital in Gurgaon after contracting COVID-19, is making a satisfactory progress, a state government statement said here on Friday.The chief minister, who is admitted to Gurgaon’s Medanta Hospital for treatment, is making a satisfactory progress and overall he is comfortable and relaxed, it said.The statement further said that as per the medical bulletin issued by the hospital, Khattar underwent some blood and CT scan investigations.A multidisciplinary team of doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi; PGIMS, Rohtak, Gurgaon Civil Surgeon Dr Virender Yadav, Medanta’s Dr Sushila Kataria reviewed his condition, line of treatment and progress made, it said.Another bulletin issued by the hospital on Tuesday said that Khattar was stable and maintaining his vital parameters.Khattar, 66, had a few days ago developed fever and body ache, following which he tested positive for COVID-19.His test report came on Monday, six days after he attended a meeting with Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who was later found to have tested positive for coronavirus.Khattar is among the eight BJP MLAs from Haryana who have contracted COVID-19.The others include state Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma and Agriculture Minister J P Dalal. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-says-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-making-satisfactory-progress-132754
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 15 more COVID-19 deaths, 1,298 new cases||The COVID-19 tally in Haryana rose to 60,596 on Friday after 1,298 fresh cases were detected, while 15 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 661, according to the health department’s bulletin.Three deaths were reported from Karnal, two each from Panchkula, Panipat and Rewari, and one each from Faridabad, Rohtak, Hisar, Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Fatehabad, it said.The districts which reported fresh cases include Gurgaon (126), Faridabad (115), Hisar (110), Sonipat and Karnal (100 each), Yamunanagar (81), Kurukshetra (76) and Panchkula (56), the bulletin said.At present, there are 10,225 active cases in the state, while 49,710 have been discharged after recovering from the disease.Meanwhile, some officials working in the Haryana Civil Secretariat have tested positive for COVID-19.Amid rising coronavirus cases, the state government has decided to restrict the entry of all visitors in the Haryana Civil Secretariat except government officers/officials residing in tricity (Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali) till further orders. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-15-more-covid-19-deaths-1-298-new-cases-132745
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||GST Council meeting: Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala asks Centre to pay Rs 5,000 crore to Haryana||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has asked GST Council to have the central government recompense the state with Rs. 5,840 crore that has been pending for the last four months.Chautalam, who was participating in the virtual 41st GST Council from Chandigarh through a video link, asked the central government to offer financial assistance to the state that he said has been severely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.He also demanded that the central government should make up for the loss of revenue to states even after a period of the stipulated 5 years of GST.Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, besides other senior officials, attended the meeting.Chautala said that Haryana was a leading state in terms of manufacturing and export.“Before the GST system, the state used to get maximum revenue in the form of tax on products. The revenue collection across the state has been adversely affected after the implementation of GST system. The states where products are being sold are getting more benefits of GST. The revenue of the state has also been affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said.He also said the GST Council was “constitutionally bound” to recompense states, and urged Parliament to help push the states’ cases.Chautala also asked the Council to focus on raising revenues as a long-term solution to the problem of revenues deficit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gst-council-meeting-deputy-cm-dushyant-chautala-asks-centre-to-pay-rs-5-000-crore-to-haryana-132731
28-08-2020||---||Congress leader flays Haryana Govt for poor facilities at Covid-care centre||Panchkula, August 28National coordinator, All India Mahila Congress, and spokesperson, Haryana Pradesh Mahila Congress,  Ranjeeta Mehta, who is being treated for COVID-19 infection at the Sector 6 Civil Hospital here, on Friday alleged that coronavirus patients were being made to stay in “poor conditions” at the infirmary.The Congress leader said “substandard” way of treating COVID-19 patients by the Health Department forced Haryana Chief Manohar Lal Khattar and Speaker Gian Chand Gupta to get admitted into a premium private hospital in Gurugram.“Bees are welcoming CORONA patients in the Sec 6 hospital. Since morning 11 am no one has done any test rather mosquitos are giving me more pain. Is this the way you and your dept are handling patients. Now, I can understand why CM and Speaker rushed to Medanta,” she said in a tweet, tagging Health Minister Anil Vij.@anilvijminister Bees are welcoming CORONA patients in the sec 6 hospital. Since morning 11 am no one has done any test rather mosquito are giving me more pain. Is this the way you and your deptt. are handling patients. Now I can understand why CM and speaker rushed to Vedanta. pic.twitter.com/xnFAiykwfX  In another tweet, Ranjeeta asked why she was not being told about the treatment she was subjected to.“10 tablets given to me after 5 hours of torture to have it together. When asked which are these tablets, no one answered…..,” Ranjeeta tweeted and asked Vij to intervene.“X Ray tests of COVID patients were being conducted in an open space -- without gown and sleepers. One can imagine how difficult it would be for women,” she added.Ranjeeta along with her husband tested positive for the virus on August 26.This isn’t the first time when such an incident has come to light. A video shot by a Panchkula-based Covid-19 patient, highlighting the unavailability of water in a toilet of a Covid-care ward at the Civil Hospital, was widely shared on the social media in early August.Earlier, Chandigarh Tribune had also highlighted the plight of patients admitted to BRS Dental College in Barwala, a dedicated Covid-care facility. They were forced to clean wards due to inadequate housekeeping staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-leader-flays-haryana-govt-for-poor-facilities-at-covid-care-centre-132721
28-08-2020||---||Haryana to abide by SC decision: Education Minister||Chandigarh, August 28Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar on Friday confirmed that the state would conduct exams for final year students of undergraduate and postgraduate classes after the apex court decision.The Supreme Court today said that the intention of any student is to pursue a graduate or postgraduate final year degree through examinations and not to get the degree on an average basis without appearing for examination. The apex court said this while announcing its judgment on the on-going issue of promoting final year students without holding examinations.Gujjar welcomed the decision of the Supreme Court, stating that Covid-19 couldn’t be considered as the basis for not conducting undergraduate and postgraduate final year or semester examinations.He said that now as per the plans of the University Grants Commission (UGC), the varsities and colleges of various states have to conduct examinations by September 30. He said that if any state is unable to conduct examinations during this period, then they have to send their request to the UGC.The Education Minister said that when a student works hard for 14 years till his graduation, and does not get a valid degree, then it cannot be termed appropriate.He said that Haryana Higher Education Department is preparing to conduct online or offline examination of students. For this, necessary arrangements will be made for conducting examinations following the guidelines issued for Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-abide-by-sc-decision-education-minister-132715
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Cong, its youth wing stage protests in Haryana and Punjab against holding of JEE, NEET||The Congress and its youth wing on Friday staged protests at many places in Haryana, Punjab and their joint capital Chandigarh against the holding of JEE and NEET amid the COVID-pandemic.Various opposition parties, including the Congress, have demanded that the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) be deferred due to the COVID-19 pandemic and floods in parts of the country, even as the Union government has made it clear that they will be held as per schedule with due precautions.In Haryana, Congress leaders and workers held protests at many places, including Karnal, Kaithal, Bhiwani and Sirsa.Congress workers in Bhiwani burnt an effigy of the Union education minister and demanded that the exams be deferred keeping in view the present COVID-19 situation.In Sirsa, Congress workers, during a protest, demanded that the exams be deferred for now."What is the urgency of holding these exams when cases are increasing. Why are lives of thousands of students and their families being put at risk," a Congress leader said.Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja said that during the past few weeks, there has been a sharp increase in COVID-19 cases. "In this situation the government is bent upon holding JEE and NEE exams which has raised worries of lakhs of students and their parents. Given the situation as it is now due to COVID, how will the government make stay and transport arrangements of so many students," the Congress leader said."Moreover, in some parts of the country the flood situation has aggravated. Should the government be stubborn about holding these exams or take decisions keeping interests of people in mind?" Selja asked.While NEET is scheduled to be held on September 13, engineering entrance exam JEE-Main has been planned from September 1-6. Around 8.58 lakh candidates have registered for the JEE-Main and 15.97 lakh have registered for the NEET.The exams have been deferred twice in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.Members of the Chandigarh Territorial Congress, led by its president Pradeep Chhabra, staged a protest against holding of these exams, with him saying this is not the time to "endanger the lives of students"."Don't play with the lives of students," read a placard at the protest in Chandigarh.      At many places in Punjab, the Youth Congress submitted memorandums addressed to the Centre through the district administrations on the issue. It demanded that these exams be put off for the time being.Punjab Youth Congress president Barinder Dhillon said that these exams should be put off as holding them at this stage would put lives of thousands of students at risk.Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar had on Thursday hit out at the BJP-led government at the Centre, accusing it of "playing with the lives" of millions of youth by being "adamant" on conducting JEE and NEET exams, amid the COVID-19 pandemic.Jakhar's reaction came a day after Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh asked his state advocate general to coordinate with his counterparts in other opposition-ruled states for filing a collective review petition in the Supreme Court, to seek deferment of  NEET and JEE.On Friday, ministers of six opposition-ruled states moved the Supreme Court on seeking review of its order permitting the Centre to conduct NEET and JEE entrance exams this year amid the persisting COVID-19 pandemic.The top court on August 17 had refused to interfere with the conduct of medical and engineering entrance exams -- NEET and JEE --scheduled to take place in September saying that life must go on and students can't lose a precious year due to the pandemic. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-its-youth-wing-stage-protests-in-haryana-and-punjab-against-holding-of-jee-neet-132701
28-08-2020||Faridabad||Bigger conspiracy behind Sushant Singh Rajput’s death: Union Minister Ramdas Athawale||Union Minister Ramdas Athawale said on Friday that actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death was a "conspiracy"---the latest person to jump onto the bandwagon of the high-profile case that has sparked off an inferno across the country.Athawale, the minister of state for social justice and empowerment at the Centre and a Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament from his home state, Maharashtra, visited Rajput’s family, his father KK Singh and sister Rani Singh, to offer his condolences.  “The death of Sushant Singh Rajput does not appear to be a case of simple suicide, but a result of suspected bigger conspiracy, which is likely to be revealed after the ongoing CBI probe,” Athawale told reporters.“The family believes that Sushant Singh Rajput’s death is not a suicide and if it turns out to be a case of murder, the accused need to be hanged,” he said.He also said that he was "one of those who had raised the demand of a CBI probe into the matter along with the JDU leaders and Bihar government soon after his death".“I have told his father that we are with him in this matter. Sushant was an upcoming and bright actor and some people could be jealous of his sharp rise.”Rajput’s sister Rani Singh is married to Faridabad Commissioner of Police OP Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bigger-conspiracy-behind-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-union-minister-ramdas-athawale-132697
28-08-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Patients on medication for Hepatitis safe from Covid: PGIMS survey||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 28A survey being conducted by a team of Rohtak PGIMS has found that the patients who are taking medication for Hepatitis C or B have not contracted Covid infection.“The survey has covered more than 17,700 patients from different parts of Haryana. We have contacted nearly 3,100 patients of Hepatitis C and 600 patients of Hepatitis B who are currently on medication. None of those 3,700 patients have contracted Covid,” disclosed Dr Parveen Malhotra, Senior Professor and Head of the Department of Medical Gastroenterology at Rohtak PGIMS.Professor Malhotra pointed out that in the other arm of the their team had also checked around 14,000 Covid patients and found that eight of them were found to be positive for Hepatitis C or B.Notably, of those eight patients, four had stopped taking the anti-Hepatitis medications more than a year ago, while the other four have been found positive for Hepatitis, but are yet to begin taking the medicines.“In a nutshell, no patient of Hepatitis C or B who is currently on medication has been found Covid-positive so far, which is an indirect evidence of the efficacy of anti-Hepatitis drugs in the treatment of Covid,” maintained the medical specialist.Dr Malhotra said the Hepatitis-B patients surveyed were on Tenofovir, while the patients of Hepatitis-C were on Sofosbuvir, Daclatasvir and/or Velpatasvir.It may be pertinent to mention here that a trial of anti-Hepatitis drugs on Covid patients is about to commence at the Rohtak PGIMS soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/patients-on-medication-for-hepatitis-safe-from-covid-pgims-survey-132693
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt lifts weekend lockdown; essentials shops to remain open||To contain the spread of COVID-19, the Haryana government on Friday ordered that malls and shops in the market places of urban areas will remain closed on Mondays and Tuesdays instead of weekends as instructed earlier.The new order, however, does not apply to shops dealing with essential goods and services.The revised instructions come a week after the government had ordered offices and shops to remain closed on weekends throughout the state.“...to contain further spread of COVID-19 in Haryana, shopping malls and shops, except those dealing with essential goods and services shall remain closed on Monday and Tuesday in the market places of urban areas of the state.“Accordingly, there is no bar on opening of shops and shopping malls on Saturday and Sunday in these areas. These orders will be applicable till further orders,” a government order said.Earlier, on August 21, the government had said all offices and shops, except those dealing with essential services, will remain closed on weekends.An official statement had then said the “state government has decided to close all public and private offices except those dealing with essential services and all shopping malls and shops in the market area, except those dealing with essential goods and services on Saturday and Sunday throughout the territory of Haryana.” The step was taken to contain the spread of coronavirus infection in the state, the statement had said.As on Thursday, Haryana had 59,298 COVID-19 cases with 646 fatalities. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-lifts-weekend-lockdown-essentials-shops-to-remain-open-132686
28-08-2020||The condition of pavements on both sides from Namaste Chowk to Baldi Chowk on the National Highway-44 is in a pathetic condition. These pavements have been dug up from place to place to lay underground gas pipelines in the city||Dug up, Pavements in pathetic condition||Shakti Singh, KarnalHisar bypass turns fatal for commutersTHE 22-km stretch of the South bypass in Hisar has become a fatal spot. Frequent accident happens on this stretch. The situation from Aadhar Hospital and the interacting point at Satrod Khurd village is all the more precarious. The stray animals have worsened the situation. The authorities should rise from the slumber. Traffic lights and a roundabout should be erected in front of the hospital and streetlights should be installed along the canal up to Satrod Khurd village, where another roundabout is the need of the hour.Ram Chander Nehra, Satrod khurd - HisarCycling picks up, but tracks missingPanchkula is appreciated for taking the lead in adopting bicycles as a viable mobility alternative for its citizens by introducing ‘Yanna’. One can spot more bicycles in the evening than other heavy vehicles. But the lack of separate/distinguished paths for cycles is missing, which creates a mess on roads and increasing the chances of fatalities. Demarcation on the roads would lead to an easy flow for all vehicles and promote more potential users to choose cycles, majorly children and housewives, which eventually will help reduce the carbon footprint of the city too.Ridhima Arora, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dug-up-pavements-in-pathetic-condition-132423
28-08-2020||Faridabad||Online course concludes at YMCA||Assistant professor awardedHisar: Er Sardul Singh, assistant professor, Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, here is awarded with two Australian patents, first for an invention that provides improved and efficient methodology to sanitise humans as well as things using a dual mode mechanism and second related to parking space management system. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar and Registrar Prof Harbhajan Bansal congratulated him and the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering for this achievement. The VC said this was a pride moment for the university and the state. He said this great achievement was recognition of world class research environment in the university adding that all possible facilities and assistance would be provided to the professor for further innovation. These patents would be beneficial for the society and nation. Singh said the system would allow persons to keep their belongings in a chamber and walk through a sanitisation tunnel. The system would detect and do chemical sanitisation in the tunnel and electronic sanitisation in the chamber automatically.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-course-concludes-at-ymca-132424
28-08-2020||---||Won’t allow government to go scot-free, says Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Kurukshetra, August 27Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said today that the government could not run away without answering questions about farmers, labourers, workers, businessmen and the unemployed. He said the Opposition would not allow the government to go scot-free on these critical issues.Assembly a formalityThe session was a formality as the govt limited it to a single day. If the govt wanted to complete formalities, only very important legislative functions should be dealt with. - Bhupinder Hooda, LoPSpeaking to mediapersons, Hooda said scams continued during the pandemic and persons linked to those in power continued to siphon off crores. He demanded a high-level probe and warned that the fight would shift to the streets if the government suppressed the voice of the Opposition in the House.“The Congress had demanded that if the government wanted to complete formalities, only very important legislative functions should be dealt with,” he said.“Instead of framing welfare policies, the focus of this government is on scams and retrenchment. Despite repeated appeals, the government has no empathy for sacked physical training instructors. There is a possibility that their paper may have been leaked not only in Hisar, but also in other places,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-allow-government-to-go-scot-free-says-bhupinder-singh-hooda-132298
28-08-2020||Gurugram||NGT no to illegal Aravalli structures||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the state to remove illegal construction in the Aravalli forests. Dismissing the plea filed by 10 farmhouse owners, the NGT said the land in question was a  forest and any construction therein was illegal. The order was issued by a Bench headed by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, NGT chairperson, while hearing a plea by Haryana resident Sonya Ghosh that construction activity be banned in deemed forest areas of the state. The NGT took into account the submission of the government that it required some more time for full compliance. It ordered a thorough survey by the Forest Department and compliance within six months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ngt-no-to-illegal-aravalli-structures-132299
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||Narcotics control bureau constituted||The government has constituted  the Haryana State Narcotics Control Bureau to prevent and control drug trafficking and detection and criminal prosecution of those indulging in peddling, supply, manufacturing, transportation, distribution and storage of drugs and narcotics. A spokesman said the bureau would be headed an ADGP or IGP-rank officer under the overall control of the DGP, with the headquarters at Haryana Police Complex in Karnal. He said it would develop strategies, measures and methods to enforce the law against crimes related to drugs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/narcotics-control-bureau-constituted-132300
28-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Follow principles of natural justice: High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 27The Punjab and Haryana High Court made it clear that the principles of natural justice are required to be followed before taking administrative or quasi-judicial decisions affecting the rights of a person.Justice Anil Kshetarpal also made it clear that the rules of natural justice were required to be read into all statutes, unless specifically or inevitably excluded, even where the right of being heard was not specifically provided.The ruling came in a case wherein the Chief Registrar, on June 11, granted permission to cancel the petitioner’s birth entry and the Registrar, on June 17, cancelled his date of birth entry in the register of births and deaths.The petitioner had claimed that he was born on April 15, 2004, and as such, the entry in the register was correct. The respondent officials, on the other hand, had claimed that the petitioner was born on January 10, 2001, and his parents got the date entered after a long delay.The issue assumed significance as the petitioner, among other things, claimed to be a juvenile in a case under provisions of the POCSO Act.Justice Kshetarpal pointed out that the question was whether it was mandatory to follow the principles of natural justice before passing the order affecting the rights of someone either by a quasi-judicial tribunal or an administrative authority.Justice Kshetarpal asserted that the principles of natural justice were required to be followed and the law on this aspect had developed steadily with the passage of time.Justice Kshetarpal said by now, it was well settled that the rules of natural justice, which included the rule of “audi alteram partem”, were required to be read into all statutes unless specifically or inevitably excluded. The principle of “audi alteram partem” makes it clear that no person should be condemned unheard.Referring to the case in hand, Justice Kshetarpal added that the applicability of the doctrine of “audi alteram partem” had not been excluded by explicit provision, or by necessary implication, in the Registration of Births and Deaths Act.“In the absence of a statutory provision either specifically or by inevitable implication excluding the application of principles of natural justice, it must be held that the rules of natural justice are ingrained in the Act and rules.”Setting aside the impugned order due to the technical flaw, Justice Kshetarpal directed the Registrar to take a fresh decision within a month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/follow-principles-of-natural-justice-high-court-132301
28-08-2020||---||FIR lodged, probe on, CBI tells court||Chandigarh, August 27Less than two months after an order paving the way for construction of Ambience Mall in Gurugram on area initially earmarked as residential was quashed while ordering a CBI probe, the Punjab and Haryana High Court was today told that investigation was on after registration of a formal FIR.The assertion came a day after the Assembly passed an amendment and validation Bill, expected to come as a relief to developers of the Gurugram mall, besides several similar cases involving delicensing of land.As the case came up for hearing before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh, CBI counsel Sumeet Goel submitted that a formal FIR had been registered and investigation was on.Goel stated that probe would be carried out in right earnest and the court informed of progress and compliance of directions, for which a status report would be furnished in sealed cover.Goel pleaded that the original HUDA record, retained in safe custody of the Registrar (Judicial), be handed over to the CBI to carry on further investigation in terms of the judgment delivered on July 10.Accepting the request, the Bench issued an order to this effect. The case would now come up in the last week of September.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fir-lodged-probe-on-cbi-tells-court-132302
28-08-2020||---||Minister Gurjar among 1,293 test +ve for Covid in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 27Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Krishan Pal Gurjar was among the 1,293 fresh Covid cases in Haryana on Thursday, taking the tally to 59,298. With 12 more deaths, the toll reached 646.Karnal hospital short of staffState Congress president Kumari Selja said she had home-quarantined herself for a week after coming in contact with a person who later tested positive.Gurugram reported a maximum of 141 cases, followed by Sonepat (123), Faridabad (96), Panchkula (94) and Yamunagar (81).Rewari, Panchkula and Kurukshetra reported two deaths each while one death each was reported from Faridabad, Gurugram, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Karnal and Nuh.In Faridabad, 21 officials of the district administration, including the HSVP Estate Officer and 10 employees of his office, were found positive.Entry to Sectt restrictedIn view of Covid, the state government has decided to restrict the entry of all visitors to the Haryana Civil Secretariat, except government officials residing in the tricity, till further orders. The order has been issued by the Chief Secretary's office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minister-gurjar-among-1-293-test-ve-for-covid-in-haryana-132303
28-08-2020||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Yamunanagar man dumps 15-years-old pregnant wife||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, August 27A 15-year-old married girl, who is seven months’ pregnant, was allegedly thrown out of the house by her husband after months of thrashing.She Was married against her wishesOn August 20, she lodged a complaint of domestic violence in the court of Sandeep Kaur, Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMIC), Jagadhri, against her 20-year-old husband Salman.As of now, the girl is admitted to the Civil Hospital.The victim, in her complaint to the court, said she was married forcibly in August 2019. Hers was an inter-caste marriage. The girl’s mother, who works as a labourer, married off her daughter as she failed to make ends meet, sources say. She has a son to feed.“Salman tortured and beat me up several times. Now, he has dumped me,” the girl said in her complaint.On the direction of the JMIC, the court informed the Child Welfare Committee of the girl’s case.Sources say the charges of sexual abuse and provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act would be invoked against Salman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-man-dumps-15-years-old-pregnant-wife-132304
28-08-2020||---||Shelter home for injured animals runs short of space||Faridabad, August 27‘Astha’, a shelter home for injured stray animals, is closed for fresh cases owing to shortage of space and funds. In all, 91 stray animals are lodged here at present.Rescued over 10K stray animals“We are unhappy to inform all that the work of rescuing and lodging injured stray animals at our shelter home is closed,” said Ravi Dubey, a spokesperson of the People for Animals Trust (PFT), the NGO that runs the home. He said the closure was temporary adding that the veterinary team of the shelter home would keep attending the injured animals but will have to shift them to other places as there was no more space available and the NGO was facing a financial crunch.The shelter home located at Sohna road here, has a total of 90 stray animals, including 36 cows, 52 dogs, one monkey and a donkey. The PFT had recently rescued a bull who had been a victim of acid attack.The home having a full-time veterinary surgeon, is located over an area of 600 sq yards having two enclosures covering a space of 300 sq yard each. “We get 25 to 30 calls daily on our helpline number (92139-61501) for rescuing injured animals,” he said adding that it was not possible to admit all animals as there was no more space left at the home.The facility is functional for the past 13 years and the home has rescued and lodged over 10,000 animals till date.The total monthly expenses of the home are around Rs 30,000. The rescue, treatment and lodging is free and is done with the support and contributions of some animals lovers, he said adding that no government support had come so far. Though cow shelters (goshalas) at more than half a dozen spots are functional, they lack veterinary treatment facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shelter-home-for-injured-animals-runs-short-of-space-132305
28-08-2020||---||Private schools seek annual charges, parents frown||Ambala, August 27A group of parents here launched a campaign against some private schools after reportedly being forced to deposit annual charges.Calling it a “no school no annual charges” campaign, they said they had been depositing tuition fee regularly but had now been asked to pay annual charges. Online classes of those who failed to pay it had been discontinued, they said.Surinder Kumar, a parent, said: “These directives are against the state orders. There should be no annual charges until schools reopen. If our demand is not met, we will form a committee and launch an agitation. So far, we have launched a campaign against private schools wherein we will try to unite maximum number of parents in the district.”Parents’ Welfare Association president Ajay Gupta said: “In the absence of further directions from the Education Department, various schools have started charging quarterly fee and annual charges. The government should issue directions in this regard at the earliest.”Meanwhile, private schools, too, have sought government intervention, claiming that the High Court had allowed them to accept annual charges and the Education Department should issue a notification in this regard.Integrated Private School Welfare Society president Saurabh Kapoor said: “Many students have still not deposited tuition fee. The High Court has allowed schools to charge annual charges after working out the expenditure incurred. We have submitted a memorandum to the District Education Officer, requesting an official statement. We will soon submit a reminder and if the department fails to implement the guidelines, schools will send a contempt of court notice.”District Education Officer Suresh Kumar said: “I have marked an inquiry to the Block Education Officer. As per the last directions from the Education Department, schools can only charge tuition fee. We will take up the matter with the higher authorities as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-schools-seek-annual-charges-parents-frown-132306
28-08-2020||Parveen Arora||Rs 7.72 crore spent on stay of health workers: RTI reply||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, August 27The state government spent a sum of Rs 7.72 crore on the boarding and lodging of doctors and healthcare workers since the enforcement of Covid-induced lockdown till August 13. This was revealed in response to an RTI application filed by Kaithal-based activist Mehar Kumar Ravish.Medical equipment worth Rs 41cr boughtThe RTI activist had sought information regarding the collection of amount in Haryana Corona Relief Fund and expenditure by the government on various measures taken by it to control the Covid spread.The information furnished by the state government said it had spent Rs 114.30 crore on various measures to control the Covid spread. It has received a sum of Rs 311.44 crore in Haryana Corona Relief Fund.In response to a question regarding the donation given by the Chief Minister, Deputy Chief Minister, ministers, former ministers and MLAs from their salaries, the government said it does not have any data related to it as they had sent funds through accounts and e-banking.The government has spent a sum of Rs 41 crore on the procurement of medical equipment and other stuff bought from the HMSCL, Panchkula, the RTI reply said.The state government paid Rs 8.21 crore to the Railways through the state Home Department to facilitate the movement of stranded persons, Rs 4.50 crore was spent on temporary accommodation, food, clothing and medical care, etc. for people affected, staying in shelters and quarantine camps. Of which, Rs 2 crore was spent in Gurugram, Rs 50 lakh each in Faridabad, Rohtak and Rewari, and Rs 1 crore in Panipat.The state government also admitted that a sum of Rs 35.09 crore has been released by the Haryana Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID) for mazdoor payments, Rs 1.25 crore on immunity booster and other medicines by the National Ayush Mission, Panchkula, Rs 6.53 crore on distress ration, while Rs 10 crore has been kept as fixed deposit for ex gratia payments to Covid warriors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-7-72-crore-spent-on-stay-of-health-workers-rti-reply-132307
28-08-2020||Ravinder Saini||Rs 10.21 crore allocated for cotton growers of 17 Haryana districts||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, August 27The Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare has allocated Rs 10.21 crore for farmers of 17 districts, who switched over to cotton crop from paddy cultivation under the ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ scheme that aims at preserving the depleting water table in the state. The amount has been allocated for a total diversified area of 20,420 hectare in the state.Fake registrations to take incentivePaddy is not being sown in Mahendragarh district for the past many years following the scarcity of groundwater but 112 farmers got area over 136 hectares registered to get the incentive. All these registrations were later cancelledThis is the first instalment of Rs 2,000 per acre under the scheme while the final instalment of Rs 5,000 per acre would be given at the time of maturity of the crop. Deputy Directors (Agriculture) of the districts concerned have been directed to transfer the amount to the cotton growers through direct benefit transfer.Sirsa district would get highest amount of Rs 2.26 crore for 4,523 hectares followed by Rs 1.98 crore for Fatehabad (3,966 hectares) and Rs 1.97 crore for Jind (3,945 hectares) while Karnal would get lowest sum of Rs 45,000 for merely 9 hectares and Rs 1.15 lakh (23 hectares) has been allocated for Panipat, Rs 1.20 lakh (24 hectares) for Gurugram and Rs 1.40 lakh (28 hectares) for Nuh.Notably, a large number of farmers across the state had furnished false crop diversification details to allegedly siphon incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre under the scheme but the department detected such cases during the verification. More than 90 per cent of the cultivation area registered under the scheme was found ‘invalid’ in Rewari while the figure was 70 per cent in Rohtak and 57 per cent in Jhajjar.Interestingly, paddy is not being sown in Mahendragarh district for the past many years following the scarcity of groundwater but 112 farmers got over 136 hectares registered to get the incentive. All these registrations were later cancelled.Rohtak will get a sum of Rs 19.35 lakh (387 hectares), Rs 49.50 lakh (990 hectares) for Jhajjar, Rs 2.40 lakh (48 hectares) for Rewari, Rs 7.25 lakh (145 hectares) for Palwal, Rs 11.70 lakh (234 hectares) for Faridabad, Rs 39.80 lakh (796 hectares) for Sonepat, Rs 41.90 lakh (838 hectares) for Charkhi Dadri, Rs 46.50 lakh (930 hectares) for Bhiwani and Rs 55.30 lakh (1,106 hectares) has been allocated for Kaithal.Rohtak Deputy Director, Agriculture, Rohtas Singh, said the amount would be transferred to the cotton growers’ bank accounts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-10-21-crore-allocated-for-cotton-growers-of-17-haryana-districts-132308
28-08-2020||Ravinder Saini||Government withdraws proposal to shift MBBS students||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, August 27In a setback to protesting MBBS students of World College here, the Department of Medical and Research, Haryana, has withdrawn the proposal of shifting them to other colleges.The department said 98 of 148 students were studying in World College and there was no deficiency of infrastructure and faculty in view of facts and as evident from the inspection conducted by the Board of Governors, Medical Council of India, on March 19.In a communiqué sent to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare by Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Medical and Research, Haryana, it is stated that it appears from the inspection report that the college meets the minimum requirement of faculty for 150 students.Moreover, the government has earmarked 250 beds of the college for the isolation of Covid patients from Mahendragarh, Charkhi Dadri, Rewari and Gurugram districts.“The government has attached the Jhajjar Civil Hospital as an associate teaching hospital with World College under an MoU and in turn, the college shall provide organisational support for programmes of the Health Department. So, the students should be allowed to continue and complete their course in World College,” the communiqué adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/government-withdraws-proposal-to-shift-mbbs-students-132309
28-08-2020||Sanjay Yadav
||Tyres of six cars stolen||Faridabad, August 27 The menace of tyre theft continues in Faridabad as a gang fled with tyres of six cars from Fruit Garden and NIT-1 last night. Thieves stole all four tyres of a Honda City in NIT-1 and two tyres each of three Skoda and Honda City cars. The tyres of two cars, including a BMW, were stolen from Fruit Garden. Some CCTV footage found that the thieves struck in wee hours between 3 am and 4 am.  The police registered a case, but had no leads. Over 25 such thefts had been reported in a month. Prior to this, on the night of August 20, similar incidents were reported from the NIT and Kotwali areas. The members of the gang first mounted the cars on bricks or jacks and then fled with tyres. The gang mostly targeted expensive cars. A police official said members of the gang would nabbed soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tyres-of-six-cars-stolen-132310
28-08-2020||
||One-day session murder of democracy: Congress MLA||Chandigarh, August 27  Congress MLA from Faridabad’s NIT segment Neeraj Sharma described the one-day session of the Haryana Assembly as the murder of democracy. At a press conference held here on Thursday, he said 12 bills were passed in a hurry but the voice of the Opposition, which was to raise scams, was muzzled.  The MLA said earlier Speaker Gian Chand Gupta had told us that a bill would reach MLAs five days before it would be tabled. “No MLA was allowed to speak in the session. It appears that we were prisoners, he said.  “The session was wastage of people’s money as Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa didn’t allow anyone to speak.” “The land belonging to Waqf board is being usurped in Faridabad. Custodian land is being usurped. But the government is worried about shopping malls and private hospitals. No meaningful discussion was allowed on the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act,” he added. “Rohtak MLA BB Batra has called for sending the bill to a select committee. I have written to the Governor not to approve the Act,” he said.  The MLA said he had raised the issues of scam in food and supply in his constituency but in vain. The BJP government blamed previous governments for their failures, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-day-session-murder-of-democracy-congress-mla-132311
28-08-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Scared of police encounter, gangster moves High Court||Gurugram, August 27In wake of the recent encounter of UP’s dreaded gangster Vikas Dubey, Lawrence Bishnoi has moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court highlighting his fear of the same fate at the hands of the Haryana Police.HC issues notice to Meham MLARohtak: The High Court has issued a notice of motion to Meham MLA Balraj Kundu for November 18. The High Court has also summoned lower court record in the form of photocopies. Former minister Manish Grover had moved the High Court to challenge an order of the Rohtak Additional Sessions Judge to set aside summoning of the MLA. Taking up the case through video-conferencing today, Justice HS Madaan ordered that proceedings in the Rohtak trial court in the defamation case would remain stayed. TNSCurrently lodged in Bharatpur jail and known for plotting Salman Khan’s murder, Bishnoi is wanted for many heinous crimes across the state and the Haryana Police have sought his custody on production warrant. Bishnoi has submitted a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, seeking security cover and his transfer on production warrant in handcuffs.“The Haryana Police registered a case number against me at Dabwali in Sirsa district and applied for a production warrant. I want security cover and measures like handcuff as I fear being killed in an encounter,” reads the petition.Not only Bishnoi but many other gangsters too have highlighted similar fear and sought security moving the local or High Court. Among those who have moved the court seeking similar security covers are gangster Kaushal, Amit Dagar and Manish etc.“Gangster Bishnoi had approached the court earlier for the same, this is just a pressure tactic that they use from time-to-time to evade questioning in concerned cases,” said B Satheesh Balan, IG, STF, Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/scared-of-police-encounter-gangster-moves-high-court-132312
28-08-2020||ibune News Service
||CPM protests ‘anti-people’ policies of Centre, Haryana state||Rohtak, August 27 Communist Party of India (M) workers organised a demonstration at the Mini-secretariat here on Thursday against the “anti-people” policies of the Centre and the state government. They submitted memorandums in the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. “Farmers and labourers are already under crisis. The three new ordinances introduced by the Centre will further push them towards devastation,” said Inderjit Singh, member of the CPM’s state executive.  Surender Singh, state secretary, CPM, said lakhs of people had lost their jobs because of the Covid-induced lockdown. “Instead of giving them employment, the Centre is pushing the nation towards economic slowdown by handing the resources of production to capitalists. The rate of unemployment has been rising due to erroneous policies of the BJP government,” he added. While expressing concern over the rising crime graph, Jagmati Sangwan, district secretary of the party, said the people were feeling insecure due to the rising cases of crime against woman, loot, murder and kidnapping.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cpm-protests-anti-people-policies-of-centre-haryana-state-132313
28-08-2020||---||Fertility  of cloned Murrah bulls good: Institute||Hisar, August 27A study of the Central Institute for Research on Buffalo (CIRB) has proven that cloned Murrah bulls have good fertility and their semen can be used to upgrade buffalo germplasm.Dr SS Dahiya, CIRB Director, said the institute had carried out a scientific study regarding fertility. “The technique will lead to a new era in buffalo breeding for faster multiplication of superior germplasm. The institute has prepared semen doses of two cloned Murrah bulls,” he said.Dr RK Sharma, head of the division, said they had been working on aspects of buffalo physiology and reproduction. “This study helps us to recommend cloned bulls for breeding. We produce 1 lakh semen doses from Murrah bulls annually,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fertility-of-cloned-murrah-bulls-good-institute-132314
28-08-2020||Ravinder Saini
||Blame game over FIRs against erring realtors||Tribune News Service Rohtak, August 27 Blame game over registration of FIRs in 25 cases pertaining to the carving out of unapproved colonies in the district is on between the office of District Town Planner (DTP) and the police. The DTP office has sought information about FIR numbers of these cases by sending a reminder to the SP, while the police claim that the report was sent to the office after its registration.  The cases belong to illegal colonies that came up in Kheri Sadh, Chamarian, Bohar, Dobh, Sunaria Kalan, Rohtak city, Mayna, Baland, Kutana, Bahu Jamalpur, Garhi Bohar, Kanheli and Makrauli Kalan villages here.  “Registration of FIRs in these cases was recommended between October 2018 and February this year, but the police have not informed us about their status despite reminder. This clearly indicates that the FIRs had not been registered. The issue was also raised at the District Task Force’s meeting chaired by the DC last month,” said an official at the DTP office. He said non-registration of FIRs not only encourages those involved in carving out illegal colonies but also discourages the DTP officials. The police never informed the office about the registration of FIRs and they had to procure the information on their own. Nine out of 25 cases fall under the Shivaji police station, five each under the Urban Estate and Sadar police station, three under the city police station and one each under the IMT, Bahu Akbarpur and Sampla police station,” he added.  Shivaji Colony police station SHO Balwant Singh said copies of the FIRs were sent to the DTP office immediately after their registration. DSP Gorakh Pal said the DTP officials should have talked to any higher police officer if they were not getting information about the FIRs. Meanwhile, SP office claimed that 55 FIRs had so far been lodged this year in connection with illegal colonies. Senior Town Planner Narendra Solanki said the SP had been requested through the DTP office to direct the SHO concerned to lodge FIRs in all 25 cases as it was a must to discourage the perpetrators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/blame-game-over-firs-against-erring-realtors-132315
28-08-2020||New Delhi||BSP to decide on fighting Baroda bypoll||BSP supremo Mayawati has sought a report from Haryana leaders on preparations regarding the upcoming byelection in Baroda in Sonepat district.Mayawati wants to assess the ground realities in Baroda to take a call on contesting the byelection. BSP in charge of Haryana CP Singh confirmed the development.The BSP sees an opportunity in the expected tussle between the BJP-JJP, Congress and INLD in Baroda, preponderated by Jat voters. “If they put up a Jat candidates, the BSP will field a non-Jat nominee,” said a senior BSP leader.Baroda was once reserved for SC candidate. It has about 50,000 SC voters. The byelection was necessitated on account of the death of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bsp-to-decide-on-fighting-baroda-bypoll-132316
28-08-2020||Yamunanagar||11-year-old sexually abused||A 53-year-old man has been booked on the charge of sexually abusing an 11-year-old girl in the district’s village. The accused, Surinder Kumar, was booked under the POCSO Act on Thursday.The alleged incident took place on Wednesday, when the girl went to the house of a boy of her village to borrow a book.“The boy’s father Surinder told me that his son was on the first floor. When I went there, he wasn’t there. In the meantime, Surinder came upstairs. He dragged me into the bathroom and sexually abused me,” the victim said in complaint. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-year-old-sexually-abused-132317
28-08-2020||Amit Bathla||Kailash Satyarthi praises Haryana cop for reuniting missing kids with families||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 27Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Rajesh Kumar, who is working with the anti-human trafficking unit (AHTU) of the Haryana Police here, was on cloud nine when he received a call from Nobel Laureate Kailash Satyarthi praising his relentless efforts in reuniting missing children.Satyarthi, who spoke to the police officer for around 10 minutes, later wrote on his social media account, “India needs such compassionate and brave policemen. I just spoke to ASI Rajesh Kumar, who is leaving no stone unturned in reuniting missing children. I told him - Being the son of a police constable myself, such acts by cops make me immensely proud!”Kumar, who goes an extra mile in performing his duties, has helped around 500 Indian children in returning home.“I couldn’t express my feelings when I received a call from Satyarthi ji. He said India needed policemen like him. I can’t forget this day in my entire life,” Kumar said, who joined the state’s anti-trafficking squad in 2015.The police officer runs a WhatsApp group to overcome language barriers. The social media group, which consists of well-versed persons in regional languages and several NGOs working in the field, helps him communicate with missing children from non-Hindi speaking states.On challenges, he said many a times, some persons could not remember which village, town or state they belonged to.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kailash-satyarthi-praises-haryana-cop-for-reuniting-missing-kids-with-families-132505
28-08-2020||Chandigarh||No scam, says Dushyant as Vij backs VB probe||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij today said the Vigilance Bureau would probe the alleged liquor scam during the lockdown even as Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala denied any such scam, saying the state had collected an additional Rs 263-crore revenue in the first quarter.Dushyant, who holds Excise portfolio, said the increased revenue came in the form of permit and retail licence fee and additional excise duty. Vij and Dushyant addressed separate press conferences here. The Home Minister, who has ordered a Vigilance probe after a special enquiry team (SET) submitted its report on July 31, said, “An explanation has been sought from Excise and Taxation Commissioner Shekhar Vidyarthi while the Home Department has been asked to take action against former Sonepat SP Pratiksha Godara, who has since been repatriated to her parent cadre.”Dushyant claimed it was for first time this year that the government had collected an additional excise duty of more than Rs 27 crore in the first quarter. “This is 2,700 times more than that in the first quarter last year,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-scam-says-dushyant-as-vij-backs-vb-probe-132378
