28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt to give festival advance to its employees||The Haryana government has decided to give an advance of Rs 18,000 to ‘Group-C’ and Rs 12,000 to ‘Group-D’ category regular employees of the state in view of the festive season.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has approved a proposal in this regard, an official statement said here on Wednesday.“The disbursement of advance will be carried out in the first week of November. The decision would benefit 2,29,631 Group C and D regular employees of the state government,” it said.The measure will entail an expense to the tune of Rs 386.40 crore. The advance amount would be interest free and recoverable in not more than 12 instalments, the statement said. PTI
28-10-2020||Sanjay Yadav||21-yr-old TB patient sexually assaulted in Gurugram hospital ICU, alleges father||Gurugram, October 28Gurugram police have registered an FIR against unidentified staff member of a leading multispecialty private hospital of the city for allegedly raping a Tuberculosis (TB) patient admitted there since October 21. The victim is a college student and resident of Mahendergarh district. Police said that they are investigating.According to the police, the matter came to light yesterday night when father of the victim moved police alleging that he suspected that her daughter was allegedly raped by some hospital staff in his absence.Sources said the father claimed that her daughter is suffering from Tuberculosis and was admitted to hospital after she faced difficulty in breathing on October 21. She was put on ventilator.“My daughter regained consciousness on Tuesday and when I went to meet her, she told him me through signs and writing that she had been physically assaulted,” he told police.A police team from Sushant Lok police station reached hospital but found the victim unconscious and not fit to give statement. A medical examination was conducted today, the report of which is awaited. However an FIR was registered under Section 376 (rape) of IPC at Sushant Lok police station today.Maqsood Ahmed, DCP (east), said as per the complaint of the victim’s father FIR has been registered and further probe is on.“The girl is still unconscious and her father has raised a doubt. After medical examination FIR has been registered and we are investigating the matter. Picture will be cleared soon and we are trying to record the statement of the girl,” DCP Maqsood Ahmed told The Tribune.An official of the hospital said, “Patient came to the Hospital on October 21, 2020 with severe respiratory symptoms and pulmonary tuberculosis. She was admitted to ICU and from the second day of her admission she is on ventilator support. Six days after admission, patient has alleged that she has been violated within the hospital premises on the day of admission. Post complaint, police have been immediately informed. Hospital is fully cooperating with authorities and furnishing all information/details.”
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana remain dry in October, Himachal gets a trace of rain||The agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana have remained totally dry during the month of October this year while there has only been a trace of rain in the adjoining hill state of Himachal Pradesh.While no rainfall was received by Punjab and Haryana from October 1 to October 28, where the normal for this period is 8.4 mm and 9.2 mm respectively, the deficiency in Himachal Pradesh is 99 per cent, according to data compiled by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).Kullu is the only district in Himachal to get rain this month, which was recorded by IMD at just 0.2 mm against the normal of 26.7 mm. The normal rainfall for the state for this period is 26.3 mm. Some upper reaches of Himachal experienced the season’s first snowfall recently.In addition to the aforementioned states, most parts of northern, western and central India witnessed deficient rains in October.The weather department has predicted that generally dry weather would continue to prevail in these areas over the next few days.Today also happens to be the day when the south-western monsoon, which retreated from the region in September end, has finally withdrawn from the entire country and simultaneously, north-eastern monsoon rains have commenced over South India.According to IMD, maximum as well as minimum temperatures were up to three degrees above normal over some parts of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh while some parts witnessed temperature below normal by up to three degrees.It has predicted that the mercury is likely to fall by 2-3 degrees over some parts of north-western India over the next three days.
28-10-2020|| ||HRERA cracks whip against defaulting developers||Chandigarh, October 28The Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HRERA), Gurugram, has ordered strict action against various promoters in the wake of complaints made by a number of allottees.In the judgments pronounced by HRERA chairman Dr KK Khandelwal and member SC Kush on Tuesday, the real estate body has ordered attaching bank accounts and properties of defaulters.   In the execution proceedings against M/s CHD Developers, M/s Ireo Pvt Ltd, M/s Landmark Apartments Pvt Ltd, M/s Siddhartha Buildhome Pvt Ltd, M/s Vatika Ltd, M/s Tashee Land Developers Pvt Ltd, and M/s Tulsiani Constructions & Developers Pvt Ltd, the HRERA has ordered to attach the bank accounts to the extent of decretal amount of Rs 7 crore, along with the movable properties of the directors.The HRERA also ordered issuing of bailable warrant against the directors of M/s Prime Time Infra Projects Pvt Ltd for not complying with the orders of the authority.During the hearing of the matters pertaining to execution petitions, the authority observed that M/s Clarion Properties Ltd had done gross violation of Section 3 of the Act by not registering the project in question with the HRERA.It directed to issue a show-cause notice against the developer for non-registration of the project under Section 59, which states that “the promoter shall be liable to a penalty of up to 10% of the estimated cost of the real estate project” and if the promoter continues to violate the provisions of Section 3, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term up to 3 years or with fine further up to 10% of the estimated cost of real estate project, or with both. Meanwhile, stringent action has been taken against the promoter in the complaints against M/s Supertech Ltd. The HRERA has ordered the promoter to pay Rs 5 crore to the allottee for delay in handing over of possession.A hefty cost of Rs 1,30,000 was also imposed on M/s Supertech Ltd for not filing reply within the stipulated time and the same has been paid, and the amount will be disbursed to the allottees. Thus uplifting the trust of homebuyers in the real estate sector.Dr Khandelwal observed that such actions against the defaulting promoters would not only help in providing an environment of growth and development of the real estate sector but would also assist the allottees in gaining and preserving their trust in the HRERA.
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Former bureaucrat Dhesi to be ‘super boss’ in Haryana CMO||Retired bureaucrat DS Dhesi, who was recently appointed on the newly-created post of Chief Principal Secretary to Chief Minister (CPSCM), will be the “super boss” in the Chief Minister’s Office (CM0).Besides being the overall in charge of the CMO, he will be looking after at least 12 important departments in the CMO.In the re-allocation of the departments in the CMO today, Dhesi has been given matters relating to legislative business, parliamentary affairs, law and legislative, citizen resource information, excise and taxation, irrigation, general administration, personnel, administrative reforms, hospitality and electronics and information technology.The other important departments such as home, criminal investigation, administration of justice, vigilance, jails, town and country planning and urban estates, urban local bodies, foreign cooperation and industries will also be under his charge.The new Principal Secretary to Chief Minister (PSCM), V Umashankar, will have to be content with 10 departments, including finance and planning, agriculture, labour and employment, renewal energy, revenue, science and technology, power, cooperation, transport, and mines and geology. Earlier, former PSCM Rajesh Khullar called the shots in the CMO, a role which has now been usurped by Dhesi.Similarly, Yogender Chaudhary, Advisor, Resource Mobilisation in the CMO, has been allocated departments of arts and cultural affairs, social justice and empowerment, tourism, welfare of SCs and BCs, project director of the drug-free Haryana Mission, resources mobilisation, animal husbandry and dairy development and industrial training and vocational education.One of the two Deputy Principal Secretaries to Chief Minister (DPSCM) Ashima Brar will look after architecture, archaeology and museums, archives, elections, environment, food and supplies, housing, fisheries, public health engineering, printing and stationery, sports and youth affairs, women and child development and PWD.The other DPSCM Amit Agarwal has been given the charge of AYUSH, health, medical education and research, higher education, school education, technical education, development and panchayats and forests and wildlife. An HCS officer, Satish Kumar, will look after CM announcements, CM relief fund, HRDF and wakf affairs.Principal Officer on Special Duty (OSD) Neeraj Daftaur has been allocated public relations while OSD Bhupeshwar Dayal will deal with grievances.
28-10-2020||Faridabad||Probe starts into Nikita Tomar murder case; 3-member team visits family at Faridabad residence||A three-member SIT headed by ACP crime, Anil Kumar, has started the probe into Nikita Tomar murder case on Wednesday morning.The team visited the residence of the victim at Apna Ghar society on Sohna Road, here, and spent around 25 minutes with the family.The team interacted with the parents of the deceased, and gathered the details into the matter.Discussions took place between the victim and the accused.While Nikita's mother claimed, that a compromise has been reached over the case booked by them in 2018.She said, that there was no contact between the family, and the accused of the past two years. She added, that her daughter had been going to college without any fear as the accused promised not to harass her anymore. She admitted, that the accused had earlier pressured Nikita to convert to Islam for marriage—which she claimed, that was not acceptable to her and her family.Nikita's father, Mool Chand, and maternal uncle, Hedal Singh Rawat, said that they were confident of proper prosecution and culprits getting death after the formation of SIT.They said, the local MP, Krishan Pal Gurjar, who had assured complete support regarding other demands, including a government job to kin, financial support, and security to the family.Nikita's father is an employee at a private company, here. Criminal arrested:A wanted criminal was arrested on Wednesday afternoon at Faridabad.The 27-year-old criminal, Sunil alias Lala, hailing from Bhuapur village in the district was arrested by the local police.Sunil had Rs 25,000 cash price on his head. He has been absconding since the murder of Mujeri village resident in 2019.It was over an old enmity.Sunil is wanted in total four criminal cases.
28-10-2020||New Delhi||I-T dept seizes Rs 62 crore in cash after raids on hawala operatives in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi||The Income Tax Department has made a seizure of at least Rs 62 crore in cash as part of its multi-city tax evasion operation against hawala or entry operators and individuals who prepare fake bills, official sources said on Wednesday.They alleged that the money is unaccounted and had been seized from various premises, including those belonging to a person identified as Sanjay Jain.The seizure is linked to the searches launched by the department at 42 premises in Delhi-NCR, Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa on Monday and the taxman had said that the alleged illegal transactions point to a hawala racket worth about Rs 500 crore.The cash, in crisp Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 notes, was found stashed in wooden almirahs and furniture on the premises that were raided, they said.The CBDT had earlier said that the action was carried out against "a large network of individuals running the racket of entry operation (hawala-like operation) and generation of huge cash through fake billing", officials said.In a statement issued on Tuesday, the Board had said that Rs 2.37 crore cash and jewellery worth Rs 2.89 crore was found along with 17 bank lockers which are yet to be searched.The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) is the administrative authority for the I-T department."The search has led to seizure of evidences exposing the entire network of the entry operators, intermediaries, cash handlers, the beneficiaries and the firms and companies involved."So far, documents evidencing accommodation entries (hawala) of more than Rs 500 crore have already been found and seized," it said.Several shell entities and firms were used by the searched entry operators for layering of unaccounted money and cash withdrawals against fake bills issued and unsecured loans given, the Board said.Describing the modus operandi of the tax evasion racket, it had said personal staff, employees, associates had been made dummy directors and partners of these shell entities and all bank accounts were managed and controlled by these entry operators."Statements of such entry operators, their dummy partners/employees, the cash handlers as well as the covered beneficiaries have also been recorded, clearly validating the entire money trail," the statement said."The searched persons were also found to be controller and beneficial owners of several bank accounts and lockers, opened in names of their family members and trusted employees and shell entities, which they were managing in collusion with bank officials, through digital media," it said.The CBDT further said the beneficiaries had been found to have made huge investments in real estate properties in prime cities and in fixed deposits to the tune of several hundred crores of rupees. PTI
28-10-2020||---||3 killed, 10 injured as bus collides with truck in Haryana’s Jhajjar||Jhajjar, October 28Three people were killed and 10 others injured in a head-on collision between a Haryana Roadways bus of Jhajjar depot and a truck on the Jhajjar-Bahujhholari road near Nauganva village here on Wednesday.Five of the injured have been referred to the PGIMS in Rohtak following their critical condition.The mishap took place around 5.30 am. The bus was on its way from Bahujhholari village to Chandigarh. As it reached near Patuvaas canal, a truck coming from the opposite side collided with it leaving the truck driver, identified as Manjit of Birdhana village, and an unidentified passenger of the bus dead on the spot.The collision was so horrible that one side of the bus got entirely damaged and the truck hit the tree. Hearing the sound of collision and the hue and cry of the passengers, locals rushed to the spot and took the injured to civil hospital in Jhajjar.Later, the police also reached there. The bus driver, identified as Sanjeet, who along with four others was referred to Rohtak, succumbed to his injuries later.Other injured - Geeta, Raju, Vishal and Ankur - have been undergoing treatment at the PGIMS Rohtak.“Driver of both the vehicles died while the third deceased is yet to be identified. The reason behind the mishap is yet to be ascertained. No case has been registered as yet,” said sub-inspector Satbir.
28-10-2020||It is observed that during windy/rainy weather||Underground power cables may reduce outages||Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaHeaps of garbage piled up at dumping groundIn the absence of any government policy to manage the waste collected from various areas in Kaithal, heaps of garbage have piled up at the Khurana road dumping ground, which was selected for this purpose a few years ago. Despite repeated efforts of the MC authorities, it has failed to manage the huge quantity of waste and those having their fields and residential houses in the nearby villages are forced to protest.Satish Seth, KaithalCovid norms go for a toss at HUDA groundThe administration which was issuing instructions for Dashera celebrations in advance, found itself helpless when everything went haywire when the time came to burn the effigy of Ravana. Instead of allowing less than 100 persons for the event on the HUDA ground, Narwana, there was a huge gathering and no Covid norms were followed. Nobody was wearing mask and crowds were just jostling with one another. Policemen remained just mute spectator throughout the showRamesh Gupta, NarwanaHospitals without parking spacesMost of the private hospitals in the area surrounding Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College or elsewhere in Karnal do not have their own parking arrangements. Along with patients, vehicles of doctors and staff working in the hospitals also stand on the roads outside the hospitals, due to which there is always a traffic snarl. The authorities should take concrete steps in this regard and make arrangements for their parking.Shakti Singh, KarnalWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
28-10-2020||Rohtak||Tributes paid to former Haryana Deputy CM Dr Mangal Sen||Rs 10 crore grant for KUKurukshetra: Under the Khelo India Scheme, the Ministry of Youth and Sports has issued a grant of Rs10 crore to Kurukshetra University. Under this scheme, the world-class hockey grounds and multi-purpose indoor sports hall will be constructed for hockey players of Kurukshetra University. KU director (public relations) Prof Brajesh Sawhney said the Ministry of Youth and Sports had released a grant of Rs 5.50 crores for the world-class synthetic hockey sports ground and a grant of Rs 4.50 crores for the multipurpose indoor sports hall at Kurukshetra University. The Deputy Director of the Sports Department, Dr Rajesh Sobti, said a letter of approval had been received under the Khelo India Scheme.Farm skills empowerment programmeHisar: Haryana students will now be able to attend online education classes of Western Sydney University, Australia. An online Agricultural Skills Empowerment Programme was started today under the National Agricultural Higher Educational Project, which was inaugurated by Deputy Vice-Chancellor and vice president (research, enterprise and international) of Western Sydney University, Prof Deborah Sweeney. Vice-Chancellor of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, Prof Samar Singh was specially invited to this event. He said it was not viable to attend physical classes in Australia amid Covid pandemic so the Western Sydney University had launched online agricultural skills empowerment programme. Under this programme, the students will be able to get education through online mode on the pattern of foreign countries. Once the Covid-19 pandemic subsides, the students will be able to attend classes physically at Western Sydney UniversityOnline workshop organisedKarnal: The women cell of RKSD College, Kaithal, organised a three-day online 'Pavitra Workshop' in collaboration with Art of Living Foundation on personal health and hygiene of girl students. In his inaugural address, principal Sanjay Goyal emphasised that the theme of the workshop was the need of the hour in the pandemic time ensuring health and hygiene of girl students. Sonal Anand was the coach-instructor who emphasised on proper diet during crucial menstrual period, various yoga aasnaas, yoga mudras and also spoke about the impact of meditation on mental health. Convener women cell Prof Rachna Sardana introduced the theme and the schedule for all the three days.Academic council meetingRohtak: The academic council (AC) of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) in its' 190th meeting held put a seal of approval to the introduction of several certificate/diploma/advance diploma/PG diploma programmes for the session 2020-2021, including ordinance of these programmes. The meeting of the academic council held under the chairmanship of Vice-Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh, gave approval to research promotion policy to promote research work by faculty members. Prof Singh said a slew of job-oriented, skill-development focused certificate/diploma programmes are being introduced to provide university students with employability skills, and further their academic enlightenment. Senior university functionaries, dean of faculties, head(s) of department, and other members of the AC attended the meeting.Training programme on moral valuesPanipat: The AICTE-sponsored online short-term training programme on “moral values and professional ethics” at the management department of the Panipat Institute of Engineering and Technology (PIET) concluded. The purpose of this programme was to train teachers on adopting moral values and promoting their importance in the medium of education. Dr Akhilesh Mishra, HoD, management department, PIET, welcomed all the experts and participating teachers and gave information about the focus of STP. Rakesh Tayal, vice-chairman, inaugurated the one-week long training programme on October 19. Eminent speakers from various engineering colleges and technical universities played the role of moderators in the programme.
28-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||Mahendragarh stretches in bad shape, but authorities ‘unaffected’||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, October 27Putting all four Assembly seats in 2014 and three seats in the 2019 Assembly elections in the BJP’s kitty notwithstanding, residents of Mahendragarh district continue to bear the brunt of potholed roads.People feel cheatedPeople are feeling cheated as they are not being provided basic facility of good roads despite being charged municipal taxes. - Sandeep Malra, President, Shri Sundaram Trustproposal for recarpetting sentThe proposal for recarpeting the Dadri-Mahendragarh road has been sent to the head office for approval while other roads in the district are in good condition. - Sajjan Singh, Eexecutive Engineer, PWDA majority of interior and outer roads in the district are in a bad shape and people have organised protests to get the roads repaired but the situation remains unchanged.In Narnaul, the district headquarters, the road from Narnaul to Kanina, Narnaul to Dhani Bhatota village, Quilla road to new grain market, road connecting to National Highway-44 from CIA, Jamalpur road, old mandi road and new grain market to Jalmahal are lying broken for a long time, causing inconvenience to commuters.Locals had staged several protests to get the Narnaul-Sihma-Kanina road constructed. MP Dharambir Singh had directed the officer concerned to get the road repaired but nothing has been done so far.“The Narnaul-Sihma-Kanina road has been in a deplorable condition for the past three years. Besides organising protests, we have approached the local MLA, Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala to get it repaired but to no avail,” said Dharmendra Yadav of Kanina. Anil Kaushik, a social activist, said lack of planning was the main reason for the poor condition of roads in Narnaul.“The roads from CIA to state highway-14 via Mali Tibba and from State Highway-14 to Bada Bagh Colony were constructed around two years ago, but were dug up after six months to lay sewerage. Later, the authorities forgot to repair the roads and these are still broken even after one and half years. Other roads are damaged in the name of laying water, telephone and sewage lines,” he said.Abhay Singh, a shopkeeper, said Mahendragarh had been unlucky in terms of development. “The district has supported and voted the BJP in both 2014 and 2019 Assembly polls but the chronicle issue of potholed roads is still unsolved,” he added.Sandeep Malra, president, Shri Sundaram Trust, said: “People are feeling cheated as they are not being provided basic facility of good roads despite being charged municipal taxes.”Residents of Mahendragarh are the worst affected as all roads are in a shambles following the political differences between a senior BJP leader and Municipal Committee chairperson Reena Garg.“We have proposed tenders for road carpeting several times, but these are withheld every time on various grounds at the behest of a BJP leader,” said Garg’s husband Surender Banti.Locals had recently put up hoardings of “jaanleva sadak” (dangerous road) at various places on the Dadri-Mahendragarh state highway. Though then DC RK Singh had directed the PWD officers to get the road repaired, nothing was done.Sajjan Singh, Executive Engineer, PWD, said the proposal for recarpeting the Dadri-Mahendragarh road had been sent to the head office for approval while other roads in the district were in a good condition.
28-10-2020||
||11 counters set up to collect property tax in Karnal||Karnal, October 27 With only four days left for the one-time rebate on interest after depositing the property tax, the Karnal Municipal Corporation (MC) has established 11 counters at various locations in the city, where residents can pay their tax between 9 am and 6 pmtill October 31.  The government had fixed a deadline of October 31 for interest waiver on property tax after depositing the tax single time. Vikram Kumar, Municipal Commissioner, said so far, around Rs 6 crore had been deposited by the residents of the city, whereas last year, it was Rs 16 crore and in 2018, it was Rs 10 crore. “The Covid pandemic has cast its shadow on the collection of tax as less people have deposited their dues, so far. The government has given one-time rebate on depositing the tax by October 31. To facilitate the residents, we have earmarked 11 locations where collection centres have been established,” he said. “Nehru Palace, Community Centres Sector 13, Prem Nagar, Sector 6, HSIIDC Sector 3, ITI, residence of ward councillor of Shiv Colony, Fire Brigade offices in Sector 4 and Jundla Gate, Atal Sewa Kendra at Panchayat Bhawan and Mini-Secretariat are among the earmarked centres where people can deposit their taxes,” he added. He said people could get any information related to property tax on the tollfree number 18001802700 of the MC. He said they would serve the notices to defaulters, giving them a time of three days to deposit the dues, otherwise their properties would be sealed.
28-10-2020||---||Four held for beating truck driver to death||Palwal, October 27The police have arrested four persons in connection with the murder of a truck driver here recently.According to the police, the victim, identified as Dharmender, alias Mahender (40), a resident of Shamsabad Colony, was allegedly “beaten” to death by Ajit and three others on the night of October 23.It is claimed that Dharmender, who was an employee of Ajit, had been charged with theft of items from the trucks so the accused transporter wanted to teach him a lesson.Dharmender was assaulted with sticks and rods allegedly by Ajit and three other drivers. identified as Satbir, Rameshwar and Dharambir, resulting in his death. His body was found in the Anaj Mandi. “All four accused have been arrested and remanded in one-day police custody,’’ said police officials.
28-10-2020||---||Three booked for firing at jawan||Faridabad, October 27Three youths riding a motorcycle without helmets allegedly opened fire at a Home Guard jawan when he signalled them to stop for violating traffic rules here on Monday.On the complaint of Home Guard jawan Laxmi Chand, a case has been registered against unidentified persons.He suffered minor bruises caused by the shrapnel of the bullet.He was taken to the Civil Hospital and discharged after he was given treatment and administered first-aid.Chand told the police the youths were neither wearing helmets not masks. “They did not stop when I signalled them. Instead, they tried to kill me,” he said. The police launched a search operation for the accused.When the motorcycle owner was contacted on the basis of the vehicle number the police had got, he said his bike was stolen a few days ago.
28-10-2020||Sanjay Yadav
||Green crackers hit market, but not many takers in Gurugram||Gurugram, October 27 While it is a little over two weeks to go for Diwali and much-awaited green crackers have hit the market, there is not much enthusiasm among traders to sell these. Expecting poor sale this Diwali, many key sellers who had suffered losses owing to cracker ban last year have planned to skip licence application this time. Owing to the ever-depleting air quality and failure of GRAP to yield any results, many are speculating a ban this year as well. “Our highest sales happen during Dasehra but this year it was the poorest. Those who took permission too have not recorded any sales. The smog is getting worse with the day so we think it’s a matter of time that even green crackers would be banned,” said Ravi Taneja, a local wholesaler. Though legal sale of crackers is clouded with Covid crisis and pollution woes, the black market is all abuzz with activity. The godown owners of firecrackers from Farukhnagar, Gadoli, have put up big banners, luring customers with latest crackers, majority being conventional polluters. “Green crackers are no match for the conventional ones in sound and light effect. The true patrons want the old-time crackers and we have huge unsold inventory of the same. We have started early sale to be on a safer side in case of any raids and sealing like the last year,” said a godown owner at Gadoli.
28-10-2020||Yamunanagar||Ex-MLA’s son booked for pointing gun at villager||Bhupinder Singh, son of district president of JJP and former BSP MLA Arjun Singh, has been booked for allegedly pointing a gun at a person in Damopura village of Yamunangar district on Monday night.   The incident took place when several residents of Damopura assembled on the main road of the village last night to stop overloaded vehicles, which had been causing a number of problems to the villagers for long. On the complaint of Balram Singh, a case was registered against Bhupinder Singh, Sachin, Anil and Ram Kumar, all brothers and residents of Buria town under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at the Buria police station today. The complainant said a number of vehicles overloaded with mining material, including sand, from mining quarry of Mandauli village passed from the main road of the village every day.  “We met the royalty contractor of the mining quarry, Mandauli, several times, requesting him to divert the route from the road as cracks had developed in the walls of our houses due to overloaded vehicles, ” said Balram Singh in his complaint.  “Several villagers assembled on the main road last night. Bhupinder Singh, along with three others, reached the village around 10.30 pm. They were carrying arms. Bhupinder pointed a gun at Rinku,” the complainant alleged, adding that when other villagers gathered at the spot, the accused fled.— TNS
28-10-2020||---||Cases cross 1.6L mark in Haryana||Chandigarh, October 27With 1,248 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state crossed the 1.6 lakh mark on Tuesday. Thirteen deaths pushed the toll to 1,750.Four deaths were reported from Hisar, three from Ambala, two from Gurugram and one each from Jind, Palwal, Kurukshetra and Panchkula.The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (346), followed by Faridabad (190), Hisar (110), Rewari (82) and Rohtak (79).A total of 937 Covid patients recovered, taking the figure of discharged patients to 1.48 lakh.
28-10-2020||Saurabh Malik
||Choose apt words while filing affidavits, says HC||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, October 27 The High Court has made it clear that words are required to be chosen with caution while filing affidavits in response to contentions raised in petitions. The Bench has made it clear that badly chosen words can lead to complications. The word of caution came in a case where Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu’s Bench was told that an affidavit filed in response to a petition regarding payment of wages was factually incorrect and the petitioner had not received the amount to date. The affidavit had also added that a single petitioner would not be replaced by “another set of contractual employee(s)”. The Bench was hearing a petition against Haryana and other respondents by Gaurav. He was seeking the quashing of an impugned notice dated February 11, whereby a three-member committee was constituted to replace the petitioner with another employee. In pursuance of the notice of motion issued by the court, a short reply dated September 29 by Dr Jasbir Singh Ahlawat, District Ayurvedic Officer, Palwal, was filed before the Bench on behalf of the respondents. Justice Sindhu took note of the fact that a paragraph in the affidavit mentioned  that “arrears of wages amounting to Rs 60,372 have since been paid to the petitioner. Hence, the writ petition has been rendered infructuous”. Justice Sindhu observed the deponent had asserted the amount was paid to the petitioner on September 15, but he received it only on October 14. He noted the amount was deposited by the deponent for making the payment to the petitioner “on account of wages”, but, as submitted by the state counsel, it was delayed due to some objections raised by the treasury. Before parting with the order, Justice Sindhu added the salary had now been received by the petitioner and he was not being replaced  with some other employee.
28-10-2020||---||Government marks 1 year with slew of projects||Chandigarh/Hisar, October 27On the completion of one year of the second term of his government, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday gave a bonanza of development works to the state.The ‘bhoomi pujan’ of the runway for phase II of the integrated aviation hub was held in Hisar along with a state-level inauguration and foundation stone-laying ceremony.The Chief Minister, in the presence of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, inaugurated 140 projects and laid the stone for 166 others in 21 districts costing Rs 1,848.09 crore.Khattar inaugurated and laid the foundation stone for 10 projects worth Rs 72.4 crore for Ambala, 19 projects amounting to Rs 119.68 crore for Bhiwani, 13 projects amounting to Rs 91.52 crore for Charkhi Dadri, 15 projects costing Rs 75.27 crore for Faridabad, 32 projects worth Rs 99.16 crore for Fatehabad, three projects amounting to Rs 18.76 crore for Gurugram, seven projects worth Rs 37.5 crore for Hisar, 17 projects amounting to Rs 88.64 crore for Jhajjar, 36 projects costing Rs 316.48 crore for Jind, 23 projects amounting to Rs 169.15 crore for Kaithal, 10 projects amounting to Rs 42.14 crore for Karnal, six projects costing Rs 108.71 crore for Kurukshetra, projects worth Rs 4.07 crore for Mahendragarh, 18 projects amounting to Rs 59.31 crore for Nuh, three projects amounting to Rs 17.38 crore for Palwal, 15 projects costing Rs 120.53 crore for Panchkula, 20 projects worth Rs 76.63 crore for Panipat, 10 projects worth Rs 69.85 crore for Rewari, 23 projects costing Rs 129.13 crore for Rohtak, 12 projects worth Rs 53.17 crore for Sirsa and 13 projects costing Rs 78.61 crore for Yamunanagar.Vidhan Sabha Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa, Minister of State Anoop Dhanak, MP Brijendra Singh and MLAs Kamal Gupta, Jogiram Sihag and Vinod Bhayana were present on the occasion.The Chief Minister brushed aside the farmers’ agitation, terming it as a Congress’s bogey. He said the Hisar airport was located at an ideal location.“Earlier, the Airports Authority of India was inclined towards Jewar in Uttar Pradesh as an extension to the Delhi airport. It is now is looking towards us for setting up a new airport. We aim to extend the runway by 3,000 metres in a year and a half,” he said.He said the second phase of the Hisar airport would be completed at a cost of Rs 165 crore. He said Class I officers had been given charge as secretaries in RTA offices to root out corruption.
28-10-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Hearing in AJL case to go online||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27A special court under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act in Panchkula on Tuesday issued notices to Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and senior Congress leader Motilal Vora, ordering them to appear in court through video-conferencing in the Associated Journal Limited (AJL) plot allotment case.Hooda, Vora and the AJL are accused in the case.During the resumed hearing on Tuesday, Special Judge Jagdeep Singh observed that neither the accused nor their counsels were present in court in view of the Covid pandemic.“Since the matter pertains to… legislators, and proceedings in such cases are to be conducted expeditiously, notices must be issued to the accused as well as their counsels to explore the possibility of conducting further proceedings through video-conferencing if physical hearing of the case does not get fully functional till the adjourned date,” the order stated.The next date of hearing is on November 27.
28-10-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||IAS cadre posts given to officers of other services||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27Resentment seems to be brewing among Haryana IAS officers over the “usurping” of the IAS cadre posts by other services in the transfer order issued by the state government recently.Officer resignsWhile an IPS officer was posted as the Principal Secretary and another was given the charge of Managing Director of one of the two power utilities in the state, an IFS officer was also posted as the Principal Secretary. Further, the state government has posted DSPs and Employment Officers against the post of District Transport Officers (DTOs), causing heartburn among officers of the state civil services.“Posting officers of others services against cadre posts is illegal. It seems the government is only testing the waters by gradually posting officers of other services against IAS or HCS cadre posts. Since nobody dares to speak up, the leadership is going ahead recklessly. If the government wants to do this, it should follow the laid-down procedure rather than experiment from time to time,” an officer said.Another officer maintained that if senior police officers were no longer needed for policing, the Home Secretary should review the cadre strength and reduce it rather than wasting the taxpayers’ money.“Is the law and order situation perfect that the IPS has hands to spare at the senior level? Besides, in policing, officers of the rank of IGP and above don’t go for investigation. Positions such as the Chairman of the Police Housing Corporation require administrative experience rather than specialisation in policing. In the Indian Forest Service, there are a number of posts which require no expertise. The government should consider posting IAS officers against these posts. They will do a better job there,” he said.Maintaining that posting police officers to weed out corruption is no solution, a senior officer said that today, the government was bending rules to post IPS and IFS officers against cadre posts. “Tomorrow, the government will bring in officers from the CRPF or the BSF,” he said.Sources in the government, however, defended its decision by maintaining that every officer was “overloaded” with departments and that hampered smooth working. They added the government wanted to utilise available resources to the maximum.
28-10-2020||---||Hooda dares Khattar to debate on development||Gohana, October 27With electioneering reaching a feverish pitch, state Congress president Kumari Selja, AICC in charge for Haryana Vivek Bansal and former minister Kiran Choudhry joined former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Tuesday to campaign for Congress candidate Induraj Narwal and addressed meetings.Hooda challenged the BJP to an open debate on development work. He said while the Congress had a long list of development works done in Baroda and the entire state, the BJP did not have a single thing to seek votes for and stood exposed before the people.The former Chief Minister attacked the government over the deteriorating law and order situation in the state, saying criminals thought that they could get away with anything as the government was in slumber.He said looking at the incidents in Faridabad and Panipat, it seemed that there was no government in the state. He said the government should take strict action against the culprits and take special steps to protect women.Claiming that the BJP-JJP government was on the back foot, Selja said people across the state were looking towards the results of this election as a Congress victory would pave the way for the downfall of this government.Selja said during Congress rule from 2005 to 2014, Haryana had witnessed all-round development, but nothing had happened in the past six years.Bansal claimed that the NDA government at the Centre and the BJP-JJP government in Haryana had proved a failure and the common man had been hit the most.Choudhry said the BJP had made a plethora of promises to the people before coming to power, but had not kept even a single promise. RS member Deepender Hooda campaigned for the Congress candidate separately.
28-10-2020||Mukesh Tandon
||Panipat acid attack accused still at large||Tribune News Service Panipat, October 27 The police have failed to make any headway in the acid attack case in which a woman sustained serious injuries on Monday. Though the police registered a case, the accused were still at large. Besides, members of various social organisations and political parties launched a scathing attack on the state government for the rising number of crimes in the city.  Notably, Poonam, a 37-year-old woman, of Rajiv Colony, who was on her way to home after her job at a textile factory in Deshraj Colony, was attacked by two bike-borne youths.  The Quilla police had registered a case against two unknown persons under Sections 326-A and 34 of the IPC.  The incident was captured in CCTV cameras installed nearby in which the two masked men were seen waiting for the woman and as the woman came, they threw acid on her and fled the spot.  The victim’s husband, Krishan, said she had sustained injury on her face and an eye. “We have given the names of three suspected persons to the police who had misbehaved with her two months ago,” he said. Satish Vats, DSP Headquarters, said they had collected the CCTV footage and were verifying the facts. No accused in the case has been arrested so far. Three teams, including the cyber cell, CIA-2 and Quilla team have been deputed to inquire the case and nab the accused, he added.  Members of various social organisation condemned the incident. Savita Arya from Nari Tu Narayani Utthan Samiti said it was the second such incident reported in the city, after the first one reported around two years ago.  Child Right activist Sudha Jha said the Supreme Court’s orders for sale of acids were not being implemented properly in the town.   Senior Congress leader Sanjay Aggarwal too condemned the incident and said the government had failed to curb crime in Panipat.
28-10-2020||---||Truck owners booked for mining material theft||Yamunanagar, October 27The police have booked owners of two trucks on the charge of theft of mining material as they failed to pay environmental compensation.These trucks were found involved in transportation of illegal mining material on January 10 and had been impounded by the Special Enforcement Team (SET), constituted by the government to stop illegal mining in the state.Set impounded vehicles in janThese trucks were found involved in transportation of illegal mining material on January 10 and had been impounded by the Special Enforcement Team (SET), constituted by the government to stop illegal mining in the stateNow, two separate FIRs were lodged against the owners of both trucks under Sections 379 (theft) and 21 (4)-A of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation of development) Act, 1957 at Buria police station, on Monday.According to information, the SET had caught two trucks from area of Bibipur village of Yamunanagar district, carrying sand illegally in January.Those trucks were impounded but, the owners of the trucks failed to pay the environmental compensation (an amount fixed by the National Green Tribunal), amount of royalty and cost of the mining material loaded in the trucks; therefore the police now registered two separate FIRs in the case.
28-10-2020||Karnal||45K banned tablets seized||The police have seized 45,800 prohibited tablets and arrested two persons in this connection. The accused have been identified as Pargat Singh of Assandh and Anil Kumar of Ardana village.A police spokesperson said a team of the anti-narcotics cell raided a house and found 39,800 prohibited tablets and arrested Pargat from the spot.He was produced in a court and taken on remand. During the remand, he revealed that he had bought seized tablets from Anil, who was arrested from Ardana village along with 6,000 tablets.A case was registered against them and the investigation was underway, the spokesperson said. — TNS
28-10-2020||
||Three HCS officers transferred||Chandigarh, October 27 The state government has issued transfer and posting orders of three Haryana Civil Service (HCS) officers with immediate effect. Amrita Singh has been posted as City Magistrate of Panchkula and Additional Director, Model Sanskriti Schools, Satish Kumar Singla, is Secretary, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), Panchkula, and Dheeraj Chahal goes as Joint Director (Admn) Sports and Youth Affairs, Haryana.
28-10-2020||---||Haryana Congress has six factions: Birender||Panipat, October 27Former Union Minister Birender Singh today said the Congress had been divided into six factions in the state and every leader was practising his own politics.Joined politics to develop constituency: DuttAddressing mediapersons in the BJP office here and seeking votes for BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt, Singh said people in Baroda should go with the development and only the BJP could bring development in the constituency.He said the Congress’ six factions were under Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Deepender Hooda, Randeep Singh Surjewala, Kumari Selja, Kiran Choudhary and Kuldeep Bishnoi.Accusing Hooda of nepotism politics, he said Hooda had been misleading people of Baroda for a long time.Singh said Dutt was working tirelessly for a long time and had brought several development works in the constituency even when he was not an MLA. “If he would be elected from here, he would leave no stone unturned in bringing development to his constituency,” he said.
28-10-2020||---||Property dealers, brokers can charge only 1% commission||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27The Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HRERA) has decided to issue restraint orders to all promoters and brokers to not charge commission more than prescribed in the rules.Acting on the complaints that property dealers were charging arbitrary commission from both sellers and buyers, a Bench headed by Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority Chairman KK Khandelwal and comprising member SC Kush took the decision.For registered real estate projects, it has been decided to issue restraint orders to all promoters and brokers to refrain from charging commission more than what is prescribed as per the Haryana Regulation of Property Dealers and Consultants Rules, 2009, under the Haryana Regulation of Property Dealers and Consultants Act, 2008.Rule 10 provides one per cent commission on agreed consideration value to be paid by the seller and purchaser of the property, i.e. half per cent by each on the finalisation of the deal as per their agreement entered in the register of the dealer under valid receipt.Talking to The Tribune, Khandelwal said property dealers or brokers were indulging in malpractices in connivance with promoters and charging more than prescribed commission from both sellers and buyers.“Some property dealers were charging commission as high as five to 10 per cent of the property value in connivance with the developers and ultimately the allottees were bearing the burden,” Khandelwal said.Accordingly, all real estate agents have been cautioned not to charge commission more than what was prescribed in the rules. Doing so would be deemed as an outright violation of the provisions of the law, he added.He said the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority was in the process of prescribing a code of conduct for property dealers to make sure that they abide by such norms so that there are no unfair trade practices.Furthermore, instances have come to the notice of the authorities that some property dealers were falsely representing services of a particular standard or grade and making false or misleading representation concerning approvals for various projects. The real estate agents and brokers were also involved in issuance of misleading advertisements for upcoming projects. The code of ethics would prescribe not only additional books of accounts to be maintained by property dealers to commission charged as per the law and also records of transactions which may be perused by the authority in case of inter se dispute between buyers and brokers.
28-10-2020||Faridabad||Faridabad girl’s killers held, key accused related to ex-MLA||The police have arrested two youths allegedly involved in the killing of a 21-year-old woman outside a college in Ballabgarh on Monday. The victim, Nikita, was shot point blank range. The accused —Tausif (22) and Rehan (21) —have been remanded in police custody for two days.Hundreds of local residents blocked the Ballabgarh-Sohna road for over four hours this afternoon.Victim’s father Mool Chand Tomar alleged Tausif was booked in a case of kidnapping in 2018 on their complaint, which they later withdrew “under pressure”. He said despite the threat, no security was provided to Nikita. ACP Anil Kumar, however, said the family had withdrawn the complaint after a compromise.Tausif is the grandson of a former MLA and nephew of a former MP. — TNS
