28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 8 more COVID-19 deaths, 351 new cases||Haryana reported eight more COVID-19-related fatalities on Monday, taking the death toll to 2,882, while 351 new cases pushed the infection tally to 2,61,258, a state health bulletin issued here said.Of the new fatalities, Faridabad and Panchkula districts recorded two deaths each.Among districts which reported new cases include Gurgaon (81) and Faridabad (49).The number of active cases in the state stands at 4,040 while as many as 2,54,336 people have so far been discharged after recovery. The recovery rate stands at 97.35 per cent. —PTI
28-12-2020||New Delhi||Several states in grip of cold wave; North to witness chilly New Year's eve||North India is bracing for a chilly New Year eve as the night temperatures in the region are expected to fall by up to five notches over the next three days, the IMD said on Monday, when a cold wave swept across several states.A cold wave is likely to grip parts of Delhi also over the next four days as frosty winds from the Himalayas have started blowing towards the plains, weather officials said.The minimum and maximum temperatures in the national capital settled at 5.6 degrees Celsius and 20.9 degrees Celsius, respectively.The IMD said cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are also likely in isolated pockets over Uttar Pradesh. Isolated cold wave conditions are likely over Bihar, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal and Odisha on December 30-31.“Fall in minimum temperatures by 3-5 degrees Celsius (likely) over northwest India during the next 3 days (29th-31st December),” the IMD said. There will be a slight rise in the temperature by 2-3 degrees Celsius thereafter.An orange colour-coded warning has also been issued to the states. The IMD said cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and north Rajasthan between December 28 and 30.“Dense to very dense fog in isolated pockets are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and west Uttar Pradesh in the morning hours from December 31 to January 2,” the IMD added.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature dropped by 4 to 5 notches in most parts of Rajasthan due to rain and snowfall in the Himalayan region, a Meteorological department official said on Monday.Radheshyam Sharma, the Director of Meteorological Department, said the present effect of conditions during winter is likely to continue till December 31 in the state.Due to an active Western Disturbance in north India over the last two days along with rains and snowfall in many parts of north India, the minimum temperature dropped by four to five notches in most parts of the state, he said.The lowest minimum temperature in the plains on Monday was 0.6 degree Celsius in Churu in western Rajasthan followed by 1 degree Celsius in Bhilwara in eastern Rajasthan, Sharma said.The lowest minimum overall was minus 0.2 degrees Celsius in Mount Abu.The Met department has issued an alert for cold weather conditions in the districts of Jaipur, Ajmer, Kota and Bharatpur division during the next two days.In Uttar Pradesh, very light rain and thundershowerswere witnessed at isolated places over western parts, but there was no major fluctuation in day temperatures in the state on Monday, according to the weather department.The weather remained dry over eastern Uttar Pradesh and the mercury hovered around normal levels in all divisions of the state, it said.The lowest temperature in the state was recorded at 4.1 degrees Celsius at Churk, while Jhansi registered the highest temperature of 27.6 degrees Celsius.In Jammu and Kashmir, many areas in the higher reaches received fresh snowfall even as there was improvement in the minimum temperature across the Valley, providing some respite from the cold to the residents.Fresh snowfall was recorded in many areas in the higher reaches of the valley and the Jammu region during the night, the officials said.They said the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg, in north Kashmir, recorded two inches of snowfall, while Pahalgam resort, in the south, and Sonamarg resort, in central Kashmir, each received around an inch of snowfall.Many areas in the Jammu region also received fresh snowfall, they said.Meanwhile, piercing cold weather conditions prevailed in most parts of Punjab and Haryana which received overnight rains.Fog reduced visibility in the morning at various places in Punjab including Ludhiana, Patiala, Bathinda, Faridkot, Adampur and Halwara, they said. --- PTI
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Repeal farm laws: OP Chautala appeals to PM Modi||Former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday seeking withdrawal of the Centre’s new farm laws or suspension of those until a consensus is reached with all farmer organisations and experts.The 85-year-old president of Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) said no concrete solution to the issue has been found so far because of the “stubborn” attitude of the government.“This is a sad situation because people of the peasant class generally do not participate in any long stir. If this is happening today then it needs to be viewed sensitively,” he wrote in the letter.“Keeping all these things in mind, the agri laws should be withdrawn,” Chautala said, adding if the laws are not rolled back these should at least be suspended until a consensus is reached with all farmer organisations and experts through a satisfactory process.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at various border points of Delhi for around a month as the stalemate between the government and the protesters, who are demanding a repeal of the three new agri laws, continued without any signs of a breakthrough.Chautala, who has been sentenced to 10-year imprisonment in a recruitment scam, requested the prime minister that there should be no haste in enforcing the agricultural laws nor should it be made a “matter of ego”.He warned that if the agitation takes an ugly turn, its far-reaching consequences will probably not be in the national interest.Expressing grief over the death of “nearly 50 farmers” due to various reasons, the INLD chief said, “What would be more ironic is that in an agrarian country like India, the farmer has a special place but still is forced to agitate for his rights on the road.” PTI
28-12-2020||Vijay Mohan||Snow, showers bring in cold wave to Northwest; but December rain remains below normal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28 Widespread showers and snow over north-western India in the past 24 hours notwithstanding, rains during the month of December in the region so far remains significantly below normal, with some parts remaining completely dry.From December 1 to December 28, rain in Haryana has been 56 per cent below the long period average for this period, while in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh it is deficient by 20 per cent and 9 per cent, respectively, data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) reveals.Snow and rainfall over the region during the past 24 hours, which was well above normal for this particular day and brought in cold wave conditions and fog, has been attributed to western disturbances prevailing over the western Himalayas and adjoining plains of northwest India. Many areas in the upper reaches of Himachal experienced snow.The departure from normal in the minimum temperature was up to minus seven degrees Celsius in Himachal and up to minus 5 degrees in Haryana and up to minus 3 degrees in Punjab.According to IMD, the minimum as well as maximum temperatures over Northwest India will fall by 3-5 degrees Celsius till December 30 due to the prevailing climatic conditions, with cold to severe cold wave conditions, including ground frost, continuing in some parts of the region.Haryana recorded 2.1 mm rain during this period against the normal of 4.9 per cent, whereas Punjab received 8.4 mm against the normal of 10.5 mm and Himachal received 34.1 mm against the normal of 37.3 mm,In Haryana eight districts, including Fatehabad, Jind, Gurugram, Rewari, Mahendargarh, Mewat, Palwal and Faridabad, which normally receive 2.8 mm to 5.6 mm rain, remained completely dry this month. Barring three districts in the state, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra and Kaithal, which received surplus rain, the remaining districts remained severely deficient.In Punjab, Moga was the sole district not to receive any rain this month. Among the other worst affected districts were Mansa, Sangrur, Barnala and Ludhiana, where the shortfall ranged from 68 per cent to 89 per cent. Rain was above the long period average in the districts of Rupnagar, Kapurthala, Gurdaspur, Amritsar and Hoshiarpur.Rain was above the long period average in six districts of Himachal Pradesh and below in the remaining six. Kinnaur, Shimla and Solan were the worst affected with the shortfall being between 18 per cent to 64 per cent, followed by Lahaul and Spiti, Kullu and Chamba.
28-12-2020||Sushil Manav||Anil Vij stable, likely to be discharged from Medanta in next few days||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 28 Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij likely to be discharged from Medanta Hospital, Gurugram in next few days, as the doctors attending on him are satisfied with progress in his health. Dr AK Dubey, Medical Superintendent of the Medanta – The Medicity, said that Vij’s condition is stable now and he is on minimal oxygen support. “Anil Vij, Hon’ble Home Minister, Haryana, is undergoing treatment at Medanta – The Medicity for Covid Pneumonia since 15.12.0202. Initially he was kept in the Covid ICU on High Flow Nasal Cannula. Vij’s condition showed steady improvement and he was shifted to a Room in Covid Ward on 23.12.2020. His blood investigations and CT Chest also showed gradual improvement in response to the treatment. At present his condition is stable and he is on minimal oxygen support. The team of doctors, including Dr Virender Yadav, Dr Deepak Govil, Dr Anand Jaiswal, Dr R.R. Kasliwal and Dr Sushila Kataria, are satisfied with his progress and are hopeful for his discharge in the next few days,” said a health bulletin released by Dr Dubey.
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Rains lash parts of Punjab, Haryana||Piercing cold weather conditions prevailed on Monday in most parts of Punjab and Haryana which received overnight rains, Meteorological Department officials said.Fog reduced visibility in the morning at various places in Punjab, including Ludhiana, Patiala, Bathinda, Faridkot, Adampur and Halwara, they said.As biting cold continued, minimum temperatures at most places settled below normal limits.Bathinda was the coldest place in Punjab while Ludhiana braved a cold night at 2.1 degrees Celsius.Patiala, Adampur, Halwara, Faridkot and Gurdaspur also recorded below normal minimums at 3.6 degrees Celsius, 3.4 degrees Celsius, 3.6 degrees Celsius, 4 degrees Celsius and 5.5 degrees Celsius, respectively.However, Amritsar’s minimum settled above normal limits at 7.2 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Narnaul was the coldest place recording a low of 1.6 degrees Celsius. Hisar also reeled under severe cold at 2.7 degrees Celsius.Biting cold also prevailed in Karnal, Rohtak, Sirsa, Bhiwani and Ambala which recorded respective minimums of 3.6 degrees Celsius, 3.2 degrees Celsius, 3.2 degrees Celsius, 4.5 degrees Celsius and 5 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 6.4 degrees Celsius.Some of the places that received rains overnight included Chandigarh (4.3 mm), Ambala (4.5 mm), Amritsar (4.2 mm), Ludhiana (1.6 mm), Patiala (2.2 mm), Pathankot (1.4 mm), Adampur (0.5 mm), Faridkot (1 mm) and Gurdaspur (4.5 mm). PTI
28-12-2020||Pune||Anna Hazare threatens to launch his ‘last protest’ for farmers||Social activist Anna Hazare has threatened to go on a hunger strike if his demands on issues concerning farmers are not met by the Union government by the end of January next year, and said it would be his “last protest”.Speaking to reporters in his Ralegaon Siddhi village in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra on Sunday, Hazare said he had been holding protests for cultivators since the past three years but the government had done nothing to resolve the issues.“The government is just giving empty promises due to which I do not have any trust left (in the government). Let’s see, what action the Centre takes on my demands. They have sought time for a month, so I have given them time till January-end. If my demands are not met, I will resume my hunger strike protest. This would be my last protest,” the 83-year-old said.On December 14, Hazare wrote a letter to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar warning of a hunger strike if his demands like the implementation of the MS Swaminathan Committee’s recommendations and granting autonomy to the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), were not accepted.Senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra Assembly Speaker Haribhau Bagade recently met Hazare to explain him the details of the three farm laws introduced by the Centre.Hazare observed a fast on December 8 in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer organisations demanding a repeal of the agri laws.Farmers have been protesting at borders of Delhi for over a month against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The three farm laws, enacted in September, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting tillers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain. PTI
28-12-2020||The photograph clicked at Major Shahid Sandeep Sagar Chowk (Sector 7-8-17-18 roundabout) in Panchkula shows a wrongly parked car. However||Parking norms gone for a toss||Sale of tobacco unabatedThe Haryana Government has been issuing warnings against the use of tobacco in the interest of public health, but a number of vendors are still selling the products in and around the municipal areas. At least, the sale of tobacco for chillums and hookahs must not be allowed through licenced shops. The authorities may have revenue considerations for bidi, cigarettes but raw and unprocessed tobacco has no place in merit goods. Rakesh Sudan, kurukshetraOnline fraud cases on the riseWith the advent of technology, there has been a significant rise in digital payments in India. Even the Centre has launched various digital payment schemes. Though the idea became popular among the citizens, however the threat landscape has mushroomed too. The RBI has also directed the banks to introduce additional measures to secure the electronic mode of payments like RTGS, NEFT, IMPS, etc. However, despite best efforts by the banks, online fraud is on the rise. I opine that it’s time for users to save themselves by adopting measures such as strong passwords, keeping computers and mobile phones updated and protect home wireless network with a password among others. Besides, the Parliament must also frame strict laws against the fraudsters. Indu Gopal Mittal, panchkulaNO let-up in Stray cattle menaceThe claim of the Hisar Municipal Corporation to make the city stray cattle-free has become the biggest mockery. Residential area of UE-2 (now named sector) is, in comparison to other spots, largely facing the bovine problem. Then MC has captured a few heads of cattle but the round-the-clock movement of the animals show as if the captured ones were let out. The efforts to sort out the problem have proved to be hollow. The MC, which is charging property/house tax from its residents, is liable to provide all civic amenities too.Baljeet Singh Deep, hisarTransport Dept order hailedThe December 10 order of the Transport Department directing the Regional Transport Authorities to get tough on owners and drivers of overloaded vehicles plying in the state by cancelling their licences and registration certificates is praiseworthy. In addition, plying of vehicles registered in other states but found to be used in Haryana without paying the due tax being impounded and RC suspended is another brilliant move. Such directives should be applied on pan-India basis to prevent the nefarious actions of transporters and suppliers, resulting in reduction in road mishaps. Ritu Bagga, panchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
28-12-2020||Rohtak||MDU entrance exams from today||Lecture on career in banking    Yamunanagar: The training and placement cell of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, organised an expert lecture on "Career in Banking (A paradigm shift in jobs and responsibilities in the recent past)". Assistant vice-president, Axis Bank, Hitesh Bhalla was the speaker. He was accorded a warm welcome by Principal Harinder Singh Kang. Dr Rajinder Singh Vohra, coordinator of the cell, said the speaker highlighted various issues pertaining to the functioning of the banking industry and explained the paradigm shift in jobs and responsibilities in the recent past. Students enrolled as NCC cadets  Yamunanagar: Students of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, were enrolled as NCC cadets in 14 Haryana Battalion, NCC, under the guidance of Commanding Officer Col Ajay Pal Kaushish and Administrative Officer Col Suresh Chaudhary. Principal Harinder Singh Kang said several cadets from the college had now been serving in the Army. He said girl students were also enrolled as NCC cadets. He said added Dr Ramanik, Meenakshi Kant and Poonam played a key role in the recruitment.
28-12-2020||Karnal||Equestrian glory for Karnal lad||In memory of farmersHisar: Residents of Mitathal village organised a blood donation camp in memory of the farmers who had died during the farmers’ agitation at the Delhi borders. The villagers, along with members of the Udan Welfare Society, organised the camp in Bhiwani. A total of 46 persons donated blood during the camp.Selection for R-Day paradeYamunanagar: Simran, an NSS volunteer and BA final-year student of Mukand Lal National College in Yamunanagar, has been selected for the Republic Day parade in New Delhi next month. She is the only student doing a course from Kurukshetra University to be selected and one of the four girls to represent Haryana at the prestigious event.Cut in plays’ duration draws flakRohtak: Veteran theatre artistes decried the decision to reduce the duration of youth festival plays. “The duration of plays has been reduced from between 30 and 45 minutes to merely four minutes, which is irrational and illogical. The youth festival provides a good platform to budding artistes, but the government has made a mockery of art and artistes, which is unfortunate and condemnable,” remarked Vishav Deepak Trikha. Krishan Natak maintained that the duration had been reduced as these comprise satire on the government and tried to hold a mirror to the authorities.
28-12-2020||ibune News Service
||24 Tewatia khap villages back agitation||Palwal, December 27 Over 200 residents of Tewatia khap (Pal) representing 24 villages of the region reached farmers’ protest site at Antoha village in the district to extend support to the ongoing agitation against the farm laws. They took part in the dharna demanding withdrawal of the controversial laws. Karan Dalal, former minister and an ex-MLA from here, was among those who reached the protest site today. He said the support to the agitating farmers was above all political lines. He said the farm laws introduced by the NDA government were unwanted and aimed at benefitting the corporate sector. Condemning the “delay” in accepting the demands of farmers, he said the confronting attitude and delaying tactics allegedly adopted by the government had exposed the tall claims and promises leaders made before coming to power. He said the agitation had started acquiring huge proportions and any attempt to defame or divide farmers would backfire. On the relay fast by 11 farmers, a spokesperson for the farmers said the stir would continue till the demands were met.
28-12-2020||
||Concerned at rising deaths, Hooda says end deadlock||Rohtak, December 27 Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday expressed concern over the rising number of deaths during the farmers’ agitation. He said the farmers’ demands were justified, but the government was constantly ignoring them. “Many farmers have sacrificed their lives for the movement and the total number has now reached 40. In such a situation, the government should talk to farmers with sensitivity and seriousness and end their agitation by accepting their demands,” Hooda told mediapersons. He reiterated the decision to bring in a non-confidence motion against the government over the issue. If the motion was tabled, the government’s alliance partners would vote against it, he claimed. The Chief Minister had dismissed the demand when it was made to the Governor as he did not want to face the motion, Hooda said. “Dismissal of the demand by the Chief Minister clearly indicates that he does not trust his government and MLAs. This is the reason he will not like a no-confidence against the government. We had appealed directly to the Governor that he should use his constitutional powers and call a special session of the Assembly in view of the situation and political circumstances,” he said. The former Chief Minister said Manohar Lal Khattar government had lost the trust of the public and its legislators. He said every section of society was against the government and many Independent MLAs had withdrawn support. Many JJP legislators had openly spoken in support of farmers, he added. Hooda pointed out that not only the Opposition, but even people of the state wanted to know the stand of every MLA on the issue. He said the public should know whether the representatives stood with farmers or with those in power.
28-12-2020||ibune News Service
||To express ‘mann ki baat’, protesters now beat ‘thalis’||Karnal/Sonepat, December 27 Intensifying their agitation against the Centre’s new agricultural laws, farmers today beat ‘thalis’ (steel plates) during PM Narendra Modi’s monthly programme “Mann Ki Baat” at Bastara toll plaza, where they are protesting to make toll plaza free, and at the Singhu border.  The farmers also announced to make the toll free for indefinite period and also announced that five farmers would sit on hunger strike daily. “We have listened to Mann Ki Baat so many times, but today on the call of our leaders, we opposed it by beating utensils. Now, the PM should listen to our ‘Mann Ki Baat’ by repealing these laws,” said Rampal Chahal, president of the farmers’ association designated for Bastara toll plaza. Bhajan Lal, another farmer, said they would continue their dharna at the toll plaza till their demands were met. “Five farmers will sit on hunger strike daily to oppose the farm laws,” he added. Besides, the farmers celebrated the martyrdom day at the Singhu border and a “shabad kirtan” programme was held.
28-12-2020||
||Boulders still on highways, accident threat looms large||Hisar, December 27 The state authorities are yet to remove concrete stones and boulders that were placed on highways to prevent farmers from reaching Delhi, turning the roads into accident-prone areas more so in view of foggy conditions in the morning and the evening. In the absence of authorities’ intervention, road safety committees in the districts have taken it upon themselves to prevent mishaps. The National Highway 9, for example, has little space for vehicles to cross.
28-12-2020||vinder Saini||No toll till demands met, assert farmers||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 27Intensifying their protest, farmers have decided to picket toll plazas across the state till their demand of withdrawing the three farm laws is met.“The decision to assemble at toll plazas indefinitely has been taken following people’s demand. We visited many toll plazas in the past three days and the common man demanded toll-free passage permanently. We have decided to ensure free passage to commuters,” said Gurnam Singh Charuni, leader of the BKU (Charuni), at the Makrauli toll plaza on the Rohtak-Panipat highway on Sunday.He said committees of farmers had already been formed at a majority of toll plazas and new committees, comprising between six and 11 members each, would be set up for the rest so that they could stage dharna to ensure toll-free movement.The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint forum of farmers’ outfits, had given the call to picket all toll plazas in the state from December 25 to 27.“It is a battle between people and corporate houses. We request people not to buy products of Ambani, Adani and Ramdev. Do not lock any shop forcibly and do not dig up outside any petrol station. We call upon people not to vote for those candidates not joining or supporting us in the panchayat elections,” said Charuni.Earlier, he visited the Dighal toll plaza on the Rohtak-Jhajjar highway to meet farmers staging dharna. Local residents welcomed the farmers’ announcement on toll-free movement for an indefinite time.“It is a good move and will attract more support from the public as heavy toll is being charged at toll plazas from commuters though they pay road tax and tax on petrol and diesel,” said Mukesh Bagri, a social activist.
28-12-2020||Sonepat||Congress  candidate, six aides ‘thrash’ rival’s son, booked||The police on Sunday booked the Congress candidate of Ward Number 12 here along with his six supporters for allegedly beating his rival BJP nominee’s son.  In his complaint, Rahul Taneja of Model Town and son of BJP nominee Laksmi Narayan said his father was contesting the poll for the councillor’s post in Ward 12. He along with his father-in-law Ashwani Kumar  went to Tara Nagar for some work on Saturday night. As they reached near the house of Om Prakash, alias Pasi, some people stopped them due to some enmity over the poll, he added.  “Sanjay Chaudhary of Double Story caught him while Geetesh Mukhi of Kachey Quarter, Anu Chaudhary, Ashish, alias Babloo, Chaudhary, Narender and Neeraj started thrashing him.” However, people gathered there intervened and saved him.  DC Shyam Lal Poonia and SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa and ASP Nikita Khattar  reached at the spot. The SP said a case had been registered under Sections 147, 149, 323 and 506 of the IPC. The Civil Lines SHO is probing the matter and action would be initiated as per the facts.  The Civil Lines police have also filed a separate case under the Excise Act and recovered liquor bottles. — TNS
28-12-2020||---||Sonepat records 56.7% polling||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 27The people in Sonepat on Tuesday exercised their franchise to elect the Mayor and councillors for the Sonepat Municipal Corporation (MC) for the first time. As per reports, 56.7 per cent voter turnout recorded till 7 pm.Ind candidate’s posters removedDikshit Khatri, Independent candidate for the councillor’s post in Ward No. 19, set up his booth near the polling centre at Indian Public School and pasted his posters there. But the cops removed them and in the meantime, Khatri’s father got aggressive and sat on a dharna in front of the election officer’s vehicle. DSP Hansraj reached there and pacified the peopleCovid norms followedBaroda: As per the Covid protocol, the district administration made arrangements at all 245 polling booths. Health Department teams conducted thermal scanning of the electors and also sanitised their hands. Members of the polling party were also seen wearing the PPE kits.The fate of 10 mayoral candidates, including BJP-JJP’s Lalit Batra and Congress’Nikhil Madaan and 110 candidates, for the councillor posts are now locked in EVMs.The counting of votes will take place on December 30 at BITS College, Mohana. Polling passed off peacefully and no untoward incident was reported in the constituency.Cold wave and Sunday holiday affected the voter turnout. Polling began at 8 am but only a few voters reached the polling stations in the first four hours. Turnout was only 10.9 per cent till 12 noon.Voter turnout percentage was lower in the city in comparison to the villages attached with the SMC. As many as 31,500 voters are in 16 villages. As per reports, the highest voting (87.07 per cent) was recorded at booth number 84 in Liwan village followed by (85.7 per cent)at booth number 82 and82.3 per cent at booth number 83 in Rai village.District Electoral Officer and DC Shyam Lal Poonia and SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa visited the polling booths in the constituency.
28-12-2020||Deepender Deswal
||Asha worker, tout arrested for sex determination test||Tribune News Service Hisar, December 27 Monday means boy and Friday means girl. The names of weekdays are being used as code words to convey the gender of the baby by unscrupulous elements indulging in prenatal sex determination. The modus operandi of a racket spread across Haryana, Delhi and UP came to light following a raid by a team of the Jind health authorities, led by PNDT nodal officer Dr Paleram Kataria, in Ghaziabad on Friday evening.  Asha worker Anita Devi, who is posted at Nidani village, and another tout, Bhanumati from Nangloi in Delhi, were arrested from a room in Ghaziabad. The nodal officer, while talking to The Tribune, said they had got a tip-off that an Asha worker had been acting as a tout to take “customers”, who wanted to undergo prenatal gender test, from Jind and adjoining areas to Ghaziabad. Following this, a decoy customer was prepared, who contacted the Asha worker. The deal was fixed at Rs 42,000.  Anita Devi and Bhanumati took the decoy customer and another woman from Delhi to Ghaziabad and got them tested on a portable ultrasound machine. The Jind team along with the Ghaziabad police and health officials zeroed in on the accused and arrested them. Dr Kataria said they recovered written slips of the ultrasound from the two women, including the decoy customer, which had handwritten notes as Friday and Monday. “The accused revealed that they used Monday as the code word for male child and Friday for female child as Monday is observed as the day of Lord Shiva and Friday is the day of deity Santoshi Maa”, the nodal officer added. A social activist said earlier, unscrupulous elements used ‘ladoo’ and ‘jalebi’ as code words. The Jhajjar health authorities had detected these codes during raids at some illegal centres in NCR. “The fact that the child sex ratio of Jind district has gone down by 38 points — from 943 girls per 1,000 boys in 2019 to 905:1,000 till October this year — reveals that the efforts by the authorities and society are far from satisfactory.”
28-12-2020||---||56.3% cast vote in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 27Barring sporadic incidents of EVMs developing technical snags, names going missing from voting lists and spat between workers of political parties, polling went off peacefully for the Ambala Municipal Corporation election on Sunday.The fate of six mayoral candidates and 101 ward candidates was sealed in EVMs. Till 8 pm, 56.3 per cent polling was reported in the elections.Due to cold and fog, polling was slow in the morning. As the day progressed, voters came out in large numbers to exercise their franchise.While district officials claimed that all safety measures were being taken, there was no thermal scanning at the entrance and social distancing was not observed at some polling stations, especially in rural belts.At some booths, voters and polling agents were wearing face masks provided by political parties, which sought votes in their favour. After the matter came to light, officials made them change their masks. There were reports of EVM glitches on booths 6, 85 and 86. The issue was rectified soon afterwards.At booth 171 in Rattangarh village, a woman claimed that when she went to cast her vote, she was told that her vote had already been cast. After the woman marked her resentment, officials swung into action and a girl was detained on the charge of impersonation.Presiding officer Sureshpal said polling agents Deepak and Romit raised objection on the identity of the girl. She was detained, handed over to the police and booked. Meanwhile, BKU (Charuni) activists protested with placards near polling stations in Konlan and Mandaur villages.
28-12-2020||Faridabad||2 more nabbed for property dealer’s murder||The police have arrested two more sharpshooters for murdering Manoj Bhati, a financier-cum property dealer here on December 23. The two accused — Dhirender, alias Fauji (40), and Aryan, alias Bittu (30) — were nabbed after a brief encounter from the Jansath area of Khatauli in UP on early Sunday morning by a team led by Inspector Sandeep Kumar. A spokesperson of the Police Department said the accused were dreaded criminals wanted in many other cases of murder, attempt to murder and loot. — TNS
28-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab man held with 101-gm heroin||As part of the ongoing special anti-drug drive, the Haryana Police have seized 101 gram of heroin from a Punjab resident in Fatehabad district and arrested him.A police spokesperson said the accused was identified as Amandeep, alias Aman, a resident of Ludhiana district in Punjab. Preliminary probe reveals that the accused had bought the seized drug from Hisar for sale in Punjab.A team of the anti-narcotics cell during patrolling had spotted a suspicious youth, who was frightened after seeing the police team. On the basis of suspicion, the police nabbed him. When searched, 101 gram of heroin was recovered from his possession.The accused confessed that he had bought the heroin from his friend in Piranwali of Hisar district for sale in Punjab. The police have registered a case against him and kept him in one-day remand to trace the actual supplier. — TNS
28-12-2020||Rewari||Barring minor snags, voting smooth||Barring minor incidents of technical snags in EVMs, the polling for the elections tothe Rewari Municipal Council and the Dharuhera Municipal Committee passed off smoothly on Sunday.At 81.5%, turnout highest in SamplaChandigarh: The highest polling of 81.5% was seen in polls to the Rohtak’s Sampla Municipal Committee. Total 11,735 of the 14,390 electors cast their vote at 16 booths. Hisar’s Uklana Municipal Committee had 79% polling, second highest in the state. TNSRewari registered 69.1 per cent polling while it was 74 per cent in Dharuhera. The fate of 217 candidates, 153 from Rewari and 64 from Dharuhera, was locked in the EVMs. The counting will take place on December 30.As many as 74,268 of 1,07,413 people casted their votes in Rewari for the posts of chairperson and councillor for 31 wards. Similarly, 16,293 of 22,018 electors exercised their franchise in Dharuhera for the posts of chairman and councillor for 17 wards.Although the voting started at 8 am in Rewari, the turnout was low due to cold. Merely 14 per cent polling was registered in the first three hours by 11 am. However, it gained momentum at noon when electors, especially women, came to the booths after finishing their household chores. — TNS
28-12-2020||---||30 volunteers in Faridabad given 2nd Covaxin dose||Faridabad, December 27With the first dose clinical trial of Covaxin coming to end on December 31, ESIC hospital has started giving the second dose to the volunteers who have completed the mandatory 28-day period after the first dose. As many as 580 volunteers were given the first dose. As many as 30 volunteers have received the second dose till Sunday.Good responseThe trial so far has been smooth with good response.More than 200 volunteers, who have already got the first dose, are likely to be given the vaccine in the nextfour to five days. - Dr Anil Kumar Pandey, Nodal officerCovaxin is an indigenous vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - National Institute of Virology (NIV).Though around 1,000 volunteers had been targeted for the trial in the district, ESIC officials claim that around 80 per cent of the target is expected to be achieved till the deadline of December 31.Claiming that the trial so far has been smooth with good response, Dr Anil Kumar Pandey, Nodal Officer of the trial, said that the administration of the second dose has been started and more than 200 volunteers, who have already got the first dose, are likely to be given the vaccine in the next four to five days.“We have given a list of more than 100 volunteers who are ready to get the first dose under the ongoing trial,” said Umesh Arora, an activist of NGO Faridabad Donors Club.Haryana became the first state to start Covaxin phase three trials on November 20 with state Home Minister Anil Vij being the first volunteer. The vaccine is undergoing phase three clinical trials in over 25 centres across the country. It has successfully completed the interim analysis from the phase one and two clinical trials and has been found safe and effective, according to health officials.Besides the email address covaxin.esic@gmail.com, helpline numbers 9818664931, 7942918222 and 9871824301 have been released for volunteers interested in the trials. An incentive of Rs 750 per visit is given to each volunteer.
28-12-2020||---||Ambala ex-SP moved, again||Chandigarh, December 27The Haryana Government transferred Rajesh Kalia as SP, Haryana Police Academy, Madhuban, in orders issued here on Sunday.Kalia was SP, Ambala, when a group of farmers allegedly blocked Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's convoy last week. He was moved out two days after the incident and posted as SP, Security.
28-12-2020||---||Illegal mining carried out on govt land||Yamunanagar, December 27Illegal mining has reportedly been carried out on the land of the Irrigation Department near the bank of the Western Jamuna Canal link channel in Arainyawala village of the district.On the complaint of Abhishek, Junior Engineer of the Irrigation Department at Tajewala, a case was registered against Galib of Khairi village and several other persons without name at the Pratap Nagar police station on December 24.The complainant said that the Forest Department had planted saplings on land of the Irrigation Department in Arainyawala village. He said Galib and several other persons had carried out illegal mining on the land.“The accused have committed theft of mining material from land of the Irrigation Department by loading it in their tractor-trailers,” reported the complainant.
28-12-2020||---||9 deaths, 362 fresh cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, December 27With nine deaths and 362 fresh Covid cases, the overall tally in Haryana reached 2.6 lakh today.There were two deaths each in Hisar and Kurukshetra and one each in Faridabad, Ambala, Kurukshetra, Jhajjar and Charkhi Dadri.Among the fresh cases, the highest came from Gurugram at 71, followed by 48 from Faridabad, 36 each from Ambala and Panchkula, 22 from Kurukshetra and 21 from Karnal.So far, 2,874 people have died in the state with 2,514 having comorbidities.A total of 620 people got cured in the past 24 hours.Now, there are 4,268 active cases in the state.District wise casesGurugram 56,473 342Faridabad 45,328 400Sonepat 14,457 79Hisar 16,899 315Ambala 11,427 142Karnal 10,725 145Panipat 10,455 145Rohtak 12,007 144Rewari 11,254 73Panchkula 9,906 140Kurukshetra 8,550 122Yamunanagar 6,377 137Sirsa 7,914 112Mahendragarh 6,568 19Bhiwani 6,224 140Jhajjar 5,789 88Palwal 4,352 24Fatehabad 4,641 116Kaithal 3,734 48Jind 4,675 89Nuh 1,670 30Charkhi Dadri 1,482 24Total 2,60,907 2,874
28-12-2020||---||67% turnout in Haryana civic body elections||Chandigarh, December 27Sixty-seven per cent turnout was registered during the polling for seven civic bodies in Haryana today. The results will be declared on December 30.These were the first elections in the state after the BJP-JJP alliance came to power in October last year.The elections were held for the municipal corporations of Ambala, Panchkula and Sonepat, municipal council of Rewari and municipal committees of Sampla (Rohtak), Dharuhera (Rewari) and Uklana (Hisar).In Sonepat, where a polling percentage of 56.7 was reported, the police booked a Congress candidate and his six supporters for allegedly beating up the son of a BJP candidate.Barring sporadic incidents of spat between workers of various political parties, polling was peaceful in Ambala. Just over 56 per cent turnout was reported. Six mayoral and 101 other candidates are in the fray from 20 wards.
