28-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Delhi Chalo: Farmers stage dharna at Singhu border for second consecutive day||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, November 28Thousands of farmers staged dharna at the Singhu border for a second consecutive day on Saturday. Farmer unions have decided to stay on the border till their demands were not met.The UP farmers also joined the protest at the Singhu border on Saturday.Around 12-km jam was witnessed on the NH-44 due to ongoing protest, putting commuters at inconvenience as they were forced to walk for 5 to 10 km.Sant Gopal Das also reached the Singhu border to extend support to the farmers.Meanwhile, the leaders of various farmer unions decided that they would continue their dharna at the border and would not move to Delhi.BKU spokesperson Rakesh Bains said during a meeting of the Kissan Sanyukt Morcha on Saturday Balbir Singh Rajowal announced to “stay at the borders”.The next move of the farmers would be decided after a meeting on Sunday, he said.Gurnam Singh Charuni said that the farmers had blocked the entry into Delhi at two borders, and if their demand was not met they would block all the borders with Delhi.Meanwhile, the farmers from Uttar Pradesh (UP) under the banner of BKU (Asli) also joined the protest at Singhu border. They were led by the state unit president Harpal Singh Balari.Chander Prakash Yadav, state vice-president of BKU (Asli) from UP, claimed that they had been detained and kept in a temporary jail at a college at Chandrawali in Bulandshahr by the UP Government for the past two days.He also alleged that the UP Police snatched the keys of their vehicles so that they couldn’t join the protest.“However, we reached the Singhu border and around 70 vehicles are with us,” he said.Anand Singh Dahiya, a farmer leader from Kharkhoda, also extended support to Punjab’s farmers and said they would supply milk and vegetables to the protesting farmers.He also said they would not send vegetables to Delhi for now.Jagtar Singh Kailey of Moga in Punjab said they had come to Singhu border with 4-5 months ration and would stay at the protest site till the Union Government did not revoke the “black” farm laws.Malkeet Singh of Patiala said that they would not return home till their demands were not met.“We have sufficient ration in our vehicles. Our farmer leaders have decided to stay at the border and we will not move from here,” he said.
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||JJP urges Centre to immediately hold talks with farmers||The Jannayak Janta Party, the BJP’s coalition partner in Haryana, on Saturday urged the Centre to immediately hold talks with farmers protesting against the new agriculture-related laws.Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leader Digvijay Singh Chautala appealed to the Union government not to wait till December 3 to hold discussions with farmer unions.In a video message, Digvijay Singh Chautala said, “During the past two days, farmers, especially those from Haryana and Punjab, are marching to Delhi in support of their demands. Thousands of farmers are on roads to keep their views before the government.”            “As the coronavirus pandemic is going on and in view of cold weather due to winter season, so that farmers do not face more problems, I appeal to the Centre that instead of December 3, all farmer outfits should be called on Saturday and their doubts should be removed,” he said.He said the events that unfolded in the past two days have pained countrymen. “This government is sympathetic towards farmers. Therefore, I am hopeful that the Union agriculture minister and the prime minister will soon find a solution to this issue,” Digvijay, who is president of the Indian National Students Organisation, said.Congress slams JJPMeanwhile, the Congress slammed the JJP, saying they have betrayed farmers.“Haryana’s history will never forget (Deputy Chief Minister) Dushyant Chautala’s betrayal towards farmers. They (JJP) sought votes from farmers against the BJP, promised loan waiver but today that farmer is on the roads facing water cannons and teargas shells. But the JJP is clinging on to power,” senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said.The JJP had fought the 2019 Assembly polls against the BJP but later joined hands with them as the saffron party fell short of simple majority.Meanwhile, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja slammed Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for claiming that Haryana farmers have not participated in the stir and it was primarily the farmers from Punjab.In a statement, Selja said, “Chief Minister Manohar Lal does not have enough courage to know the pain and suffering of the farmers of Haryana and raise their voice”.“That is why the chief minister is deliberately saying that farmers from Haryana are not participating in this movement. The truth is that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is concerned about his capitalist friends and Chief Minister Manohar Lal is afraid of his high command. For this reason, the farmers of Haryana are protesting today,” she said.Selja, a former Union Minister, also questioned the “silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the farmers’ movement”.“The prime minister does not have enough time to listen to farmers and say anything about their suffering,” she claimed.Selja said the entire nation witnessed the “oppressive action taken by the BJP-JJP government of Haryana on the farmers when it tried to stop them from moving towards Delhi”.“Chief Minister Manohar Lal did not learn anything from the anger that the farmers had expressed against the BJP-JJP government by defeating a candidate of the ruling combine in the Baroda bypolls,” she said. PTI
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover above normal at most places in Haryana, Punjab||The minimum temperatures on Saturday hovered slightly above normal limits in Haryana and Punjab, the Meteorological Department here said.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 8.7 degrees Celsius, it said.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a low of 9.5 degrees Celsius, up one notch against normal while Karnal recorded a low of 9.2 degrees Celsius.Amritsar in Punjab recorded a minimum temperature of 6.8 degrees Celsius, one notch above normal.Ludhiana recorded a low of 10.1 degrees Celsius, up three notches while Patiala's minimum settled at 10 degrees Celsius, one notch above normal, it said. PTI
28-11-2020||  Chandigarh||Free tablets for all students of govt schools of Classes 8-12||Haryana Government has planned to give tablets free of cost to the children of government schools in view of the current COVID-19 pandemic situation.  An official spokesperson said that the decision to provide tablets to boys and girls studying in classes 8 to 12 of government schools belonging to all categories including general category, scheduled castes, backward classes as well as minority communities so that they can take advantage of digital education is under consideration of the Haryana Government.  The spokesperson said that tablets will be distributed on the lines of the library scheme under which the tablets will be the property of government and will be issued to the students, which they will have to return after passing Class 12. The tablets will have different types of pre-loaded content such as tests, videos and other materials as well as digital books, which will be as per the courses of government schools.  This will not only facilitate studying different topics at home but students will be able to receive online education and take online exams as well.
28-11-2020||---||Khattar accuses political parties of ‘sponsoring’ farmers’ stir; Capt Amarinder hits back||Chandigarh, November 28Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday alleged that some political parties and organisations were “sponsoring” the farmers’ stir against the Centre’s farm laws.He also hit out at Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, claiming that despite wanting to talk to him over the issue, he did not respond even when telephone calls to his office were made for three days.Punjab CM though slammed his Haryana counterpart over the allegation of instigating farmers and said he won’t talk to Khattar unless he apologised for inflicting brutality on Punjab farmers.Claiming a “conspiracy”, Khattar earlier on Saturday told reporters in Gurugram that officials in the Punjab Chief Minister's Office were “giving directions” to the protesting farmers from Punjab.He said the stir had been build up by farmers from Punjab and some political parties and organisations were “sponsoring” it. Khattar claimed that there were some "unwanted elements" among the protesters.Khattar also claimed that Haryana farmers had not participated in the stir and said:  “For this, I want to thank Haryana farmers.”Khattar also said that his office had tried to speak to Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh before the farmers’ march.“My office told me that they tried to contact him over the telephone on six to seven occasions and every time his staff used to say we will soon get back and then they used to give the plea that the CM was busy in a meeting and so on,” he said.        Captain Amarinder Singh trashed the claims made by Khattar, saying: “Khattar is lying that he tried calling me earlier and I did not respond.”“But now, after what he has done to my farmers, I will not speak to him even if he calls me 10 times. Unless he apologises and admits that he did wrong with Punjab’s farmers, I will not forgive him,” Amarinder added.An angry Punjab CM also slammed Khattar for making baseless allegations that he was instigating the farmers and provoking them to agitate.“I am a nationalist to the core, I run a border state and will never do anything to create law and order problem of any kind,” he asserted.“I will not take this nonsense from Khattar. Don’t I have better things to do than to incite farmers?” he said Earlier, Khattar alleged that some people were grinding their own political axe, which needed to be condemned.Alleging a conspiracy, he said “cardholders” (officials) in the Punjab CM's office had been directing protesters.Amarinder, meanwhile, said: “Sometimes they say it’s Khalistanis who’re managing the protests and sometimes they accuse me of doing it…let them make up their minds.”Punjab CM categorically declared that no political party was involved in the farm protests, which were a “spontaneous reaction of the farmers who are fighting for their future”. (With inputs from PTI)
28-11-2020||New Delhi||Traffic movement hit in key roads of Delhi as police keep Singhu, Tikri borders closed||Traffic was affected on key roads in Delhi on Saturday as police kept the Singhu and Tikri borders closed for vehicular movement in view of the ongoing farmers' agitation against the Centre's new farm laws.  The Delhi Traffic Police tweeted that traffic movement was not allowed from Azadpur and Outer Ring Road to the Singhu border."Tikri border is closed for traffic movement. Available open borders to Haryana are -- Jharoda, Dhansa, Daurala Jhatikara, Badusari, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam vihar and Dundahera border," it posted on Twitter.Traffic AlertTikri border is closed for any Traffic Movement. Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders Jharoda,Dhansa ,Daurala Jhatikera,Badusari,Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8,Bijwasan/Bajghera,Palam vihar and Dundahera borders.  The traffic police said the Singhu border was still closed from both the sides."Please take an alternate route. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba Chowk & GTK road. Traffic is very very heavy. Please avoid outer ring road from Signature Bridge to Rohini and vice versa, GTK road, NH 44 & Singhu border," it tweeted."We appeal to commuters to avoid travelling towards the Singhu and Tikri borders, Mukarba Chowk, NH-44, GT-Karnal Road and Outer Ring Road," Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Meenu Chaudhary said.With Saturday being a holiday for most office goers, the traffic situation in other parts is better than Friday, she said.On Friday, the Delhi Police curtailed movement at several places, including Dhansa, Jharoda Kalan, Tikri, Gurgaon, Singhu and Chilla, to prevent the protesting farmers from entering Delhi.Sections of Outer Ring Road, Mukarba Chowk, GT Karnal Road, NH-44 were also closed.The restrictions led to chaos and confusion among commuters who remained on roads stuck for hours.But some of the chaos eased out later in the day after police allowed the farmers to enter the national capital.Farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, had called a 'Delhi Chalo' March through several routes—Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa.They have been demanding that the central government repeal the new farm laws, which, they said, should be replaced with another set of legislations framed after wider consultation with the stakeholders. — PTI
28-11-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula: 30-year-old man killed, another injured in knife attack over old animosity||A 30-year-old man was killed while another was seriously injured on Friday evening following a knife attack by a Rajiv Colony resident over an old animosity.The victim was identified as Ravi Shankar from Mauli Jagran. The injured was named Deepu.According to the police, the attack around 10:15 pm, they were taken to Civil Hospital in Sector 6 where doctors declared Shankar brought dead, and shifted Deepu to GMCH-32 in a critical condition.A case has been registered 302 (punishment for murder), and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 14 police station.
28-11-2020||Rohtak||'Swadeshi Covaxin best for Indians', say experts||Medical experts have maintained that COVID-19 vaccine, Covaxin, is most suitable for the Indian population, and has the least number of side effects as compared to the other vaccines which are being developed somewhere else in the world.   "Yes, I feel that Covaxin would be the best for the Indians. This vaccine can be termed as 'swadeshi' as it is being developed in India from coronavirus strains prevalent in the country," said a Professor (Dr) O.P. Kalra, the Vice-Chancellor of Pt. Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak. In conversation with The Tribune on Saturday, Professor Kalra pointed out, that Covaxin has been found to be safe, and that is easier to store, and transport as it can be kept in a temperature of 2-to-8 degrees, while certain other vaccines require temperature as low as -70 degrees. The Vice-Chancellor—who has volunteered for the clinical human trial of the vaccine himself—has also appealed to the residents, and to come forward trials and contribute to the development of the vaccine. Prof. Ramesh Verma of the Department of Community medicine at Rohtak, PGIMS—who is a co-investigator in the ongoing human trials of Covaxin—also asserted, that the indigenous vaccine had certain advantages. "Covaxin is a killed vaccine, which means that it is prepared after killing the virulence part of the virus by chemicals. On being injected into the body, the non-virulence part of the virus acts as an antigen, and generates anti-bodies. As the virulence part is killed, there are minimum side-effects," he explained. Further, Dr Verma pointed out that the clinical human trials of Covaxin were being conducted on volunteers within the country, and no major adverse effects have been reported, so far, which indicated that it was safe, and suitable for the Indian population.  Dr Varun Arora, the in-charge of the COVID-19 control room at Rohtak, PGIMS, said that the interested people can contact the PGIMC COVID-19 helpline number 9416447071 to get themselves registered for the trials.It may be pertinent to mention, that the healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses, and other paramedical staffers, are also being included, as volunteers in the third phase of trials. Any adult can participate in the trails, even if he or she is suffering, from a chronic disease provided that their blood sugar, liver, and kidney, function test-reports are normal.
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Navdeep Singh, hailed as ‘hero’ for turning off water cannon during farmer protest, charged with ‘attempt to murder’||Twenty-six-year-old farmer Navdeep Singh, an 'icon of farmers agitation who managed to climb on a police cannon and turned off the high-velocity water stream direction from protesting farmer, has been charged with an attempt to murder by Haryana Police.A video depicting his 'daring' act has gone viral on the social media.ਖੱਟਰ ਸਰਕਾਰੇ ਜਿਹੜੇ ਪਾਣੀ ਦੀਆਂ ਬਛਾੜਾਂ ਅੱਜ ਤੁਸੀਂ ਮਾਰੀਆਂ ਇਹ ਪਾਣੀ ਸਾਡੇ ਪੰਜਾਬ ਚੋਂ ਹੀ ਆਉਂਦਾ ਜਿਸ ਦਿਨ ਭਾਖੜਾ ਨੂੰ ਠੱਲ ਪਾ ਤੀ ਫੇਰ ਪੀਣ ਨੂੰ ਵੀ ਤਰਸੇਂਗੀ।#ModiAgainstFarmers #ChaloDelhi #farmersdillichalo pic.twitter.com/Z2gyNE1nQbThe incident took place on November 25 when hundreds of thousands farmers, braving tear gas and water cannons after breaching the massive blockades comprising huge boulders, barbed fence and mounds, were on their onward march to Delhi for a planned protest against new farm laws.The farmer, Navdeep Singh, has been booked for an attempt to murder along with Bharatiya Kisan Union state President Gurnam Singh Chaduni.The police have charged them of breaking police barricade and attempting to run over policemen with a tractor-trailer at Parao police station in Ambala district.After completing graduation from Kurukshetra University in 2015, Navdeep joined the farming with his father, Jai Singh Jalbera, a local farmer activist. IANS
28-11-2020||Ravinder Saini||1,000 farmers booked in Rohtak for rioting, violation of Covid guidelines||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 28Nearly a thousand unidentified protesting farmers, riding on tractor-trailers, have been booked by Meham police on charges of rioting, obstructing public servants from performing duty, assault or criminal force to the public servant and the violations of COVID-19 guidelines during the ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest on Friday.Two separate FIRs have been registered on the complaints of a duty magistrate and a police official in this respect.Naib Tehsildar Raj Kumar Sharma, who was deputed as duty magistrate in Meham, said a large number of farmers riding on 400 to 500 tractor-trailers marched towards Rohtak from the Meham-Hansi border.“They shouted slogans at the police naaka there. The mob turned violent and tried to damage the vehicles there when the police personnel on duty requested them to pacify,” he added.“Thereafter, I ordered the police to use tear gas and water cannons to disperse the mob, which then resorted to stone pelting. The cops were pulled back keeping in view a large number of the protesters. Then, the violent mob broke the barricades and moved ahead,” Sharma said in the complaint.A similar complaint has been lodged by Satpal, Security Agent of Meham Police Station, against the protesting farmers.Kulbeer Singh, SHO, Meham police station, said two separate cases under Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act 2005, and Sections 147, 148, 186, 188 and 353 of the IPC had been booked against 900 to 1000 unidentified persons who passed through Meham town on tractor-trailers on Friday.
28-11-2020||---||Punjab farmers continue their march towards Delhi||Chandigarh, November 28Punjab farmers resumed their 'Delhi Chalo' march against the Centre's new farm laws on Saturday morning after halting for the night to join thousands who have already reached the national capital's borders.Nearly a thousand unidentified protesting farmers, riding on tractor-trailers, have been booked by Meham police in Rohtak on charges of rioting, obstructing the public servant from performing duty, assault or criminal force to the public servant and violations of COVID-19 guidelines during the ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest on Friday.Two separate FIRs have been registered on the complaints of duty magistrate and a police official in this respect.Also read: Singhu, Tikri borders in Delhi still shut; farmers reluctant to go to BurariDespite facing teargas, farmer helps cop drink water; netizens all praise for itUnion ministers urge farmers’ unions leaders to move to Burari; BKU declinesDelhi Chalo protest: 1,000 farmers booked in Rohtak for rioting, violation of Covid guidelinesPunjabi MPs in Canada, UK condemn use of force on farmers; come out in support‘Delhi Chalo’ explainer: What the farmers’ protest is all aboutNavdeep Singh, hailed as ‘hero’ for turning off water cannon during farmer protest, charged with ‘attempt to murder’Farmers from Punjab also staged a dharna at Delhi’s Tikri border, adjacent to Bahadurgarh town, and disrupt vehicular traffic by placing tractors on the road.Farmers continue to stage a dharna at Delhi's Tikri border, adjacent to Bahadurgarh town.Groups can be seen preparing food and serving it to protesters.The protesters say they want to go to Ram Leela ground but the Centre is not allowing them.“We will wait for the decision of their top leaders about next course of action while staying at the Tikri border,” farmers said.Delhi police personnel are deployed in a large number at the border.By Friday evening, all Haryana Police barricades at the border with Punjab and along the highway to Delhi had been lifted. Hundreds entered the national capital to hold a peaceful protest at a north Delhi ground after facing teargas and water cannons and clashing with security personnel, while thousands remained at border points, undecided whether to go to the demonstration site identified by police."We have again started heading towards Delhi in the morning after a night halt at Meham in Rohtak district of Haryana," Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) leader Shingara Singh said on Saturday.Another group of farmers made a night halt at Julana in Haryana's Jind district, he said, adding, "They have also resumed their journey towards Delhi."Farmers with the outfit had on Friday broken through police barricades at Khanauri and Dabwali border points between Punjab and Haryana.More farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) will enter Haryana on Saturday for their march towards the national capital."Our group of farmers on tractor-trolleys will soon enter Haryana through the Shambhu inter-state border," said KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher. They had begun their march from Amritsar on Friday.Pandher lashed out at the Centre for bringing the "black laws" against the farming community.Punjab farmers in large numbers had on Friday crossed the state's border with Haryana. Some even faced water cannons and teargas.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has welcomed the Union government's decision allowing farmers to enter the national capital and hold peaceful agitation.Farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws have expressed apprehension that the laws would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates.The Centre has invited several Punjab farmer organisations for another round of talks in Delhi on December 3. — With PTI
28-11-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Despite facing teargas, farmer helps cop drink water; netizens all praise for it as video goes viral||Farmers faced teargas and water cannons along the Delhi-Haryana border. They clashed with police on Friday as they marched towards the National Captial as part of their 'Delhi Chalo' protest.Despite such severe circumstances, a video clip filled with complete compassion has surfaced—proving that humanity is above all.Farmers stepped forward to extend a helping hand to others, including the cops.A clip showing a farmer offering, and helping a policeman drink water has gone viral.Twitter user, Gurpreet S. Sahota, shared the clip, saying: "So what if policemen released cold water on farmers on a chilly day, that was their duty. Our Guru taught us to be humble, serve and share, what we have. It’s our duty.”So what if policemen released cold water on farmers on a chilly day, that was their duty. Our Guru taught us to be humble, serve and share, what we have. It’s our duty. #FarmersDilliChalo #FarmersProtest pic.twitter.com/SIc7f2wlf5  Netizens were touched by this thoughtful gesture, and appreciated farmers, and the Sikh spirit:#FarmerProtest Delhi 2020 https://t.co/lRkbU9YT66  Picture of the day ! #FarmersProtest #FarmersBill2020 pic.twitter.com/wvyfRfYWQG  Charity by sikh individuals and community is commendable, we can see this more in langar arrangement. Without ego, pride & belonging they serve every human with respect & regard.We must learn and cultivate that kind of attitude. Perhaps that is possible with vahe Guru the kripa  Such Humanity keep India live
28-11-2020||Ravinder Saini||55-yr-old woman murdered at house in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 28A 55-year-old woman was murdered by unidentified assailants at her house in Kewal Ganj locality here on Friday evening.The victim was identified as Sunita Jain. She was alone in the house when the assailants broke into the house.The deceased’s son, Rahul, in the police complaint, said the killers also looted jewellery and cash from the house.The police have started an investigation after registering a case of murder and loot but no lead about the killers has been given yet.According to the police, a family member reported the murder after he found Sunita lying in a pool of blood.Sunita was taken to the hospital where she was declared brought dead.The body bore two deep injury marks on the neck and stomach inflicted by a sharp-edged weapon.Kuldeep Singh, SHO, Old Sabji Mandi police station, said investigation was under way to identify and nab the accused. The postmortem of the body would be performed at PGIMS today, he added.
28-11-2020||Gurugram||Unable to bear son, Nuh woman kills 4 daughters||A woman allegedly killed her four daughters by slitting their throat before trying to kill herself at Piproli village of Nuh district in the early hours today.The accused, identified as Farmeena, is in a critical condition. A case of murder has been registered against her. Her husband Khurshid alleged that Farmeena killed the girls and then attempted suicide. The deceased were identified as Muskan (6), Miskina (4), Alshifa (3) and four-month-old Arbina.While the police said they were probing the case from various angles, sources claimed that it was the mother’s frustration over not being able to bear a male child that drove her to commit such ghastly act.They said Khurshid was Farmeena’s second husband. She had a daughter from her previous marriage. Villagers said the couple had a tiff a month ago following which Farmeena allegedly threatened to kill her daughters. Vivek Chaudhary, DSP, Punhana, said: “We have booked Farmeena on the basis of prima facie evidence and her husband’s complaint. A kitchen knife was used to kill the girls.” The incident has shocked the villagers. — OC
28-11-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||e-toilets in Shahabad in need of maintenance||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.come-toilets in Shahabad in need of maintenanceE-TOILETS were placed at many places in the town for the facility of the public in Shahabad but all of them are out of order. The municipal authorities though have followed the footsteps of other cities in providing the facility but failed to make an arrangement for its maintenance. These e-toilets are lying useless being an interruption on busy roads. The people around say that they had never availed the benefits of the facility because of poor maintenance. The manual toilets too are in deplorable condition. The authorities are requested to pay attention towards it and make arrangements for the public interest. Dr Ravinder Kwatra, Shahabad MarkandaPeople must follow Covid prevention guidelinesWITH reference to news report “58 fresh cases, one death in Panchkula” (Chandigarh Tribune, November 26), it was highly intriguing to learn that the Panchkula district reported 58 fresh Covid cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 8,454 and one death reported pushing the toll to 125. While every such unfortunate death counts, it also sounds quite unbelievable that most of these fatalities have been reported in patients with comorbidities. With 508 active cases, there is no room for any complacency. Sadly, a large number of city residents can still be seen blatantly violating the prevention guidelines. The Panchkula administration should, therefore, ensure strict implementation of Covid prevention norms and thus make efforts in containing the spread of the infection. Till the time a vaccine is launched, people must lower the guard and always follow the preventive measures as they are the only effective way to avoid contacting the virus by wearing a face mask and adopting social distancing. Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaUHBVN must rectify public noticeA public notice put up by the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) at its Panchkula-based Bill Collection Centre has wrong usage of Hindi words on it. The billboard incorrectly mentions two quite often used Hindi words - soochit and registered - on it. Since, Haryana is a known Hindi speaking state, such mistakes are least expected from the UHBVN. The city administration must take a note of this and take the needful steps to get it rectified at the earliest. SK Gupta, PanchkulaNo streetlights in colonyTHE Dharampur Colony area, near Shiv Mandir, Pinjore, lacks streetlights since long. The whole area lies under darkness and poses a threat to commuters. Lack of lighting on streets also increases chances of theft incidents. Though a complaint was submitted at the MC office, Pinjore, no action has been taken. The authorities must take a note of the situation and do the needful immediately. Ashwani Gogna, PinjorePublic property defacement in Panchkula THOUGH, the Municipal Corporation of Panchkula is entitled to initiate action against the violators under the Haryana Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1989, it seems that the civic body is oblivious of its powers enshrined under the Act. Every nook and corner of the markets, roundabouts, electricity poles and walls are dotted with posters and banners by advertisers, political parties and religious bodies. This is not only defacing the city but also distracts the commuters. The MC must initiate action against the violators. Gopal Mittal, Panchkula
28-11-2020||Panipat||CME on microteaching||Workshop at JC Bose UniversityFaridabad: A week-long national e-workshop on hands-on training and practise in computational chemistry organised by the Department of Chemistry of JC Bose University of Science and Technology YMCA here began on Friday. The workshop was inaugurated by Vice-Chancellor Dinesh Kumar. The VC mentioned the importance of computational chemistry and the use of hands-on training and practise workshop in the present scenario. Director of Dr BR Ambedkar NIT, Jalandhar, Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi was the chief guest of the inaugural session and motivated faculty and students to develop quality skills of computer and learn numerical methods to tackle current challenges of energy and environment. Prof Balsubramanian Sundaram from JNCASR, Bengaluru, delivered a keynote lecture on molecular modelling. Registrar Dr Sunil Kumar Garg extended his support for the workshop to provide a unique and exciting opportunity for the scholars in the field of computational chemistry tools to learn from home. Dean of Faculty of Sciences Prof Ashutosh Dixit asked the students to benefit from the workshop to overcome the loss of practical training during the lockdown and get proficiency in computational chemistry skills.Constitution Day observedYamunanagar: NCC cadets, NSS volunteers, students and staff of Guru Nanak Khalsa College here celebrated the Constitution Day. The cadets briefed the people about the Constitution around their place of residence following social distancing norm. The function was organised under the leadership of Commanding Officer Col Ajay Pal Kaushish and Col Suresh Chaudhary, Administrative Officer of 14 Haryana battalion. College principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang informed them about the biography of Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar and said the Constitution was passed on November 26, 1949 which came into force on January 26, 1950 in the nation. Dr Ravi Kapoor, Dr Bodh Raj, Dr Ranjit Singh, Dr Rameshwar Das, Dr Baljit Singh, Dr Amarjit Singh, Dr Vinay Chandel, Dr Ramnik, Prof Balkishan and Dr Udaybhan Singh were present on the occasion. Sardar Bhupinder Singh Jauhar of the College Management Committee congratulated everybody on the day.Students’ induction programmeKurukshetra: University Institute of Engineering and Technology has organised two-week long “Online students induction programme” for newly admitted students of BTech, which was started on November 23 and will continue till December 5. Friday’s session was attended by Avneesh Bhatnagar, he had joined the All India Services in 1984 and at present works at a staff training institute under the Government of India. Besides, he is also the national secretary of Sanskriti Shiksha Sansthan, Kurukshetra, which conducts Sanskriti Gyan Pareeksha (All-India Examination on cultural awareness among the next generation) in which more than 22 lakh students and 59 thousand teachers appear every year. The topic of the session was ‘Human values for prospective Engineers’. He began the session by reciting a shloka by Bhishmapitmah from Mahabharat in which he described the characters of a good human and his duties. He said Bhishmapitmah stated that, “We should have self control, be patient and should refrain ourselves from being egoistic and quarrelsome”. He emphasised on importance of human values which have existed ever since the Mahabharata times. He explained how inculcating human values was more important than merely obtaining marks or degrees from colleges/schools.
28-11-2020||Gurugram||Delhi woman gangraped in Gurugram||A Delhi-based event organiser has approached the police, claiming gangrape at a high-end hotel. She reported that her wine was laced with sedative and she was raped on November 24.The victim said she met the accused, identified as Sahil, Labbi, Nitesh Doda and Raghav, during an event and remained in touch over phone.On November 24, the accused called her up and invited her to a birthday party. The victim and her friends reached the hotel to attend the party.“During the party, they gave me wine and I fell unconscious. They dragged me to the other room, where they gangraped me,” the victim stated in her complaint.The victim told the police that when she tried to run away, the accused thrashed her and threatened her of dire consequences. The next morning, they tried to calm her down and later left the hotel.“A case has been registered against the absconding accused under relevant sections of the IPC,” said Gurugram police spokesperson Subhash Bokan. — TNS
28-11-2020||---||SC youth stopped from entering temple, thrashed||Hisar, November 27Four youths stopped a teenager belonging to the Scheduled Caste (SC) from entering a temple in Dhani Kendu village near Hansi on Tuesday.The 16-year-old was also manhandled and beaten up. The complainant reported that the youths, three of whom were identified as Ajay, Dimple and Dholu, were standing at the gate of the temple.He reported that the youths stopped him from entering the temple and commented that he would soil the temple. The complainant said that one of them took him to the rear, where they thrashed him.He said two women — Suman Devi and Saro Devi — intervened and saved him from the assailants. The police said the complainant reported the matter to the police on Wednesday, after which a case was registered.
28-11-2020||---||Waste management plant at Patvi resumes ops after 12 years||Ambala, November 27After remaining out of order for 12 years, the solid waste management plant at Patvi has finally resumed operations this week and has started the bio-remediation of the legacy waste (old waste) at the plant.The plant was initially started in 2008 at a cost of Rs 12 crore but was shut down soon and now it has been restarted at a cost of over Rs 35 crore. Wastes of around 250-300 tonnes per day are sent to the plant. Since 2008 the plant, situated in 17 acre, was being used as a dumping site and the waste had piled up to 4 to 5 metres in nearly 13-acre land of the plant, which needs to be cleared by April 7, 2021.Bio-remediation: An eco-friendly wayAs per the information, the plant receives 140 tonnes per day (TDP) waste from Ambala City, 110 TPD from Ambala Sadar, and 12 TDP from Naraingarh. The estimated cost for the treatment of per tonne waste is Rs 794. The firm has been directed to treat at least 90 per cent of the total waste and produce manure, refused-derived fuel (RDF) and land filling site material.State Home Minister Anil Vij said, “The solid waste management plant at Patvi has been restarted. The plant was initially started in 2008 but the former governments didn’t pay any attention to the plant and the machinery at the plant became defunct. Waste from Ambala City, Ambala Cantonment, and Naraingarh will be treated at the plant. As per the NGT guidelines, the legacy waste (old waste) needs to be treated by April 7, 2021, for which a plan was chalked out and a project worth Rs 35.73 crore was prepared. The administrative approval to which was given by the state government on September 29.”Bio-remediation is a way to manage or degrade garbage. The machine crushes garbage and segregates waste from it, after bio-treatment, garbage can be used as manure in fields and plastic can be recycled. It is an eco-friendly and cost-effective method.
28-11-2020||---||State panel approves Rs 35 crore projects in seven districts||Chandigarh, November 27The state level committee constituted for implementation of Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karyakram (PMJVK) on Friday sanctioned projects worth Rs 35 crore in 15 blocks of minority communities in seven districts.Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan presided over the meeting of the committee.The seven districts identified for projects are Palwal, Fatehabad, Mewat, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Sirsa.The projects approved included the construction of women hostels in Mewat Engineering College in Nuh block, a community centre and three dispensaries in Pehowa block, toilets (boys and girls) in 86 schools, 105 sheds for working of self-help group (SHG), Anganwadi centres, library and gym equipment and mats at gymnasium in Hathin block.The Chief Secretary directed the District Deputy Commissioners to work on new innovative projects. He said the School Education Department would distribute tablets to students of minority communities to help them in their education amid the pandemic.These tablets should be given on priority basis in these blocks of minority communities. He said the objective of the PMJVK scheme was to improve the socio-economic conditions of the minorities.The scheme is being implemented where at least 25 per cent of the total population falls under the minority category. Under it, 33 to 40 per cent of resources are allocated exclusively for women-centric projects. In addition, 80 per cent of the resources have been earmarked for projects related to education, health and skill development, he added.Sanctioned for minority communities
28-11-2020||---||29 more succumb to Covid; 2,135 fresh cases in 24 hours in Haryana||Chandigarh, November 27Haryana reported 2,135 fresh cases on Friday, taking the Covid tally past 2.28 lakh. With 29 deaths, the toll went up to 2,345.Five deaths were reported from Faridabad, four each from Gurugram and Rohtak, three each from Hisar and Fatehabad, two each from Sonepat, Bhiwani and Jind and one each from Ambala, Kurukshetra, Sirsa and Jhajjar.The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (698), followed by Faridabad (468), Hisar (157), Rohtak (104), Ambala (99), Rewari (80) and Sonepat (76).A total of 2,484 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of discharged cases to 2.06 lakh. There are 20,400 active cases in the state.Over 50K challans in Faridabad for not wearing masksFaridabad: The police have issued 50,482 challans to people here for not wearing masks and imposed a fine of Rs 2.52 crore.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Headquarters) Arpit Jain said, “The campaign of creating awareness and penalising those violating the face mask regulation has been stepped up in view of a sharp rise in the number of Covid cases recently.”The police have reached out to about 2.34 lakh persons under the campaign.The cops issued 1,520 challans on Thursday, he said, adding the drive would continue indefinitely.Meanwhile, the district reported five new deaths and 458 cases in the past 24 hours. The total number of cases and deaths here has risen to 39,375 and 326, respectively.
28-11-2020||Faridabad||Plasma donations on rise in Faridabad||Plasma donations for the treatment of Covid-positive patients are on the rise here. As many as 363 donors have given their plasma for the treatment of other patients through the three plasma banks functional at present.Health Department officials said that though the city was experiencing a second wave, it has also led to an increase in plasma donors due to increased awareness.“With a total of 363 donors till Thursday, this has benefitted over 650 patients in recovery,” says Umesh Arora, District Plasma Donation Coordinator.“Plasma donation works well when it is given within six to eight days of infection and 400 ml of plasma donated at one time could benefit two to three patients,” claim the officials concerned.Plasma therapy, which involves transfusing the antibodies of the recovered persons to the ailing ones, has proved successful in treating less serious cases.While the ESIC hospital here which had started the first bank in August has got the highest number of 305 units collected so far, the bank of the Sant Bhagat Singh Charitable Trust at the gurdwara in NIT has collected 48 units of plasma till date. The third is Divine Blood Bank, which has collected a total of 10 units.The district administration has decided to honour all the 27 donors who have donated plasma more than once. “Efforts are on to motivate more patients to donate plasma,” says DC Yashpal Yadav. — TNS
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder slams Haryana for using ‘brute force’ against farmers||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday welcomed the Centre’s decision to allow the agitating farmers to enter Delhi, but slammed the ML Khattar government in Haryana for its continued use of “brute force” to stop farmers even after the Union Government’s conciliatory move.Though the Central Government had allowed the farmers to enter the national capital to exercise their democratic right to protest, the Haryana government was engaged in a confrontationist approach against the farmers moving towards Delhi, said the Chief Minister, condemning the Khattar government’s actions.“What’s the need for such harsh measures? This barbarism needs to stop right now @mlkhattar ji,” said the Chief Minister, flaying the vicious manner in which the Haryana Government was treating the innocent and peaceful farmers.He expressed shock at the methods used by Haryana in its desperate bid to stop the farmers, including destruction of public property by digging up the national highway. “The farmers did not inflict even an iota of damage to any public property over the past three months of their protest, and here is a state government that is brazenly and shamelessly digging up roads made of public money,” he quipped.Captain Amarinder also reiterated his appeal to the Central Government to initiate immediate talks to address farmers’ concerns on the farm laws and resolve the simmering issue. Having taken the first step towards finding a peaceful and amicable solution to the problem, the Centre should now move quickly towards holding further talks with the kisan unions to thrash out the problem triggered by the agricultural legislations which have threatened the lives and livelihoods of the farmers.
28-11-2020||Kurukshetra||NH-44 cleared by evening||After keeping NH-44 closed near Teora village for hours, the police removed the barricades around 4 pm to give clear passage to Punjab farmers. The barricading had been done in the morning.The police parked dumpers, including some with flat tyres, and spread sand to stop the farmers.Kurukshetra SP Himanshu Garg said, “The situation is evolving continuously and as per the fresh directions — to normalise the situation and resume traffic — the barricades have been removed.” — TNS
28-11-2020||Ravinder Saini||Stranded commuters reach Bahadurgarh on foot||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 27Several commuters were stranded on the Delhi-Haryana border in Bahadurgarh for several hours on Friday because farmers had blocked the highway by parking their tractor-trailers.Among them were office-goers, who reached their workplace late, and people coming from the Delhi side.Gurmel Singh of Patiala (Punjab) had gone to Chhattisgarh to bring back his son, who had met with an accident there.Road blocked“I was unaware of the farmers’ protest. We boarded a bus from Delhi on Friday morning for home. A km from the Punjab-Haryana border, the bus conductor asked all passengers to alight as the road was blocked. Left with no option, all walked a km to reach Bahadurgarh. We will take a bus from here,” he said.The story of Varanasi native Durga Prashad, who went home before Diwali, was no different. “I was on my way to Rohtak, where I work at a shop, in a bus. Because of the blockade, the bus halted and, as a result, I walked more than 1.5 km to reach Bahadurgarh.”The district authorities had, on Thursday, blocked the Rohtak-Delhi national highway to stop farmers by putting obstacles at the Rohad toll plaza, leaving commuters high and dry as the traffic was not diverted.Rohtak resident Ramesh Sharma said, “It is the district administration’s responsibility to divert the route and avoid traffic snarls in case of a blockade. But no such arrangements were made at the Rohad toll plaza. I had some work in Bahadurgarh. I used an alternative and a longer route to reach the town.”
28-11-2020||Karnal||BKU president booked||The police have registered two FIRs — one against BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni and others and the second against unidentified farmers — allegedly for violating Section 144 of the CrPC and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.“We have registered two FIRs — one against Charuni led farmers and second against unidentified farmers,” said SP Ganga Ram Punia.He said that the videography of the breaching of the barricades by farmers had been done and based on that, the FIRs were registered. — TNS
28-11-2020||---||Traffic jam at Gurugram-Delhi border||Gurugram, November 27Massive traffic chaos gripped the expressway here on the second consecutive day owing to heavy barricading of the Delhi-Gurugram Sirhaul border.A two-hour jam threw traffic out of gear as the vehicles that stood lined up at the border were allowed entry only after thorough check.Taking no chances, the Gururgam police had deployed 900 personnel on 13 borders connecting the city to Delhi, Nuh, Rajasthan, Rewari, Sohna and Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway.In all, 125 barricades had been put around the borders, with Sirhaul being the worst hit. The suspension of metro services and public transport services to Delhi added to the woes.“The traffic congestion eased towards the evening. For the past two days, we are trying to maintain peace and keep the city unaffected by the protest. We had and are still appealing to the people not to head to Delhi till it is urgent,” said CP KK Rao.
28-11-2020||Nitin Jain||Two hours of protest at Shambhu border; cops, protesters hurt||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, November 27Punjab farmers again broke the police naka at Shambhu to enter Haryana on Friday. Braving water cannons and tear gas shells, thousands passed through Ambala to proceed to the national capital on the second day of their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march.Some protesters pelted police personnel with stones and a couple of them brandished swords. Some cops and farmers were injured in the melee and taken to hospital. After failing to stop the protesters, the police removed barricades at Shambhu and Saddopur in the evening to allow free movement of traffic.Ashok Kumar Sharma, Ambala DCBorders openedAfter farmers were allowed entry into Delhi, all inter-state borders in Ambala were opened and free movement of traffic restored. Our aim was not to hurt farmers. We tried to hold them back for as long as we could.Thousands of farmers from Punjab reached the Shambhu border around 11 am. The police, supported by a company of the Rapid Action Force, put up a naka with chained iron barricades, heavy concrete boulders and earth-laden trailers and dumper placers.Adamant peasants had a face-off with the police for over two hours, during which they braved water cannons and tear gas shells.The police, who had failed to prevent farmers’ entry on Thursday, seemed better prepared on Friday. Even as the protesters removed and threw some iron barricades into the Ghaggar, they were not able to break through.Undeterred, farmers took a U-turn from the Patiala-Ambala highway, giving the impression that they were moving back. No sooner did the cops on duty heave a sigh of relief and move back from their positions, the protesters approached from the wrong side on the highway and entered Haryana.
28-11-2020||Ravinder Saini & Mukesh Tandon||Cops, farmers face off at Jhajjar, Sonepat||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 27After a face-off with the Jhajjar and Delhi Police for several hours, thousands of farmers from Punjab entered the National Capital on Friday evening. They staged a dharna for more than four hours at the Tikri border in Delhi before moving ahead.The first face-off took place at the Rohad toll plaza on the Rohtak-Delhi highway on Friday morning when farmers started breaking the barricades earlier in the morning. The police used tear gas shells and water cannons to disperse the farmers, but they did not relent and marched ahead pushing away the heavy posse of force.FlashpointsKarhans village in Panipat districtHaldana border on Panipat-Sonepat borderNear Rajiv Gandhi education city, RaiHaryana-Delhi Singhu border“About 3,000 farmers riding on hundreds of tractor-trolleys reached the toll plaza around 4 am. We requested them to return, but they did not budge and moved ahead after breaking the barricades,” Jhajjar SP Rajesh Duggal said, adding the police handled the situation peacefully.The farmers again challenged the local police in Sector 9, where tractors and other vehicles were placed on both sides of the road by the police to stop them. The plan, however, didn’t work out.The farmers made way by removing a boulder and reached the Tikri border in Delhi. They blocked a one-km stretch between the Sector 9 turn and the Tikri border by parking their tractor-trailers on the road. They also blocked the other side of the road so that vehicles coming from the Delhi side could not pass.The Delhi police, too, lobbed tear gas shells and used water cannons on protesting farmers when the latter forcibly tried to enter the National Capital by removing the barricades.The protesters staged a dharna for more than four hours at the border after deciding to wait for farmers from Hisar. During the dharna, the protesting farmers not only raised slogans against the Modi government, but also appealed to maintain peace.It was around 3.15 pm that the Delhi police, which had set up a three-tier security cordon, allowed farmers to enter the National Capital. A wave of happiness erupted among them. They entered Delhi raising the slogan “Kisan Ekta Zindabad”.Sonepat: The local police’s desperate efforts such as heavy barricading and digging up of roads failed to stop farmers from entering Delhi on Friday. The farmers from Punjab and Haryana reached the Singhu border on the NH-44 after breaching barricades at various placesen route.A face-off took place at the Singhu border as the protesting farmers resorted to stone-pelting, while the police used tear gas shells to disperse them.The action started on early Friday morning. The farmers started their protest march towards Delhi from a toll plaza in Panipat. They first broke the barricades of the Panipat police at Karhans village.On the way ahead, they had a confrontation with the Sonepat police at the Haldana border (Panipat-Sonepat), where the cops had dug up a road and placed barricades. This was no deterrent for them as they kept on marching ahead and reached the Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi).The Delhi Police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) had sealed the border by placing boulders and barricades, and stationing sand-laden trucks, water cannons and Vajra vans.Drones were also used to keep a vigil on the movement of the protesters.The police lobbed tear gas shells on the protesting farmers, who fired back the same shells towards the cops.After a face-off, the farmers staged a dharna at the Singhu border and decided to camp there for the night.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana) leader Gurnam Singh welcomed farmers from Punjab and urged them to maintain peace. He asked them to follow the lead of Haryana farmers.SIDELIGHTSLeaders releasedHisar: Most of the farmer leaders who were arrested from various places across the state three days ago were released from jails on Friday evening. The leaders were leading Haryana farmers in the stir to protest against three farm Acts. Nearly 25 farmers from Hisar district have been released by the police. Similarly, farmer activists from Bhiwani, too, have been released.Protester diesHisar: A farmer protester hailing from Mansa district of Punjab was killed when a truck hit a tractor near Mundhal village on Bhiwani-Delhi road on Friday. The victim has been identified as Tanna Singh. Two others were injured in the incident. A case of causing death due to negligent driving has been registered at Sadar police station, Bhiwani.
28-11-2020||Sushil Manav||Farm unions differ over strategy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 27Even after agitating farmers were allowed entry on Friday, they were undecided whether to move towards the designated Nirankari ground at Burari or hold sit-in at the borders.While farmers who had gathered at the Tikri border moved towards Nirankari ground, escorted by the police, uncertainty continued among those who gathered at the Singhu border due to differences among various organisations over accepting the government’s offer.Sources said while farmer leaders from Haryana, including state BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni, were in favour of protesting at Burari, a majority of farmer leaders from Punjab, including Balbir Singh Rajewal of the BKU (Rajewal), favoured staying put at the Singhu border near Kundli.The sources said at one point, Charuni announced that farmers would move to Delhi, but when he realised that a large majority of farmers, including those from Haryana, were in no mood to go against their Punjab counterparts, he relented. Later, farmer leaders from Haryana announced that they would go by their Punjab counterparts’ decision.Sources said those against moving to the Nirankari ground were of the view that once they went there, the government was unlikely to listen to their demands even if they sat there for months.“Deliberations are still on whether to move to Nirankari ground or hold a sit-in here. Farmers will stay for the night at the Singhu border at Kundli,” said Rajinder Arya, president of Bhartiya Kisan Mazdoor Union, Haryana.Meanwhile, chaos was witnessed on various roads in Haryana leading to the national capital as farmers, largely from Punjab, moved towards Delhi through several routes — Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa.“We have enough ration stock to last for days. We will not go back till our demands are met,” said a farmer leader.
28-11-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Tepid response from Rohtak, no signal from Hooda camp||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 27The participation of Haryana farmers, especially from the Jat heartland, in the “Delhi Chalo” protest against the three controversial farm laws pales in comparison to the response shown by their counterparts from Punjab.The lack of clarity on the laws and no clear message from the Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s camp for a proactive participation in the agitation appear to be the main reasons for the lukewarm response.Preet Singh, All-India Kisan Sabha LeaderState farmers ‘opportunistic’ Punjab farmers are more valiant than their Haryana counterparts, who are opportunistic. They want to remain in the good books of the BJP-JJP government.Rohtak, Jhajjar and Sonepat districts, which comprise the Jat heartland, have been Hooda’s political stronghold.Ram Chander, a farmer from the district’s Rurki village, said: “Had there been a signal from the leadership (read Hooda), a long cavalcade of tractors-trailers would have marched towards Delhi and the farmers would have staged a massive demonstration there.”When contacted, Hooda, however, downplayed the poor participation of farmers from the Rohtak belt.“I have been maintaining that the three laws are anti-farmer. The government should talk to farmers instead of using force on them. The matter can be resolved amicably by holding talks and not through confrontation,” he told The Tribune.All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), Haryana chapter, vice-president Comrade Inderjit said the participation of Haryana farmers in the agitation was negligible in comparison with that of Punjab’s.“Punjab farmers have taken the lead in spearheading the protest. The movement will gradually gain ground in Haryana as well,” he said.Preet Singh, president of the Rohtak unit of the AIKS, was more forthright as he stated that Punjab farmers were more valiant than their Haryana counterparts, who, he said, wereopportunistic.“Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has firmly stood with the farming community, which played an instrumental role in building up the movement.“On the other hand, a majority of Haryana farmers want to remain in the good books of the BJP-JJP government,” he added.
28-11-2020||---||Extend help, former CM tells people||Chandigarh, November 27Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda called upon people on Friday to extend all possible help to farmers marching from across Haryana and Punjab to Delhi.“All arrangements for accommodation and food should be made. All possible help should be extended to farmers who need medical help or treatment due to the harsh cold and rain, water cannons or tear gas shells,” he said. Hooda said the BJP-JJP government in the state was trying to suppress a peaceful movement in a dictatorial manner.“In a democracy, every citizen and every section of society has the constitutional right to peaceful demonstration for demands,” he said.
28-11-2020||---||Farmers’ influx keeps Karnal administration on toes||Karnal, November 27Officials of the district administration and police remained on their toes due to the expected arrival of a huge number of farmers from Punjab on Friday. They were headed towards Delhi to protest against the three laws passed by the Centre recently.The authorities had installed a fresh ‘naka’ near Karan Lake on National Highway-44, creating hurdles for commuters who had to face a lot of difficulties due to traffic diversion for around seven hours.The administration erected the ‘naka’ at around 10 am by parking several trucks on the bridge of the Western Yamuna Canal. Cemented and iron barricades were also placed. After the arrival of a huge number of farmers from Punjab, the administration lifted the naka at 5 pm, giving passage to the farmers.“After the permission from the government, we have removed our barricades,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner. SP Ganga Ram Punia said that 500 police personnel were vigilant on NH-44 as well as on the other major roads of the district. “The ‘naka’ near Karan Lake was the main ‘naka’ of the district administration. So we had put up our most of the force there,” said the SP.After the removal of barricades, farmers of Punjab expressed happiness, but criticised the government for creating hurdles. They shouted slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.“We are going to Delhi peacefully, but the government is wasting our time. The government must take the three laws back,” said Harvinder Singh, a farmer from Punjab, while showing victory sign after getting easy passage.Another farmer from Moga, Joginder Singh, said, “We will continue our dharna in Delhi till the laws are rolled back. The Union Government must understand that these laws are against farmers.”The parking of trucks brewed resentment among the truck drivers who alleged that they had been forced by the administration to park their trucks as blockade. “The police have forcefully made me park my truck here. My truck can be damaged by protesters. Then, who will be responsible for it?” said Sarvar, a truck driver of Shamli in UP. Balinder, another truck driver from Munak, said that his truck was stopped by the police on Indri road and he was forced to park his truck here.DC Yadav denied the allegations and said that they have not forced anyone for it.
28-11-2020||---||No movement allowed, common man suffers||Ambala, November 27Causing great hardship to the public, the police sealed Ambala from the Chandigarh side for the second day on Friday.Even as farmers did not move from the Chandigarh side, the inter-state barrier at Saddopur was blocked for vehicular traffic till the evening. Not even pedestrians were allowed to pass through the naka.Hamir Singh, Baldev Nagar SHOBOUND BY ORDERSWe are bound to obey orders of our seniors not to allow anyone to pass through the naka.Commuters, including those providing emergency services, had to take diversions through villages. In the evening, after farmers were allowed to enter Delhi, the police removed barricades to allow movement of vehicles on the highway.“I travel between Chandigarh and Kurukshetra every day, but had to criss-cross through broken narrow lanes to go to and return from duty for two days,” said Simmi Singh, a government doctor.Raj Pal, working in the Fire Department, said he was denied permission to pass through the Saddopur naka on both days.“When there is no movement of farmers, why have the police blocked passage for the common man,” asked Surabhi Dave, an advocate. She argued with cops at the naka, but to no avail. She had to go to the Ambala court, but could not make it.With no movement of farmers throughout the day, the cops relaxed in the sun and remained busy on their mobile phones.“We are bound to obey orders of our seniors not to allow anyone to pass through the naka,” reasoned Hamir Singh, Baldev Nagar SHO. Rajesh Kalia, SP, could not be contacted despite calls and messages.Home Minister Anil Vij, also the local MLA, said the police arrangements were being directed and monitored at the level of Chief Minister. “I will get it checked and do the needful,” he said when apprised of the hardship being faced by the public.
