29-04-2020||---||Restrictions on working of subordinate courts to continue: Punjab and Haryana HC||Chandigarh, April 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that the restrictions imposed on the functioning of the subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh in view of the Covid threat would continue till the curfew and the lockdown was in force.Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha ordered that all the district and sub-divisional Courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh will function “restrictively” from May 1 “till the lockdown/curfew is in force in the respective area”.Preparing the blueprint for functioning during the Covid lockdown period, Chief Justice Jha added the District and Sessions Judge would ensure in their Sessions Divisions that one or two Additional District and Sessions Judges, along with one or more Civil Judges-cum-Judicial Magistrates, and minimum supporting staff would attend urgent matters on rotation basis.Chief Justice Jha added the number of judicial officers to be so deputed for urgent work in the Sessions Division would be decided by the District and Sessions Judge. The remaining officers as well as the staff would work from home during the period and not leave the station without prior permission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/restrictions-on-working-of-subordinate-courts-to-continue-punjab-and-haryana-hc-78115
29-04-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Two brothers nabbed for manufacturing fake hand sanitiser||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, April 29The Drug Control Department, Gurugram, today busted a fake sanitiser manufacturing unit in Pataudi.Two brothers, both Commerce pass outs, were churning a sanitiser in drums and pans in a washroom and claimed to have made sale worth Rs 18 lakhs since March.The brothers has also forged a certification from the United Kingdom and used the World Health Organisation’s symbol to befool industries, which took hundreds of liters of sanitisers from them.Following a complaint by the department, accused Sandeep and Sunder were booked under the sections of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act of the Indian Penal Code, and the Disaster Management Act.According to drug controller Amanadeep Chauhan, the duo were caught in a raid after a tip-off. “We had gone to investigate the complaint that a hand sanitiser by the brand name ‘Bancy Advanced Instant Hand Sanitiser’ is being sold in the market and was illegally manufactured from an unlicensed premises in village Pataudi. The duo were operating from a house and identified themselves as directors of M/S Jedar Industries Private Limited. We found huge quantity of hand sanitisers in two rooms. They had no valid manufacturing licence number and sale-purchase records,” Chauhan said.“The inspection revealed that the duo manufactured the hand sanitiser by mixing ingredients in regular kitchen containers in unhygenic conditions near a washroom with flies and mosquitoes hovering around. They could not even tell from where they were getting water. We have registered an FIR,” added the drug controller.The FIR stated that the certification and documents produced from the brothers were fake and procured from Delhi for Rs. 40,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-brothers-nabbed-for-manufacturing-fake-hand-sanitiser-78114
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Prevention is better than cure, says Haryana CM on sealing of border with Delhi||Maintaining that prevention is better than cure, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said strictness on borders with Delhi was necessitated by emergence of fresh coronavirus cases in districts adjoining the national capital.In a televised address, Khattar said the state government had to take some tough measures as 28 cases have been detected in the past six days in districts of Sonipat, Jhajjar, Gurgaon and Faridabad, which are part of the national capital region.The cases are either linked to those who are employed in Delhi, their family members or their contacts, he said, adding that “prevention is better than cure... bitter medicine is important to cure the disease and we will have to stop this cross-border movement”.“If we do not do this, then we will not be able to contain the spread of coronavirus. We will not allow this infection to enter our state from Delhi,” Khattar said.Haryana has maintained that the daily movement of employees working in Delhi to their residences in Haryana increases the risk of the coronavirus spread.Khattar said the employees in Delhi can stay there or if possible, can take leave and stay at places of their residence.The chief minister said due to the decision, only the movement of essential items is being allowed.“We are allowing only a driver and one accomplice in the vehicles with essentials and they have to confine themselves to their homes after their duty,” added Khattar while updating people about the coronavirus situation in the state.He also said earlier there has been a spike in infection cases in Haryana “due to members of the Tablighi Jamaat”, of which over 120 tested positive for the infection.He told people that Haryana is doing better on many parameters, including the recovery rate. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/prevention-is-better-than-cure-says-haryana-cm-on-sealing-of-border-with-delhi-78101
29-04-2020||Ravinder Saini||Coronavirus: Education Council wants cut in emoluments of teaching and non-teaching staff||Tribune News ServiceRewari, April 29The Haryana State Higher Education Council, an autonomous body created to promote academic excellence in the state, wants teaching and non-teaching staff of all colleges and universities to voluntarily offer for a fixed cut in monthly emoluments for six months and to perform without any honorarium the tasks of paper-setters, answer-book evaluators, examination supervisors and invigilators, practical and viva-voce examiners and evaluators, etc.Prof BK Kuthiala, chairperson of the council, has written to all colleges and universities in the state appealing them to make some ‘sacrifice’ in order to manage their finances in wake of Covid crisis.   “Economy of the nation and the state has suffered a lot and revenues have dipped to unimaginable low levels. In addition to participating in making the lockdown effective and helping the needy, we should also help the economy to withstand the crisis. Due to fall in the revenues of the state, the funds available for universities and colleges will also get reduced significantly. Hence, it would be appropriate that each one of us makes some sacrifice,” said Chairperson in the communique.Kuthiala has made 10 suggestions in the communiqué and appealed the employees to opt one or more to ensure their contribution in boosting the state's economy. As per other suggestions, the employees may offer to defer payment of part of their salary for six months to be received later in installments without any interest and to offer not to take any monthly emoluments for next many months.He also appealed to the employees to restrict official travel and advised them to travel in groups whenever necessary, besides not accepting honorarium for taking extra classes and special lectures, including presentations in FDP programmes and for attending meetings of the universities and colleges.  Prof SK Gakhar, Vice-Chancellor, Indira Gandhi University (IGU), Rewari, said he had asked principals of all colleges affiliated to IGU to follow the appeal issued by the Council in order to bail the state out of economic crisis. “All the principals have appreciated the council’s suggestions and assured me of cooperation,” Gakhar added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-education-council-wants-cut-in-emoluments-of-teaching-and-non-teaching-staff-78019
29-04-2020||Ravinder Saini||Delhi connection brings Jhajjar on Covid-19 map||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, April 29Delhi’s government employees living in Jhajjar have suddenly brought the district on the Covid-19 map.The district, which was so far free from coronavirus, reported six cases in the past two days. All these cases have direct or indirect connection with Delhi, which is one of the high risk states. The emergence of the cases has forced the district authorities to seal the Delhi borders to put a check on the cross-border travel of such employees in order to prevent the spread of the virus.Jhajjar SP Ashok Kumar has directed the police personnel deployed at the check posts set up on the Delhi border not to allow any employee to commute cross-border. B Satheesh Balan, Nodal Officer for Covid-19, has also directed the Deputy Commissioner to ensure checking of inter-district and inter-state movement.Sources said more than 5,000 local residents employed with various government departments and hospitals in Delhi are daily commuting cross-border despite the lockdown.“70 percent of them are employed in the Delhi Police and various government hospitals and 15 percent are the employees of Delhi Transport Authority, Delhi Municipal Corporation and Delhi Public Health Engineering Department, while remaining ones work in different private hospitals there,” a source said.Significantly, the district health authorities had urged the Delhi Government to make stay arrangements for such employees at their workplace in Delhi and not to allow them to commute cross-border but the government did not pay any heed.“No one will now be allowed to cross the border without a movement pass. Even the gram panchayats have been urged to persuade the villagers employed in Delhi to stay at their workplace to protect their families, villagers and the district from Covid-19,” said SP Ashok Kumar.RS Punia, Civil Surgeon, said they were quite apprehensive about the Covid-19 infection in Jhajjar through Delhi following the cross-border movement. “Two of the five Covid-19 patients have travel history of Delhi while four others are family members of a Covid-19 positive Delhi cop who used to frequently visit them in Sulodha village here,” Punia added||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-connection-brings-jhajjar-on-covid-19-map-78001
29-04-2020||Jhajjar/Gurugram||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 11 new cases, state tally 306||Haryana reported 11 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the infection tally in the state to 306. Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar, Nuh and Sonepat all reported positive cases.In Jhajjar, a 59-old-year labourer at the local vegetable market tested positive, taking the district count to seven.District health authorities said he made trips to Azadpur market to bring vegetables and fruits here.He was among several vegetable sellers and labourers at the local market who tested randomly. District authorities said they were still waiting for reports of 123 others."Like other Covid positive cases in the district, this case too is the outcome of a Delhi connection. The district has so far reported six coronavirus cases. A pharmacist in Bahadurgarh town here who tested positive on Monday is the case of Delhi as he is employed with a hospital there," said Randeep Singh Punia, Civil Surgeon, Jhajjar.Punia said the man, along with his friend, used to go to Delhi daily but the report of his friend has come out negative. However, he has been quarantined at home.Three of the district’s seven coronavirus cases were from the local vegetable market. All three travelled to the Delhi market, officials said.Faridabad reported four new cases, taking the district tally to 50. A 44-year-old woman and her 18-year-old son from Sector 28 tested positive on Wednesday. The woman’s husband, CEO of a health institute in New Delhi, tested positive on Monday.A 46-year-old man from Badkhal village who was associated with the Tablighi Jamaat sect also tested positive. His first test had come back negative.The fourth case was a 25-year-old woman from Dabua colony who worked at an NGO in Delhi.All four have been admitted in Faridabad’s ESI Hospital.A 40-year-old woman from Sonepat’s Khoobru village also tested positive on Wednesday. She is the contact of a Delhi police constable who recently tested positive.This takes Sonepat’s district tally to 25.Three nurses employed at Gurugram Civil Hospital tested positive for coronavirus, officials said. They were all deputed in Covid isolation ward and reported mild symptoms. Ten other staff members have been quarantined, district officials said.After ten days of lull, Nuh reported a COVID-19 case on Wednesday. Suspected Covid-death in FaridabadMeanwhile, a 68-year-old man died in a hospital in Faridabad on Tuesday night. A private laboratory tested the man, a resident of sector 18, positive for the virus, although the test has yet to be confirmed by district authorities.He also suffered from diabetes.“Sample has been sent for a test in a government lab to know the cause of death,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Krishan Kumar. His cremation would be held as per COVID protocol. Faridabad has reported a total of 46 COVID cases. If confirmed, this would be the state's fourth death from the virus The developments take the state's case tally to 310 if 14 Italian nationals are counted and 300 without that count.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-haryana-reports-11-new-cases-state-tally-306-77989
29-04-2020||Panipat||Patient dies in isolation ward, found negative||A 50-year-old suspected Covid patient, admitted to the isolation ward of general hospital in Sonepat, died during treatment today. The reports of the person, received later in the day, were negative.As per information available, the deceased was identified as Jainarayan. An asthmatic patient, he was admitted to the isolation ward of the general hospital on Monday.He died on Tuesday morning. Dr BK Rajora, Civil Surgeon, said the reports of the patient, received in the afternoon, were negative. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/patient-dies-in-isolation-ward-found-negative-77848
29-04-2020||Sonepat||2 try to enter Sonepat from Delhi, held||The Kharkhoda police team arrested two persons while they were entering in Sonepat from Delhi late Monday night, violating the prohibitory orders issued by District Magistrate Anshaj Singh on Sunday.Those arrested have been identified as Amarjeet of Rohat village and Satish of Nahri village in the district, who are working in Delhi.According to the police PRO, 6,844 vehicles have been challaned so far, 456 persons arrested, 652 vehicles seized and a penalty of over Rs2.10 crore has been imposed for the violation of lockdown regulations in the district.The police have also seized around 25,000 bottles of English wine and country-made liquor and arrested 63 persons allegedly involved in unauthorised supply of liquor during the lockdown period. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-try-to-enter-sonepat-from-delhi-held-77847
29-04-2020||Parveen Arora||Karnal teen raises Rs1 lakh for PPE kits||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, April 28Amid the Covid crisis, everyone is doing their part to help people and honour Covid warriors. In this series, Karnal based 13-year-old Haardik Gupta has raised Rs1.02 lakh for arranging personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for the doctors of Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai.He has collected funds ranging between Rs100 to Rs5000 from his family members, friends and acquaintances across the country with the help of a Facebook page.Haardik belongs to Liberty Group of the city and is studying in Class IX in The Doon School, Dehradun.“I came to know through news that doctors across the country require PPE kits, so I searched online an NGO ‘Helping Hands’, which has been working to generate funds for PPE kits for Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai. I felt inspired and talked to my mother who supported a lot in my initiative. I began the project on April 14 and in 14 days I have raised Rs1.02 lakh with the help of a Facebook page,” said Haardik. His parents are also elated with his endeavour for society. “I am proud of my son who took this step to help the health community which is working tirelessly,” said Kanishk Gupta, father.“More than the funds, the spirit of my son matters to us as at this age he came forward to support Covid warriors,” said Shweta Gupta, mother.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-teen-raises-rs1-lakh-for-ppe-kits-77846
29-04-2020||---||No restriction on GPF withdrawal, says Chief Minister||Chandigarh April 28Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today made it clear that there would be no restriction on withdrawal of GPF advance by government employees for unavoidable expenditure like marriage.He was presiding over a meeting with leaders of various employees' unions through video-conferencing. He said government employees would  continue to get the benefit of 17 per cent dearness allowance.He clarified that final results for recruitment on 12,316 posts, for which written examinations had been conducted, would be declared immediately after completion of lockdown period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-restriction-on-gpf-withdrawal-says-chief-minister-77835
29-04-2020||Palwal||Many duped on job promise, 1 arrested||The police have arrested a 45-year-old man in connection with duping several persons in the name of giving employment in Home Guard. The accused identified as Bhism alias Bhim Singh, a resident of Dhatir village of the district, was nabbed by the police on Monday after a complaint was lodged against him recently. It is alleged that posing as a Haryana policeman, Bhism had taken about Rs2 lakh from several persons hailing from different villages for ‘getting their kin recruited in Home Guard’. Roop Singh, a complainant from Nangla village, said he had given Rs84,000 to Bhism  for the employment of his son and a relative. But they haven’t got any job so far. He said he lodged a complaint with the police  when he found that the accused had taken money from many and had cheated them by posing as a policeman having connections in the department. The police have recovered Rs4,000, a walkie-talkie set and two stamps from the accused. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/many-duped-on-job-promise-1-arrested-77819
29-04-2020||Mahendragarh||CUH offers e-learning||The Central University of Haryana (CUH) has launched a new learning management system to provide online study material of 37 postgraduate programmes to students and faculty members. Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad claimed that the CUH was the first university to start this programme, available on http://lmscuh.inflibnet.ac.in. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cuh-offers-e-learning-77818
29-04-2020||---||18 yrs after FIR, convict walks free in drugs case||Chandigarh, April 28A convict has walked free in a drugs case 18 years after an FIR was registered after two police officials deposed that the contraband was seized exactly a year after its recovery was shown by the prosecution. A Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court took note of other contradictions also while setting aside the judgment of conviction and seven-year rigorous imprisonment awarded by the Sirsa Additional Sessions Judge in 2005.Justice HS Madaan termed the trial court verdict as not sustainable, while allowing the appeal filed by Baggar Singh against Haryana. Justice Madaan asserted that the recovery as per the prosecution story was made on June 27, 2002, but perusal of statements made by the witnesses carefully showed that the prosecution’s star witness, Sub-Inspector Ramesh Kumar, gave the recovery date as June 27, 2003.Similarly, the other recovery witness, Assistant Sub-Inspector Jagdish Chander, also mentioned the same date. Justice Madaan asserted, “Just to ensure that the date might not have been given as a result of typographical mistake, their statements recorded in a vernacular also were perused, wherein too the date was mentioned as June 27, 2003, in deposition of both these witnesses.”Justice Madaan noted that an explanation for mentioning wrong recovery date was not forthcoming in the statements of these witnesses. Justice Madaan observed that even at a later stage, an application was not moved on the prosecution’s behalf, stating that the recovery date had inadvertently been stated as June 27, 2003, by the two prosecution witnesses, while the recovery had actually taken place on June 27, 2002.“If we see the statement of the accused under Section 313 of the CrPC in the incriminating circumstances put to him, the date of recovery has been mentioned as June 27, 2003, i.e., difference of complete one year. That gives a big jolt to the prosecution story and puts a question mark over the genuineness of the prosecution version. Of course, the accused was greatly prejudiced on that score,” Justice Madaan asserted.Justice Madaan observed that the cardinal principles of criminal jurisprudence were that the prosecution was required to prove its charge against the accused beyond a shadow of reasonable doubt. Justice Madaan said the onus to prove guilt of the accused to the hilt was stationary on the prosecution and could never shift.Justice Madaan asserted that the accused was not expected to prove his defence with some exactness and rigour with which the prosecution was required to prove guilt of the accused. Justice Madaan pointed out that the accused was required to render only a plausible explanation which might cast a doubt in the mind about the truthfulness of the prosecution story.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/18-yrs-after-fir-convict-walks-free-in-drugs-case-77817
29-04-2020||Chandigarh||Three cases push Haryana’s tally to 295||With two cases reported from Sonepat and one from Jhajjar, the state’s tally reached 295 today. After including 14 Italian nationals, Haryana’s tally would be 309.In Sonepat, two relatives of a staff nurse of Babu Jagjiwan Ram Hospital at Jahangirpuri in Delhi tested positive today. They are her 60-year-old mother-in-law and 38-year-old husband. The nurse tested positive on April 25. She used to go to her workplace daily with another infected nurse of the same hospital by car. The tally in the district reached 24 today.In Jhajjar, a woman tested positive in Sulodha village. She is wife of the Delhi cop who had tested positive earlier and was under treatment in the national capital. Three other members of his family tested positive on April 27. The tally in the district reached six.Eleven patients were discharged in the last 24 hours — three each in Faridabad, Palwal and Panchkula and two in Nuh.A total of 224 patients had been discharged so far. The recovery rate is 72.5 per cent. The recovery rate was 69.6 per cent yesterday.The state had so far conducted 24,826 tests, with 22,578 testing negative and results awaited in 1,940 cases. Tests per million jumped to 979, up from 907 yesterday. The doubling rate of Covid cases in the state today increased to 20 days from 19 days yesterday.Health Minister Anil Vij reiterated that the border with Delhi needed to be sealed. “As of now, the border has been sealed in Sonepat and strictness enhanced in Gurugram and Faridabad,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-cases-push-haryanas-tally-to-295-77815
29-04-2020||---||Cut AC use, go for fans to check spread of Covid: Government advisory||Chandigarh, April 28An advisory issued by the Haryana Government has advocated restrictive use of air-conditioners (ACs) in residential and commercial premises while urging the maximum use of fans and exhaust fans with proper ventilation to check the spread of Covid.In an advisory to various departments, the PWD Engineer-in-Chief recommended that the ACs should not be used in offices or be used restrictively. It said ACs, both window and split, should be operational in vacant rooms to cool the premises.“Before the entry of persons, the AC must be switched off to avoid contamination through mixed air circulation. Thereafter, ceiling fans should be kept running with adequate ventilation,” the advisory said.It stressed the need for opening windows for proper ventilation. It warned against the use of portable coolers that did not draw outdoor air. Advising not to use centralised AC system, it feared contamination could propagate within rooms as offices were occupied by more than one person.In healthcare facilities, the advisory stressed more natural ventilation through opening of windows and doors. It noted that the virus spread due to droplets coming out after coughing and sneezing and got highly infectious after these droplets mixed with dust particles and set on different materials.It said if the environment was cool and air-conditioned, these remained for a longer time. “Proper ventilation and increase in temperature reduce the magnitude of the virus in that particular area,” it said, giving the rationale behind issuing of the advisory.How to beat covid as summer approaches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cut-ac-use-go-for-fans-to-check-spread-of-covid-government-advisory-77814
29-04-2020|| 
||Congress flays government move to freeze recruitment||Chandigarh, April 28  Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, HPCC president Kumari Selja and AICC communication incharge Randeep Surjewala strongly opposed the state government’s decision to freeze recruitment for the next one year.  Hooda said the youth of Haryana had been suffering due to the highest unemployment in the country for a long time and this move would hurt them hard in these difficult times.  He said the unemployment figure in the state had reached 28 per cent, even before Covid led to a national lockdown and it was expected to increase further after it ends. “If the government freezes recruitment, how will the youth of the state get any employment in such a situation? Why officials in the HPSC and HSSC are getting salaries and allowances?” Hooda questioned.  “The Congress will not allow anyone to play with the future of the youth at any cost. The unemployment rate of Haryana has already reached the highest in the country,” Selja said. She said freezing dearness allowance for a year and stopping LTC was a direct attack on the entitlements of the state employees. The government should first make clear as to why the discretionary quota of ministers has not been shelved, Selja asked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-flays-government-move-to-freeze-recruitment-77813
29-04-2020||Deepender Deswal||Drug, liquor suppliers try to cash in on lockdown||Tribune News ServiceHisar, April 28Taking advantage of the lockdown, drug traffickers and liquor smugglers are using ambulance and essential services vehicles to smuggle the products into the region for sale at higher prices these days.The police said they were having a tough time as most of the workforce had been deployed to ensure the lockdown in urban and rural areas. The police personnel posted at the inter-state and inter-district checkposts are in sensitive zones as they have to take precaution to avoid Covid infection while on duty.The data of the cases registered under the NDPS Act in Hisar Police Range revealed that Sirsa topped with 52 cases and 93 persons arrested. The Sirsa police also recovered 1.5-kg heroin and 6 quintal of poppy husk. The Jind police, however, registered the highest number of 133 cases under the Excise Act for illicit liquor smuggling.However, the police got alert when they got a tip-off that ambulances were being used in the supply of drugs and narcotics in Hisar and Sirsa. “An ambulance on the way to Sirsa from Gurugram was intercepted at the Landhari toll plaza on the Hisar-Sirsa highway. Around 500-gram heroin from was recovered from six persons. One of the six persons travelling in the ambulance was acting as a patient while others posed as his family members,” said a police officer.Hisar SP Ganga Ram Punia directed the police to scan all suspected vehicles and even milk-supply vehicles. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) also recovered 2-kg heroin from two persons in Rohtak last week.Meanwhile, the police in Sirsa and Fatehabad have a tougher task of dealing with the traffickers as these two districts have higher consumption of narcotics. The Fatehabad police nabbed three persons, including two policemen of Uttar Pradesh Police, and recovered 938-gram heroin in the Tohana region last week.Jind SP Ashwin Shenvi said besides ensuring the lockdown, the unscrupulous elements indulging in illicit liquor smuggling and manufacturing hooch pose a challenge to the police. “However, the police are doing a good job in checking vehicles at the checkposts,” he added.RECOVERIESFatehabad: 1.3-gram heroin, 9,000-kg lahan and 5 bhattis to manufacture hooch were recoveredSirsa: 1.6-kg heroin, 6-quintal poppy husk, 26,425 bottles of liquor and 5 bhattis to manufacture hooch were seizedHisar: 1.5-kg heroin, 3.2-gm opium, 112-kg poppy husk and 38,925 bottles of English liquor, 34,926 bottles of desi liquor and 8 bhattis were seized||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drug-liquor-suppliers-try-to-cash-in-on-lockdown-77812
29-04-2020||
||No demand, scientific apparatus, mixer firms not to resume operations||Ambala, April 28 Scientific apparatus manufacturers and mixer grinder manufacturers in Ambala have decided not to resume operations due to stringent guidelines and no demand from the market.  Sanjay Gupta, president of Ambala Scientific Instruments Manufactures Association, said, “The stringent guidelines are the major issue and we have decided not to resume operations. Even if the operations are resumed, there will be an issue with the availability of raw material. China is one part from where the glassware raw material used to come. Even the domestic suppliers from Delhi, Punjab, Chandigarh and other states are facing similar lockdowns.  “In Ambala, the local suppliers were operating from timber market and its adjoining areas, but the entire area is completely shut as it was declared a hotspot. “For Ambala’s industry, nearly 80 per cent clients are educational institutes and engineering colleges and these will be the last to get relaxation from the lockdown. With no demand, there is no benefit in starting production,” he added. There are over 1,500 small and big units in Ambala providing jobs to nearly 20,000 people. Arun P Bansal, president of Scientific Apparatus Manufacturers and Exporters, said, “The government should have consulted small scale industrialists before issuing guidelines. The majority of units are very small and the guidelines regarding providing accommodation and transportation are very difficult. The stringent guidelines have also discouraged the manufacturers. “For instance, we make quality control instruments for the pharma industry. If there is an order, we will need electronic components from Delhi or Mumbai market but the markets are closed. The allied industries are also closed. The government has been expecting cooperation from industry, but hasn’t been giving any rebate or help to industrialists,” he added. Ajay Aggarwal, president of Mixie Manufacturers’ Association, said, “The compliance of SOP is very difficult. With markets closed and no availability of raw material, how are we supposed to resume operations? Around 70 units are engaged in manufacturing unbranded products in Ambala. The mixer and grinder industry in Ambala has been battling for survival. Previous payments are still stuck in the market and the association has decided to keep operations shut.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-demand-scientific-apparatus-mixer-firms-not-to-resume-operations-77811
29-04-2020||Sushil Manav||Once a hotspot, Mewat region bounces back||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 28From being the biggest hotspot of Haryana with 91 positive cases of the total 295, the Mewat region — comprising Nuh district and Hathin block of Palwal district — is now fast moving towards normalcy with 78 of them getting cured and discharged.Inhabited largely by the Meo Muslim population, the Mewat region came on the Covid map of the state by March-end when intelligence reports revealed that a large number of those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin had fanned out here for the purpose of preaching.Cases started trickling in from the beginning of this month and the numbers kept rising as the results of those tested came to the fore.By April 18, Nuh district comprising Indri, Punhana, Pigwan, Firozepur Jhirka and Nuh block had 57 positive cases while Hathin block of Palwal had 34 positive cases.However, not a single case of Covid has emerged in the two districts in the past 10 days, much to the relief of the government.“This turnaround has been possible largely because of timely action. In the first three days starting from March 29, we had traced 312 Jamaatis and quarantined them. As many as 60 others were traced later. 700 more Jamatis were traced after that and they, too, were quarantined. Early isolation of suspects not only helped in checking the spread, but also saved positive cases from developing any complications because of the timely medical help,” said Virender Yadav, Civil Surgeon, Nuh.He said since the Jamaatis keep moving from one village to the other, it was very tough to trace them, but the health workers worked overtime not only to trace them, but to test all of them timely.“Since the WHO guidelines of converting 3-km area as containment zone and 5 km in urban areas and 7 km in rural areas as buffer zone couldn’t have worked in Nuh, we went for 1, 3 and 5 km respectively and concentrated on pin-pointing the suspected cases,” Yadav added.Palwal Civil Surgeon Brahmdeep Singh said since the first contact of the Tablighis in the villages were the maulvis of the mosques, the health authorities decided to quarantine all 20 of them in Hathin block and eventually two of them tested Covid positive.“It was a tough job sending the maulvis into quarantine because there was a lot of resistance due to religious reasons. But the strategy worked and the Health Department succeeded in containing the spread,” Singh said.Of the 32 patients already discharged in Palwal, 30 remained asymptomatic while two had mild symptoms.Nuh, Palwal on way to normalcy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/once-a-hotspot-mewat-region-bounces-back-77808
29-04-2020||Gurugram||Nuh gets mobile van for Covid sampling||The Nuh health authorities have modified their ambulance and started Covid sampling on wheels.The authorities have been forced to reach on doorstep not just due to Ramzan during which people fast and have refused to move out of their houses, but also because the location of many containment villages being as far as 60 km from the sampling facilities.The Health Department has taken the initiative to collect the samples of Covid suspects on people’s doorstep.It’s not a public–private partnership or corporate social responsibility initiative but an indigenous effort by the department, where frontline warriors went ahead modifying their neonatal ambulance to create a Covid van.“We have modified our ambulance into a Covid-testing mobile van. It is moving with staff from village-to-village to collect samples from the residents’ doorstep. The van will be covering all 503 villages, including the ones that are more than 60 km away from the district headquarter, Nuh. We also take care of people who are not travelling owing to Ramzan fasts and providing them the facility on their doorstep,” said Dr Virender Yadav, CMO, Nuh. — OCTo cover all 503 villages of district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nuh-gets-mobile-van-for-covid-sampling-77807
29-04-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Jamaatis, contacts comprise 54% cases in state||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 28Members of the Tablighi Jamaat and their contacts contribute to about 54% of Covid cases in the state, finds an analysis by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme.The first Jamaat worker was found positive on April 2 and since then, the numbers continued to rise. Of the 275 cases, from March 17 to April 25, 127 (46.2%) were Jamaat workers. Among their contacts, 20 (7.3%) were found positive. Their combined contribution is 53.5 per cent.The highest number of cases among Jamaatis emerged in hotspot districts — 46 of 57 (81%) in Nuh, 33 of 34 (97.1%) in Palwal, 26 of 43 (60.5%) in Faridabad and 17 of 47 (36.2%) in Gurugram.Had there been no Jamaat case, the tally would have been 137, says the analysis after 287 cases. “Our success lies in tracking over 1,700 Jamaat workers within days, which prevented further spread,” said Health Minister Anil Vij.Eight FIRs were registered against 29 Jamaat workers, who did not come forward on their own by 5 pm on April 8.One of every 15th case is a health worker. “There are 18 cases of health workers getting infected while dealing with patients in hospitals. This segment has a contribution of 6.5 per cent,” said Vij.“Six domestic travellers and 14 international ones have been found positive. There are 28 cases of vendor, shopkeeper, tailor or student having been found positive,” said Vij. Contacts of patients are another major contributor with 48 cases (17.5%).Fourteen Italian nationals, treated at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram, also added to the tally. “There are 214 men (78%) and 59 women (22%) among the infected,” said Vij.There were 22 cases from March 17 to 30, after which the figure started rising. The maximum cases (86) were reported from April 7 to 13. In the preceding seven days, there were 74 fresh cases. From April 14 to 20, there were 55 new patients. From April 21 to 25, 50 cases were recorded.The worst day was April 7, when 33 cases came to light, the highest in a day. On April 4, 26 cases were detected, which was the second highest. On April 6 and 23, 20 cases each were detected.The maximum patients are in the age group of 25-34 years (74), followed by 15-24 years (53), 35-44 years (40), 45-54 years (39) and 55-64 years (31). A total of 26 cases are 65 years of age and above whereas nine are up to 14 years of age.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jamaatis-contacts-comprise-54-cases-in-state-77806
29-04-2020||---||Just 12% stock sent to Hisar godowns||Hisar, April 28The slow lifting of procured wheat at purchase centres is leading to delay in the procurement process. Only 12 per cent wheat has been sent to godowns in Hisar.The purchase centres and mandis are choked with the wheat stock as arrival has picked up in the past couple of days. But the shortage of labourers and the inclement weather are causing delay in the lifting of stock.Sources said that the state government has urged marketing board officials not to send the schedule for farmers to bring the produce tomorrow to the mandis.Instead, the marketing board has decided to call the farmers who were given the dates of April 20 and 21 but could not bring the yield due to some reason.In Hisar, nearly 88 per cent of total wheat that arrived for procurement was lying in the mandis till yesterday.According to marketing board sources, a total of 11,31,980.5 quintal of wheat arrived at 66 centres in the district till yesterday. Of this stock, 9,73,580.51 quintal wheat have been procured. But only 1,34,359 quintal of wheat stock has been lifted from the mandis to the godowns.Thus, 9,97,621 quintal of wheat, including 1,58,400 quintals of non-procured stock, are lying at the purchase centres.District marketing enforcement officer Sahib Ram said inclement weather in the past couple of days has hampered the lifting of stock from the purchase centres.“Only dry grain can be stocked in the godowns but the recent showers have wet the wheat stock in many of the grain markets,” he said. “We hope to lift the stock of wheat from the purchase centres tomorrow to ease some pressure on the mandis,” he said.The sources, however, added that the shortage of labourers due to the lockdown is the major problem in the lifting of the procured wheat from the purchase centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/just-12-stock-sent-to-hisar-godowns-77805
29-04-2020||Our Correspondent
||Kalayat farmers a worried lot too||Kaithal, April 28 The slow lifting of wheat bags from Kalayat Anaj mandi in this district has aggravated the problems of farmers and commission agents who were already in trouble due to damage caused to their produce due to rain.  In the prevailing situation no space has been left to bring and unload the wheat crop in mandi causing inconvenience to all stakeholders. The rain on Sunday disrupted all arrangements and delayed lifting of purchased stocks and rain soaked bags. Some commission agents and farmers, including Vijay, Ravinder, Jasmer, Ravi and others, said due to rain the wheat lying in open got wet and moisture content increased hence the purchase agencies were reluctant to purchase wheat lying in open and moved to packed bags. Considering the huge arrivals in mandi, the lifting is very slow and major part of crop is lying in open and can’t be covered with tarpaulins. Market committee chairman Sanjeev Rana and secretary Savita Choudhry said on their part, the arrangements for crop brought to mandi were in order but sudden rain on Sunday disrupted the whole arrangements. They said about 5.25 lakh quintals of wheat had been purchased in Kalayat mandi and purchase centres under its jurisdiction till Sunday evening. However, the shortage of labour has also added to the problem of lifting by agencies.  Labour contractor Manoj Nain said there was no shortage of vehicles to carry wheat bags from mandi to godowns but due to lockdown there was some labour shortage which would soon be solved with more men likely to join work and expedited the process of lifting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kalayat-farmers-a-worried-lot-too-77804
29-04-2020||---||Slow lifting of wheat, space crunch at purchase centres||Karnal, April 28The slow lifting of wheat bags has resulted in space crunch, particularly at purchase centres in rural areas. So far, around 35 per cent wheat has been lifted from the various purchase centres of the district.As per the information available, 39.27 lakh quintal of wheat have been purchased at around 170 purchase centres of the district. Of those, only 13.85 lakh quintal of wheat have been sent to various godowns and the remaining 25.42 lakh quintal are lying at the purchase centres.The situation is worrisome in rural areas particularly in the rice mills, government schools and grain markets. Only 15.15 per cent of wheat has been lifted at all the purchase centres that fall under Jundla market committee, 18.92 per cent from various purchase centres under Nissing market committee, 23.47 per cent from purchase centres of Nigdhu market committee, 29.64 per cent from various purchase centres under Assandh market committee till April 27.At the purchase centres under Nilokheri market committee, 41.16 per cent of wheat has been sent to various godowns, 43.96 per cent from purchase centres under Indri market committee, 46.7 per cent from centres of Karnal market committee, 48.17 per cent from centres of Taraori market committee and 53.48 per cent from the various purchase centres under Gharaunda market committee.Commission agents consider shortage of labour as the main reason behind the slow lifting. “Almost all the purchase centres in the district have very few labourers for packing and loading the wheat due to which the work of lifting is suffering,” said Rajnish Choudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association.Subhash Chand, a commission agent, said that the procurement agencies in rural areas were not focusing on lifting, leading to space crunch at small purchase centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/slow-lifting-of-wheat-space-crunch-at-purchase-centres-77803
29-04-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Entry into Gurugram restricted, frisking up, special teams on job||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, April 28To prevent Covid transmission via residents travelling to Delhi or other nearby places for jobs, screening has been made mandatory at Gurugram’s entry and exit points. According to health authorities, special teams will be deputed at the borders for the purpose.Watch video:“These special teams will work round the clock. Anybody crossing the border, no matter how many times, will be screened every time he/she enters the city. We are taking this precaution in view of inter-district transmission instances in Haryana and elsewhere in the country,” explained Dr JS Punia, CMO.Random samplingThe Health Dept plans random sampling on the basis of area from where the commuters are coming to Gurugram. They will also be sampled on the basis of vocation and vulnerabilityThree teams will be deployed during the night as there is heavy traffic on the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway. The Gurugram police have, meanwhile, stepped up scrutiny. Restricted entry into the district is being allowed only for urgent work. The number of police personnel has been increased and frisking enhanced. Besides thermal screening, those entering Gurugram will now be checked for influenza-type symptoms. According to sources, over 200 cars with Delhi Government passes were turned away from the border today.“We found that many people with passes were travelling for unneccessary reasons. We need to curtail this. We have stepped up frisking even on roads. Non-urgent travel will not be allowed,” stressed Commissioner of Police Mohammad Akil.Significantly, state Home Minister Anil Vij had said on several occasions that he wanted state’s borders sealed to stop ‘corona carriers.’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/entry-into-gurugram-restricted-frisking-up-special-teams-on-job-77708
