29-07-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram chemist nabbed for providing Covid drug to Iraqi smugglers||Gurugram, July 29In continuation with Tuesday’s raid on drug cartel smuggling Covid and cancer treatment drugs overseas, a joint team of police and District Drug Control department Food & Drugs Administration nabbed a chemist today.The accused, Pardeep, proprietor of Medigreen Pharmacy, Jharsa, in Gurugram, allegedly sold Remdesivir injection to smugglers without bills.The team recovered 84 vials of Covid treatment drug Remdesivir from Pardeep, which he had hidden in a room at his village 30 km from Gurugram. Pardeep reportedly told police that the inventory of injections was to be sold to smugglers nabbed yesterday and was to be sent to Iraq. Ramdesivir injections were purchased without invoice by Pardeep for Rs 15,000 per vial and sold above MRP to Mohnaad without issuing sale invoice. The team of police and CM flying squad with FDA officials is making all efforts to nab the persons in the chain, who for profiteering during COVID-19 pandemic, are black marketeering medicines which are essential for treatment of COVID 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-chemist-nabbed-for-providing-covid-drug-to-iraqi-smugglers-119571
29-07-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram village elated over its Rafale connection||Gurugram, July 29Celebrations broke out at Basai, the native village of Rohit Kataria, one of the pilots who flew Rafale from France to India on Wednesday.As per Kataria’s family members who live in Gurugram, the entire family village is proud of him.“We were excited and anxious, but felt happy and relieved in the end. Rohit had completed his Rafale training in France. He has flown almost all Air force aircraft, including Mirage and Sukhoi. It’s double celebration as he has also been promoted as group captain,” Colonel Satbeer Singh (retd), father of Rohit, told The Tribune.The only son, Rohit was born on January 1, 1982 at Basai village in Gurugram. His father Colonel Satbir Singh now lives in Sector 56. He is retired from Army educational Corps (AEC), while Rohit’s mother is a school teacher.“Our village is proud and he will inspire coming generations of the village. We are eagerly awaiting his visit here so that we can all get clicked with him,” said a villager, Bal Krishna.Rohit Kataria studied in Sainik School, Tilaiya, in Jharkhand and was commissioned in 2003. Father of two, he lives in Gwalior at present. He had been working as instructor at Air Force training centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-village-elated-over-its-rafale-connection-119562
29-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  ||Haryana Lokayukta wants more teeth, calls for amendment in 2002 Act||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, July 29  As Haryana Lokayukta Justice (retd) Nawal Kishore Agarwal’s reports against top officials have been piling up for want of compliance from government departments, he has called for amendment to the Haryana Lokayukta Act 2002, seeking power to punish and provision for taking suo moto congisance.In its annual report for 2018-19, which was made public on Wednesday, a total of 554 cases were disposed of with action taken reports received in 52 cases. But in 20 cases, no compliance has been made.Justice Agarwal has mentioned that there had been no compliance of his report dated September 5, 2018 for disciplinary action against IAS officer Sudhir Rajpal, then Chief Engineer of Gurugram local body BS Singrohra and six others for not being able to stop illegal construction or encroachments in the city.In another case of illegal appointment to the post of Prabhandak, Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society Ltd (PACS), the Lokayukta commented in its order, dated December 19, 2018, that the then ACS Cooperation Department “is allowing the illegality to perpetuate” against Assistant Registrar TS Chatha.  In another report dated March 20, 2019, Lokayukta had called for FIR against I Hasan, chairperson of Saraswati Kunj Cooperative House Building Society Ltd, Gururgam, in a case of mass cheating where against 1,871 plots, the money was accepted from 14,500 people. But no compliance was sent. Also, nothing happened on the recommendation of departmental action, dated March 25, 2019, against Deputy General Manager of Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) Hamvir Singh regarding purchase and sale of a property without permission. Justice Agarwal had on October 15, 2018 recommended “stern departmental action” against DSP Suresh Kumar Kuashik in a case of cancellation of FIR against a former MLA. Again, no compliance was sent.  In a report dated October 16, 2018 for recovery of freedom fighters’ pension, the Lokayukta had called for inquiry as no action was taken by the DC Gurugram office from 2009 to 2015 despite repeated reminders from the Chief Secretary’s office for inquiry into the matter. The payment of pension was stopped when Lokayukta issued the notice.  Also, the reports dated November 5, 2018 for stern departmental action against then Deputy Registrar Co-operative Societies, Karnal, Anil Gaur and two others for an illegal appointment, and against then DSP, Charkhi Dadri, dated January 8, 2019, for filing an inquiry report without any basis in a complaint alleging extortion have also been pending for compliance.  Justice Agarwal commented that as heads of departments cause delay in conducting inquiry on complaints or filing reply despite repeated reminders, the provision of contempt of courts be restored in the present Act.He also points out that officials of local bodies and Town and Country Planning “have not been cooperating in number of cases”.  Justice Aggarwal has also called for amendment to the Act for setting up of an inquiry wing for investigation against public officials and attachment of proceeds of corruption.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-lokayukta-wants-more-teeth-calls-for-amendment-in-2002-act-119546
29-07-2020||
||Ambala cops crack whip on illicit arms, ammo; 18 held||Ambala, July 28 The district police have launched a special drive to crack a whip on those possessing illegal arms and ammunition.  The crackdown, which was launched on July 1, has yielded desired results with the arrest of 18 persons. Twelve illegal pistols, a sword and five live cartridges were recovered from the accused in less than a month. Superintendent of Police (SP) Abhishek Jorwal said the district police had set up checkposts in different parts of the district to check the movement of suspected and anti-social elements. “The special focus was on illegal weapons and ammunition.” The SP said 13 cases had been registered under various sections of the Arms Act in different parts of the district in the month of July. The district police chief appealed to the residents to keep an eye on the movement of suspected and anti-social elements in their vicinity, and report such cases to the nearest police station or post to maintain the law and order situation in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-cops-crack-whip-on-illicit-arms-ammo-18-held-119303
29-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Congress leader’s illegal building razed, protest ensues||Gurugram, July 28High drama prevailed in the Ashok Vihar Phase 3 area of Gurugram during an anti-encroachment drive.A joint team of the District town Planner andthe Municipal Corporation demolished four buildings, including one belonging to Congress leader Gaje Singh Kabalana. Kablana is the husband of senior Deputy Mayor Promila Kablana. He reportedly collected around 400 people to protest the demolition of his five-floored building.The teams along with police personnel, however, dealt with the crowd that threw social-distancing norms to wind and went ahead with the demolition.The joint team was led by Duty Magistrate RS Bath, District town Planner, and MC joint commissioner Gaurav Antil and it carried out demolition in Dharam Colony and Nobal Colony as well.“We carried out the demolition drive on Tuesday and razed illegal buildings in restricted 900 m area around an ammunition depot. Congress leader Kablana got his supporters to protest, but we carried out the drive,” said RS Bath, DTP (planning).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-leaders-illegal-building-razed-protest-ensues-119304
29-07-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat 
||Declare 2020 as zero academic year, say parents||Tribune News Service  Faridabad, July 28  The All India Parents’ Association (AIPA), a national-level body of parents and guardians of the school students, has asked the Union and the state government to declare this year as the zero academic year in view of the risks posed by the Covid-19 pandemic in the country.  The AIPA has shown opposition to the idea of opening schools or academic institutions unless a vaccine is developed and made available. At the association’s central committee meeting, the association had raised the demand, along with 10 other demands. Claiming that the present academic year had been marred completely by the ongoing pandemic, Ashok Aggarwal, chief, AIPA, said: “The so-called online classes held by schools at their level with limited resources is  not serving the purpose as many students belonging to poor and middle-class families haven’t been able to attend these due to lack of smartphones and Internet facility.”  The government should not lose time in declaring the present academic session as the zero year, and promote all students with a condition that they will have to cover two years’ curriculum next year so that the loss accrued could be made up. He said the AIPA believed that there was no need to open the schools in haste, as with the pandemic threat still looming large, the situation could spiral out of control.  Seeking a comprehensive change in the rules concerning school education, he said the government should bring all private schools under the purview of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) so that exploitation of students and parents in the name of fee and other charges could be controlled.  The other demands raised included midday meal facility to all students in government schools, free education to students studying in public-funded schools till Class XII, and filling up of vacancies in the government-owned schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/declare-2020-as-zero-academic-year-say-parents-119305
29-07-2020||
||Another locust attack puts 6 district on alert||Hisar/Mahendragarh, July 28 The district administrations of Hisar, Sirsa and Bhiwani continue to battle swarms of locusts from Rajasthan. On Tuesday, locusts were spotted in Gawar and Basra villages in Hisar district; Jhuppa, Gurera and Khera villages in Bhiwani district; and Chopta and adjoining region in Sirsa district.  The task force of the district administrations has been on their toes to kill the swarms. Agricultural officials say the swarms, active in the Rajasthan region along the border, crossed over to Haryana with the change in the wind direction.  The swarm was spotted in Jhuppa village on Monday. It was killed during a night operation. Three more swarms were spotted on Tuesday at Gurera, Jhuppa and Khera village in Siwani region of Bhiwani district, said Pratap Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture).  “We have formed task force teams, comprising officials from the Departments of Agriculture, Revenue and Panchayat. They have taken positions at three locations for the night operation. A tractor-mounted spray and firefighters have also been deployed. We hope to kill the swarms tonight when they settle in the fields,” he said.  In Hisar’s Basra village, sarpanch Santa Singh said, “The swarm was three-km long. Teams of the district administration and farmers banged utensils to scare locusts away.”  In the Chopta area of Sirsa district, the task force has been waiting for the swarm to settle. Deputy Director (Agriculture) Babu Lal Varma said the district witnessed the third locust attack on Tuesday morning. Op ‘The Barefoot’ launched  The swarm, two km in length, kept swirling over villages in Mahendragarh, Rewari and Jhajjar districts throughout the day, forcing farmers to bang utensils. Officials, too, chased the swarm and monitored their movement closely.  Locusts were spotted over the fields of Naugama, Sasrauli, Bihrod and Jhamri village in Jhajjar district.  In Mahendragarh, officials led by Kanina SDM Ranbir Singh launched an operation named “The Barefoot” to kill locusts settled in fields and on roadside trees of Bagot and Ucchat villages.  “The operation was kicked off at 11.30 pm on Monday. Our team managed to kill more than 60 per centof pests. The rest of the locusts moved towardsKosli (Rewari) on Tuesday,” Mahendragarh Deputy Commissioner RK Singh said. Officials in Rewari swung into action on getting information about the entry of locusts in their district. They, too, kept close tabs on the pests in Kosli area and alerted farmers who beat utensils and played music to stop insects from settling in their fields. They managed to scare the locusts away.  Inder Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), Jhajjar, told The Tribune the swarm entered Salhavaas block from Kosli. It moved back towards Kosli after swirling over Dhania, Salhawas, Amboli, Jatwara, Dharauli, Jaipur villages in the afternoon. “The administration has made arrangements to kill locusts if they settle in the fields,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/another-locust-attack-puts-6-district-on-alert-119306
29-07-2020||Deepender Deswal
||Farmers want to pull out of crop insurance scheme||Tribune News Service Hisar, July 28 A farmer from Mandi Kalan village of Jind was in shock after reading a message about deduction of Rs 17,963 from his bank account for crop insurance premium. This was despite the fact that Hari Kishan had given it in writing to the bank that he was not interested in getting his crops insured under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY). Hari Kishan’s son Ashok Kumar said on July 23, his father had submitted it to the bank in writing that he wanted to opt out of the insurance scheme. However, the bank officials insisted that he gave an affidavit on a Rs 50 stamp paper in this regard. “I refused to give an affidavit, as there is no provision to this effect. I had given a self-declaration to the bank with my signatures on it, and had also got a certified copy of my written statement,” Kishan said. “Earlier,  banks would deduct the insurance premium on their own from the accounts of loanee farmers. However, I have never got any benefit of the insurance scheme despite having faced losses in the past,” he said, adding that they had paid a total of over Rs 35,000 as insurance premium after the start of the scheme four years ago. Deepak Sharma, an official of ICICI’s Uchana branch, which deducted the premium amount from the farmer’s account, said a loanee farmer had to submit an affidavit on a Rs 50 stamp paper if he wanted to discontinue the scheme. “I had asked the farmer to submit the affidavit, but he refused to do so. We had no option, but to deduct the premium amount as per the bank’s policy,” he said, adding that the self-declaration form was not admissible.  “If any farmer stakes claim for compensation under the crop insurance at the time of disbursal, how will I justify omission of his name? Therefore, we need an affidavit as a proof to this effect,” he said.  Another farmer of Chhatar village in Jind, Mandeep, said: “I had taken a loan on four acres, but the bank deducted Rs 19,000 from my account today. I want to discontinue with the crop insurance scheme, but the bank officials told me to furnish an affidavit to this effect. Later, when I submitted the affidavit on Monday, the bank official told me it was too late.” The farmers have been protesting against the hike in the premium amount, especially for cotton crop. They stated the insurance firm had fixed a premium of Rs 4,077 per acre for the crop in Jind district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-want-to-pull-out-of-crop-insurance-scheme-119307
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Nine more fall prey to virus in Haryana||With 749 cases, Covid cases in Haryana reached 32,876 today. Nine deaths pushed the toll to 406.Four deaths were reported from Faridabad, two from Ambala and one each from Gurugram, Jhajjar and Panchkula. In Faridabad, a 54-year-old woman from NIT-2 and a 73-year-old man from Old Janata Colony were among the casualties. A 60-year-old man from Ambala Cantt and a 62-year-old man from Ambala City also died. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nine-more-fall-prey-to-virus-in-haryana-119308
29-07-2020||Ambala||Security up as Rafales land in Ambala today||Tight security and several prohibitions have been put in place in Ambala Cantonment, especially in and around the Indian Air Force (IAF) station, where the first consignment of five Rafale fighter jets will be landing on Wednesday. No weapons or missiles have been fitted onto the planes.The district administration has imposed Section 144 of the CrPC in four villages falling in the vicinity of the airbase, prohibiting the gathering of five or more persons, use of drone and photography even by mediapersons, Superintendent of Police (SP) Abhishek Jorwal said.One end of the runway is close to the Chandigarh-Delhi highway and even by standing at a vantage point, a section of the base and runway is visible. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/security-up-as-rafales-land-in-ambala-today-119309
29-07-2020||Parveen Arora
||New ventilators ‘ineffective’ in treating critical patients||Tribune News Service Karnal, July 28 To fight the Covid pandemic, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) here has received 25 ventilators, while the Civil Hospital has received five under the PM Cares Fund. Even before the installation of the machines, questions are being raised on their effectiveness. Sources say 10 of the ventilators are of basic nature and may turn out to be “ineffective” in treating critical Covid patients, while the remaining machines are no better. Reason: the machines require humidifiers and other equipment to function. The additional equipment costs about Rs 1 lakh. A humidifier with a ventilator can make a positive difference to the oxygen therapy facility which saves Covid patients from going on invasive ventilatory support. It is life saving in many cases. “Of the 30 ventilators, 20 have the high flow of oxygen therapy facility to save Covid patients from going on invasive ventilatory support. But the facility will be available in conjunction with humidifiers and other necessary equipment,” a senior doctor at the KCGMC said. Another senior doctor said the same model of ventilators had been delivered to other government hospitals and medical colleges. In Chandigarh, a team of experts reportedly raised questions over the quality of the ventilators in treating critical Covid patients. “Of the 30 ventilators, 10 are basic ventilators, which are ineffective in treating Covid patients,” a senior doctor said. The KCGMC Director, Dr Jagdish Dureja, however, said it was early to comment on the efficiency of the ventilators. “The efficiency of the ventilators will be determined once these are installed and put into operation. The state government has ordered more ventilators for the ICU.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-ventilators-ineffective-in-treating-critical-patients-119310
29-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC pulls up Karnal DC for ‘immaturity, ignorance’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 28The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that the rule of law is alive in the country and official machinery cannot be permitted to be used for oppression, while rapping the Karnal Deputy Commissioner (DC) for displaying complete immaturity and unawareness of the fundamental provisions of the law.“The Deputy Commissioner, Karnal, would be well advised to be more circumspect in the future,” the High Court asserted. The admonition came in case of a widow allegedly forced to take shelter in a relative’s house after her belongings and other articles were “thrown out” of her “rented” accommodation.Taking up the petition filed by “tenant” Harjeet Kaur, Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul asserted that the officer had no business of entering a landlord-tenant dispute sub judice in the civil court.Justice Kaul asserted that strangely, the landlord had approached the DC only with a complaint to register a case against the petitioner for being in unauthorised possession of the house and irregular payment of rent.The officer, in his over-enthusiasm and presumably in an effort to please the landlord and another respondent, whom he described in his affidavit as a retiree from “dignified government service”, ordered an inquiry.In a tearing hurry, he then ordered the petitioner’s eviction from the house though he was well aware and conscious that civil and rent proceedings between the parties were pending in courts concerned.“The action of the respondent is illegal and void ab initio. I am afraid and also constrained to observe that the respondent has exhibited total immaturity and ignorance of the basic provisions of law while passing the impugned order,” Justice Kaul asserted.In her detailed order, Justice Kaul observed that the DC “unabashedly” stated that there was no lapse on his part, but neither his affidavit nor the impugned order disclosed under what provisions it was passed. The state counsel could not refer to any provisions under which it was passed.The state counsel pleaded that the impugned order was not passed with any mala fide intent or bias, but miserably failed to satisfy the court qua its legality. He conceded that the application for eviction was not maintainable and the DC could not have ordered eviction once the civil court and the Rent Controller were seized of the matter.Setting aside the impugned ejectment order, Justice Kaul directed the restoration of possession by August 1. The Karnal Superintendent of Police was directed to ensure smooth and hurdle-free process of handing back possession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-pulls-up-karnal-dc-for-immaturity-ignorance-119311
29-07-2020||---||Show political will, resolve SYL imbroglio: Haryana BJP to Capt Amarinder Singh||Jhajjar, July 28State BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar has appealed to Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to show political will in resolving the long-pending imbroglio concerning the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal.“Haryana and its farmers have been waiting for their share of the SYL canal waters for long. It is an opportunity for Capt Amarinder to show political will and take a decision. Punjab is a ‘daata’ (giver) and Haryana is a ‘leta’ (taker) in this matter,” he told the media here on Tuesday.The Supreme Court has asked the Chief Ministers of Punjab and Haryana to attempt a negotiated settlement of the SYL canal issue that has defied any solution for decades in spite of several rounds of litigation.Meanwhile, Dhankar said BJP president JP Nadda would inaugurate party’s offices in six districts — Rewari, Hisar, Nuh, Palwal, Fatehabad and Sonepat — through video-conferencing on Wednesday.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar would participate from Chandigarh, while Dhankar would be present at the Hisar function.Chandigarh: State Congress chief Kumari Selja tweeted, “The state has the right over the SYL waters. Haryana has been waiting for long for the canal waters. There should be no more delay. The matter should be resolved soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/show-political-will-resolve-syl-imbroglio-haryana-bjp-to-capt-amarinder-singh-119312
29-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan
||Hepatitis C drugs to treat Covid? Rohtak PGIMS moots clinical trials||Tribune News Service Rohtak, July 28 Medical experts engaged in the management and control of Covid believe that some drugs being used to treat Hepatitis C can be effective in the treatment of Covid patients as well. They say Hepatitis C drugs Ledipasvir and Daclatasvir combined with Sofosbuvir can be more effective than Remdesivir and other drugs being used to treat Covid patients.  The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research National Chemical Laboratory (CSIR-NCL), Pune, in collaboration with INTOX Private Limited, Pune, and Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, have sent a joint proposal to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for permission to conduct trials of Hepatitis C drugs on Covid patients. “The trials will begin once we receive the permission. Clinical trials are proposed to be conducted at the PGIMS, while other collaborators will take care of the in-vitro and in-silico aspects. We have also approached the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) for funding the project,” Dr Dhruva Chaudhry, head of the department of pulmonary and critical care medicine at the PGIMS, told The Tribune. Prof Mahesh C Gupta, head of the department of pharmacology at the Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, said the combination of Ledipasvir-Sofosbuvir and Daclatasvir-Sofosbuvir had been found to be effective against Covid in the studies conducted in Iran and other countries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hepatitis-c-drugs-to-treat-covid-rohtak-pgims-moots-clinical-trials-119313
29-07-2020||Sanjay Yadav
||4 Iraqis, 1 Uzbek held for drug smuggling||Gurugram, July 28 In a night-long joint operation with the Drug Control Department, the CM Flying Squad conducted two raids in the city and busted an international drugs (medicine) smuggling racket. The five accused — four Iraqi men and an Uzbek women — were caught black marketing and trying to smuggle a huge consignment of psychotropic, narcotic and cancer and Covid-treatment drugs to Iraq through students. The police have seized medicines worth Rs 45 lakh and Rs 75 lakh cash from the spot. None of the accused has been able to produce any valid visa or drug licence.  They have been booked in separate FIRs under the NDPS Act, Drugs and Cosmetics Act and relevant Sections of the IPC at Sadar and Sector 56 police stations.  Preliminary investigation has revealed that they were planning to ship the medicines overseas through the special flights being run under Vande Bharat Mission. DSP Flying Squad Inderjeet Yadav told The Tribune that the five accused, who were nabbed from two different locations, were in police remand. “These were late-night raids and we are still interrogating the accused about the cartel, nexus and suppliers,” said Yadav. According to the state Drug Control Department, acting on a tip-off, two raids were conducted by a joint team of CM Flying Squad and CIA officials at two residential premises — Aloha Gurgaon Group Housing, Sector 57, and Sector 47, Gurugram. In Sector 57, two Iraqi nationals were nabbed with huge amounts of medical intoxicating drugs and cancer medicines worth Rs 30 lakh and cash Rs 35 lakh. Aws Raad Nealmah Al-Hendi and Akram Faiz were arrested and had no valid drug licence or sale purchase deed or even a prescription. In the second operation, two Iraqi nationals Mohnnad and Othmana and one Uzbek woman Nilu Far were arrested with Covid treatment drugs from Sector 47.  An investigator revealed that so far, the probe has revealed that they were working as translators or helpers for medical tourists from Iraq, especially cancer patients.  They had successfully been smuggling drugs since 2016 but hit by the Covid pandemic, they had now re-strategised and planned to get students on students’ visa here to carry on with the smuggling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-iraqis-1-uzbek-held-for-drug-smuggling-119316
29-07-2020||Ravinder Saini
||Diversification claims fall flat in Mahendragarh district||Tribune News Service Rohtak, July 28 After Rewari, Rohtak and Jhajjar, false diversification claims under ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat’ scheme have now come to the fore in Mahendragarh district as well. Paddy has not been sown in Mahendragarh district for the past many years following the scarcity of groundwater but 112 farmers got their 136 hectares registered under the scheme to avail the incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre.  The scheme aims to decrease acreage of paddy across the state in view of the depleting water table by motivating the farmers to switch over from paddy to alternative crops.  Hence, the state government had, in June, appealed to paddy growers to get their land, where they have sown alternative crops this season, registered under the scheme till July 2. The Agriculture Department later initiated verification of the registration on the basis of the girdawari report of the Revenue Department and found all the registrations under the scheme false as the girdawari report denied any transplantation of paddy in Mahendragarh district last year. “As per the registered diversification claims, bajra has been sown over 82 hectares, cotton over 45 hectares and pulses, vegetable and fodder have been sown over around 7 hectares in place of paddy crop in Mahendragarh district this season,” said sources. Notably, over 2,700 farmers in Rewari, Rohtak and Jhajjar districts in the state have also furnished false crop diversification details to allegedly siphon grants under the scheme. All these farmers have been declared “ineligible” for the scheme. “The registration of a mere 45 out of 467.7 hectares was found valid under the scheme in Rewari. In Rohtak, the valid registration figure was 381.79 out of 1,283.7 hectares while the count stood at 1,396 out of 2,456 hectares in Jhajjar. This way, the figure of invalid registered areas is 90 per cent in Rewari, 70 per cent in Rohtak and 57 per cent in Jhajjar district,” said sources. Jaswinder Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), Narnaul, confirmed that registration claims of all farmers had been found invalid for the scheme as no paddy was sown in Mahendragarh district last year. “The lack of information about the scheme may also be one of the reasons behind the wrong registrations,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/diversification-claims-fall-flat-in-mahendragarh-district-119317
29-07-2020||Kurukshetra||Water, soil from Kurukshetra sent for Ram temple’s  bhumi pujan||Soil from Jyotisar Tirtha and water from various holy ponds of Kurukshetra will be sent to Ayodhya for the Bhumi Pujan ceremony of Ram Temple scheduled for August 5.  Reportedly, soil from Jyotisar Tirtha and Saraswati Tirtha Pehowa; and water from Brahma Sarovar, Sannihit Sarovar and Saraswati river in Pehowa have been handed over to the leaders of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad by the Kurukshetra Development Board. Honorary secretary of Kurukshetra Development Board Madan Mohan Chhabra said, “It is a matter of pride for us that the holy soil and water from various shrines of Kurukshetra will be included in the Bhumi Pujan ceremony. On the call of the VHP, we have collected water and soil and handed those to the VHP last evening. The parishad will send those to Ayodhya.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/water-soil-from-kurukshetra-sent-for-ram-temples-bhumi-pujan-119318
29-07-2020||Parveen Arora
||Nursing teachers not paid for five months||Tribune News Service Karnal, July 28 Teachers of Government General Nursing Midwifery School in Karnal have not been paid salaries for the past five months.  A source said the teachers were struggling to get their dues due to lack of coordination between the Directorate Health Services and the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). In 2017, the government had ordered to transfer all government nursing schools under the DMER, and the process was completed by the end of 2019. However, the details of teachers were yet to be updated by the DMER. In its defence, the Health Department has claimed to have sent the details of teachers and schools to the DMER on several occasions, said the source.  Besides, another cause of worry for the teachers is that at present, the school has no building of its own. Earlier, the building of both school and hostel was taken over by Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) for the construction of residences of the director and faculty members in 2017. Later, the school was run from a ward of the Civil Hospital. But, again in March, the school authorities were asked to vacate the ward for the development of a Covid ward, which has not been developed till date. “We have not received our salaries for the last five months. We have been shifted to the DMER, but our data has not been updated,” said Parveen Kumar, principal of the school. Dr Piyush Sharma, Principal Medical Officer, said: “The school authorities were asked to vacate the ward to increase the number of beds in the Civil Hospital amid the Covid crisis. Even, KCGMC’s patients were treated here.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nursing-teachers-not-paid-for-five-months-119319
29-07-2020||---||In a first, Haryana govt compiles seat-wise data of vacant posts||Pradeep Sharma Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 28 Apparently with a view to launching a statewide recruitment drive, the BJP-JJP state government is compiling constituency-wise list of vacant posts of Group B, C and D posts across Haryana. The exercise, which is being conducted perhaps for the first time in the state’s history, is aimed at conducting recruitment campaign for “equitable” job opportunities for all regions of the state. Sources said the heads of departments had already been asked to send the required information (vacancy position as on April 1) by July 30 so that comprehensive data can be prepared by the state government With the coalition government at the receiving end of the Opposition for high rate of unemployment in Haryana, the recruitment drive will go a long way in blunting the Opposition’s criticism. Skill Development and Industrial Training Minister Mool Chand Sharma said Haryana’s youth had the required skills and training to fill various vacant positions.  “The state government is committed to providing enough employment opportunities to unemployed youth. The recruitment drive will go a long way in reducing unemployment in the state,” he asserted. Meanwhile, the data will also come in handy for the state government to provide an overview of the job scenario in the state in the forthcoming monsoon session of the Haryana Assembly. Members, during the Assembly session, are usually quite vocal about the employment scenario in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-a-first-haryana-govt-compiles-seat-wise-data-of-vacant-posts-119320
29-07-2020||Faridabad||1 held hostage, freed||The police have rescued a cloth merchant (36) from members of a gang demanding Rs 50 lakh as ransom. Three persons have been nabbed. The victim, identified as Sunil Kumar of Panipat, came on Monday to meet a woman acquaintance. He was reportedly held hostage and told to pay up Rs 50 lakh for safe release. The amount demanded was reduced to Rs 2 lakh. The victim asked Manoj, who had come with him and was waiting outside, to arrange Rs 2 lakh. Manoj got suspicious and called up the police. The accused were nabbed after a brief chase. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-held-hostage-freed-119321
29-07-2020||Yamunanagar||Pollution board to sue mining firm||A company involved in mining in Gumthala village of the district is likely to face the music for violation of environmental laws. The Haryana State Pollution Control Board has decided to file a case against Elite Mining Corporation in the special environment court at Kurukshetra. It has proposed environmental compensation of Rs 3.39 crore. The company had been allotted 49.67 hectares in Gumthala village. It had developed a makeshift passage over the Yamuna and obstructed its natural flow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pollution-board-to-sue-mining-firm-119322
29-07-2020||Chandigarh||Explain why policy on converted plots not implemented: HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked Haryana why its Industries and Commerce Department and the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation did not implement a policy for providing converted industrial plots to land losers. “It is made clear that until it is explained, no further plots should be sold or allotted in favour of any persons before complying with the obligation which they have undertaken,” said the Division Bench of Justice SN Satyanarayana and Justice Archana Puri. The matter was brought to the HC’s notice by Om Kawar of Kharkhoda in Sonepat. Going into the background, the counsel contended that the notification dated April 1, 2010, was issued for development of an industrial model township in Kharkhoda. About 3,300 acres were sought to be acquired. The petitioner, as per the policy, was eligible for 2,144 square metres of developed industrial plots. The petitioner received a letter dated December 11, 2018, seeking option for size and “quantity” of plots. The option was submitted and the petitioner approached the CM Window. Despite representations and meetings, neither was substantial action taken nor an assurance given as to when the entitlement would be fulfilled. On June 29, a fresh advertisement was issued, announcing the allotment of industrial plots.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/explain-why-policy-on-converted-plots-not-implemented-hc-119323
29-07-2020||Karnal||Faculty development programme||Webinar on Sikh Gurus’ teachingsKurukshetra: “The ten Sikh Gurus’ tradition created a new history in Medieval India. The real tribute to the Gurus would be to know about them and connect them with our heart and imbibe their teachings in our life,” Prof Kuldeep Chand Agnihotri, Vice Chancellor, Central University of Himachal Pradesh, said this as a key speaker during a webinar on “Journey from Renunciation to Martyrdom: Guru Teg Bahadur”. The webinar was organised by the Panjabi department, Kurukshetra University, to mark the beginning of the 400th birth anniversary celebrations of ninth Sikh Guru Teg Bahadur. A large number of participants attended the webinar, including scholars from the UK, Canada, US, Bulgaria, Japan, South Africa and Australia. In his address, Dr Jaspal Singh, former VC of Panjabi University, Patiala, said: "We need to read the symbols, images and messages communicated in simple language of Guru Teg Bahadur's Bani." In her inaugural address, KU VC Nita Khanna said the Bani of ten Gurus spreads message of brotherhood, love and peace among human beings and all forms of life on earth.Course on composite materialsFaridabad: A weeklong online course on research and development in composite materials has begun at JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad. Jointly organised by the departments of mechanical engineering and physics and sponsored by TEQIP-III, as many as 275 participants are attending the course. DK Aswal, director, CSIR-National Physical Laboratory, New Delhi, was the chief guest at the inaugural session. He stressed upon the need for collective work by the government, academia, industry and society for inclusive growth of the economy. He said the increased stability of the MSME sector in India was required to make economy better. Elaborating the concept of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat', he said it was a mission for which all have to work collectively on a common platform. Vice Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar stressed upon the need of interdisciplinary collaborations and importance of such courses in present times. He said the composite materials had wide applicability in areas like aerospace and marine industries, medical equipment and energy harvesting, and therefore, the course would benefit the large range of academicians.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faculty-development-programme-119375
29-07-2020||AMBALA Cantonment's Tundla village is crying for better hygienic conditions. Residential areas have garbage dumps||Garbage dumps galore in Ambala village||Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala cantonmentKaithal-Patiala road in poor conditionHUGE potholes dot the road stretch from Kaithal gaushala to Patiala passing from outside the cremation ground, causing inconvenience to commuters. The road work started by the municipal council was stopped months ago after some residents objected to the use of poor material. Many famous temples visited by locals in large numbers are also situated in this area. The MC should wake up from slumber and start the construction at the earliest and make this important road motorable.Satish Seth, kaithalLand registration ban no solutionTHE state government decision to ban the registration of land deeds is not a solution to the real problem. Land mafia along with the three main government departments — tehsils, town planning and municipal authorities — have an important role in the development of illegal colonies. These can’t be developed without the patronage of some higher officials and politicians. If the government really wants to stop this then it will have to take stringent measures. First, there should not be registry of any sale deed of agricultural land, which shows boundaries of plot less than 500 sq yards. However, the sale deed of such land can be registered only as per the share of the landlords. Second, if someone wants to get the registry of plots, shops and houses up to 500 sq yards within the municipal limits or controlled area done then it should be made mandatory to quote his/her property number, sanctioned site plan and CLU from the municipality concerned.Finally, the accountability of the officials of the municipalities, town planning and tehsils concerned should be ensured for allowing the illegal colonies to develop.If this still happens, strict action against the guilty officers and land mafia should be implemented and the government must stop illegal construction. It should be made  andatory to have a registration number of every property i.e. plot, house and shop etc across the state.Shakti Singh, KarnalWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/garbage-dumps-galore-in-ambala-village-119376
29-07-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Bid to smuggle Covid drugs to Iraq, 3 held||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 28The Gurugram drug control department has busted a drug-smuggling cartel that not just hoarded Covid treatment medicines, but was to smuggle these to Iraq in an upcoming Vande Bharat flight.Three foreigners, including two Iraqi men and an Uzbek woman, all working as translators, were nabbed from Sector 47 along with Remdesivir (48 vials), Fabiflu (55 strips) and Lopikast (18 packs) drugs.Remdesivir costs Rs 5,400 per vial here and is reportedly sold for around Rs 1 lakh in Iraq. Similarly, Fabiflu strip is priced Rs 2,500 in India and sells for Rs 8,000 in Iraq. Lopikast vial costs Rs 3,990 here and goes for around Rs 15,000 in Iraq. The seizure has also brought the city’s Covid hospitals under scanner as drugs like Remdesivir are directly provided to hospitals by the manufacturing company after verifying patient details. The local drug department too is provided with a daily-dispensing report of these drugs. The police are probing whether any hospital helped the accused in procuring the drugs.“We got a tip-off and busted the racket. The accused procured the drugs at MRP from Gurugram and wanted to send these to Iraq,” said Gurugram Drug Controller Amandeep Chauhan.Sources said the cartel had somehow procured the traveller list of the forthcoming flight schedule for Iraq and planned to send the medicines in small batches with Iraqi nationals.State Drug Controller Narender Ahuja said all district departments were on alert over black-marketing attempts of Covid drugs in Haryana. “We have arranged direct company-to-hospital supply chains to stop black-marketing. Errants would face the music,” he said.Remdesivir sells for Rs 1L||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bid-to-smuggle-covid-drugs-to-iraq-3-held-119182
29-07-2020||---||Negotiate political settlement of SYL dispute, SC tells Punjab, Haryana CMs||New Delhi, July 28The Supreme Court today asked the Chief Ministers of Punjab and Haryana to attempt a negotiated settlement of the Sutlej-Yamuna link (SYL) canal issue that has defied any solution for decades despite several rounds of litigation.A Bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said talks should be held between the two states at the highest political level. Stating that the Centre had been trying to facilitate talks between the two sides, Attorney General KK Venugopal requested the top court to give more time for the purpose.The Bench — which wanted the two states to clearly tell it if they could solve it through negotiations or not — indicated the matter would be taken up in the third week of August.Punjab has been demanding a negotiated settlement between the two states with the help of the Centre, while Haryana maintains it can’t be made to wait indefinitely despite having a decree in its favour. The Union Jal Shakti Ministry has already convened several meetings — attended by chief secretaries of the two states — which remained inconclusive.The Supreme Court had earlier told the Centre, Punjab and Haryana to conclude their talks on the construction of SYL canal “as soon as it can be”. Else, it would proceed to decide the matter, it had said.The scrapped 1981 water-sharing pact1981: Punjab, Haryana sign a water-sharing agreement2004: The Congress government in Punjab terminates agreement2016: SC declares law passed by Punjab House unconstitutional2017: Punjab returns the SYL canal land to landowners||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/negotiate-political-settlement-of-syl-dispute-sc-tells-punjab-haryana-cms-119184
