29-06-2020||Gurugram||Movement banned in eight regions of Gurugram to contain spread of COVID-19||Out to make their ‘limited lockdown’ a success, Gurugram authorities have banned movement in eight large outbreak regions.The regions will be micro contained from tomorrow till July 14 and will have numerous restrictions.Gurugram Divisional Commissioner on Monday, while chairing the preparation meeting, declared that movement will be banned in areas as health teams would go on an extensive tracing and testing exercise.To encourage people for the antigen testing in these areas, it has been declared free of cost.The health department teams headed by CMO Virender Yadav will be setting up testing tents at various places and as per schedule each areas of the zone will be combed thrice during the restrictive period.Majority of the industries working in the areas have asked their workers to work from home to save the hassle of housing them in area as per the orders.
29-06-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Covid-19 crisis: Haryana Education Dept to broadcast educational content on AIR daily||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 29Failure of the college students to access online e-learning platforms for a variety of reasons has forced the Education Department to switch to All India Radio(AIR) to impart distance education to its students during the Covid-19 crisis.Under the plan unveiled by the Director-General (Higher Education) on Monday, four major AIR radio stations in Haryana would be broadcasting two half-an-hour shows daily at a common time to promote learning from home.Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said the department’s initiative through radio was aimed at those students who were not able to access online learning for one reason or the other.Officials said the principals of government and government-aided colleges had been asked to record the lectures from their faculity and subject experts and send them to the Director-General (Higher Education) by July 1.After the receipt of audio recordings, the department would chalk out a detailed programme for the broadcast of two radio talks of half-an-hour daily, which would be in addition to the currently available online platforms. The initiative of providing education through radio is primarily aimed at the students of Haryana.“The subject experts would be free to choose the topics for sessions of broadcast that are beneficial for the education of students persuing higher and technical education, giving priority to the importance of topics in examinations. Equal weightage should be given to all courses offered by the educational institutions,” the order said.The Haryana Government recently cancelled the examinations for all college classes and decided to promote the students based on their past performances and internal assessments. The colleges have been shut in Haryana since March 16 as a precautionary measure to combat the Covid-19 pandemic.The study from home through online and radio mediums would stand the students in good stead when they appeared in the next semester examinations later this year or next year, the officials added.
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to start plasma therapy for treatment of COVID-19 patients: Health Minister Vij||Haryana will soon start convalescent plasma therapy for treatment of COVID-19 patients in all its medical colleges, Health Minister Anil Vij said on Monday.“Haryana to start Plasma Therapy for treatment of Covid-19 patients in all its medical colleges after approval from ICMR,” Vij said in a tweet.Notably, coronavirus cases in Haryana have touched 14,000 with 223 fatalities.Nearly 10,000 of the total cases are from three worst-hit districts of Gurgaon, Faridabad and Sonipat, which fall in the National Capital Region. Most of the fatalities are also from these three districts, according to state health department data.Haryana currently has 4,782 active cases while close to 9,000 have been discharged after recovery. PTI
29-06-2020||Panipat||Irked over breakup, Sonepat man 'murders' 21-year-old Tik-Tok star||A 21-year-old Tik-Tok star was found murdered in a bed at her salon in TDI Kundli in Sonepat district on Sunday.The woman, Shiwani, was allegedly murdered by a close friend after she stopped speaking to him.Shiwani’s father, Vinod, in his complaint to the Kundli police, said that she was friends with a man, Arif, since the past four to five years. Shiwani had stopped talking to him 15 days ago.“She told us that Arif was harassing her and that’s why she had stopped talking to him,” he said.He alleged that Arif murdered his daughter due to “a one-sided affair.”Inspector Ravi Kumar, SHO Kundli, said a case was registered against Arif for murder.“Prima facie it seemed that the accused had murdered the woman by strangulating her,” he said.It seemed that the accused was possessive about her and killed her in an attempt to take revenge after she stopped talking to him, the SHO added.  Teams are trying to nab the accused, who has not been arrested so far, the SHO maintained.The deceased had a large number of followers on Tik-Tok and she used to live with her family in a rented accommodation at Kundli of Sonepat district. The woman’s father said his daughters, Shweta and Shiwani, used to run a salon in a flat in TDI Kundli.
29-06-2020||Ravinder Saini||Covid-19: SOPs go for a toss at Rohtak bus stand||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, June 29Standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Centre regarding travel in buses are not being followed at the Rohtak depot of Haryana Roadways.A visit to the local bus stand revealed that not all the buses were being disinfected and thermal scanning of passengers was not being done. Masks were being provided to the drivers and conductors.As per the guidelines, every bus needs to be disinfected after all passengers disembark. No bus coming from other depots was being sanitised.“I have to sanitise my bus with a spray machine used in farming. Washing being done at the workshop is not enough to protect us from infection. I take the machine from my house to disinfect the bus,” said a driver on the condition of anonymity.Two employees were deployed at the entrance of the bus stand for thermal scanning, but those coming by two-wheelers and cars entered the premises without being scanned. “My brother dropped me inside on a motorcycle, but no thermal scanning was done,” said Vinay, a student.An official said it was not practically feasible to depute an employee with each bus for thermal scanning of every passenger before boarding.Jai Kanwar Dahiya, state office secretary of Haryana Roadways Workers Union, said all buses were sanitised initially, but hardly any bus was being disinfected now. Every bus was being washed daily, he added.“Employees are at high risk as they are not being given masks, gloves and sanitiser. Most of them are using their masks and sanitisers. The government must ensure the safety of every employee,” he said.Naveen Kumar, traffic manager, claimed that SOPs were being followed seriously. Surender Siwach, workshop manager, said buses were being sanitised when they were brought to the workshop for re-fuelling.“Sanitisers have been mixed in the liquid used to wash buses. A sanitising machine has been installed at the bus stand and passengers are asked to sanitise their hands before boarding,” he said.
29-06-2020||Karnal||Coronavirus: Ambala reports 4 new cases, Haryana tally rises to 13,838||Haryana on Monday reported nine new cases of coronavirus, taking the state’s case tally to 13,838.Four fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Ambala on Monday, taking the district count to 318.Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said the fresh cases included three from Ambala City and one from Ambala Cantonment.An 11-year-old boy from Ambala City was a contact of a Covid patient while a 37-year-old pregnant woman from Ambala Cantonment had a travel history of Muradabad in Uttar Pradesh.Two other male patients, aged 60 and 61, were found with ILI symptoms.Meanwhile, 17 patients were discharged after being cured on Monday, taking the total number of cured patients to 273 while 42 active cases were still hospitalised. Three Covid patients had died in the district so far.Karnal reported the five new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 291. Three of a family in sector 13 and one each from Unchasamana and Karan Vihar tested positive for COVID.On Sunday, the state reported five deaths and 131 new cases.
29-06-2020||---||Prepared for future locust attack: Haryana Minister||Chandigarh, June 28Agriculture Minister JP Dalal has lauded the role of the Agriculture Department and Rewari administration to ward off the locust attack with the minimum damage to crops.The attack has been averted as of now, but the threat of a fresh attack looms large.“The state government is prepared to deal with any future locust attack,” he told The Tribune on Sunday.‘Farmers will get relief’The Rewari administration managed to eliminate 35 per cent of locusts which had entered Rewari around 5 pm on Friday and settled in villages around Jatusana at night. A special ‘girdwari’ will be ordered and affected farmers will be compensated. JP Dalal, Agriculture MinisterThere was little damage at Hodal, where a swarm of less than one sq km settled on Saturday night. The swarm attacked 12 villages in Rewari district.“The place where the swarm settled in Hodal was a jungle. So it could not cause any damage,” Dalal said, adding the Rewari administration would conduct a survey to assess the crop damage.The minister said the administration managed to eliminate 35 per cent of locusts which had entered Rewari around 5 pm on Friday and settled in villages around Jatusana at night. “We were apprehending that the swarm would move towards Rohtak and Sonepat but, due to the change in the wind direction, they moved towards Gurugram, Delhi and then towards Uttar Pradesh.”Dalal, who visited the affected villages on Saturday, said the district administration had been directed to send a report with a preliminary estimate of the damage. “A special ‘girdwari’ will be ordered and affected farmers will be compensated.”On the Congress’ allegation that the state government had failed to prevent the locust attack in spite of being aware of it, Dalal said it was because of the preparations made by the government in advance that 35 per cent of locusts were killed during a night-long operation by the Rewari administration.He added that even experts from the Centre, who visited Rewari to take stock of the situation, praised Haryana for taking a timely action.Surender Dahiya, Additional Director (Agriculture), said an awareness campaign in the past few months, sufficient stocking of pesticides, and timely action by the Rewari and Palwal administrations and the Centre prevented large-scale damage.
29-06-2020||Yamunanagar||Guard held for assaulting minor in Yamunanagar||A guard at a local plywood factory has been arrested on the charge of sexually assaulting a seven-year-old girl on Friday, the police have said. The accused, identified as Somdutt (60), was on Sunday produced before the duty magistrate, who sent him to judicial custody. On the complaint by the victim’s mother, a case was registered against Somdutt under Section 6 of the POCSO Act and Section 376-AB (whoever commits rape on a woman under twelve years of age) of the IPC on Saturday. The victim is under treatment at the civil hospital here. — TNS
29-06-2020||Panipat||Woman murdered in Sonepat, youth booked||A 21-year-old woman was found murdered in a bed at her salon in TDI Kundli of Sonepat district on Sunday.The deceased’s father alleged that a youth had murdered his daughter. The deceased was identified as Shiwani (21), daughter of Vinod, a resident of Pusar village of Baghpat district in Uttar Pradesh. The family was living in a rented accommodation at Kundli of Sonepat district.Vinod, in his complaint to the Kundli police, said his daughters Shweta and Shiwani were running a salon at a flat in TDI Kundli.Vinod said Shiwani had a friendship with a youth, Arif of Pyau Manyari in Kundli, for the past 4-5 years. But Shiwani had stopped talking to him for the past 15 days. She told us that Arif was harassing her and that’s why she had stopped talking to him.He alleged that Arif had murdered his daughter Shiwani.Inspector Ravi Kumar, SHO Kundli, said a case has been registered against Arif for murder. Prima facie, it seemed that the accused had murdered the woman by strangulating her, he said. — TNS
29-06-2020||rveen Arora||Karnal Smart City project gets wings after 9 months||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, June 28The Karnal Smart City project which has been hanging fire for the last around 9 months has finally got its wings after 16 projects were approved by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar three days ago in a meeting with officials here.The tenders had been floated for seven projects, and for the remaining the process would be started soon, said an official.‘WORK WILL START FROM JULY 15’The Chief Minister has approved 16 projects. We are hopeful that the tendering process will be completed in a couple of days, and the work on most of these projects will start from July 15. — Nishant Kumar Yadav, KMC Commisssioner-cum-DC“The Chief Minister has approved 16 projects. We are hopeful that the tendering process will be completed in a couple of days, and the work on most of these projects will start from July 15,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav,MC Cmmisssioner-cum-DC, adding that the projects under PAN City would be taken on priority.Laying of electrical wires underground, beautification of major roads, development wellness trail in parks by installing open air gyms and meditation areas, installation of rainwater harvesting system in 30 government buildings and schools, development of walking street as a cultural corridor on a stretch from Maharaja Agrasen Chowk to Gita Dwar, purchasing of a super sucker-cum-jetting machine for cleaning of drains, construction of public toilets, installation of around 25,000 streetlights in the city were among the projects approved by the CM, he added.The cultural corridor would undergo landscaping, get chain link fencing and wall paintings. A cycling track would also be reconstructed. For the same, Rs 2.71 crore would be spent, he added.Karnal was included in the smart cities’ list on June 23, 2017. As many as 57 projects worth Rs 1,171.83 crore, comprising 40 projects Rs 1,022.08 crore, under the area-based development (ABD) for smart amenities, and 17 projects worth Rs 149.75 crores under PAN City Solutions were to be completed in five years.A source associated with the Smart City project said only 11 projects under integrated command and control centre, and three other projects, including beautification of novelty road, smart schools and neki ki diwar, were commenced in September 2019, but were still underway.Besides, the CM had already withheld four major projects, including development of Mughal Canal phase II and III worth Rs 265 crore, redevelopment of old vegetable market at a cost of Rs 26.45 crore, creation of commercial space in the old office of the Karnal Municipal Corporation at a cost of Rs 15 crore and city bus terminus under the redevelopment of the old bus stand project atRs 23.48 crore.
29-06-2020||Panipat||2 held for trying to extort Rs 10L at toll plaza in Panipat||The police have arrested two men for allegedly trying to extort Rs 10 lakh from the general manager of the toll plaza near Bhigan village on NH-44 on Saturday night. The police produced the accused, identified as Naresh and Vikas of Sonepat’s Nangal Kalan village, before the court on Sunday. They were sent to one day’s police custody. Their accomplice, who remains unidentified, is on the run. Toll plaza general manager Tasvvar Chaudhary, in his police complaint, said three youths in a car created ruckus at the plaza and quarrelled with an employee. One of them approached the cash room when many people gathered there. Fearing apprehension, the three youths beat a hasty retreat. — TNS
29-06-2020||---||Five more die, Haryana's toll rises to 223||Chandigarh, June 28Haryana reported five more deaths today, taking the toll to 223. The total number of Covid cases was pegged at 13,829 with the addition of 402 cases.Faridabad reported 131 cases with two deaths and Sonepat reported 38 cases with two deaths. One death was reported from Gurugram.The death toll due to Covid in Faridabad district rose to 73 today, with two more patients dying due to the infection. This was the 14th consecutive day of casualties, with 45 patients having died since June 15. The tally of positive cases surged to 3,456 with the addition of 131 cases today.The victims were a 37-old-man from Old Faridabad and a 68-year-old man from Sector 35. Covid infection combined with comorbidities was the main reason behind the deaths.The localities which reported fresh cases during the past 24 hours included Ballabgarh, Old Faridabad, AC Nagar, Dabua Colony, Sanjay Colony, Subhash Colony, Kheri Kalan village, Sector 3, Sector 19, Sector 23, Sector 15, Sector 16, Sector 35, Palla and Jawahar Colony.In Karnal, four members of the family of 57-year-old woman of Kisan Basti at Nilokheri, who died of Covid two days back, were among 14 who tested positive on Sunday, taking the number of cases to 287.Nine persons, including a pharmacist, a bus conductor, a staff nurse and an employee of Delhi Fire Brigade, were found positive in Jhajjar on Sunday.In Mahendragarh, 19 persons tested positive. Three of them are from Satnali and two each from Kakrala and Dokhera. Rewari reported 14 Covid cases on Sunday. Four of them are from Dhaaruhera and two from Budoli village.With the detection of nine cases in Kaithal today, the number of cases rose to 92. With 38 cases, the tally reached 1,195 in Sonepat district. In Panipat, 18 tested positive, taking the tally to 189 in the district.The tally of Covid cases in Palwal district rose to 310 with eight new cases in the past 24 hours. Fresh cases surfaced in Dharam Nagar, Prakash Colony, Hari Om Chaupal, Prakash Vihar, Pangletu village, Jarali village and Gudawali village.BJP leader tests +ve?A BJP leader from Thanesar, suspected to be Covid-positive, was admitted to hospital in Gurugram. The leader participated in a solar eclipse event in Kurukshetra on June 21. He got himself tested and was found negative. Sources said he was taken to Gurugram on Saturday due to lung infection, cough and fever and reportedly tested positive. Dr Sukhbir Singh, Civil Surgeon, said he was yet to receive a report.
29-06-2020||---||Jail inmate dies in Karnal, kin allege negligence||Karnal, June 28Jail inmate Kulwinder Singh (50), a resident of Sandhu Colony of the city, died under mysterious circumstances this morning. He was arrested allegedly with banned capsules police on June 18.Meanwhile, his brother Gurmeet Singh has accused the police of implicating his brother in this case and also the jail authorities of not taking care of his brother.‘COVID REPORT NEGATIVE’We got his Covid test done soon after he came to jail and his report was negative. After that, he was sent to the jail hospital. There was no negligence on the part of the jail authorities. — Sanjay Bangar, DSP jailHe also accused the Ram Nagar police of not releasing his brother even after taking bribe. He demanded an FIR against the police personnel. He along with other family members and relatives refused to lift the body till the fulfilment of their demand.However, the Sadar police got the post-mortem examination conducted in the presence of a Judicial Magistrate. With the assurance of a fair inquiry by the police, the family took the body in the evening.“My brother was implicated. He was addicted to drugs, but was arrested in this case without any reason. The Ram Nagar police had demanded money but even after paying them, they did not release my brother. I had requested the jail authorities to shift my brother to KCGMC for treatment, but they did not bother,” he alleged.He alleged the police allowed the main accused, who was supplying capsules, to go.Baljeet Singh, SHO, Sadar, said that the cause of death would be known after the post-mortem examination report.Jaswinder Singh Tuli, SHO Ram Nagar, denied the allegations of corruption as well as of not arresting the main accused.
29-06-2020||---||Meham MLA joins villagers on dharna||Rohtak, June 28 Residents of Bahu Akbarpur village blocked the Rohtak-Hisar highway for three hours here today following the death of a temporary UHBVN employee. Karamvir was electrocuted to death while doing maintenance work on Saturday evening. They placed the body on the road and staged a dharna. Independent MLA from Meham Balraj Kundu joined the protest. Later, SE Suresh Bansal reached the spot and gave an assurance in writing to the wife of the deceased to ensure all benefits.  Thereafter, the protesters lifted and cremated the body.
29-06-2020||Jhajjar||Midwife is key player in sex test racket: Probe||The preliminary probe into the inter-state sex-determination racket has revealed that the sister of a tout, who is in police custody, is the key player in the racket and she used to contact customers in UP, Delhi and Haryana.“The woman, who is a midwife, used to crack the deal with customers and then ask her brother, Chand Singh, to take the customers to Noida (UP), where a BAMS doctor used to conduct ultrasound test. The woman might have been indulging in this illegal trade for several years as she worked at a Bahadurgarh-based private hospital whose owner was convicted under the PC-PNDT Act,” said Dr Achal Tripathi, Deputy Civil Surgeon (PNDT).Tripathi said the revelation had been made by the tout during police interrogation. The woman and the doctor are absconding and the police had carried out raids at their possible hideouts at Haridwar, Ghaziabad, Noida, Sonepat, Meerut and Delhi. — TNS
29-06-2020||---||Man sent to US illegally, 3 travel agents booked||Panipat, June 28Three Patiala-based travel agents have been booked for allegedly duping Rs 18 lakh from a local youth on the pretext of sending him to the US.The US had deported him along with others on June 22.In his police complaint, Kamaljeet Singh (36) of Panipat, said he had met agent Balwinder Singh of Patiala's Masigan village in August 2018 through his sister-in-law Kamaljeet Kaur, who was married in Masigan village. The agent had demanded Rs 18 lakh for sending him to the US. Kamaljeet had paid him Rs 2 lakh in advance and gave him his passport.On August 13, 2018, Balwinder, another agent Talwinder Singh Paul and his father Labh Singh Paul took Kamaljeet to New Delhi, and gave him the air ticket to the US. He took the flight the next day and landed in Ecuador.Over the next four months, his handlers there kept him at various places — 15 days in confinement in Ecuador, another 15 days in Panama forests and then Guatemala — as when they received money from the Patiala agents.On one occasion, Kamaljeet's sister-in-law gave Balwinder and others Rs 11 lakh after selling her jewellery.On January 20, 2019, Balwinder entered the US and soon, he was nabbed in California and sent to jail. The US deported him to India this June.The police have booked Balwinder, Talwinder and his father Labh Singh under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC.Duped of Rs18 lakh
29-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Woman found dead in Sonepat district, husband among 5 booked||Sonepat, June 28A woman was found hanging from a fan at her in-laws’ house in Bhainswan Khurd village of Sonepat district today. The deceased, identified as Anju (23), got married in January.Her husband Anil and his family claimed that she had committed suicide. Her father Dharambir Singh alleged that Anju had been murdered before her body was hanged.In his complaint to the police, Dharambir reported that Anju was being tortured by her husband and four members of his family.The postmortem examination was conducted at the BPS Government Medical College for Women in Khanpur Kalan. The body was handed over to her parents and a case registered against Anil and four members of his family.
29-06-2020||Sonepat||1,173 attend virtual seminar||Positive role of music discussedKarnal: A national webinar was organised by the Department of Music, KVA DAV College for Women, here, on the positive role of music in relieving stress during the Covid crisis. The webinar was attended by a large number of students and faculty from various colleges and universities across the nation. College principal Sujata Gupta and convener of the event, highlighted the power of the mellifluous musical notes. She said the present webinar was distinctive because it brought together academicians on a common platform of harmony and peace. Dr Sangeeta Gorang, Associate Professor and HOD, Department of Music (instrumental), introduced the theme of the webinar. Dr Harvinder Kumar Sharma, renowned international Sitar maestro; Prof Shuchismita Sharma, Chairperson, Department of Music and Dance and Dean of Indic Studies, Kurukshetra University Kurukshetra; and Dr Roshan Bharti, renowned Ghazal maestro, Associate Professor Vocal Music, Government Arts Girls College, Kota, Rajasthan, were the resource persons and highlighted the importance of music.PhD awarded after online vivaKurukshetra: Dr Nita Khanna, Vice-Chancellor of Kurukshetra University, has declared 20 research scholars eligible for the PhD degree on the recommendation of the Research Committee and Board of Examiners. Khanna said, “In view of the Covid pandemic we arranged for the online viva voce of 12 research scholars in which the examiner gave the viva exam on Google Meet. The viva voce of the remaining eight scholars was held offline before the lockdown.” The university Deans’ Committee had earlier approved to conduct the PhD viva-voce online after considering the issues faced by PhD scholars. Controller of examinations Dr Hukam Singh said among the researchers who were declared eligible for PhD are: Suman Sharma (hotel management), Ranjit Kumar Raman (tourism management), Shilpi (electronics and communication engineering), Sunil Nain and Vishal (mechanical engineering), Darshana and Jagdish ( AIH), Manoj Kumar (Sanskrit), Nirmaljeet Kaur (biochemistry), Pooja, Mahak and Shilpi Harnal (computer science), Pankaj (geography), Pradeep Sangwan (applied geophysics), Geeta Kandhol, Kavita and Gurvinder Singh (physics) and Anupama, Amandeep Kaur and Roop Raj (economics).Webinar on Bhagwad GitaMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH ) here organised a webinar on “Counselling a Bhagwad Gita perspective” wherein Geeta Manishi Swami Gyananand Ji Maharaj while speaking as keynote speaker inspired the participants not to expel their energy in future planning, but instead strengthen their will power, confidence and face the available challenges at the ground level with firm determination. Vice Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad said Bhagwad Geeta was the best epic for counselling.Online training for teachersYamunanagar: A 15-day online training programme for teachers was conducted by Mukand Lal Public School, Sarojini Colony, Yamunanagar. Shashi Bathla, principal of the school, said 160 teachers from the host school and the sister concerns from Damla, Radaur, Ghaziabad and Model town of Yamunanagar attended the training. She said that the webinars covered a wide variety of topics.
29-06-2020||THE around 2-km outer ring road of Sector 23||Outer ring road in Sonepat without lights||Shanti Devi, RS Dahiya, SonepatSector 16-17 Residents face water crisisThe residents of Sector 16-17 have been facing acute water crisis for many days. To make matters worse, there has been no system with the Public Health Engineering Department to update the residents about the schedule of water supply. The water is an essential commodity. The authorities concerned should inform about delay or stoppage of water supply in different areas just like the power sector does. The helpline numbers of the department concerned should be made public.Prof AK Chhabra, HisarTech courses in hospitals a good stepIT is pleasing and satisfying to learn that the state is starting courses relating to technical posts in hospitals and medical colleges and all relevant steps are being explored. The Skill Development Department is preparing the list for medical colleges and hospitals. Through this, the skilled staff strength will be increased and will be useful for the care of patients.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramSewage problemLOW-lying areas in Narwana were flooded due to rain in the region and the sewerage system collapsed. At least four manholes are lying broken since more than five years on the Club Road, near Prem Kabadi shop. The situation worsens during rain adding to the commuters' woes. The authorities must look into the issue immediately and get the broken manholes repaired as early as possible.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
29-06-2020||Karnal||Khap not backing me: Sonali Phogat||BJP leader and TikTok star Sonali Phogat on Saturday accused members of khap panchayat of not supporting her and instead sitting as mute spectators when a man was “assassinating her character”.“Am I not their daughter,” she questioned the members of khap panchayat after a meeting with party general secretary and Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia at Sector-14 Krishna Mandir.Phogat had thrashed market committee secretary Sultan Singh at a purchase centre in Hisar on June 5. — TNS
29-06-2020||Sonepat||Helping hand by varsity alumni||Special drive commencesSonepat: For the protection of girls and the environment, a special campaign — “Meri Beti, Meri Pehchan” — has been launched in the district to get houses named after daughters and plant a sapling. Launching the campaign from his house by fixing the nameplate of his daughter Hitashri, Deputy Commissioner Shyam Lal Punia has said the campaign will reach the doorstep of families of 10,092 girls identified in the under-one-year age group in the district. The Women and Child Development Department in the district will be given more than 15,200 plants, which will be planted in houses of identified girls within a week.Anti-drug cycle rally organisedKaithal: The district police held a cycle rally on Friday on the occasion of the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. DSP (HQ) Kulwant Singh and Pundri DSP Krishan Kumar led the rally. Doctors, sportspersons and sports coaches participated in the event to spread awareness about drugs among the people. They wore masks, followed social distancing norms and carried placards.Contributed by Mukesh Tandon, BS Malik and Satish Seth
29-06-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram, Faridabad malls to reopen on July 1||The Haryana Government has decided to allow shopping malls in Gurugram and Faridabad, shut for the past four months due to the Covid pandemic, to reopen on July 1.The government had earlier allowed malls across the state to reopen from June 7, but kept curbs on the two districts, which account for 60 per cent of the state’s caseload.An order issued by the Additional Chief Secretary of the Urban Local Bodies Department said the district administrations had been allowed to reopen malls in the National Capital Region.While the Gurugram administration has issued the standard operating procedure (SOP) for the same, the Faridabad administration will take a call on Monday. “The SOP is to be followed strictly and violations will attract action,” said Gurugram MC Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh.The state government, in its order, has barred senior citizens, pregnant women and children below 10 from entering malls and imposed restrictions to ensure social distancing. Cinema halls and gaming zones will continue to be shut while food courts and restaurants will operate at 50 per cent capacity. — TNS
29-06-2020||Chandigarh||In Haryana, fresh locust threat looms large||The 5-km-long locust swarm, which attacked crops in Rewari and Palwal districts of Haryana and triggered panic in Gurugram and Faridabad, has moved towards UP. “The swarm halted at Hodal on Saturday. It was driven out towards the eastern boundary by 11.30 am on Sunday,” said Mahavir Singh, Deputy Director, Agriculture, Palwal.However, a fresh threat looms large over Rewari and Mahendragarh with the authorities on Sunday spotting a swarm moving towards the bordering Jhunjhunu area of Rajasthan. Rewari DC Yashendra Singh has directed officers of the Agriculture, Horticulture, Forest, Panchayati Raj and Revenue Departments to remain on high alert.“A swarm has been spotted between Sikar and Jhunjhunu. Farmers have been told to inform the authorities immediately if they spot locusts,” said Jaswinder Singh, Deputy Director, Agriculture. — TNS
