29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Lokayukta calls for SIT into TCP dept’s illegal renewal of licences||Haryana Lokayukta Justice Nawal Kishore Agarwal (retd) has called for an investigation by a SIT into renewal of licences in Town and Country Planning (TCP) Department after the misuse of appellate powers has come to the fore.Cdr Dharam Vir Yadav (retd), resident of Mayfield Garden, Sector 51, Gurgaon, approached Lokayukta against former Director General TCP, TC Gupta, alleging that he favoured developer who had not completed development works in Mayfield Garden colony as per approved layout plan and service estimates.The Lokayukta observed that licences were amalgamated in violation of the specific rules; completion or part completion certificate of the colony for internal development works had not been obtained, unauthorised commercial markets were constructed on dispensary and residential sites and the coloniser illegally constructed and sold more than 3,600 independent floors in violation of terms of licence.The first notice for cancellation of licence was issued on March 21, 2011 and it was cancelled on February 10, 2012.However, in appeal then Principal Secretary TCP SS Dhillon set aside the cancellation order with a direction to renew the licence along with bank guarantee, said Lokayukta.Justice Agarwal said it was not the end that when the action was not taken even thereafter. When vide an order dated March 17, 2015, then Director TCP directed District Town Planner (Enforcement) Gurgaon to initiate prosecution against the coloniser on account of non-compliance of the conditions of licences, the same was stayed by the then Principal Secretary, TCP department, vide an order dated March 20, 2015.Justice Agarwal further said that surprisingly though the deficiencies and illegalities were continued even then Principal Secretary TCP department vide an order dated June 4, 2019 directed the coloniser to get the licences renewed and was also directed to apply afresh for grant of completion or part completion certificate.While giving clean chit to TC Gupta, Justice Agarwal said he took pain in punishing the coloniser by issuing notice and then cancelled the licence, but it appeared that “his efforts went in vain due to Dhillon’s order”.Justice Agarwal noted that prima facie it appeared that appellate authorities ignored the facts, situation of the matter and statutory provisions in its proper perspective and became instrumental in saving the builder, though they were aware that despite the licences were issued in the year 1994 to the builders, they failed to complete the work even till date.For Mayfield Green project, Lokayukta called for forming a SIT comprising senior-most retired district judge, an IAS officer who is well versed with functioning of TCP department and officer from Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) against the public servants, who were required to work as per statutory provisions and taking departmental action against them. It also called for forming a SIT which would investigate all such projects.Ex-IAS officer SS Dhillon reacted, “I have retired two years ago. I don’t remember about the case. I was not even called during the proceedings of the case before Lokayukta.”
29-05-2020||New Delhi||Two earthquakes hit Rohtak, tremors in Delhi-NCR||Two successive earthquakes measuring 4.5 and 2.9 on the Richter scale hit Rohtak in Haryana within an hour of one another and sent tremors across the state and the National Capital Region, officials said.Both earthquakes occurred between 9 pm and 10 pm with the same epicentre. The first quake measuring 4.5 on the Richter scale at a depth of 5 km hit Rohtak at 9.08 pm,  According to the National Centre for Seismology. The quake sent people living in multi-storeyed buildings of Rohtak running for cover. “I was at first floor my official house when a strong earthquake struck. Since it was not possible to come out of the house immediately, I crouched in one corner of the room. My family did the same,” Rohtak Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Mahendra Pal. He said he had no reports of loss of life or property so far. Earthquake of Magnitude:4.5, Occurred on 29-05-2020, 21:08:40 IST, Lat: 28.8 & Long: 76.7, Depth: 5 Km ,Location: 14km SE of Rohtak, Haryana, Indiafor more information visit https://t.co/GdXB67r1nd pic.twitter.com/6vM4m7mYzQ  The second quake measuring 2.9 hit the same epicentre at 10.07 pm.
29-05-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Migrant workers dropping plan to return home: SDM||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 29With the relaxation in lockdown and the resumption of industrial and commercial activities, many migrant labourers seem to be dropping their plans to return to their native places.The change in labourers’ mood was witnessed after as many as 1,600 migrant labourers registered for boarding a Shramik Special train from Rohtak for Katihar in Bihar, but only 910 reached Rohtak railway station to board the train.“We called several migrant workers who had got themselves registered for the train journey, but they did not turn up. On being asked why they had not come, they replied that now the situation was getting normal and they had started working,” said Rohtak SDM Rakesh Kumar.The 910 passengers, who boarded the train for Katihar, include migrant labourers from Rohtak, Jhajjar and Bhiwani districts.Rohtak Tehsildar Rajesh Kumar, DSPs Gorakh Pal and Sajjan Kumar and district Red Cross Society secretary Devender Chahal were also present.
29-05-2020||Vijay Mohan||Punjab, Haryana receive heavy rainfall in May; deficient in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 29While rains in the month of May so far have been surplus in the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana, the precipitation has been significantly deficient in the hill state of Himachal Pradesh.Many parts of the region experienced light to moderate showers over the past 24 hours, bringing respite from the severe heatwave affecting these states, where temperatures remained above normal over the past few days. The rains also augur well for the paddy plantation and also the water situation, including recharge of groundwater.From May 1 to May 29, Punjab received 22.3 mm rain compared to the long-period average (LPA) of 16.9 mm for this period, while Haryana received 21.2 mm against the LPA of 17.4 mm, making the downpour surplus by 32 per cent and 22 per cent, respectively.Himachal, on the other hand, received only 36 mm rain against the LPA of 63.5 mm for the same period, making it deficient by 43 per cent, according to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).As far as the situation over the past 24 hours is concerned, most districts of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh received varying amount of rain, while in Punjab rain it was largely experienced in the Malwa region.Himachal recorded 4.1 mm rain against the normal of 1.7 mm for the day, while Punjab and Haryana received 3.6 mm and 2.6 mm rain respectively against the normal of 0.4 mm and 1 mm, respectively, the IMD data states.These rains, accompanied by winds, have been attributed to a mid-tropospheric level western disturbance over east Afghanistan and adjoining Pakistan and a cyclonic circulation over northeast Rajasthan and its neighbourhood at lower tropospheric levels. The weather department has predicted more rain and thunderstorms of varying intensity at many places in the region over the next three days.During the month, Barnala remained the wettest district in Punjab, with an excess of 309 per cent, flowed by Patiala, Tarn Taran and Faridkot where the surplus ranged between 194 to 128 per cent. The hardest-hit were SAS Nagar, Rupnagar and Hoshiarpur, with the deficiency ranging between 100 per cent to 56 per cent.Rains in most of southern Haryana remained below par during May. Gurugram, Palwal, Faridabad and Bhiwani were the hardest hit, with the deficiency being 91 to 68 per cent.Barring Sirmour district in Himachal, rains in rest of the state remained below LPA in May. Kinnaur, with a deficiency of 74 per cent and Bilaspur, with a deficiency of 67 per cent were the hardest hit.
29-05-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Sanitizer and masks being sold at hardware and book shops in Gurugram||In what has left the district health authorities and drug control department rattled, Gurugram is fast emerging as a sanitizer manufacturing and supply hub with majority of products not even complying with safety standards.With majority of businesses having taken a blow and people out of work, people are trying to tap the high demand for sanitizers and masks and have set up their own ‘ayurvedic’ sanitizer manufacturing units, many in house bathrooms.The product is being sold off the rack by almost every shop be at hardware stores, book stores or even meat sellers who bank on the fact that no license is required to sell sanitizers falling under ayurvedic and cosmetic category.The drug control department conducted a raid yesterday at various hardware stores and seized not just cosmetic or ayurvedic sanitizers but also those falling under drug category.“You require a valid license to sell drug category sanitizers. There is no special license required for other two categories but they should be sourced from a licensed manufacturer and have labels clearly mentioning ingredients, expiry etc as per mandate of WHO.“Not only this, but there are also set conditions for storage of sanitizers. They cannot be sold at shops selling plumbing electrical needs and being handled by gloveless hands. We conducted raids and took samples and seized the stock of the drug sanitizers,” said Gurugram Drug Controller Amandeep Chauhan.It may be noted that the department had prior to this busted many manufacturing units where alcohol was being mixed with aloe vera extracts along with bathroom water and filled in bottles.The department had then rung alarm bells seeking coordinated crackdown on all these products being sold under garb of cosmetic and ayurvedic products.“People should buy sanitizers from authorized stores and from a licensed manufacturer as only then will it be an effective precaution. In case of sub-standard products, the user gets carefree trusting he is safe and this may further worsen the transmission. The concerned departments need to regularly check manufacture or sale of spurious sanitizers,” said CMO JS Punia.
29-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||Passengers left stranded as buses cancelled in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 29Twenty-two-year-old Rakesh, who sells buckets in Jind, had booked an online ticket for a Haryana roadways bus to go to Jhajjar from Rohtak on Friday, but he found himself in a tight spot when he, along with his wife and one-and-half-year-old daughter, reached the Rohtak bus stand from Jind and found that the bus for Jhajjar was cancelled due to an inadequate number of passengers.Rakesh then had to hire an auto-rickshaw for Rs 500, which took him to Jhajjar (35 km away from Rohtak).Similarly, Ankesh of Karnal came to Bhiwani on Thursday and online booked a berth for the bus from Rohtak to Panipat, but he, too, had to hire a taxi to reach Panipat following cancellation of that bus.Harender of Delhi came to Rohtak on Thursday and had to go to Panipat on Friday, but he was stuck in Rohtak following the same reason.These are a few cases which exposed the ordeal being faced by the passengers in Rohtak every day despite getting the ticket booked online for roadways buses.Surprisingly, passengers in most cases, are getting information about the cancellation of buses only after reaching the bus stand.Seven buses, including two each for Jhajjar, Bhiwani and Sonepat and one for Kaithal was cancelled on Friday.“I would have changed my plan to travel to my home town had the roadways authorities informed me about the cancellation of the bus in time, but I learnt about it after reaching Rohtak bus stand. I had no option but to hire a taxi as my wife and infant daughter was also travelling with me,” said Rakesh.Sushil of Samlakha village (Panipat), who has been in Rohtak for past some days in the wake of the treatment of his younger brother at the PGIMS, had to return from the bus stand on finding the bus cancelled for Panipat.Bijender Hooda, general manager, Rohtak Depot, informed the buses were cancelled by the state headquarter in the night and they learnt about it in the morning.“I have already directed the official concerned to inform the passengers about it so that they don’t have to come to the bus stand,” he added.Dharambir, station supervisor, informed that buses having passengers less than 10 were cancelled.
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||To prevent robberies, ensure visitors remove mask once: Haryana police to jewellers, banks||The Haryana Police have warned that masks worn to fight COVID-19 could also help criminals go undetected.In an advisory issued to the state’s jewellers, banks, gold loan companies as well as other establishments dealing in cash, the police have asked them to ensure that people entering their premises must take off their mask or face covering once in front of a CCTV camera to prevent robberies.The police also urged people to share information about those claiming to offer “genuine” movement passes amid the ongoing lockdown in return for money.The state’s Director General of Police (DGP), Manoj Yadava, has ordered all district police chiefs to ensure that jewellers, banks, gold finance companies etc, in their respective jurisdiction, display the advisory asking people to remove their mask in front of their establishments.The DGP in a statement informed that wearing of face mask at work and public places had been made compulsory by the government in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.“Now, with the gradual opening up of the lockdown, there is a possibility of criminal elements taking advantage of the difficult times by wearing face masks. Not only known habitual offenders, but new criminals could also indulge in anti-social activities like theft/robbery,” Yadava said.“If any unfortunate incident happens, the criminals can be apprehended with the help of the photograph captured in the CCTV cameras,” he added.The police chief also advised people against carrying large amount of cash while going out.Meanwhile, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk said some touts were active on the social media and cheating gullible people, especially migrants on the pretext of providing them movement passes.“Few instances have also come to light where false lockdown passes were being used to ferry stranded persons,” he said.He urged people not to fall prey to touts and call the Police Control Room 100 or toll-free number 1800-180-2200 or the nearest police station if they found anyone asking for money for issuance of fake lockdown passes anywhere in the state.“Any complaint in this regard can also be made online on HarSamay Portal. The informers' identify will not be revealed,” he said while urging the citizens to get movement passes only through official channels. PTI
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Pictures: Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula witness rain, temperature drops||Rainfall lashed Chandigarh and its surrounding areas on Friday, leading to a drop in temperatures by a few notches and bringing a much-needed relief from the heat.Adjoining towns of Mohali in Punjab and Panchkula in Haryana also witnessed showers.A severe heatwave swept Punjab and Haryana earlier this week, with Hisar registering a high of 48 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The maximums had hovered around 43-45 degrees Celsius at many other places too.The Meteorological Department had forecast light to moderate rain or thundershowers at many places in the two states on May 29 and 30, and at isolated places thereafter in the region. PTI
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 38 new cases, tally rises to 1,542||Haryana on Friday reported 38 new cases of coronavirus, taking the state's case tally to 1,542. Karnal reported six cases of the contagion, taking the total in the district to 48. Two more people tested positive for coronavirus in Karnal. A 32-year-old youth of Raison village and a 42-year-old woman have tested positive. The youth had come from Gurugram. Two barbers, in their 20s, who work in Jawahar Market in Sadar Bazar, a young man and a woman (50) of Dupheri village have tested positive. The barbers had come from Muzaffarnagar, while the other two patients have a Maharashtra connection. Faridabad reported 27 new cases of the contagion, taking the total in the district to 303. Faridabad witnessed a spike in cases as it recorded 42 cases in the last two days. Two journalists have also tested positive—while one is based in Faridabad and works in Noida, the other is a photographer with a media house and resides in Ballabgarh.Two junior resident doctors on COVID duty at Rohtak PGIMS tested positive for the deadly disease on Friday and have been quarantined. With the latest cases, Rohtak's case tally has risen to 26. Bhiwani reported two cases of coronavirus, taking the total in the district to 13.Sirsa reported a case of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 15. A man, 31, from Ellenabad, working as bank manager at the PNB bank in Gurugram, tested positive on Thursday. He had returned to Sirsa on May 24 from Gurugram, along with his wife, daughter and mother. He was in contact with a positive case in Gurugram. His wife and mother did not contract the disease. On Thursday, Haryana witnessed the highest spike in COVID case as the state recorded 123 fresh cases. Out of 123 fresh cases, 74.8 per cent of cases came from Gurugram (68), Faridabad (18) and Sonepat (6).
29-05-2020||---||Gurugram private hospitals deny Covid treatment, notice to two||Gurugram, May 28Over 50 persons have filed complaints with the Gurugram health authorities after several leading private hospitals refused to admit coronavirus patients and those showing symptoms. Paras Hospitals and Park Hospital have already been issued show-cause notices even as health authorities are investigating the complaints.Gurugram Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri had issued an order on Monday stating that private hospitals or nursing homes in Gurugram shall not refuse any patient approaching them for treatment of Covid and other critical services. Despite the order, we are flooded with complaints of people being sent away from hospitals despite being symptomatic, said Chief Medical Officer (CMO) JS Punia.“We have received complaints through our official complaint portal, social media, phone helplines and our distress Whatsapp numbers where people have stated they were turned away by hospitals. Pregnant women too have been sent back. A special team is looking into the matter and we are forwarding the same for necessary penal action to the Deputy Commissioner,” said Punia.The DC confirmed that many violations of his order were still being reported and show-cause notices were being issued. “Notices have been served to two hospitals and a lab and more will follow. If it is a case of emergency, matter of life and death or in case of a cardiac patient or a pregnant woman, hospitals have to admit the patient, conduct preliminary screening, treat them and then take a call. Denial of consultation or admission is punishable under the Epidemic Act. We are investigating every single complaint,” Amit Khatri said.It is also learnt that the administration has also been approached with several complaints where renowned hospitals with facilities in Delhi have been referring Covid patients there without informing the Health Department. Residents have been informing the Health Department seeking designation of their area as containment zone.
29-05-2020||---||In Karnal, 8 fined for not wearing masks||Karnal, May 28The district authorities on Thursday issued challans and imposed a fine of Rs500 each on eight persons for no wearing masks in public.The Haryana Government on Wednesday issued a notification to penalise anyone violating the norms of wearing masks and spitting in public.DC Nishant Kumar Yadav, Ayush Sinha, under training IAS, and SDM Karnal Narender Pal Malik along with the police reached at Committee Chowk on Thursday afternoon. They issued challan to the violators.“The state government has issued notification in this regard to check the spread of Covid. We found eight persons without masks and issued them challan and later, gave them masks free of cost,” the DC said.
29-05-2020||r Correspondent
||30-year-old woman held for extortion||Gurugram, May 28 The Gurugram police on Wednesday busted a honey trap racket being run by a 30-year-old woman. The accused, identified as Preeti, was nabbed for demanding Rs 30 lakh for withdrawing an alleged rape and molestation case filed by her on May 23 against three, including a police constable.  The woman along with a friend sought Rs 30 lakh to withdraw the case. Those accused by her, moved to the police with an audio recording and an FIR has been registered. She was arrested by the police and hunt was on to nab her friend. According the police, the accused is a native of Rewari and lives as a tenant in Hans Enclave. She was working at a spa before the lockdown. On May 23 she had filed a complaint at Palam Vihar police station, alleging that her friend, Ishan, a local cop, called her and when she reached outside two men, Ashu and Manoj Sarpanch, were waiting in a car along with him. She accused that the trio sexually assaulted her. As per the complaint, an FIR was registered and Ashu was arrested. It was on Tuesday when Manoj’s friend Sandip filed a complaint against the accused for trying to extort money. He provided an audio clip where she was allegedly seeking Rs 30 lakh for withdrawing the case.  Following the complaint, the police registered a case and arrested her. She, according to the police, had confessed to extortion.  “The woman is a habitual offender. She had extorted money in similar way in 2010 after registering a fake rape case against a man. We are trying to nab her accomplice and are verifying the role of the constable,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.
29-05-2020||
||Probe team reassesses liquor stock in godowns||Panipat, May 28 A special team has reassessed the stock of the liquor seized in the godowns at Kharkhoda on the direction of the Special Enquiry Team (SET). The team is compiling the data from the police godown as well as of the Excise and Taxation Department godown. During their visit to the godown at Kharkhoda area on May 19, the SET led by ACS TC Gupta, which was constituted by the state government to probe liquor smuggling, had directed the special team, headed by SP Rohtak Rahul Sharma, to reassess the liquor stock. Following the directions of SET, the special team reassessed the stock on Thursday. As per sources, the liquor stock, which had been seized in 18 liquor smuggling cases, was kept by the Kharkhoda police in the godown of kingpin Bhupender Singh of Sisana village. As many as 15 trucks — involved in liquor smuggling — seized by the police were also there in the godown. The police have been matching the record withthe ‘Malkhana Moharar’ (caretaker of the police malkhana), said sources.  Notably, the high-profile liquor theft from the sealed godown in Kharkhoda came to light after Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa directed verification of the godown and there was a shortage of 5,697 boxes. The SIT also found connivance between police officials and liquor smuggling kingpin Bhupender Singh of Sisana village. Meanwhile, Rahul Sharma, SP, Rohtak said the reassessment of the stock had almost been completed and the officials were compiling the reports, which would be finished by Friday.
29-05-2020||ibune News Service
||Safety measures go for a toss at canteen for ex-servicemen||Jhajjar, May 28 Social distancing went for a toss as hundreds reached the premises outside the ex-servicemen canteen here today. The police reached the spot and disperse the crowd. The authorities had to shut the canteen to avert any untoward incident. The canteen was reopened on May 22 and registration was being made through telephone. Token for shopping was being given to 100 registered members a day to ensure social distancing. Sources said hundreds gathered outside the canteen around 4 am following receipt of information that manual tokens would be distributed for shopping. More than 500 persons gathered by 8 am, with many not wearing masks. “We are a harassed lot as the telephone number for registration remains busy. We all are trying to get enrolled for the past few days, but to no avail. We have come to receive token manually,” said Satbir Singh, an ex-serviceman. Rishi Dev and Ram Chander, other beneficiaries, claimed that there was no proper system of giving date, time and tokens, leading to resentment among them. Suresh Kalalia, canteen manager, said five telephone numbers had been released to register and get tokens, yet hundreds gathered outside and started raising a hue and cry. “We had to close the canteen around 11:15 am after giving tokens to a few ex-servicemen though it was usually open till 2 pm. The canteen has been shut for till further orders,” the manager stated.
29-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||No fine on vehicle fitness renewal delay till July 31||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 28The transport authorities will not charge fine for delay in getting fitness of commercial vehicles renewed due to the lockdown.The office of Transport Commissioner has directed road transport authorities across the state to ensure proper execution of the Centre’s guidelines regarding extension in validity of fitness, permit and registration of commercial vehicles, besides driving licences, till July 31.The action follows a report in these columns on May 25 about penalty of Rs 50 per day being charged from motorists across the state in violation of the Centre’s announcement.“In case there is delay in paying fee from February 1 till the time lockdown is in force, such activity shall be completed by July 31. The late fees or additional fees for such delays shall not be levied,” reads the communique by the office of Transport Commissioner.“Compelled to pay hefty fine, thousands of school owners across the state have heaved a sigh of relief,” said Anil Kaushik, Chief of Progressive Private School Association, Narnaul.Rajender Dahiya, president of the New Rohtak Autorickshaw Kalyan Samiti, demanded refund of the fine charged from autorickshaw owners.“Vahan-4 software, that is used for depositing renewal fee, is being updated by the state headquarters for extension in validity so that no fine is levied till July 31,” said Surender Siwach, Motor Vehicle Inspector.
29-05-2020||---||State gets 3 months to consider promotion of Punjabi teachers||Chandigarh, May 28The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday set a three-month deadline for the state to consider petitioner-candidates for promotion to the post of TGT Punjabi teachers.The directions by Justice Jaishree Thakur came on a bunch of petitions by Tirlok Chand and other petitioners against the state of Haryana and other respondents.They were seeking directions for quashing the order dated May 24, 2018, whereby their case for promotion was rejected on the ground that they did not possess the necessary qualification of BEd.Their counsel contended that the petitioners had necessary qualification of matriculation with Hindi and two years diploma in elementary education. They did their BA with Punjabi as an elective subject with 50 per cent marks, besides Giani and MA Punjabi. They were, as such, eligible for appointment to the posts of JBT teacher and further entitled to the posts of TGT Punjabi. But, their case was rejected primarily on the ground that they did not have the qualification of BEd that was against Haryana School Education (Group C) State Cadre Service Rules, 2012.It was further contended that the issue was settled by the court in the case of ‘Mahesh Kumar versus State of Haryana and others’ and connected matters decided on April 23, 2019.Justice Thakur asserted the Court in Mahesh Kumar’s case was seized of the matter as the petitioners seeking promotion as TGT Science teacher were not considered on the ground that they did not have 50 per cent marks in BSc. The high court allowed the writ petition with a direction to promote the petitioners as TGT Science teachers. It was further held that the NCTE guidelines were binding on the state.Justice Thakur took note of the contention that the state had given a “very fair offer” of deciding the petitioners’ case in terms of judgment in Mahesh Kumar’s case and the petitioners had no objection. Disposing of the petition, Justice Thakur directed their case be considered in terms of the judgment in Mahesh Kumar’s case and other connected matters within three months.
29-05-2020||rveen Arora||Workers await building activity to pick up pace||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 28Hoping to earn some money, Nasib Singh came to the Labour Chowk near the old vegetable market, but had to return empty-handed. The 43-year-old construction worker has been facing the same ordeal for the past week.“I have been coming here for the past one week, but nobody gave me work. I do not know any other work and it is very tough for me to earn for a family of five,” said Nasib, with a heavy heart. He said due to the lockdown, people were hesitant to start construction, and many like him were out of work.A similar situation is being faced by the other construction workers at the Labour Chowk, which started humming with labourers after the lockdown was relaxed. But a large number of them have to return empty-handed. “I am the sole breadwinner of my family, but I return empty-handed every day,” said Kailash, who reached the chowk at 7 am.“For around two months, I have been sitting idle and had no work. After the relaxation from May 4, I began coming to the Labour Chowk. But I have not got any work for the past four days,” said Nand Mohan Jha, a migrant worker from Bihar.“The construction sector employs the maximum number of daily wagers. Prior to the lockdown, a large number of construction works were underway in the city, but now, people have not restarted most of those due to the Covid scare,” said a contractor.The shortage of raw material like sand, gravel, cement and bricks is also hampering revival of construction activity. “I had started construction work at my home, but the lockdown forced me to stop. Now, I am not getting construction material to restart it,” said Rajiv Kumar, a resident of the city.Construction material suppliers said the hike in the rate of cement could also be a reason for people not restarting work. “Companies increased cement prices up to Rs 30 per bag during the lockdown. We are getting few orders,” said Parveen Garg, a shopkeeper dealing in cement and iron rods.
29-05-2020||Hisar||No locusts yet in Sirsa village, say agriculture officials||A day after reports of a locust attack in a Sirsa village on the Rajasthan border put authorities on alert, Agriculture Department officials said there was no swarm in the area. Deputy Director, Agriculture, Sirsa, Babu Lal on Thursday said he visited Karamshana village in Ellenabad region after reports of locust attack. “We found no locust in the village, which is on the Rajasthan border adjoining Hanumangarh district. The administration is well-equipped and prepared to contain a locust attack in case it takes place,” he said. Karamshana panchayat member Narender Singh said he had not spotted locusts in his fields though he was on alert. “I heard that a few locusts were spotted at the far end of the agriculture land in the village. A team of the administration also visited the village on Wednesday.” Deputy Director, Agriculture, Hisar, Vinod Phogat said there was no locust threat in the district so far.  Notably, the department has prepared a list of 1,568 tractor-operated spray pumps that can be deployed in case of emergency. — TNS
29-05-2020||
||2 workers of plywood unit  electrocuted||Yamunanagar, May 28 Two workers of a plywood factory were electrocuted to death in Khajuri village of Yamunanagar district on Wednesday night.  The deceased have been identified as Pramod Kumar (25), a resident of Samaspur village of Karnal district, and Aarif (22), a resident of Naharpur village of Yamunanagar district. Jathlana SHO Manoj Kumar said a metal shed was being erected in a plywood factory in Shadipur village by workers on Wednesday evening when the incident took place. “High voltage electricity wires are passing over the under-construction shed. It seems that while working, an iron made ladder might have touched the wires killing both workers.” According to information, Pramod and Aarif were rushed to the Yamunanagar Civil Hospital after the accident, where they died. Their bodies were handed over to their families on Thursday after a postmortem examination.
29-05-2020||
||2 held for gangrape of 6-yr-old||Panipat, May 28 Two youths have been booked and arrested on the charge of gangraping a six-year-old at a closed factory in the Model Town area. In his complaint, the victim’s father told the police that his daughter was playing in front of their room on Tuesday evening, but did not return home. He stated that after a search, his daughter was found lying nude, with two youths standing nearby. He added that when he reached the spot, the youths fled. Model Town SHO Sunil Kumar said the victim’s parents, hailing from Nepal, approached the police on Wednesday night. The accused, one aged 20 and the other 22, were arrested and produced in court, which sent them in judicial custody, he added.
29-05-2020||Yamunanagar||Man dies as tree falls on him||Rain accompanied by strong winds claimed a man’s life  after a tree fell on him near Marwa Kalan village of the district. One more person sustained serious injuries. The incident took place when deceased Ramesh Chand of Fakeer Majra village was going to leave his friend Mohinder Kumar in Marwa Kalan village last night. The passersby rushed them to the BilaspurCHC from where they were shifted to the Civil Hospital, Jagadhri. Bilaspur SHO Ravi Khundia said Ramesh died in the Civil Hospital and Mohinder was under treatment at a private hospital. — TNS
29-05-2020||---||Govt softens, no restriction now on growing paddy||Chandigarh, May 28Softening its stand on restrictions on paddy cultivation, the government issued fresh guidelines today. The farmers in the eight blocks identified who opt for diversification would get Rs 7,000 per acre in two instalments. Their alternative crops would be insured by the government.The Congress claimed victory over the U-turn by the government. State Congress president Kumari Selja demanded that the May 9 order should be taken back fully. “Only when farmers protest on the roads does this government take back its decisions,” she said.In its order dated May 9 for implementation of the ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ scheme, the government had said farmers in blocks where where the level of groundwater was deeper than 40 metres would have to diversify on at least 50 per cent of the area under paddy cultivation.The order had stated that farmers operating their tubewells with 50-hp electric motor would not be allowed to grow paddy. The blocks are Ratia, Siwan, Guhla, Pipli, Shahabad, Babain, Ismailabad and Sirsa. The area under paddy cultivation in these blocks was 1,79,951 hectares last season.Was an advisory: CM
29-05-2020||---||Border with Delhi sealed again||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 28On the day when Haryana witnessed the highest spike in Covid cases, Home Minister Anil Vij once again ordered sealing of the state’s borders with Delhi.The state recorded 123 cases in the past 24 hours, which took state’s tally to 1,504 today. Out of 123 fresh cases, 74.8 per cent cases came from Gurugram (68), Faridabad (18) and Sonepat (6). Earlier, 94 cases were registered on May 26.“I have written to Additional Chief Secretary Home Vijai Vardhan to seal the state’s borders with Delhi as for the past few days, a large number of cases are coming from Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar,” said Vij.He added that only essential service providers would be allowed as per the court’s orders.Fresh cases were also reported from Karnal (5), Rohtak (5), Kurukshetra (5), Hisar (4), Kaithal (4), Sirsa (3), Fatehabad (2), Yamunanagar (1), Charkhi Dadri (1) and Panipat (1). Meanwhile, 43 people got discharged today taking the tally of recovered cases to 881.In Faridabad, a 35-year-old ANM posted in New Delhi, her husband (40) and two sons aged 9 months and 12 years tested positive.A 40-year-old labourer from a slum cluster, 39-year-old resident of Sector 55 with history of travel to Delhi, 38-year-old male from Baselva colony, 40-year-old worker at Dabua Subzi Mandi, 34-year-old man from Mewla Maharajpur village and 25-year-old AC mechanic were among those found positive today. Besides them, a 54-year-old woman from Sector 18 and three employees of a company got confirmed for Covid.In Sonepat, a 36-year-old woman of Jawahar Nagar, who is working as nursing officer of LNJP hospital in Delhi, girl of Pabsara village of Rai block, 29-year-old youth of Jakholi main market, 80-year-old man of Bahalgarh and a resident of Model Town, who has a shoe showroom in Karol Bagh in Delhi, tested positive.Five persons, including a man of Bhaisru Khurd village suffering from cancer and undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Delhi, a medical representative and his mother of Kacha Beri Road, a youth of Chawla Colony and an ANM posted at Meham government hospital, came out positive for Covid in Rohtak.In Karnal, five persons including a marketing executive (28) in a company, a painter and an 80-year-old woman tested positive today. Of these five, three had travel history to Delhi and the remaining two had a Panipat connection.Among the fresh cases in Kurukshetra, there is a 48-year-old man from Sector 30 who returned from Delhi, 30-year-old man who is a multipurpose health worker and was on duty in Adhoni village where a woman tested positive, 27-year-old youth of Adhoni village who returned from Chennai and 37-year-old man from Jhansa village who returned from Rajasthan. Also, a 22-year-old youth, a resident of Barot village of Ladwa block, was confirmed for Covid.Among the fresh cases in Hisar, there are three family members of Umra village, including two males and one woman who had come from Mumbai.A 26-year-old woman, who is married in Delhi and had come to her brother’s house in Atma Puri Colony of Old Hamida area in Yamunanagar on May 25, tested positive.In Panipat, a 40-year-old person of Bapoli village tested positive on Thursday, taking tally of positive cases in the district to 60.
