29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana minister Ranjeet Singh tests COVID positive||Haryana Power Minister Ranjeet Singh said on Saturday that he had tested positive for the novel coronavirus.Singh, who is an Independent MLA supporting the BJP-JJP government, had got his test done just before the one-day Assembly session on Wednesday and his report returned negative. However, he developed symptoms after the session and got himself tested again."I got my COVID test done again and the report came positive," the cabinet minister tweeted. "My health is alright, but I under home quarantined on the advice of doctors."The 75-year-old requested all those who might have come in my contact him to isolate themselves and get their tests done Singh, the Independent legislator from Rania in Sirsa district, is the brother of former chief minister Om Prakash Chautala and son of former deputy prime minister Devi Lal.Earlier, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Agriculture Minister J P Dalal, Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma, Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and four other BJP MLAs had tested positive for the infection.The state currently has over 60,000 coronavirus cases and over 660 fatalities. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-minister-ranjeet-singh-tests-covid-positive-133257
29-08-2020||Faridabad||JC Bose University of Science and Technology conducts workshop on restoration of ponds||Plawal skill varsity signs MoUPalwal: Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU) and Elofic Industries Ltd has signed an MoU to work on a joint research for joint product development in wake of novel coronavirus pandemic. The joint team of Elofic Industries Ltd with its manufacturing expertise and SVSU with its research based academic expertise will work on design, prototyping and development of a disposable nasal filter that will provide an innovative and safe solution to the general public at large. The MoU for this innovative project was signed by Registrar Prof RS Rathore and Kamlesh Koul, vice-president, Engg of Elofic Industries Ltd. Speaking on the occasion SVSU Vice-Chancellor Raj Nehru said this was a unique industry and academia partnership initiative and would help leverage each other’s strength for a larger social good.Dr Verma joins as GJUST RegistrarHisar: Dr Avnesh Verma has joined as the Registrar of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology here on Friday. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar congratulated Dr Verma and said academic and administrative expertise of Dr Verma would be highly beneficial for the university. He said he was a great academician and an able administrator. Dr Verma said he would make his best efforts to get the university recognised at international levels. Dr Verma has more than 22 years of academic and three years of industrial sector experience. He joined Kurukshetra University in 2004 and has been working as Associate Professor of Department of Instrumentation since 2016.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jc-bose-university-of-science-and-technology-conducts-workshop-on-restoration-of-ponds-133174
29-08-2020||The ever rising population of stray dogs is causing nuisance in Yamunanagar. They defecate anywhere and lead to unhygienic conditions||Stray dog menace in Yamunanagar aggravates||Dr Yugesh Kumar, YamunanagarRoad in bad conditionTHE road connecting Karnal to Kurukshetra is crying for attention for long. The road named Madhya Marg that leads to the Civil Secretariat at one end and Dhand Road on another is in bad shape. It is a lifeline for the whole city but is repaired up to the turn that leads to the houses of government officers opposite Sector 19 and the little stretch on the opposite end has been left as such. The commuters face a lot of trouble as one is bound to have a bumpy ride. It is one of the main roads in the city and is lying in dire need of repair. The authorities concerned need to look into the matter and get it repaired as soon as possible.Kapil Sharma, KaithalEncroachments by vendors on panchkula roadsI would like to bring to the notice of concerned authorities the nuisance caused by vendors. There is increasing number of fruit and vegetables carts lining up on the roads in Panchkula. Prospective customers park their cars next to these vendors to buy their requirements, thus reducing the road space by almost 35 per cent and increasing the chance of accidents. Besides, they obstruct the free-flow of traffic especially in Sector 7 and 20 of Panchkula. There is a need to relocate these vendors away from roads to ease the smooth flow of traffic. The authorities must maintain a constant vigil and law breakers should be challaned suitably.Col KJ Singh (retd), PanchkulaCovid threat has not abated, must not lower guardTHE alarming status of the virus in the state can be guessed with the Chief Minister, Speaker and several MLAs testing positive for the virus. The surge in cases speaks volumes on how casually people are taking the precautionary and preventive measures. Inching towards ‘Unlock 4’, we must not lower the guard as the Covid threat has not abated yet. Arrangements should be made at all dispensaries in the urban estates for Covid testing or at least for sample collection for testing. Similar facilities must be provided at institutions attended by a large number of persons. The number of tests conducted per day is commendable but more needs to be done given the mounting spurt in infections.Lalit Bharadwaj, Sector 20, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune  invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-dog-menace-in-yamunanagar-aggravates-133173
29-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC: FIR delay not vital if rape victim from orthodox family||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 28Delay in registration of FIR in rape cases should not be given much weightage in cases where the complainant belongs to a poor and orthodox section of society, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled. The issue of delay was required to be seen and decided by the court during the course of trial and not while deciding anticipatory bail plea, the Bench observed.REQUIRES MORAL COURAGE TO DISCLOSEThe complainant comes out to be belonging to a poor and orthodox section of society, where a young unmarried girl being subjected to sexual assault by a person is taken as some sort of stigma on the girl and her family. It requires a lot of moral courage to disclose the unfortunate incident and inform the police. Delay in such type of cases is not given much weightage. - Justice HS Madaan, Punjab and Haryana High CourtThe assertion by Justice HS Madaan came in a case where the counsel for the petitioner contended that there was delay of about seven months in approaching the police and reporting the matter, creating doubt about the truthfulness of the case.The accused in the matter was seeking pre-arrest bail in an FIR registered for rape and sexual harassment. Justice Madaan asserted that such pleas were not of much relevance while deciding a petition for grant of pre-arrest bail. Justice Madaan asserted that these grounds might have some merit and significance while determining the guilt of an accused during trial, but not for finding his entitlement for grant of pre-arrest bail.“It may be observed that the complainant comes out to be belonging to a poor and orthodox section of society, where a young unmarried girl being subjected to sexual assault by a person is taken as some sort of stigma on the girl and her family. It requires a lot of moral courage to disclose the unfortunate incident and inform the police. Delay in such type of cases is not given much weightage,” Justice Madaan asserted.Justice Madaan noted that the question was to be seen and decided by the trial court on the basis of evidence available and other facts and circumstances. Justice Madaan pointed out that pre-arrest bail was discretionary relief, which was to be granted in exceptional cases and not in routine. “It is meant to save the innocent persons from harassment and inconvenience and not to screen the culprits from custodial interrogation,” Justice Madaan observed.Referring to the facts of the case in hand, Justice Madaan observed that the allegations against the petitioner of molesting the complainant for a long time before raping her several times were “very grave and serious”. On one occasion, he was accused of getting the acts of forcible sex photographed by his wife. “The gravity and seriousness of allegations of raping a young girl do not warrant grant of concession of pre-arrest bail to the petitioner,” Justice Madaan added, while dismissing the bail plea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-fir-delay-not-vital-if-rape-victim-from-orthodox-family-132839
29-08-2020||---||Union Minister meets Sushant Singh Rajput's family in Faridabad||Faridabad, August 28Union Minister of Social Justice Ramdas Athawale visited the family of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput here on Friday. He met Sushant’s father KK Singh and sister Rani Singh and expressed his condolences.Death a ConspiracyHis death is a result of a conspiracy, which is likely to be revealed in the CBI investigation. The family believes that Sushant did not commit suicide. - Ramdas Athawale, Social Justice ministerRani Singh is the wife of OP Singh, Commissioner of Police, Faridabad.Later, the Rajya Sabha member told the media it would be wrong to dismiss Sushant’s death as a simple case of suicide. “His death was a result of a conspiracy, which is likely to be revealed in the CBI investigation,” he said.Athawale further said, “The family believes Sushant did not commit suicide. It is satisfied with the CBI probe so far. I have told his father that we are with him. Sushant was an upcoming actor and his death was unfortunate.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/union-minister-meets-sushant-singh-rajputs-family-in-faridabad-132840
29-08-2020||---||Debt on rise: Selja||Chandigarh, August 28Coming down heavily on the government, state Congress president Kumari Selja said today that while the state was busy in scams, the recent CAG report revealed that debt was rising.She pointed out that sugar mills had been sanctioned loans in violation of rules. She said cooperative sugar mills had been extended loans with the condition that no loan would be given in case of failure in repayment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/debt-on-rise-selja-132841
29-08-2020||---||15 more succumb, 1,298 fresh cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 28Coronavirus continued to wreak havoc in the state, with 1,298 fresh cases and 15 deaths talking the number of cases to 60,596 and toll to 661.Gurugram reported a maximum of 126 cases, followed by Faridabad (115), Hisar (110) and Karnal and Sonepat (100 each).While Karnal reported three deaths, two deaths each were reported from Rewari, Panchkula and Panipat. Rohtak, Hisar, Kurukshetra, Sirsa, Faridabad and Fatehabad reported one death each.Panic in SecttPanic gripped the Haryana Civil Secretariat, with at least 40 cases being reported in the last two days. Of these, at least 15 more cases were reported from the Chief Minister’s Office today.The government restricted the entry of visitors, except Haryana Government employees from the tricity, to the Civil Secretariat from today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15-more-succumb-1-298-fresh-cases-in-haryana-132842
29-08-2020||
||192 departmental vigilance inquiries pending in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 28 With 192 departmental vigilance inquiries pending in the state,  the Development and Panchayat Department has the dubious distinction of having a maximum of 31 vigilance cases. The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and Urban Estate  come second with 16 pending cases each, followed by Agriculture Department with 15. To expedite inquiries into departmental cases and review their progress,  the Chief Secretary has called a meeting of Chief Vigilance Officers (CVOs) of departments concerned for September 11. Sources said the meeting would review the progress of ongoing inquiries into cases pending with vigilance  wings of the departments. A total of 27 CVOs of various departments would join the meeting through video-conferencing in view of the pandemic, the sources asserted. Pending cases with other departments include  Cooperation (12), Power and  Industries and Commerce (10 each),  Public Works Department, Food and Supplies and Urban Local Bodies (9 each), Public Health Engineering (8), Environment and Climate Change, Transport, Town and Country Planning and  Excise and Taxation (7 each) and Mines and Geology and Health (5 each). School Education and  Irrigation (4 each), Higher Education, Forest and Home (3 each), ITI  and Revenue (2 each) and  Local Audit,  Political Department, General Administration  and  Social Justice and Empowerment (1 each) are the other departments whose pending vigilance cases would be reviewed. Social activist Vijay Bansal urged the government to make inquiries into irregularities  by officials time-bound.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/192-departmental-vigilance-inquiries-pending-in-haryana-132843
29-08-2020||Nitish Sharma||Retired JBT teacher awaits revised pension||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, August 28A retired JBT teacher (79) has been struggling to get the revised pension because the school concerned has not been able to forward her case online to the Accountant General (AG) Office from the last one month.Saroj Bala, a resident of Ambala City, retired from Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Police Lines, Ambala City, in 2000. On July 27, her case was forwarded from the District Elementary Education Office to the school after fixation of the revised pension.Kailash Chandra Sharma, said, “My wife is 79-year-old and bedridden. She is eligible to get the revised pension from 2016. On July 27, after the revised pension was fixed by the DEEO, Ambala, the case was forwarded to the Principal, Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Police Lines, but it is still pending. We have been told that they are not able to open the site of the AG Office and upload the case. We are in late 70s and have been suffering from kidney and heart ailments, arthritis and diabetes. We cannot visit the school or any other office repeatedly.”“The local-level staff told us that the case at their end is ready, but due to the site-related issue they haven’t been able to upload it. We have sent a letter to the Principal Accountant General too, requesting him to instruct the official concerned to rectify the site issue,” he said.Ashwini Batra, an official at the school, said, “Every institution has an individual login ID to access the site. We have been facing some login-related issue since July, due to which we have not been able to access the site. Not only Saroj Bala, but there are around five more cases also, which are pending. We told the AG office about the issue in July, as well as this month. Earlier, we used to upload the cases, but the issue cropped up after the lockdown. The cases are ready and as soon as we get the access, we will upload them on the site.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retired-jbt-teacher-awaits-revised-pension-132845
29-08-2020||Nitin Jain||3rd power sub-station for Ambala Cantt soon||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, August 28A new 66-KV power supply sub-station will come up in Ambala Cantonment. The Rs 35-crore project is likely to begin operations within two months, said a senior Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPNL) officer.With this, Ambala Cantonment will have three power supply sub-stations. The new sub-station will provide back-up support in case of fault in the other two sub-stations.“This will bring an end to outages due to technical and transmission faults in the other two supply grids. The town will continue to get supply during breakdown as well,” said the officer.Work on the project, which was allotted in October 2018, was scheduled to be completed by January this year, but got delayed due to operational hindrances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3rd-power-sub-station-for-ambala-cantt-soon-132846
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Police warn of WhatsApp fraud||The Haryana Police have issued an alert to Whatsapp users about a new trend of cybercrime used by fraudsters for hijacking WhatsApp accounts to carry out financial transactions.Advising the people to stay alert about such scammers, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk said cyber criminals were resorting to new means to defraud individuals and organizations, as many activities had moved online during the Covid pandemic.Modus Operandi“In this new kind of cybercrime, the fraudsters trick the gullible people by taking over their WhatsApp account and use it for communicating with their friends and family members for carrying out financial transactions,” he said.He also outlined a series of preventive and precautionary measures and advised the users to never share verification code sent from anyone for any reason. He also suggested activating ‘two-step verification’ for social media accounts. This will enhance the security of their account and even if the attacker gets access to the verification code, a password will still be needed to successfully log into the account.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-police-warn-of-whatsapp-fraud-132847
29-08-2020||Palwal||1 held for gangrape||The police have arrested a youth in connection with the gangrape and murder of a 10-year-old at a village in the district on August 24. Another accused is absconding. Hodal DSP Balbir Singh said the police had nabbed Ajay, who had reportedly admitted to having abducted, gangraped and murdered the victim in the fields along with his friend Purshoyoti. The accused was in one-day police remand, said the DSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-held-for-gangrape-132848
29-08-2020||Yamunanagar||‘Tantrik’ booked for sexual abuse||A “tantrik” has been booked on the charge of sexually abusing a 17-year-old girl of a village in the district’s Radaur sub-division on the pretext of curing her stomach ache. Her mother and aunt have also been booked for allegedly ignoring her pleas for help every time she told them about the sexual abuse incident.On her complaint, a case was registered under Sections 6 and 17 of the POCSO Act and Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at the women’s police station here on Wednesday.The victim, in her police complaint, said that in December 2019, she suffered a severe stomach ache. The ultrasound report revealed that she had stones and neoplasia in her stomach.On December 21, 2019, her mother took her to a “tantric” (occultist), identified as Satish Kumar, for the treatment.“The tantric took me to a place in Radaur and sexually abused me. He threatened me not to tell anyone about the incident otherwise my father and brother would die. I got afraid, but I told my mother about it. But she said whatever Satish was doing would cure my disease. Every time, I went to him, he sexually abused me,” alleged the victim.She said, “One day, I told my father everything. He took me to the police station and got a case registered.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tantrik-booked-for-sexual-abuse-132849
29-08-2020|| 
||Case registered on minor pregnant wife’s complaint||Yamunanagar, August 28 The police have registered an FIR in connection with domestic violence against a 15-year-old pregnant girl allegedly at the hands of her 20-year-old husband here. On August 13, she had lodged a police complaint, alleging physical harassment and mental torture at the house of her in-laws. The case was registered under Sections 376 (3) and 120-B of the IPC, Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act at the Sadar police station here. The name of the accused has not been mentioned in the FIR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/case-registered-on-minor-pregnant-wifes-complaint-132850
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Congress protests over JEE, NEET||The Congress and its youth wing, the National Students Union of India (NSUI), on Friday protested at Karnal, Kaithal, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Faridabad and Gurugram against conducting JEE and NEET amid the Covid pandemic. In Bhiwani, Congress workers burnt an effigy of the Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-protests-over-jee-neet-132851
29-08-2020||---||Man shot in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, August 28A businessman was shot dead, reportedly by two unidentified youths, at his electronics goods showroom in the ITI area here today.The deceased was identified as Raghunath Prajapati (65) alias Raghu of Krishna Colony. On the complaint of Gulshan Kumar, a salesman at the showroom, a case was registered against two persons without name.The complainant said Raghu came to the showroom at 11 am. “Around 11.15 am, two youths with their faces covered entered the showroom. They asked for Raghu and one of them opened several rounds of fire,” he said.After the crime, the accused fled the spot. The police recovered nine empty shells from the spot. Raghu’s wife Pushpa and their son took him to a private hospital, but he died on the way.She claimed that Raghu had been receiving threats from some persons for some time. “Before killing my husband, two youths came to our house around 11 am and threatened us,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-shot-in-yamunanagar-132852
29-08-2020||Our Correspondent
||Guards ‘harass’ commuters, Gurugram toll operator booked||Gurugram, August 27 An operator of the Gurugram-Faridabad highway toll plaza has been booked on the charge of harassing commuters by deploying armed bouncers at the toll collection point. A security agency, which provided the operator with bouncers, has also been booked for not having the mandatory licence to operate. All security agencies are required to have a licence, which is issued under the Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act. Inspector Deepak, in charge of the Haryana Private Security Agency (HPSA) cell, said the Millennium City Veterans Forum, Gurugram, had filed a complaint against the “high-handedness” of the bouncers at the toll plaza. “AR Tollways Private Limited had hired Sai Telecom Security Services. Bouncers armed with pistols, guns and rifles were deployed at the toll plaza. The agency has the registration certificate, but do not possess the mandatory private security agency licence issued under the Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act. No person can open a security agency without the licence. The violation attracts an imprisonment varying between one and five years or a fine of up to Rs 25,000 or both,” the complaint reads. AR Tollways Private Limited and Sai Telecom Security Services have been booked under Section 20 (1) of the Act at the DLF Phase 1 police station. “The police are investigating the matter,” said Assistant Sub Inspector Ram Richpal Singh, investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/guards-harass-commuters-gurugram-toll-operator-booked-132853
29-08-2020||Mukesh Tandon||With 1,173 active cases, Panipat leads in Haryana||Tribune News ServicePanipat, August 28Panipat district leads in Covid numbers with 1,173 active cases and is third in terms of deaths. Thirty deaths and 2,256 cases have been reported in the district till August 27.As per data available, of the 3,412 active cases in the district, 1,173 are active and 2,194 have recovered while 45 have succumbed to the virus.There were only four patients in the district till March 31 and 13 infected persons till April 30. The number rose to 62 patients and three deaths till May 31.After that, the number of patients rose to 200 and seven deaths were recorded till June 30. A total of 1,156 persons were infected and 15 died due to the infection till July 31.In August, the virus spread speedily in the district. According to data available, the number of total patients reached 3,412 on August 27. Of them, 2,256 patients were detected in 27 days of August and 30 persons had lost their lives in 27 days of August.Dr SL Verma, Civil Surgeon, said the increasing number of patients was a matter of concern. He said people were not adhering to guidelines. He said they had increased sampling in the past one week. He added that they planned to create active containment zones in urban areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-1-173-active-cases-panipat-leads-in-haryana-132854
29-08-2020||Hisar||Harassed, man shoots himself||A man who was upset due to dowry demands by the in-laws of his daughter committed suicide by shooting himself at his residence in Talwandi Rana village of the district today.The victim was identified as Mangtu Ram (45). His son Vinay lodged a complaint that his father was being harassed by the in-laws of his sister. A case was registered against the victims’son-in-law Inderpal and three others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/harassed-man-shoots-himself-132855
29-08-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Khattar making good progress, says hospital||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, admitted to Medanta hospital here on August 25, is making satisfactory progress and is comfortable.Medical Superintendent Dr AK Dubey said Khattar underwent some blood and CT scan investigations. He said a multi-disciplinary team of doctors from AIIMS in New Delhi, PGIMS in Rohtak, Dr Virender Yadav, Civil Surgeon, Gurugram, Dr Sushila Kataria and their team reviewed his condition, line of treatment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-khattar-making-good-progress-says-hospital-132856
29-08-2020||---||Amid increasing ATM robberies, banks seek security in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 28Amid rising cases of ATM and bank robberies in Haryana, bankers have approached the state government to ensure safety.The matter came to light during the recently held State Level Bankers Committee meeting to review the performance of banks.“The ATMs and branches are constantly being targeted by miscreants and every time they are adopting a new method. We have approached the state government to provide safety to banks and ATMs,” said a senior banker who attended the meeting.Officials of the Finance Department have assured the bankers that they will take up the matter with the Home Department. In addition to this, the bankers said they were working on modalities to roll out a comprehensive e-surveillance mechanism at the ATMs for timely alerts and quick response.Besides increased surveillance, the banks have been advised to take steps such as grouting of ATMs to solid structures such as walls and pillars to avoid uprooting.As on March 31, the state had 6,761 ATMs and 4,900 branches of various banks — public, private and cooperative. The maximum number of ATMs are in urban areas (4,095), followed by semi-urban (1,739) and rural areas (927).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-increasing-atm-robberies-banks-seek-security-in-haryana-133077
29-08-2020||Mukesh Tandon||No property tax record with MC since 2015||Tribune News ServicePanipat, August 28Unbelievable as it may sound, the Municipal Corporation Panipat (MCP) has not been maintaining records of any demand or collection of property tax from 1.41 lakh properties under it for the past five years.Will take actionWe are reviewing the inquiry report in which no punitive action has been mentioned against staff. We will initiate action soon. - Sushil Kumar, MCP CommissionerPanipat tax duesPERIOD: 2015-20 Amount: Rs 225 crWith arrears mounting to Rs 225 crore, the MCP has now decided to prepare a record of property tax since 2015. According to sources, 1,41,278 units are registered in the MC records, of which 43,059 are residential, 11,721 commercial, 3,453 industrial, 1,255 institutional and 29,894 vacant plots. Another 50,463 are registered as mixed-use and 1,430 as special category units.The MCP has to recover Rs 40 crore in property tax this fiscal (2020-21). This is in addition to Rs 225 crore pending for previous years, say the sources. The MCP had set the target of recovering Rs 33 crore last fiscal (2019-2000) but received only Rs 7.42 crore.Vaibhav Deswal, an RTI activist, said he had sought details of properties that owed over Rs 10 lakh in tax. The MCP, in its reply, sent details of 195 properties owing more than Rs 150 crore. The biggest defaulters were a shopping mall in ward No. 14 (owing Rs 19.16 crore) and another in ward No. 13 (Rs 15.61 crore).The anomaly in the records came to light following an inquiry by then Joint Commissioner Gaurav Kumar into an alleged scam linked to property tax deposited in the beginning of August. It suggested that even the amount collected or demanded was never audited by the MCP’s taxation branch.MCP Commissioner Sushil Kumar said a tender would be floated in a day or two to engage a private agency to maintain the record.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-property-tax-record-with-mc-since-2015-133034
29-08-2020||---||Haryana shops to be shut on Mondays, Tuesdays now||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 28All shops and shopping malls, except those dealing in essential good and services, will remain closed in Haryana on Mondays and Tuesdays. Public and private offices will, however, remain open on these days.An official spokesperson said all shops and shopping malls could now remain open on weekends (Saturdays and Sundays).The decision was aimed at containing the spread of Covid-19 in the state, he added. These orders would remain in force till further directions, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-shops-to-be-shut-on-mondays-tuesdays-now-133036
29-08-2020||---||‘Now, I know why Haryana CM, Speaker rushed to Medanta’||Panchkula, August 28Haryana Congress spokesperson and national coordinator for the All India Mahila Congress Ranjeeta Mehta, who is receiving treatment for Covid at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, today alleged that infected patients were being made to stay in “poor conditions” at the infirmary.Substandard treatment for Covid patients led CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Speaker Gian Chand Gupta to get themselves admitted to a premium private hospital in Gurugram. — Ranjeeta Mehta, Spokeperson, Haryana CongressThe Congress leader said the “substandard” way of treating Covid patients by the Health Department led Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Speaker Gian Chand Gupta to get themselves admitted to a premium private hospital in Gurugram.We make best efforts to provide quality healthcare to Covid patients and address their grievances. I have personally spoken to Mehta. We are trying to get the matter sorted out. — Dr Sarita Yadav, Principal Medical Officer“Bees are welcoming Covid patients at the Sector 6 hospital. Since 11 am, no one has done any test, rather mosquitoes are giving me more pain. Is this the way you and your department are handling patients. Now, I can understand why the CM and the Speaker rushed to Medanta,” she said in a tweet, tagging state Health Minister Anil Vij.In another tweet, the Congress leader asked why she was not being told about the treatment she was subjected to. “Ten tablets given to me after five hours of torture to have these together. Asked about these tablets, no one answered...” she said while seeking Vij’s intervention in the matter.“An X-ray test of a Covid patient is conducted in an open space — without a gown and slippers. One can imagine how difficult it must be for women,” she added.Mehta, along with her husband, had tested positive for the virus on August 26.Earlier this month, a video shot by a Panchkula patient showing an acute water crisis in the toilet of a Covid care ward at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, was widely shared on the social media.Chandigarh Tribune had also highlighted the plight of patients admitted to BRS Dental College in Barwala, a dedicated Covid care facility in Panchkula. Patients there had been forced to clean wards due to inadequate housekeeping staff.Dr Sarita Yadav, Principal Medical Officer, said, “We make best efforts to provide quality healthcare to Covid patients and address their grievances.”What recovered patient saysA 43-year-old man from the MDC, Sector 5, who was admitted to the same Covid ward between July 11 and 16, said toilets were not clean and food was not hygienic even during his stay. “There were no arrangements for diabetics like me. I was served rice and tea with sugar,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-i-know-why-haryana-cm-speaker-rushed-to-medanta-132905
