29-09-2020||Mahendragarh||Stray bull attacks 70-year-old woman, grandson in Mahendragarh; incident caught on CCTV||Bovine menace has assumed alarming proportions in Mahendragarh city. In a recent incident, a 70-year-old woman, Anguri Devi, was mercilessly hit by a stray bull twice when she was walking on a street near City police station in the morning.Her 20-year-old grandson, Jatin, came to her rescue but the bull hit him too.The duo fell on the ground. On hearing their crying, some neighbours came out of the house and hit the bull with bamboo sticks to rescue the woman and her grandson.The entire incident was captured on a CCTV installed in a house on the street. Later, the video went viral on social media. Several people decried the local authorities for its “failure” in tackling the bovine menace by sharing the video on Twitter and Facebook.Anil Kaushik, a local social activist, said stray cattle menace had become a routine affair and the bulls had also caused injuries to several people.“The stray cattle squat on road in the night leading to road mishap. Local authorities are paying no heed towards it despite repeated incidents,” Kaushik added.
29-09-2020||---||Former Nilokheri MLA Mamu Gonder dies of post-Covid infection||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 29Former INLD MLA from Nilokheri Mamu Ram Gonder (70) on Tuesday died reportedly due to post Covid infection in a private hospital in Panchkula.He was tested Covid positive and after 21 days his report had come negative four-days back.His last rites will be performed on Wednesday in his native village Gonder.He remained MLA between 2009 and 2014 and had joined the BJP days before 2019 Assembly elections.Son Sonu Gonder said his father was admitted to KCGMC after shortness of breath on September 2 and his first report came as negative on September 4. After his health deteriorated, the family members shifted him to Fortis hospital, Mohali, where he tested positive for Covid.He was later shifted to another private hospital. Gonder’s report came as negative four days back. Sonu Gonder maintained that doctors told them that Covid has damaged his father’s lungs that led to his death.
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Retreating monsoon leaves behind rain deficiency in region||As the monsoon retreats for this year, it leaves behind below normal rain in the region. While the country as a whole experienced a slightly surplus rain with the monsoon being the wettest since 1994, this was not so for the largely agrarian states in north India, where the average shortfall of three states amounted to almost 19 per cent.The deficiency in the region is highest in the hill state of Himachal Pradesh, where the rainfall this season has been 26 per cent below the long period average.In Punjab and Haryana it has been 16 per cent and 14 per cent below normal respectively.From June 1 to September 29, Himachal received 565.5 mm rain against the normal of 762.7 mm, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Punjab received 391.7 mm against the normal of 466.4 mm while Haryana received 376.1mm against the normal of 438.2 mm for this period.According to weather experts, the process of monsoon withdrawal is underway and it has already retreated from many parts of Punjab and Rajasthan.Complete withdrawal from north India is expected to be complete this week. Conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of southwest monsoon from some more parts of Rajasthan and Punjab and some parts of Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during next 2-3 days, IMD forecast states.The Consensus Statement on the Forecast for the 2020 October to December Season issued during the 17th Session of the South Asian Climate Outlook Forum has warned that below normal rainfall is likely during the season over the  northwestern and northern parts of  South Asia, including some areas along the foot hills of the Himalayas.Climatologically these areas already receive very low rainfall during this season. During the October–December season, normal to slightly above normal temperatures over most parts of the region are also predicted.According to the forum’s statement, circulated by IMD, weak La Niña conditions are currently prevailing in the tropical Pacific Ocean and neutral Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) conditions are prevailing over the Indian Ocean. These parameters, which are known to influence the climate variability over South Asia, are likely to continue at their current level during October-December.
29-09-2020||---||116 mentally-challenged inmates of Rohtak shelter home found Covid-positive||Sunit DhawanTribune News ServiceRohtak, September 29A long chain of Covid-positive cases has been detected at a shelter home for mentally and physically challenged persons located on the outskirts of Rohtak city, with as many as 116 inmates having tested positive for Covid-19.As per official sources, two Covid-positive inmates of the shelter home have died recently. The manager of the shelter home had also tested positive for Covid, though he had recovered from the disease.The district Health authorities have swung into action and deployed two teams to carry out regular check-up of the shelter-home inmates, apart from tracing their contacts and taking other necessary measures as per the protocol.“The Covid-positive inmates of Jan Sewa Sansthan who were below 18 years or above 45 years of age were initially shifted to the local Civil Hospital and PGIMS for medical examination and observation. They have now been shifted back to the shelter home in view of their special needs,” said Dr Tarun Madhur, District Public Health Manager for Covid-19, while talking to The Tribune here today.An isolation facility has been created for the Covid-positive inmates on the premises of a school run by the Jan Sewa Sansthan adjacent to the shelter-home, he said, adding that two teams of Health workers had been deployed to visit the isolation facility at the school twice daily and conduct health check-up of the patients.
29-09-2020||---||Three held for betting on IPL match in Sirsa||Hisar, September 29Sirsa Police claimed to have nabbed three persons for betting on an IPL match between RCB and Mumbai Indians on Monday.Police also recovered Rs 20,000 in cash, one LED, two laptops, 12 mobile phones of different makes, two laptop chargers, nine mobile chargers, one extension board, three Wi-Fi routers, and five earphones from the spot, said a police spokesperson.Acting on specific inputs, a CIA team raided a house in Sirsa town on Monday and nabbed three persons for betting on the IPL match between Mumbai Indians and Royal Challengers Bangalore, said the spokesperson.The arrested have been identified as Prince alias Sonu and Navdeep alias Kalu, both from Old Housing Board Colony, and Raman Kumar alias Montu, a resident of F-Block, Sirsa.A case has been registered against the trio at a police station in Sirsa and further investigation is underway, the spokesperson added.
29-09-2020||Chandigarh||Prior registration must for farmers bringing produce from outside for procurement in Haryana||Prior registration on a Haryana government portal is a must for farmers from outside the state bringing their produce for procurement in government-run ‘mandis’, a senior state government official said on Tuesday.In the wake of reports that some farmers from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh were not allowed to sell their paddy crop at government-run ‘mandis’ in Karnal district a few days ago, the official said there is no bar, but they will have to register themselves on a portal and then wait for a message before they are called.Notably, the farmers have to register on “Meri Fasal Mera Byora” portal uploading their details and then every registered farmer receives an SMS when they have to bring their produce.The official, however, said registration is mandatory for farmers looking to sell non-basmati varieties of rice.“This time, we have decided that from October 5 onwards the outside farmers can also register and then we will also give them a schedule and call them,” Additional Chief Secretary, Food and Civil Supplies, P K Das told PTI over the phone.Asked to comment on the Karnal incident, Das said “those who are coming with basmati, we are not stopping them because the government does not have to purchase that”.“But if you look at it, when we are telling farmers in Karnal and elsewhere that we will call them by sending SMS and only then they have to come to mandis with the produce, how can we allow farmers from outside to come and sell at procurement price (without registration on portal).“If a farmer from outside the state goes to some miller directly for a private transaction, we have no objection. But for the paddy variety which the government purchases at MSP, what we are saying that we will do procurement, but farmers will have to come through the system,” he said.Giving an example, he said if any mandi has a capacity to handle 4,000 tonnes and if 14,000 tonnes of crop arrives there because farmers are allowed to come without any registration “then there will be complaints that we are not handling it well and it is taking days to clear the mandis”.“We have a better system in place whereby each and every farmer is registered, he is mapped,” the official said.“When we have put a system for Haryana’s farmers, we cannot give latitude to others,” he said.Replying to a question, Das said after the passage of the three agriculture-related bills, the existing mandi system and MSP mechanism will continue as before.“We will be procuring in government mandis as earlier. So, those who are going to sell to government mandis will come there. We procure paddy through the Arhtiyas (commission agents) and we pay them their commission, so there is no loss to Arhtiyas as far as the procurement quantity goes,” he said.Farmer gets the MSP which is the highest available in the market, Das added.“As far as the farmer goes, even in the new law, MSP is the highest price available in the market, there is no loss to him. And if there is a better price available outside, the farmer gains if he goes there,” he said.On some farmers alleging delay in paddy procurement in couple of the four districts, where it started four days earlier than scheduled date of October 1, he said this year in four districts Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal and Kaithal, some farmers brought their paddy produce to the mandi early.“We have a registration system on the portal on which they register and are given a schedule to come to mandis. But some came before time and without invitation.“Since they had arrived we decided let’s clear the mandis by taking care of these,” the official said.So, in these four districts, paddy procurement operations started from September 27 and from today operations for crop procurement have started in all the districts, he said, adding the crop procurement was going on smoothly.Notably, next month, the state government will also start procurement of moong, bajra and maize. — PTI
29-09-2020||New Delhi||Environment ministers of Punjab, Haryana, 3 other states to meet on October 1 over air pollution||Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday said, that environment ministers and secretaries from five states—Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh—would meet will MoEFCC and officials of CPCB on Thursday, in order to, discuss the air pollution arising due to paddy stubble burning in the fields, especially in Punjab and Haryana.The minister also hopes that the states would participate in a "positive manner", irrespective of "politics", to deal with the situation.Notably three of the five states, Punjab, Rajasthan and Delhi are ruled by non- NDA partiesResponding to the question related to protest over farmers' bills and Congress observation that RSS were collaborators of the British, Javadekar said, that "first the Congress needs to answer why is it standing with the middlemen.""The procurement of Kharif rice has started, farmers are being paid, mandis are operating, the government's actions speak for themselves," he said.
29-09-2020||---||Farmers protest non-procurement of paddy||Kurukshetra, September 28Farmers held demonstrations in Kurukshetra and Ambala on Monday against the non-procurement of paddy and threatened to block the Delhi-Ambala National Highway if the buying did not start soon.Kurukshetra meet on Oct 8They locked the office of the market committee secretary in Thanesar, burnt the poster of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, blocked a road in Pehowa and staged a dharna outside SDM’s office in Ambala City.The farmers accused Ambala SDM Sachin Gupta of misbehaving with them. He later offered an apology and tried to pacify them.Kuldeep Singh, a farmer in Thanesar, said: “The produce is not being procured on the pretext of high moisture content. The authorities have ignored our pleas, leaving us with no option but to protest.”Thanesar market committee secretary Harjit Singh cited a few glitches for non-procurement of paddy. “Gate passes were issued manually on Sunday, as the agriculture portal needs to be updated. Besides, the moisture level in the produce is high. Rice millers have refused to accept moist paddy. Only the state government can resolve the matter.”Meanwhile, rice millers have opened a front against the new custom milled rice (CMR) policy 2020-21, threatening not to accept paddy for custom milling till their demands are met.Their demands include relaxation in yield of rice from 67 kg to 64 kg per quintal, payment of CMR charges within a month of completion of work or else 12 per cent interest on delayed payment, 3 per cent relaxation in shortage of stock during physical verification, hike in milling charges from Rs 10 per quintal to Rs 100, and no repeated inspections of millers who have been delivering the stock on time.
29-09-2020||ibune News Service
||Not allowed to agitate, Cong submits memo to Governor||Chandigarh, September 28  As soon as Haryana Congress leaders and workers came out of the party office here for a protest march against the three farm laws, they were stopped by the police. They were only allowed to submit a memorandum to the Governor for the President.  The police had barricaded the road outside the party office. Some leaders and workers tried in vain to jump the barricades. Some of the workers were detained and taken to the Sector 17 police station. Later, Congress leaders got them released. After much persuasion, Congress leaders decided to submit a memorandum to the Governor. State Congress president Kumari Selja, Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, state in charge Vivek Bansal and MLAs Kiran Choudhry, Aftab Ahmed, Dharam Singh Chokker, Kuldeep Vats, Rao Dan Singh, Shalley, Mohammad Ilyas and former MLAs Capt Ajay Yadav and Anand Singh Dangi submitted the memorandum.  In the memorandum, the Congress demanded of the President to take back, what it described as, “black” Acts “which are endangering the existence of farmers, labourers and arhtiyas”.  The party said by dismantling the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), the entire system of sale and purchase of agricultural commodities would be shattered.  Bansal said the party was in for a long fight. “The state Congress will organise ‘kisan sammelans’ in all Assembly segments and district headquarters on October 2. From October 2 to 31, the party rank and file will collect signatures of farmers condemning the Acts. The signature document will be submitted to the All-India Congress Committee,” he added.
29-09-2020||Karnal||Abhay Chautala praises SAD patron for snapping ties with BJP||Two days after the SAD snapped ties with the BJP, senior INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala appreciated former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal for standing with farmers and referred to him as their well-wisher.He was addressing mediapersons here today. Abhay had led the protest of INLD workers over the passing of three farm Bills by Parliament and lathicharge on farmers in Pipli recently.“The government has passed these Bills without consulting farmers. The Bills were brought in June when people were inside their homes amid Covid. The government must rethink, otherwise farmers will have no option but to intensify the stir,” he said, adding that the INLD would continue its protests at district level.He criticised the government over lathicharge on farmers in Pipli and demanded a judicial probe into it.Abhay also criticised the government over non-procurement of paddy even after the announcement. “I got verified in all four districts where it was announced to start the procurement, but nothing was done in Ambala, while a little was purchased in Karnal and Kurukshetra, which shows the government is still ill-prepared,” he said. —TNS
29-09-2020||---||Officials locked up in Karnal mandi||Karnal, September 28Farmers and commission agents locked officials inside the Karnal market committee office on Monday against the non-procurement of paddy and non-availability of gunny bags. The office was opened after an hour.Farmer Ramesh Lal said, “Officially, the procurement began on Sunday. The reality, however, is different.”Meanwhile, the arhtiyas’ association announced the boycott of the paddy procurement process.“Procured paddy has not been lifted and arhtiyas have not received gunny bags for the produce procured on Sunday. Hence, arhtiyas have decided not to be part of the procurement process. We will not get PR paddy registered on behalf of farmers,” said Rajnish Chaudhary, president of the Karnal arhtiyas’ association.Chaudhary said it was yet to be decided who would procure paddy as rice millers did not get themselves registered on the portal.Sunder Singh Kamboj, secretary, market committee, said the produce was not procured on Monday because of high moisture content. “Moisture up to 17 per cent is permissible. But the produce brought by farmers has moisture content up to 30 per cent. This is the reason procurement agencies have not procured paddy,” he said.From Tuesday, he added, a schedule would be issued and farmers, who had got themselves registered on the Meri Fasal Mera Byora portal, would be called to the mandi.
29-09-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram gets senior citizen liaising cell||With senior citizens emerging as most vulnerable post unlock, the Gurugram police have constituted a special senior citizen liaising cell.The cell will not just be dedicatedly investigating crime against or involving senior citizens, but will also provide counselling and SOS help to them. The department has also issued a special helpline number 9599920639 where they can contact directly.There have been numerous instances of robberies, snatchings, domestic feuds etc involving senior citizens and in many cases lapse in response time has been highlighted.“The aim is to provide single access point to citizens irrespective of jurisdictions or nature of woes. Not just crime during Covid crisis, the police have been instrumental in distress service. From providing essentials to driving them to hospital and even connecting the vulnerable citizens with counsellors, everything is taken care of,” said CP KK Rao.In September, the police received 35 complaints of crime against senior citizens and 32 have been resolved so far. — OC
29-09-2020||Deepender Deswal||Rs 15 cr GST fraud unearthed||Tribune News ServiceHisar, September 28The Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Division here has busted a racket of fake input tax credit involving evasion of around Rs 15 crore.Rohtak CGST Commissioner VM Jain said they had conducted an inquiry on the basis of data analysis of information declared by M/s HS Trading Company in Hisar. He said it was found during verification that the firm did not exist at the given address.“The firm was registered on the name of an unconnected person with identity proofs, including Aadhaar and PAN, and a fake rent agreement. When this person was contacted, he told us that he resided in Delhi and had never applied for GST registration,” he added.Assistant Commissioner Sachin Ahlawat said it was noticed during further analysis that goods movement having input tax credit of more than Rs 15 crore was shown this month with taxable value of more than Rs 85 crore and fraudulent credit had been passed onto taxpayers, mostly in Punjab.He said the input tax credit of this firm had been shown from M/s Tulsi Trading Company, based in Patna. He said the transactions of this firm were suspicious due to vast difference in input and output tax credit. He said to facilitate passing on of credit, it had been registered in Punjab.A CGST official pointed out that M/s HS Trading Company was registered for child garment business. “Invoices of iron scrap and ingot are being issued. M/s MS Trading Company at Mandi Gobindgarh is registered on the same PAN,” said the official.“The nexus is spread over Haryana, Punjab and Bihar. Divisions in Punjab and Bihar were being contacted to unearth the matter.”
29-09-2020||Karnal||Untrained midwife held with abortion drugs||A team of the Health Department has arrested an untrained midwife allegedly with a huge quantity of medicine and instruments which are used for abortion in Rahra village of the Assandh block.The department has got a case registered against the woman under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act. Earlier, around four months ago, a foetus was found in Rahra village, after which an inquiry was initiated and an FIR was registered against unknown persons.“On a tip off that an untrained midwife was involved in illegal activities of abortion, I constituted a team comprising Drug Control Officer Reetu Mehla, Senior Medical Officer (SMO) Assandh Dr Sandeep Abrol, and Medical Officer Dr Manoj Ranga. The team arrested the woman red-handed with a huge quantity of medicine and instruments which are used in abortion,” said Dr Yogesh Kumar, Civil Surgeon.He maintained that another team of the department had sealed an ultrasound centre in Gharaunda for several irregularities. “The team inspected the centre onSeptember 22 and later after the nod from the district committee, the sealing process was initiated today,” said Dr Sharma. — TNS
29-09-2020||Hisar||Covid patient alleges lapses in extending aid||A 58-year-old Covid patient alleged he received “token help” from the Health Department after calling on its helpline for medical support.He tested positive on September 23 after having fever for five days. A Civil Hospital official contacted him and pasted a home quarantine poster outside his premises. “I called on the helpline number given on the poster, but it was not working. After five days, I contacted the central helpline number 1075 to lodge a complaint. Subsequently, the local health officials contacted me.”Meanwhile, Hisar Civil Surgeon Dr Ratna Bharti said: “A new helpline number has been launched. I contacted the patient and extended all requisite medical assistance to him.” — TNS
29-09-2020||
||Rape victim’s kin stage dharna||Jhajjar, September 28 Dissatisfied over police action, a rape victim’s kin and Bhim Sena activists disrupted vehicular traffic on the Gurugram road here for half an hour and took out a protest march on Monday. They staged a dharna on the mini-secretariat premises, demanding arrest of the accused and action against those villagers who had exerted pressure on them for a compromise in the case. The protesters proceeded towards the mini-secretariat, raising slogans against the police. They lay down on the road to protest against the police. The Salhavaas police had booked a man on the charge of raping a 19-year-old Scheduled Caste girl in the fields of their village on September 19 and slapped SC/ST Act provisions on him. “The police have failed to arrest the accused even after eight days. He is influential and the police are not taking action. Upper caste people in the village are pressurising us for a compromise. We want immediate arrest of the accused and action against those pressurising us,” said the victim’s mother. Satpal Tanwar of the Bhim Sena said they would not hesitate to take further action if the police did not arrest the accused. “We are demanding monetary aid and a job for the rape victim,” he said. Countering the protesters’ claims, Salhavaas police station in charge Suresh Kumar said the accused was arrested on Sunday. “Since a case has been registered under the SC/ST Act, it is being investigated by the DSP,” he said. Taking suo motu notice of the case, Haryana State Commission for Women acting chairperson Preeti Bhardwaj asked the Jhajjar SP to ensure arrest of the accused.
29-09-2020||---||Covid tally in Haryana crosses 1.25L mark||Chandigarh, September 28With 1,630 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 1.25 lakh today. A total of 24 deaths pushed the toll to 1,331.Five deaths were reported from Panchkula, four from Panipat, two each from Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad and one each from Kaithal, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Bhiwani, Rohtak, Ambala and Faridabad.A 62-year-old man from Manakpur village in Ambala, who was suffering from hypertension and kidney ailment and was on oxygen support, died of the virus.A 57-year-old man from Sector 8 in Faridabad succumbed to Covid. A 60-year-old man from Mangalpur and a 70-year-old woman from Munak in Karnal were also among the casualties.The maximum cases were reported from Gurugram (261), followed by Faridabad (195), Kurukshetra (163), Rohtak (126) and Hisar (107).
29-09-2020||Panipat||Two die in road mishap||Two youths were killed in an accident near Nawada Par village of the district on Sunday. The police have registered a case and begun a probe in the case.The deceased have been identified as Aamir and Kausar of Garhi Besak village of the district. According to information, Aamir along with Kausar were going to their village and when they reached near Nawada Par village, another motorcycle driver hit their motorcycleand they fell on the road and sustained serious injuries. They were rushed to the hospital. Where doctors declared Aamir dead and Kausar diedduring treatment.at Rohtak PGIMS— TNS
29-09-2020||---||After firing at girlfriend, cop shoots father-in-law||Rohtak, September 28A Delhi Police Sub-Inspector has been booked by the Lakhan Majra police on the charge of killing his father-in-law Ranbir Singh (62) in Bainsi village on Monday.The SI, identified as Sandeep Dahiya of Sisana village in Sonepat, came here allegedly after shooting at his girlfriend in Delhi.The police started investigation after registering a case on the complaint of deceased’s son Manjit Singh. The accused is absconding while the police claim to have conducted raids at his possible hideouts.Dahiya and his estranged wife had been living separately for the past few years. The accused had come to his wife’s maternal house in Bainsi village with the intention to kill her, but shot her father instead, claimed sources.“The murder was committed around 7:30 am when Ranbir was standing outside his house. As per the complaint, the accused opened fire on him from close range. He died on the spot while the accused fled,” said Rajender Singh, Lakhan Majra SHO.The sources said before killing his father-in-law, Dahiya shot at his girlfriend during a quarrel and left her by the roadside on the GT Road in North Delhi’s Alipur area on Sunday night. The woman is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Delhi.Dahiya had joined the police as constable in 2006 and was promoted to Sub-Inspector in 2010 after clearing an examination.He is posted at the Lahori Gate police station in Delhi. He is residing at government-allotted accommodation at Shalimar Bagh Police Colony.
29-09-2020||Rohtak||Global webinar on yoga||MDU celebrates NSS awardRohtak: The winning of the National Service Scheme (NSS) award from President Ram Nath Kovind was celebrated at the Department of Student Welfare at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) here on Monday. The MDU’s NSS programme coordinator, Prof Ranbir Singh Gulia, shared the story behind the achievement and his experience regarding the NSS programmes. The MDU was conferred the NSS award for 2018-2019 in the university category by the Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports on September 24.Webinar on Gandhian philosophyKarnal: A webinar was organised by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi, to commemorate the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Dr Shiv Prasad Kimothi, ADG, ICAR, coordinated this programme. Dr MS Chauhan, Director, National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), delivered a lecture on “Gandhian philosophy about drinking of goat milk”.
29-09-2020||It is a matter of grave concern that dirty water is accumulated in the society of Sector 85||Dirty water accumulates in Gurugram society||Subhash C Taneja, GurugramGovt Ill-prepared for paddy procurementThe Haryana Government has been claiming since long that they have made elaborate arrangements in grain markets to procure paddy so that in the pandemic times, farmers don't face any problems. But, the reality is far from the truth. The weighbridges located at the two main gates in the grain markets of Narwana are lying defunct. The floors are broken and full of dust and mud. There's no arrangement for drinking water and lack toilet facilities. Farmers are left to fend for themselves. Kisan Bhawan is used by the staff only. The HSAMB should make effective arrangements in advance.Ramesh Chand, NarwanaThumbs up to drive against Stray cattleThe commitment of the Hisar Nagar Nigam to make the city stray cattle free seems to be coming true. Officials are working tirelessly even on holidays to give a boost to the animal capturing drive. Efforts of the team members of the Nigam have rekindled the hope of accidents being curbed. Even residents have joined in to assist the Nigam officials in the mission .Baljeet S Deep, HisarWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
29-09-2020||Gurugram||2 held with illicit liquor||The police have nabbed two persons while pasting labels of popular brands on bottles of liquor in the Rajendra Park area. They seized 520 cartons of illicit liquor and recovered labels of popular brands. The police sent the liquor for testing. The accused were identified as Anirudh (22) and Shreepal (25), hailing from Uttar Pradesh. The accused were produced in a local court, which remanded them in judicial custody. occhandigarhNow, HTET valid for 7 yrsThe Haryana Government has extended the validity of the Haryana Teachers Eligibility Test (HTET) from five years to seven years. An order to this effect has been issued by Additional Chief Secretary (School Education) Mahavir Singh. Passing the HTET, conducted by the Board of School Education Haryana, is an essential qualification for recruitment as junior basic teacher in Haryana. tns
