29-10-2020||---||Haryana slashes Covid-19 test rates||Chandigarh, October 29The Haryana Health Department has decided to reduce the prices of RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen COVID-19 tests.Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajeev Arora said the price of RT-PCR testing had been reduced from Rs 1,200 to Rs 900 and Rapid Antigen Testing has been reduced from Rs 650 to Rs 500.He said the state government had directed that no private laboratory should charge any amount more than the rates fixed by the government, inclusive of GST taxes.
29-10-2020||Satya Prakash||PIL in SC seeks SIT probe into forcible conversion, crimes against women in Mewat||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 29Alleging that the life and liberty of Hindus in Nuh area of Mewat in Haryana were in jeopardy, a PIL filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday demanded an SIT probe into forcible conversion and crimes against women of Hindu community.Filed by a group of lawyers and activists—including Ranjana Agnihotri and Shishir Chaturvedi, the PIL alleged that dominant members of the Muslim community have overpowered Hindus of the area and sought the Supreme Court’s intervention for protection of fundamental rights Hindus whose population has witnessed a decline over the years.“A number of Hindus have been forcibly converted to Islam and a number of Hindu women and minor girls have been abducted and raped. The Hindu women are not safe at all. The Muslims at a large number have committed atrocities on members of Schedule Caste,” read the petition filed days after the murder of Nikita Tomar, a college girl, by Tauseet in Ballabhgarh.The petition demanded a probe into all incidents of forcible conversion and crimes against Hindu women by an SIT comprising CBI and NIA officers and monitored by a retired Supreme Court judge. It also sought a direction to declare null and void all sale deeds executed by Hindus in favour of Muslims in the last 10 years under coercion and undue influence.Under the patronage of the Tablighi Jamaat, Muslims have gradually increased their strength “and now the position is that Hindus Population is decreasing and it has come down from 20% to 10-11% since the last census 2011,” stated the petition filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain.Citing a May 2020 report submitted to the Haryana Chief Minister by a four-member panel that said out of 431 villages in Mewat-Nuh, 103 had become totally devoid of Hindus and in 82 villages only four-five Hindu families were left.The right to life and personal liberty and their right to religion were being “eroded by members of Muslim community who were in dominating position, the petition alleged.Accusing the State of Haryana of not disclosing facts of various FIRs and complaints of heinous crimes lodged by Hindus against Muslims, the petition said the local police failed to exercise the powers vested in them by law, due to which the life and liberty of every Hindu was in jeopardy and they were leading a life of an animal.
29-10-2020||Sanjay Yadav||NCW seeks report on alleged rape in Gurugram hospital||Gurugram, October 29National Commission for Women has taken cognisance of patient’s allegations of being raped while on ventilator in a private hospital in Gurugram. According to statement issued by commission, it has come across a media report of alleged rape of a 21-year-old patient while she was on ventilator support in the ICU of a private hospital in Gurugram.“Being concerned of such increasing crimes against women, the Commission has written to Commissioner of Police, Gurugram, seeking adherence to guidelines of Ministry of Home Affairs of completing probes in two months in cases of sexual assault. The Commission has also sought a detailed action taken report in the matter from the police. The Commission is perturbed by the reported negligence of hospitals and the lack of measures to ensure safety of women. NCW has written to the Managing Director and CEO of the hospital concerned for taking necessary action to avoid recurrence of such incidents in future,” read the statement.The hospital administration has also been directed to send an action taken report in the matter.Meanwhile, police said the probe is on and they are waiting for the statement of victim.
29-10-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  ||Over 14% govt school students in rural Haryana don’t have books, finds survey||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, October 29 Over 14 per cent government school students in rural Haryana don’t have books of their grade and close to 23 per cent don’t have smartphones at home. The findings have come in the Annual Survey of Education Report (ASER) 2020 which has laid bare the problems faced by rural students in Haryana who are forced to study through online classes due to Covid pandemic. The survey, which was conducted in 627 villages and covered 2,442 students in the age group of 5-16, has pointed out that 14.1 per cent students of government schools don’t have text books of their class, while the figure is 10.4 per cent for private schools’ students. Close to 18 per cent students of classes 9 and above of government schools don’t have books. Close to 23 per cent enrolled students in government schools don’t have smartphones at home, while the figure is 12.6 per cent for those studying in private schools.  Family members are helping children in their studies but they all are not well educated. While teaching younger kids is easy but among those studying in classes 9 and above, 31 per cent responded that they have no help from family members.  Only 67.7 per cent government schools’ students had received any learning material in the week prior to the survey while the figure was 72.2 per cent for private school students. WhatsApp has been the most preferred method of imparting lessons though 3.1 per cent have also reported personal visit.  The survey has also delved into detail on the reasons among those students who are not getting learning material from schools or teachers. In rural Haryana, 42.4 per cent have blamed the schools, 11.5 per cent have said there is no internet, 40.6 per cent don’t have smartphones and 2.3 per cent have pointed out connectivity issues. The households were also asked about communication with teachers in the week prior to the survey. If there had been no contact, they were asked if there had been any contact since the lockdown began. Among government school students, 54.9 per cent have responded that either teacher visited or called parent or child in the week prior the survey while 45.5 per cent have responded that either parent or child visited or called the teacher. As many as 31.9 per cent responded that they had no contact in the week prior to the survey but they had communication at least once.
29-10-2020||Sanjay YadavFaridabad||Was inspired by Bollywood to abduct girl and make her fall in love: Key accused in Nikita murder case||Inspired by Bollywood and web series that he had been binging on during the lockdown, Tausif thought a filmy abduction and forceful marriage and honeymoon at a hill station could help him win over Nikita Tomar.According to highly placed sources, he believed that if she stayed with him for 15 days she would fall for him.“He had been following Bollywood theories for love. He tried dragging her inside his car and she screamed that she would rather die. He claims that it was the defiant look in her eyes that made him understand it won’t happen and he shot her dead to ensure if not his she could not be anybody else’s,” revealed a senior investigator.The Faridabad police are busy collecting evidence and say that they will file charge sheet as early as possible.A team of SIT headed by ACP Anil Yadav went to the family’s home today to question them primarily about the 2018 complaint of abduction against Tausif.The accused as per sources had been left scarred with proceedings of public apology by him.The police are also looking into call details of Nikita as while the family claims that Tausif has suddenly returned in her life this year the accused has been insisting that he had been persuading her since last year but got no encouragement from her.“We have collected most of the evidence in the case and started preparing a charge sheet. We are trying to file a strong charge sheet against the accused. We are also exploring call details of the accused and the victim and also getting details of their bank accounts,” said Anil Yadav, ACP, Crime, and head of SIT.The Faridabad police have provided security to the family of Nikita Tomar.Police provided separate gunmen to Nikita’s father, mother and brother for their security.Main accused Tausif and weapon provider Ajruddin were produced in a city court today and sent to judicial custody. Reyan, the associate of Tausif, will be produced in court by Friday, said police.“The accused has been arrested and most of evidence has been collected,” said OP Singh, Commissioner of police, Faridabad.Tausif belongs to a political hotshot family that has ruled in Mewat for years.He has raised a demand for him to be lodged in jail of his choice.After order of court to send him in Neemka jail, Faridabad, his lawyer moved an application and applied to go to Gurugram’s Bhondsi jail instead.Nikita’s lawyer and maternal uncle Aidal Singh Rawat said they have received information from the court that the accused Tausif has applied to go to Bhondsi jail.Rawat says that Tausif’s maternal uncle Islamuddin is a notorious criminal and he is lodged in Gurugram’s Bhondsi jail.“They will run their nexus and he will be privileged there. We will protest against this and appeal to the court not to accept this demand of accused,” added advocate Rawat.It may be noted that Tausif had allegedly changed his name to Ankit to get in touch with the deceased during school days.Tausif had hidden his identity fearing that his religion might become a hindrance in becoming friends with the girl he “loved”.
29-10-2020||Gohana||'Will quit politics if Minimum Support Price is abolished', says Haryana CM Khattar||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has announced on Thursday, that he would "quit politics" if the minimum support price (MSP) in Haryana was abolished. He said, that neither the mandis would be closed nor the MSP. TThe Chief Minister has appealed to the voters to elect Yogeshwar Dutt to have a "pleasant stake" in the state government.The Chief Minister started campaigning and held meetings at five big villages—Kathura, Dhanana, Baroda, Butana, and Jagasi—in Baroda consistency, and sought votes for BJP-JJP coalition candidate Yogeshwar Dutt.While addressing the people in Kathura village, the Chief Minister said, that he would come, here, to add one more MLA to strengthen the state government.The Chief Minister said, that he had visited Baroda four-months ago after the seat got vacated, and had assured people he would work as the MLA of the consistency till a new one was elected.After his assurance, scores of works have been completed, and many more were underway, he added.He added, that Rs 165 crore has been released to the sarpanch's account for development works while a hundred crores of rupees were given for the development of the constituency.The Chief Minister said, that some work has been halted due to the model code of conduct, but they would start after November 11. We have done all the work, including canals, portable water, electricity, and roads in the constituency in the past four months, the Chief Minister claimed.Taking a scathing attack at Congress, the Chief Minister said, thatthe politics of the 134-year-old Congress party is based on "lies, and it has lured the voters by false promises, which has never been fulfilled"."BJP was the pro-farmer party, and it worked regularly for their well-being," the Chief Minister said, adding, that the BJP has given Rs. 12,000 per acre compensation to the farmers."We have launched Bhavantar scheme for the farmers, payment of produce has been transferred directly in the farmers' account," he said."Previously, governments claimed, that they had given jobs to youths, but we are not saying, because the capable youths got jobs on their capability, which was around 80,000 in the BJP government regime," the Chief Minister added.While taking a dig at former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his son, Rajya Sabha Member, Deepender Singh Hooda, the Chief Minister, said the duo (father-son) were roaming in Baroda because they were thinking about themselves. But, all ministers, MLAs and leaders of the BJP-JJP coalition were seeking votes for BJP candidates.The Chief Minister said Kappor Narwal's name was on top, but he showed haste and after, that Congress cheated him, but BJP always stands with his own man.Power Minister Ranjeet Singh Chautala, Rajya Sabha MP Ramchander Jangra, MP Ramesh Kaushik, MP Arvind Sharma, MP Sanjay Bhatia, Minister Anoop Dhanak, INSO national President and JJP leader Digvijay Singh Chautala also addressed the public meetings and sought vote in support of BJP-JJP coalition candidate Yogeshwar Dutt.
29-10-2020||Jhajjar||Jhajjar MLA Geeta Bhukkal tests COVID-19 positive; under home quarantine||Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal tested COVID-19 positive on Thursday. She has been actively carrying out election campaigns in the Baroda assembly segment.A rapid antigen tested was conducted at her local residence after she showed symptoms of body ache and dry cough.Bhukkal is under home quarantine.In conversation with The Tribune, Bhukkal told over the phone: "I had been suffering from body ache and a dry cough for the past two days. Before going to Baroda this morning, I got my COVID test done, and the report came positive. At present, I am at my residence in Jhajjar city."Bhukkal has been addressing poll meetings in various villages of the Baroda assembly segment for the past two weeks to seek votes for the congress candidate Induraj Narwal alias Bhalu.She was also present on stage at major poll meetings of the Congress party there.
29-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||Baroda bypoll: Development is only agenda of BJP: Khattar||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 29Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said the development was the only agenda of the BJP in the Baroda bypoll as the state government had carried out many development works in the assembly segment during the past four months.He also claimed the victory of the BJP-JJP alliance nominee Yogeshwar Dutt in the election.Khattar was interacting with mediapersons at Shri Baba Mast Nath University here on Thursday before proceeding to Baroda for poll campaign.INSO national president Digvijay Chautala, Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma and former minister Manish Kumar Grover were present on the occasion.Accusing the Congress of misleading farmers over three farm legislations, Khattar said the farmers had known about the intention of the Congress leaders, hence they no more believed them, and would ensure the victory of the BJP-JJP nominee in the Baroda bypoll.“The Congress leaders are habitual of speaking lies but they have now exposed themselves to the farmers over the three farm laws. The MSP and mandi system will continue as usual but the Congress is spreading false information that the laws will end the MSP system and the mandi system,” said the CM.In reply to a question, Khattar said only four days were left for the bypoll in Baroda, hence every party had chalked out campaign strategies.“We shall also carry out extensive campaigning in the segment during the four days and will try to cover all villages for seeking votes,” he added.In reply to another question, the Chief Minister said Baroda segment had been unlucky in terms of development as those elected from here in the past 15 years did not bother about its development but such was not the case with the BJP as it had already taken several steps in this direction. Even, people of the segment too had realised the significance of the development for the betterment of the region, he added.
29-10-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Covaxin trials: Health workers to be included in Phase III||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 29Healthcare workers will also be included as volunteers in the third phase of the human trials of indigenous COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin. The number of volunteers, on which the vaccine is to be tested, will also be increased to nearly 26,000.Sources maintain that Covaxin will be tested on healthcare professionals, including doctors, nurses and other paramedical staffers, in Phase-III of the clinical human trials, which is expected to begin in November.“Phase-II of the clinical human trials of Covaxin has been completed and Phase III is likely to commence soon,” said Dr Ramesh Verma, a co-investigator of the project at Rohtak PGIMS, while talking to The Tribune on Thursday.As per the project investigators, the clinical trials have been largely successful so far.In Phase-I, two doses of Covaxin were given to healthy volunteers between the age group of 18 and 55 years while in Phase II, two doses of the vaccine were given to a different set of volunteers between the age group of 12 and 65 years.While only healthy volunteers were involved in Phase-I, the volunteers who have controlled diabetes, hypertension or asthma etc were involved in Phase 2 of the trials.Volunteers above 18 years of age are likely to be included in the third phase of the trials.As per official sources, the number of centres, where the human trials are being conducted, will also be increased during the third phase of the trials.
29-10-2020||---||70 head of cattle die at Panchkula's Mata Mansa Devi Godham||Panchkula, October 28Around 70 head of cattle, including cows and calves, died in a suspected case of consuming poisonous fodder at Mata Mansa Devi Godham, which is run by the Panchkula Gaushala Trust, near the Mansa Devi temple complex.The cattle died after eating the fodder on Tuesday evening, an official said.Though the exact cause of the death of such a huge number of cows is not yet known, the organisers and officials are suspecting that some devotee, who visited the shelter, may have given them foodstuff that caused food poisoning.“One thing is clear that food poisoning was not due to the fodder given to them by us. Had there been food poisoning due to fodder, the deaths would have been much higher. As fodder was served to cattle in all seven sheds, why were fatalities reported only from two particular sheds – number 1 and 2?” Dr Naresh Mittal, secretary of the trust, said.The facility has a total of seven sheds in which nearly 1,400 head of cattle are kept.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta visited the gaushala to take stock of the matter. He asked officials to investigate the incident.He was accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, who said they had constituted a three-member committee, which would submit its report in three days. The police have collected the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the sheds to investigate the matter. Dr Anil Banwala, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Haryana, said they were inspecting fodder and water given to these animals. The samples have been sent to Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences in Hisar for forensic examination.According to Dr Banwala, they received information about the incident around 9.30 pm yesterday and a team of veterinary doctors was dispatched to the cow shelter soon after. “All animals who had fallen sick were given treatment in the sheds throughout the night. However, it was too late to revive nearly 70 of them,” he said.The carcasses have been sent for a post-mortem examination and an investigation is underway. This is the second such incident in the past two months.In August, 18 head of cattle had lost their lives after consuming poisonous fodder at a gaushala in Saketri.
29-10-2020||Amit Sharma||Chandigarh to get gangster Lawrence Bishnoi from Rajasthan jail||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28The UT police will bring gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, who is behind several heinous crimes reported from the city, on production warrant for interrogation in a bid to crack down on his gang operating in the region. Bishnoi is lodged at a jail in Rajasthan.SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said they had already applied for Bishnoi’s production warrant and soon he would be brought to the city. He said Bishnoi would be interrogated for various crimes in the city, including extortion calls made to businessmen. “We will crack down on Bishnoi’s syndicate by arresting all persons found linked to him,” the SSP said.Bishnoi’s aides arrested earlier this year had claimed that the owner of the GBP Group was also on their target. The UT police will also verify this claim during Bishnoi’s interrogation. The police have also prepared a list of around 25 to 35 persons associated with the gangster.2 gangs active in cityMajorly, the Lawrence Bishnoi gang and the Davinder Bambiha group are active in the city, following which we are getting Bishnoi and key members of the Bambiha group on production warrant. —Kuldeep Singh Chahal, SSP, UTFrom “ordering” killing from jail to making extortion calls to businessmen, Bishnoi has always kept UT cops on toes for the past few years. Bishnoi had been operating his gang from the jail.Rajbir Singh, alias Sonu Shah, a rival of the Bishnoi gang, was gunned down at his office in Burail last year. Earlier this year, shots were fired at a businessman’s house in Sector 33 and at a liquor store in Sector 9 at Bishnoi’s behest.Police sources said the Bishnoi gang had also extorted a huge sum from businessmen in the city in the past few years. However, nobody came forward to lodge a complaint. Several club owners and a leading chemist in Sector 11 had also received extortion calls from the gang.Police to bring another gangsterGangster Dilpreet Singh, alias Baba, who is among the key members of the Davinder Bambiha group, will be brought on production warrant on Thursday to probe his role in the Gurlal Brar murder case. Gurlal was shot dead outside a mall earlier this month.
29-10-2020||---||Five robbers loot jewellery, cash at gunpoint in Barara||Ambala, October 28At least five unidentified robbers looted cash and jewellery worth lakhs from a shop at gunpoint in Barara today evening.As per the information, four robbers went inside the shop — Govind Jewellers — while one waited outside. Along with the owner, two employees and a couple of customers were also present in the shop when robbers entered the premises around 5 pm.An eyewitness said, “I noticed that something is happening was happening in the shop. When I reached there, I found that robbers were filling bags with jewellery and cash. There were five robbers, who were carrying arms. After looting they fired three times into the air and fled towards Ayodhya on their motorcycles.”The Barara Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Rajnish Kumar, who reached the spot, said, “The robbers had their faces covered. Along with jewellery, they have also taken away the DVR of the CCTV. Four of them entered the shop one by one while one kept waiting outside. Teams of CIA-1, CIA Naraingarh and the Barara police station have been formed and a hunt is on to nab the suspects.”“We are obtaining footages of nearby CCTV cameras and keeping an eye on toll plazas as well. We are also getting details about old suspects, who have been involved in such acts in the past and are out on bail,” the DSP added.“There were many people outside the shop, but no one intervened. The people should at least inform the police on time if they notice something wrong so that such incidents can be averted. The shop owner is yet to give details about jewellery robbed.”The Barara police station SHO, Virender Kumar, said, “A case has been registered under Section 395, IPC, and the Arms Act. Efforts are on to trace the suspects.”
29-10-2020||DURING a visit to the Karnal DC office||People must follow Covid prevention norms||Offices should be set up in KarnalIT has been a long time since the Haryana Real Estate Appellate Tribunal was set up in Karnal, but still it has not got its own office here and has to work in Chandigarh. Similarly, the Karnal Division Commissioner and the Information Commissioner also do not have their own courts in the district and currently using the court of the Deputy Commissioner and the Right to Service Commission also requires its office. I suggest that Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar should allot a sufficient space for the construction of new judicial building on the vacant land along with the Lawyers Chambers Complex in Sector 12, in which the courts and offices of the HREAT, Right to Service Commission, Information Commissioner and Divisional Commissioner should be constructed for the convenience of the lawyers and citizens of the state. Shakti Singh, KarnalPoliticians need to focus on environmentIT is sad to see the bad politics being practiced in the state. Many politicians these days are making undesirable remarks for the Baroda Assembly by-election. I do not hesitate in saying that most of the politicians in Haryana are surviving on the caste considerations. Sadly, the tickets also are distributed on the lines of caste only. All political parties claim to be development oriented, people and farmer friendly but the reality is different. No political party understands the issues of relevance, including sustainable development goals (SDGs), which are rarely talked about to impress the voters. The voters must know their role in democracy and vote for the candidate who is aware of the 18th rank of the state in the SDG index 2019-20 with composite score of 57, less than India's average score of 60. Prof MM Goel, KurukshetraWastage of water needs to be checkedWASTAGE of underground and potable water has reached alarming rates, though it is now a punishable act. In pursuance of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directions issued in October 2019, the Central Ground Water Board had recently issued directions to all state governments and union territories, under which all agencies looking after water supply, including municipal corporations, the Water Supply Department, municipal councils, development authorities, panchayats and others had been directed to ensure that potable water is not wasted. The departments had been directed to take punitive action under the Environment Protection Act, 1986, against those who indulge in the acts of violating these directives. The violators are liable to be punished with five years of imprisonment and imposition of Rs 1 lakh fine. Now, the ball is in the court of departments and civic bodies to act tough against the violators. Satish Seth, KaithalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNE invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com
29-10-2020||Karnal||Awareness rally on farm fires||Refresher course concludesHisar: The valedictory function of two-week long online UGC sponsored refresher course in physics organised by the Human Resource Development Centre at Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology here, has concluded. The course was attended by 38 teachers from various universities and colleges from across the nation viz Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Bihar, Maharashtra, Delhi, etc. The online valedictory ceremony was marked by the presence of chief guest Prof Dinesh Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA Faridabad, and Prof Neeraj Dilbaghi, Director, HRDC, and others. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, GJUST, also presided over the function. Prof Dinesh Kumar pointed out the benefits of the course to the participants and appealed them to encourage and motivate their students to engage in creative pursuits. He emphasised that teachers must always include stories of some great personalities in their teaching in addition to their subject of knowledge. He recommended the participants to involve in good and high impact research and appreciated the organisers for arranging deliberations of renowned scientists and researchers for the course. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar said a good teacher had to be a best learner first.
29-10-2020||Ambala||Two killed in mishaps||Two persons were killed in separate road mishaps in the district. Ram Avtar (34) of Baldev Nagar, near here, was killed when a scooter hit his motorcycle near Ambala. The police arrested scooterist Itlesh and later released him on bail. Pedestrian Hari Singh (42) of Balana, near here, was killed when a bus ran over him in Ambala. The police booked bus driver Ajit Pal. TNSTwo nabbed for theftThe police arrested Ravi Kumar of Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh and Robin of Ambala for theft and claimed to have recovered stolen items from their possession. Ravinderpal Singh of Ambala had reported theft of electronics goods, cash and household articles. A local court remanded the accused in one-day police custody. TNS
29-10-2020||Fridabad||SIT to probe Faridabad girl Nikita’s killing, kin get security||A three-member SIT, headed by ACP (Crime) Anil Kumar, has been set up to probe the murder of the 21-year-old woman who was shot by two youths outside a college in Ballabgarh on Monday.About accused Tausif The SIT members visited the aggrieved family this morning. The victim’s mother alleged the key accused, Tausif, had been pressuring Nikita to marry him. Booked in 2018 on the family’s complaint, Tausif was later let off. He did not contact any member of the family thereafter.Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said the SIT would look into the 2018 complaint and inquire if any Congress leader was involved in hushing up the matter. Yashpal Yadav, DC, said security had been provided to the family. Union Minister of State for Social Justice KP Gurjar visited the family. Former Congress MLA Karan Dalal demanded an FIR against cops for “laxity in handling the case.” — TNS
29-10-2020|| ---||Haryana  wins award for Covid mgmt||Chandigarh, October 28 The Haryana Health Department has won the SKOCH Gold Award for outstanding performance during the Covid crisis.  The Health Department had submitted its project titled ‘Covid-19 status in Haryana’ for the awards and was adjudged the best Covid module by the panellist.  The state government had participated in the 67th SKOCH awards, which were organised through the digital mode, by the SKOCH group today.  Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Rajeev Arora said that the Health Department has been working day and night to provide the finest health services to the people of the state in this hour of crisis.  He said, “More than 300 organisations submitted their projects under various categories. Of these, 136 were selected for the order of merit. The government had submitted its project under the category ‘Response to Covid-19’.”
29-10-2020||Yamunanagar||702 boxes of liquor seized, three arrested||A team of the CM’s flying squad has seized three utility vehicles laden with 702 boxes of liquor from Vishwa Karma Chowk here on Wednesday. Drivers were nabbed and handed over to the police.  Later, two cases were registered in this connection. Sub-inspector Dinesh Sharma of the CM flying squad told the media the drivers failed to furnish any document related to the supply of liquor to vends. As per the FIRs, the three vehicles were loaded from the godowns of KK Wine and Kailash Chandra, both in Yamunanagar. — TNS
29-10-2020||---||Sea of support for family of Faridabad murder victim Nikita||Faridabad, October 28Hundreds of visitors converged on the house of Nikita, who was shot outside a college in Ballabgarh, on Wednesday to express condolences and support to the grieving family.SIT to probe Faridabad girl Nikita’s killing, kin get securityThough the family of the deceased had raised some demands, the authorities concerned were only able to accept the demand of security.Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Krishan Pal Gurjar, who was among the prominent political leaders to visit the family, said justice would be delivered at all costs.He said the culprits would not go scot-free as the state government had already set up a special investigation team and the matter was likely to be heard in a fast-track court.On the demands of government job to a member of the family and financial support, Gurjar said he would talk to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in this regard and a positive response was expected soon.Gopal Sharma, district BJP president, who accompanied Gurjar, condemned the incident. He stated that the party stood by the grieving family.Nain Pal Rawat, Prithla MLA and Haryana Warehousing Corporation chairman, assured the family that the culprits would not be spared. He said the state government would go to any extent to help the family.Sharda Rathaur, former MLA from Ballabgarh, and Karan Dalal, former MLA from Palwal, also condoled the death. Condemning the murder, both leaders demanded fast-track justice and security for the family.Seeking registration of a case against police officials for alleged laxity in handling the case since 2018, Dalal asked why the police had failed to take action when a complaint had been lodged against the main accused two years ago.Blaming police officials, he said laxity had resulted in the murder of a young woman at a time when the BJP government was patting its back by making tall claims with the “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao” slogan. He said there should be no clemency for any culprit even if he hailed from an influential political family.The victim’s house was thronged by a large number of people, who condemned the incident and supported the demands raised by the family.Some of them questioned the presence of officials and ruling party leaders in the live band show at the Town Park on Tuesday evening when the deceased was being cremated.
29-10-2020||---||BKU shows black flags to Dy CM Dushyant Chautala over farm laws||Kurukshetra, October 28Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday said the state government had so far released Rs 3,300 crore to paddy farmers and efforts were being made to ensure that farmers and traders faced no inconvenience during the ongoing paddy procurement season.“The government has always taken decisions in the interest of farmers and traders. The three new farm laws should be seen in this context,” he told the media in the district’s Thaska Miranji village on Wednesday.He claimed farmers in the state would continue to get the MSP for their produce.To a query on the murder of a 21-year-old girl outside a Faridabad college on Monday, Dushyant said: “The culprits will not be spared. The state government has formed an SIT to probe the matter.”Meanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) activists raised slogans against the state government for not opposing the three farm laws and showed black flags to the Deputy Chief Minister when his convoy passed from the Ambala-Hisar highway in Ismailabad.A group of farmers had gathered along the road after they learnt about Dushyant Chautala’s Kurukshetra visit.Rakesh Bains, BKU (Charuni) spokesman, said: “The BKU will continue to protest till the three farm laws are not withdrawn.”
29-10-2020||Gurugram||2 held for thrashing woman||Two Delhi women were arrested from outside Raheja mall for allegedly trying to abduct another woman after a fight. An FIR has been registered at the Sadar police station. Both the accused were produced in a city court today from where they were granted bail. According to the complaint filed by Sonia, native of Hisar, she came to Gurugram’s Raheja mall late on Tuesday evening for an interview and met the two women who started thrashing her. “I have an old dispute with them,” the victim told the police. — OC
29-10-2020||nipat||Govt pushing Haryana into debt: Hooda||Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda attacked the BJP-JJP government on Wednesday for pushing the state into acute debt, saying every child born in the state had a loan of Rs 80,000. He visited Bichpadi, Ahmedpur Majra, Jagasi, Matand, Busana, Chhater, Siwanka and Mahmudpur villages and sought votes for Congress candidate Induraj Narwal. Taking a dig at the government, Hooda said the state was on top in per capita income and investment earlier, but was on that position in crime, corruption, unemployment and drugs now. Instead of generating new employment opportunities for the youth, the government was engaged in taking away jobs, Hooda alleged. He said people were looking forward to the byelection result because it would give a new direction to bringing about political change in the state. Rajya Sabha member Deepender Singh Hooda visited Kohla, Nooran Khera, Ishapur Kheri, Rana Kheri and Gangana. — TNS
29-10-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Baroda  bypoll: Senior leaders take charge of campaign||Tribune News ServicePanipat, October 28The battle for Baroda bypoll has reached its interesting turn. The BJP-JJP coalition, Congress and the INLD senior leaders have now taken up the command of the election campaign for their candidates.BJP-JJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt, Congress’ Induraj Narwal, INLD’s Joginder Malik and LSP candidate and former Kurukshetra MP Rajkumar Saini are among 14 candidates in the electoral fray in Baroda constituency.Satbeer Singh Saini, INLD SpokesmanINLD rally on oct 31The INLD will organise a big rally on October 31 in Baroda village. Senior party leaders, including former CM Om Prakash Chautala, Abhay Singh Chautala and national president of women's wing Sunaina Chautala, will address the rally.All party leaders are leaving no stone unturned for the victory of their party candidate and to strengthen the party.The BJP-JJP coalition has scheduled programmes of CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala for campaigning for October 29 and 31 and Congress’ senior leaders have also reached Baroda for campaigning.Besides, INLD supremo Om Prakash Chautala along with Abhay Singh Chautala have taken up the command of campaign of their candidate.As per political experts, Baroda bye-poll has become a challenge for the BJP-JJP coalition state government and the coalition accepted the challenge and prepared a strong strategy at war level to win the bye-poll.The BJP has managed the campaigning at micro level with its common worker to senior leaders and fielded them in all villages of Baroda constituency, a political expert said.Besides, senior party leaders of BJP as well as of JJP visited village to village to woo the voters.Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia said programmes of both the party (BJP and JJP) leaders, including the CM and Deputy CM, has been fixed for campaigning.Khattar along with minister Ranjeet Chautala, Anoop Dhanak and Digvijay Chautala will be in the constituency on October 29, while the CM and the Deputy CM will be in the constituency on October 31, he added.In the Congress camp, former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his son and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Singh Hooda were regularly visiting villages in the constituency for the past one week. Besides, Congress state incharge Vivek Bansal, state chief Kumari Selja and other senior party leaders have also visited the constituency and held meetings in support of candidate Induraj Narwal.Satbeer Singh Saini, former HCS officer and state spokesman for the INLD, said the party was going to organise a big rally on October 31 in Baroda village. The student wing of the party led by Karan Chautala and Arjun Chautala are organising the rally.Senior party leaders, including former CM Om Prakash Chautala, Abhay Singh Chautala and national president of women wing Sunaina Chautala, have also visited the constituency and will address the rally on October 31, he added.
29-10-2020||Our Correspondent---||TB patient raped in Gurugram hospital||Gurugram, October 28 An unidentified employee of a leading multispecialty private hospital here has been booked on the charge of raping a 21-year-old tuberculosis (TB) patient, who was admitted to the medical facility on October 21, the police have said. The victim, a resident of Mahendragarh district, is a college student. On Tuesday, the victim’s father approached the police, alleging that one of the employees of the hospital had raped her daughter. Sources said the woman was admitted to the hospital after she complained of difficulty in breathing. Doctors had put her on a ventilator. “My daughter regained consciousness on Tuesday. When I went to see her, she told him me through signs and in writing that she had been physically assaulted,” the girl’s father told the police. Her medical examination was conducted on Wednesday. The report was awaited. On receiving a complaint, a team from the Sushant Lok police station reached the hospital. Maqsood Ahmed, DCP (East), said: “The woman is unconscious. So her statement could not be recorded. A case has been registered under Section 376 (rape) of the IPC.”  A hospital official said, “The patient’s condition has been diagnosed with pulmonary tuberculosis. She was admitted to the ICU on October 21. The next day, she was put on a ventilator. After six days of treatment, the patient alleged that she was violated on the day of admission. The police were informed when we received a complaint from her father. The hospital is cooperating with the police and furnishing the required information.”
29-10-2020||Kurukshetra||3 die in Kurukshetra mishap||Three students from Delhi were killed, while two others suffered injuries when the car they were travelling in met with an accident near a fuel station on the Delhi-Ambala National Highway in Shahabad on Tuesday night, the police have said. The deceased have been identified as Manish (21), Shantanu (23) and Chirag (23), while the injured persons were identified as Jatin (19) and Shubham (20), all residents of Delhi. Manish and Jatin are brothers. —– TNS
29-10-2020||---||3 killed, 10 hurt in Jhajjar collision||Jhajjar, October 28Three persons were killed and 10 others injured in a head-on collision between a Haryana Roadways bus and a truck on the Jhajjar-Bahujhholari road near Nauganva village on Wednesday.Five of the injured persons were referred to the PGIMS, Rohtak, following their critical condition.Cause still to be ascertainedThe impact of the collision completely damaged one side of the bus. Two persons died on the spot. “The reason behind the mishap is yet to be ascertained,” said investigation officer Sub-inspector Satbir.The mishap took place around 5.30 am when the bus was on its way to Chandigarh. As it reached near Patuvaas canal, a truck coming from the opposite direction collided with it. The truck driver, identified as Manjit of the district’s Birdhana village, and an unidentified bus passenger reportedly died on the spot.The impact of the collision completely damaged one side of the bus. On hearing the sound of the collision and cries of the passengers, people residing nearby rushed to the spot and took injured persons to the Civil Hospital here.The bus driver, identified as Sanjeet, and four passengers were referred to the PGIMS. He succumbed to injuries during treatment.“The reason behind the mishap is yet to be ascertained,” said investigation officer Sub-inspector Satbir.
29-10-2020||Karnal||Truck mows down three Sirmaur residents||Three persons were crushed to death by a truck near Ramba village on Karnal-Indri road on Wednesday. The incident took place when they were changing the tyre of their vehicle. The deceased have been identified as Anil (28), Yuvraj (14) and the driver Arun (27), all residents of Sirmaur district in Himachal.The truck driver, identified as Rashid of Ghaziabad, sustained injuries.The trio was going to Narela from Sirmaur to sell tomatoes. Around 5 am, they had to replace a punctured tyre. At that time, a truck loaded with construction material crushed them to death, said Mukesh Kumar, in charge, police post, Ramba.He said they were taken to hospital, but they were declared dead. Rashid has been booked. He is under treatment, Mukesh added. — TNS
29-10-2020||---||Minister: Congress party of middlemen||Panipat, October 28Taking a dig at the Congress, Power Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala today said it had always supported the middlemen and now it had become the party of middlemen only.“The existence of the 135-year-old party is under threat,” he said while interacting with mediapersons in the BJP office at Gohana.He urged the people of Baroda to not come under the influence of the Opposition. “People will stamp on the development works of the BJP and Yogeshwar Dutt will win with a good margin,” he claimed.Chautala said the BJP was the only party that had a complete mandate after 1983. “The BJP has given ticket as per the capability of the candidate but the Congress is just opposite to it. “It gives ticket to its nears and dears and this is the main reason for its downfall,” he added.JJP seeks votes for Yogeshwar
29-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||Rewari district a picture of neglect||Tribune News ServiceRewari, October 28The deplorable condition of several internal and outer roads in the district paint a picture of neglect as these are neither being repaired nor recarpeted even after several protests by locals and complaints lodged at the CM Window.People say Rewari is considered the nerve centre of Ahirwal politics and it also finds representation in the Cabinet of Centre as well as the state governments every time but poor condition of roads continue to haunt them due to lack of interest by their public representatives in resolving the issue.The old Jhajjar road (from Jhajjar Chowk to NH-71 via Gokulgarh-Lisana-Bikaner village), main road of Sector 4 to Sector 6 in Dhaaruhera town, Maharana Pratap Chowk to Mini Secretariat, Maharana Pratap Chowk to Bhadawas road, Gandhi Chowk to bus stand, Nasiyaji road and Sector 18 Women College to Bawal road are in pathetic condition. The Delhi-Jaipur highway and the Rewari-Bawal road are also broken at some points.“The Gokulgarh-Lisana-Bikaner road has developed deep potholes, posing a serious threat to commuters. The road connects Jhajjar, Kosli and Pataudi towns hence people prefer to use it but the authorities are turning a blind eye to its poor condition despite the issue being raised many times. We even staged protests to attract authorities’ attention towards it but to no avail,” said Ashok Kumar, a local resident.Saket Dhingra, an RTI activist, said the road from Maharana Pratap Chowk to Mini Secretariat had been lying broken for past several years. Residents of nearby localities had run from pillar to post to get it repaired but no one was ready to pay any heed. “Though the government had created Harpath app to lodge complaints online about potholed roads but it is proving to be a mere showoff,” he claimed.“The main road between Sector 4 and Sector 6 in Dhaaruhera town here is in a shambles. Dirty water accumulates on the road adding to the residents’ woes. We had approached the CM Window to get the issue resolved but nothing has happened so far in this direction,” said Deepak Yadav of Sector 6 in Dhaaruhera.Parveen Kumar, a shopkeeper, blames local politicians for the dismal condition of roads in the district. He said the roads had never been the priority of leaders of this region. Consequently, Rewari is way behind other cities in terms of development despite being the part of the Centre and state governments every time, he added.Sachin Bhati, Executive Engineer, PWD, said the proposal for repairing and recarpeting of 18 roads had been sent to the head office for approval. “The work to construct the roads will be started as soon as the budget is released,” he added.
29-10-2020||Yamunanagar||Posing as Anil Vij’s aide, man threatens police officer||A man has allegedly threatened the station house officer (SHO) of Buria police station of Yamunanagar district posing as OSD of Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij. In this connection, the police have identified two persons Anil Kumar and Ram Kumar, both brothers and residents of Buria town. According to the information, a case was registered against four persons Anil Kumar, Ram Kumar, Sachin and Bhupinder Singh, son of district president of JJP and former MLA Arjun Singh, yesterday. This case was registered as Bhupinder allegedly pointed a gun at a villager in Damopura village after the villagers stopped loaded vehicles in their village. Anil, Ram and Sachin were also with Bhupinder. Lajja Ram, SHO, Buria police station, said he went to Damopura village after getting information that villagers were stopping loaded vehicles in their village. He said that during that period, he got a phone call. “The caller said he was calling on the behalf of Vijay Sharma, OSD to Home Minister Anil Vij. Then, he handed over the phone to someone who posed as Vijay Sharma. The second person asked me why I had threatened Bhupinder. I replied that I did not threaten him. But the person continued to threaten me,” the SHO said. He said when he analysed the call recording, he concluded that it was not Vijay Sharma’s voice.  He said they had arrested Anil and Ram in connection with the case.  He said both the accused were produced in court here today, which granted their one-day police remand for further investigation. “During interrogation, they confessed to the crime,” he said. — TNS
29-10-2020||---||Cops suspended for ‘lapse’ in investigation||Karnal, October 28 A couple of days after a 25-year-old man reportedly committed suicide following a “delay” on the part of the police to investigate a case registered against him, Kaithal Superintendent of Police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan on Wednesday suspended Titram police station SHO Raj Kumar and head constable Rohtask in this connection. The SP also demanded an explanation from the DSP (Headquarters) on the delay in the investigation into a manhandling case. On October 26, Bittu (25) of the district’s Jakholi village hanged himself in his room. In the suicide note, he blamed seven persons for his death. He also accused the Titram police of not taking action in the cross-FIR registered against him.
29-10-2020||Our Correspondent---||Doctor’s charred body found||Gurugram, October 28 The charred body of a doctor running a private clinic was found in his car on Sohna road on Wednesday morning.  According to the police, it appears that the CNG-fuelled car caught fire while running on the road, but the doctor’s family alleged that it was a murder, not an accident.  The police are investigating the matter and have handed over body to the kin after the post-mortem examination. The deceased has been identified as 34-year-old Kanwar Pal, alias Sonu, a resident of Ghamroj village near Sohna. He ran a private clinic at Sohna.
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Dhesi to call the shots in CMO||Retired bureaucrat DS Dhesi, recently appointed as Chief Principal Secretary to Chief Minister, will be the ‘super boss’ in the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). Besides being overall in charge of the CMO, he will look after at least 12 important departments in the CMO.In the re-allocation of departments in the CMO on Wednesday, Dhesi was given matters concerning legislative business, parliamentary affairs, law and legislative, citizen resource information, excise and taxation, irrigation, general administration, personnel, administrative reforms, hospitality and electronics and information technology.Other important departments such as home, criminal investigation, administration of justice, vigilance, jails, town and country planning and urban estates, urban local bodies, foreign cooperation and industries would also be under his charge.The new Principal Secretary to Chief Minister (PSCM), V Umashankar, would have 10 departments — finance and planning, agriculture, labour and employment, renewal energy, revenue, science and technology, power, cooperation, transport and mines and geology. Previous PSCM Rajesh Khullar earlier called the shots in the CMO, a role which had now been given to Dhesi.Yogender Chaudhary, Adviser, resource mobilisation, CMO, was allocated the departments of art and cultural affairs, social justice and empowerment, tourism, welfare of SCs and BCs, resource mobilisation, animal husbandry and dairy development and industrial training and vocational education. He was also given charge as project director of the drug-free Haryana mission.One of the two Deputy Principal Secretaries to Chief Minister (DPSCM), Ashima Brar, would look after architecture, archaeology and museums, archives, elections, environment, food and supplies, housing, fisheries, public health engineering, printing and stationery, sports and youth affairs, women and child development and PWD.The other DPSCM, Amit Agarwal, was given charge of AYUSH, health, medical education and research, higher education, school education, technical education, development and panchayats and forests and wildlife.An HCS officer, Satish Kumar, would look after CM announcements, CM relief fund, HRDF and wakf affairs. Principal Officer on Special Duty Neeraj Daftaur was allocated public relations while Officer on Special Duty Bhupeshwar Dayal would deal with grievances. — TNS
29-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Court grants bail to ex-MLA Balraj Kundu, raps cops||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28Rapping the police for not displaying “expected objectivity” while dealing with a civil dispute apparently converted into criminal litigation, a Gurugram court has granted anticipatory bail to ex-MLA Balraj Kundu and two others.The court said the matter appeared to be a case of police “highhandedness” and the sequence of events did not present “happy countenance”.The order’s copy was directed to be sent to the Home Secretary for information and necessary action. The matter has its genesis in a contract between the complainant and petitioners for a road project.Taking up the matter, Gurugram District and Sessions Judge MM Dhonchak asserted that if there was an agreement between the complainant and petitioners, which was not honoured by the petitioners, it would not lead to commission of offence of cheating or breach of trust.Dhonchak asserted that the court had no hesitation in, prima facie, reaching the conclusion that there was a design on the complainant’s part to turn civil litigation into criminal litigation to exert pressure upon the petitioners.Dhonchak observed that the court was not oblivious of its limitations while deciding an application for bail, but was of the considered opinion that calling a spade a spade was the first and foremost pious duty of a judge.
29-10-2020||---||8 more succumb; 1,518 fresh cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, October 28With 1,518 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state went past 1.62 lakh on Wednesday. Eight more patients succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 1,758.The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (397), followed by Faridabad (210), Hisar (156), Rewari (109), Mahendragarh (75) and Sirsa (74).Three deaths were reported from Hisar and one each from Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Ambala and Faridabad. A total of 948 patients recovered in the last 24 hours.
29-10-2020||Vijay Mohan||Punjab, Haryana go dry in October, Himachal gets a trace of rain||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28The agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana remained totally dry in October this year, while there has only been a trace of rain in the adjoining hill state of Himachal Pradesh.There was no rainfall in Punjab and Haryana from October 1 to 28, while the normal for this period is 8.4 mm and 9.2 mm, respectively. The deficiency in Himachal Pradesh is 99 per cent, according to data compiled by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).Trend to continueKullu is the only district in Himachal to get rain this month, which was recorded by the IMD at just 0.2 mm against the normal of 26.7 mm. The normal rainfall for the state for this period is 26.3 mm. Some upper reaches of Himachal experienced the season’s first snowfall recently. In addition to the aforementioned states, most parts of northern, western and central India witnessed deficient rainfall in October. The weatherman has predicted that generally dry weather would continue to prevail in these areas over the next few days.Today also happens to be the day when the south-western monsoon, which retreated from the region in September-end, has finally withdrawn from the entire country and simultaneously, north-eastern monsoon rains have commenced over South India.According to the IMD, maximum as well as minimum temperatures were up to 3°C above normal over some parts of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, while some parts witnessed temperature below normal by up to 3°C. It has predicted that the mercury is likely to fall by 2-3°C over some parts of north-western India over the next three days.
