29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Many Haryana ‘Khaps’ decide to join agitating farmers’ ‘Delhi Chalo’ march||Haryana’s many ‘khaps’ on Sunday decided to join agitating farmers’ ‘Delhi Chalo’ call and march to the national capital to support their protest against the three central farm laws.The decision was taken in a meeting of the chiefs of 30 ‘khaps’ (caste councils) in Rohtak, independent MLA from Haryana’s Dadri constituency Sombir Sangwan, who also heads the ‘Sangwan Khap’, told PTI over the phone.Delhi’s Palam Khap also took part in the meeting which was presided by its head Ram Karan Solanki, said Sangwan.“All ‘khaps’ which took part in the meeting unanimously decided to extend support to the thousands of farmers sitting in protest on Delhi borders,” he added.“It was decided that various Khaps will have a meeting of their individual panchayats on Monday after which they will gather and march to Delhi in support of the agitating farmers,” Sangwan said.The Khap leaders also called upon the Central Government to immediately hold talks with farmers them and resolve the issue.“During winter thousands of farmers are on roads. The government must immediately talk to them and resolve the issue,” he said, further detailing the minutes of the meeting.Notably, the Centre on Sunday once again appealed to the agitating farmers to move to the ground in Delhi’s Burari, while seeking to assure them that a high-level team of Union ministers is ready to talk to them in the capital’s Vigyan Bhavan once they move to the designated venue.The farmers’ organisations had called for a march to Delhi on November 26 and 27 following which a large number of farmers from Punjab and other parts of the country have reached Delhi borders and laying a siege there for the last three days.Union Home Minister Amit Shah also had appealed to the farmers on Sunday to move to the Burari ground, while seeking to assure them of immediate talks with them after they heed to the government’s request.The agitating farmers on Sunday said they are ready for talks but will not accept any conditions, including moving to Burari from the Singhu and Tikri borders of Delhi, where they have stayed put for the last three days. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/many-haryana-khaps-decide-to-join-agitating-farmers-delhi-chalo-march-177609
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 26 more COVID-19 deaths, 1,809 new cases||The COVID-19 death toll in Haryana rose to 2,401 on Sunday with 26 more fatalities, while 1,809 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 2,32,522, the state health department's daily bulletin said.Haryana records 26 more COVID-19 deaths, 1,809 new cases   The new fatalities include seven in Faridabad, six in Hisar and five in Gurgaon, it said.Among the districts which reported a big spike in fresh cases include Gurgaon (479), Faridabad (380), Hisar (130) and Sonipat (115).There are currently 18,905 active cases in the state while the recovery rate was 90.84 per cent. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-records-26-more-covid-19-deaths-1-809-new-cases-177605
29-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Farmers’ protest continues on third day at Singhu border||Tribune News ServicePanipat, November 29Farmers’ protest continued against the three farm laws of the Union Government on the consecutively third day on Sunday at Singhu border on NH-44. Farmers’ committee has decided to stay at the borders till further directions.Besides, the numbers of farmers are on rising continuously. Thousands of vehicles are stuck in a traffic jam on NH-44. The local farmers have also started reaching at dharna on Singhu border.Darshan Pal, working group member of the All India Kissan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), and president of the Krantikari Kissan Union, Punjab, told The Tribune that farmers had unanimously decided that the protest would be continued on Singhu border as well as on the Tikri border as it eases.Some farmers of Uttarakhand, who reached Burari ground in Delhi, also reached here while the Uttar Pradesh farmers have also reached at border and stages dharna there, he added.“Thousands of farmers are likely to join the protesters at the Delhi borders soon in thousands of tractors and trolleys. The movement is filled with anger and unrest and it would rise day by day,” he added.The farmers had only demanded that the government should hear the genuine demands of the farmers, he said, adding that farmers were ready to talk with the government but the talks should be unconditional, he added.The farmers would continue their dharna till their demands were not met, he claimed.Jagmohan Singh, state general secretary of BKU Dakaunda, said farmers had come to Delhi for their rights and they would not move back till the Union government did not revoke these three black farm laws.Yudhvir Singh, national general secretary, BKU said that the farmers in UP were also on alert.“This is our first group. The second group of UP’s farmers are also ready to move towards Delhi. Besides, farmers from eastern Uttar Pradesh can reach here,” he claimed.“We are fully prepared to stay here for a long period if we are not heard or our demands are not met,” said Malkeet Singh of Hoshiarpur in Punjab.“Farming is our livelihood not our business and to save our livelihood we are sitting here in the chilled nights,” said a 72-year-old farmer Gurmeet Singh of Amritsar.Rajender Arya Dadupur, president, Bharatiya Kissan Majdoor Naujawan Union, said the Kissan panchayats began in Haryana’s villages and we have sought the support of Khap panchayats.Some farmers have also established medicine counters at various places at Singhu border to provide medical assistance to the farmers.Besides, the Sonepat district administration established ambulances of the Red Cross Society, movable toilets to facilitate the protesting farmers at Singhu borders. The health teams have also distributing masks to the protesting farmers due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-continues-on-third-day-at-singhu-border-177581
29-11-2020||New Delhi||Hooda slams Khattar for ‘Haryana farmers didn’t participate in protest’ remark, warns of bigger stir||Senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday slammed Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for his remarks that the state’s farmers have not participated in the stir against the new agri laws and warned that if farmers’ problems are not resolved, a “bigger movement” will be undertaken.Khattar on Saturday alleged that some political parties and organisations are “sponsoring” the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s new farm laws and claimed that Haryana farmers have not participated in the stir.Dismissing Khattar’s claim, Hooda said the farmers of Haryana have been agitating against the three agricultural laws for many months and he has repeatedly urged the government to withdraw these laws or bring in a new law to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for farmers.“The Chief Minister should tell whether he does not consider the agitating farmers as residents of Haryana? If the farmers of Haryana are not part of the movement, then who did the government lathi-charge in Pipli? Who are the people who were detained by the Haryana Police before their Delhi march? Who where are the thousands of farmers against whom the Haryana government has filed cases,” Hooda asked at a press conference here.The former Haryana chief minister said Khattar’s remarks had hurt the farmer’s pride and sentiments. Khattar’s ignorance towards such a big movement is “shocking and disturbing”, Hooda said.“The government should know that the farmers of Haryana and Punjab have stood shoulder to shoulder in this movement. They are also getting support from farmers of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and other states. Ignoring them is an insult to those who work hard to put food on our tables. As a responsible Opposition, we fully support the demands of the farmers,” Hooda said.The Leader of Opposition in the Haryana Assembly said the entire nation stands with the farmers and will fight till the government concedes to their “genuine and lawful” demands.“Until the farmers win this battle, we stand firmly with the demands of the farmers. The attitude adopted by the government to crush the movement is completely undemocratic as every citizen and every class has the right to demonstrate peacefully for their just demands in democracy,” he said.“Till now the entire agitation of the farmers has been peaceful. But the Haryana government’s role in the entire movement has been negative. The government’s job is to keep the roads and highways open, not to close them down. The government’s job is to make roads but this government blocked roads and dug roads to stop the farmers,” Hooda said.He urged the Central Government to not ignore such a “large mass movement” and accept the farmers’ demands for guaranteed MSP.“For this, the government must do what needs to be done, whether existing laws have to be amended or new laws have to be made,” he said.“The government has completely lost the trust of the farmers and this is why the farmers do not believe in the assurances given by it and now wants a law that guarantees MSP. Not only this, the government should also withdraw the cases lodged against farmers immediately and release detained farmer leaders,” he said.Hooda also appealed to all residents of Haryana to provide support to the farmers arriving from different areas of Punjab and Haryana on the Delhi border.“The farmers should not have any problem with their food and accommodation,” he said.Hooda said the government should immediately talk to these farmers without waiting for December 3 and find a solution to the problems at the earliest.“The government should not wait anymore and I would like to appeal to my farmer brothers that if the Centre does not listen to their demands, then they should be ready for a bigger movement,” he said.After spending another night in cold, thousands of farmers continued to protest against the Centre’s new agri laws on the fourth consecutive day on Sunday staying put at the Singhu and Tikri border points, with farmer leaders deliberating upon their future course of action about proposed talks with the government.The three farm laws are — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation); The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance; and Farm Services and The Essential Commodities (Amendment).Farmers say they are apprehensive that the laws will pave way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.He said no other state government stopped farmers from agitating but the Haryana government used water cannons and tear gas against the farmers which had exposed the “anti-farmer” face of the ruling BJP-JJP coalition in the state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-slams-khattar-for-haryana-farmers-didnt-participate-in-protest-remark-warns-of-bigger-stir-177575
29-11-2020||Rohtak||All India Kisan Sabha seeks apology from Haryana CM Khattar||All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) seeks an apology on Sunday from Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for the registration of police cases against protesting farmers and his statements in media against the agitation.Interacting with media here, AIKS state vice president Inderjit Singh said instead of apologising, the CM was acting against the Constitution by putting hurdles in the way of farmers, which is condemnable.Singh appeals to youths, traders, employees and other sections of the society to support and help the protesting farmers to make the agitation successful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/all-india-kisan-sabha-seeks-apology-from-haryana-cm-khattar-177536
29-11-2020||Deepender Deswal||Small groups too join agitation||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 28After the release of farmers’ leaders in Haryana, small groups from across the state started going to Delhi today.BKU youth wing chief Ravi Azad, along with other farmer activists, went to Delhi from Devsar village in Bhiwani.Azad said they would stay put in Delhi until the Centre resolves their issue.Another leader Phool Kumar Petwar from Narnaund town of Hisar said a group from the region had already gone to Delhi to join Punjab farmers. He said three more groups would leave on Sunday morning. He also criticised ML Khattar for terming the Panjab farmers as Khalistanis, adding that the CM had failed to understand the issues concerning farmers.A youth farmer leader, Mukesh Lohan, said the state farmers would not let the ministers and MLAs of the ruling clique enter the villages in the future if the Centre fails to resolve farmers’ issues.Farmer activist Ram Kumar, however, said a very small number of farmers from Haryana were joining the Punjab farmers in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/small-groups-too-join-agitation-177429
29-11-2020||Sushil Manav||Protest exposes chinks in JJP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28The Haryana Government’s response to ‘Delhi Chalo’ agitation of farmers has once again exposed the chinks within the JJP, BJP’s alliance partner in Haryana.JJP MLA Jogi Ram Sihag has hit out strongly at the coalition government for the way it has treated agitating farmers. Alarmed, the JJP has immediately swung into damage control exercise as Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala’s younger brother Digvijay Chautala today described the way farmers were treated as “painful”.He appealed to the Centre to hold talks with farmers today instead of the scheduled meeting of December 3.In hard-hitting criticism of the state government, JJP MLA from Barwala Jogi Ram Sihag also demanded registration of criminal cases against the officers who ordered digging of highways to stop farmers from marching to Delhi.“The Haryana Government has been treating farmers who are agitating for their rights as if they are terrorists. This is not only injustice, but also an act of atrocity on the innocent farmers,” Sihag alleged.He went on to add that the officers who got the highways dug were guilty of damaging public property and must be booked for their act.Offered the post of chairman of Haryana Housing Board, Sihag had refused to accept the post till the government amended the three controversial farm laws. Sihag’s diatribe has come as a big embarrassment for the JJP which claims to champion the cause of farmers in the state.Meanwhile, Digvijay Chautala today released a video empathising with farmers from Haryana and Punjab, who are marching towards Delhi. “Whatever we have seen on television during the past two days has pained every single Indian.”He appealed to the Centre, Union Agriculture Minister and PM Narendra Modi to look into the farmers’ issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protest-exposes-chinks-in-jjp-177430
29-11-2020||---||Expired tear gas shells used in Haryana to disperse Punjab farmers||Rohtak, November 28Tear gas shells beyond the expiry date were reportedly used by the police to disperse protesting farmers from Punjab on the Rohtak-Hisar road in Meham town here on Thursday night and Friday.Taking a serious note of the report, the state police are examining the matter.The police had lobbed tear gas shells and water cannons on the farmers to disperse them when they removed the barricades and broke the ‘naka’ at the Rohtak-Hisar border for moving ahead to Delhi.Some farmers found the used shells lying on the road and were shocked on finding that these had expired a year ago. Later, they approached the media to raise the issue.“Tear gas shells are used rarely. Hence, these expire in the stock on many occasions. But stock verification is also conducted at regular intervals. Expired tear gas shells do not have any adverse effect on human health. These become less effective and sometimes, do not burst,” said a retired Director General of Police (DGP) on the condition of anonymity.He further said tear gas shells were not bought in routine due to lack of funds and lengthy buying process.“We got the input about the use of expired tear gas shells yesterday. The matter is being examined,” DGP Manoj Yadava told The Tribune.Sandeep Khirwar, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Rohtak Range, denied having any such information while Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/expired-tear-gas-shells-used-in-haryana-to-disperse-punjab-farmers-177431
29-11-2020||Ravinder Saini||Borders still shut, farmers hold their ground||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 28Thousands of farmers today camped at the Haryana-Delhi border at Tikri Kalan village. They blocked it by setting up barricades and placing their tractor-trailers on the Rohtak-Delhi highway in the presence of a heavy police posse.A patch of over 3 km on the bypass in Bahadurgarh town was packed with vehicles of the protesters, who were reluctant to go to Burari instead of Ramlila Ground in the National Capital. Those who could not reach the border were resting in their vehicles and roaming on the highway.“Come what may, we will not move ahead from Tikri border till the Centre does not allow us to go to Ramlila Ground. Everyone has the constitutional right to protest peacefully, but the Centre is trying to incite us. We will go back to Punjab only after the Centre revokes all three ‘black’ laws,” said Pragat Singh, a farmer leader.Meanwhile, Punjab Education and PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla and Haryana Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda also arrived at the Tikri border to support the protesting farmers. Singla condemned the action of the Haryana Police against the farmers and assured that the Congress stands with them.Also, activists of the BKU burnt the effigy of CM Manohar Lal Khattar, stating that he was turning a blind eye towards their plight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/borders-still-shut-farmers-hold-their-ground-177432
29-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Support pours in from UP||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, November 28Thousands of farmers on Saturday staged a dharna at Singhu border for the second day in a row. Farmers from Uttar Pradesh also joined the protest at Singhu border.Meanwhile, various farmers’ unions have decided to stay at the borders till their demands are not met. A 12-km-long queue of vehicles was witnessed on the NH-44 due to which the commuters had to face a tough time.Activist Sant Gopal Das also reached at the border to extend his support to the farmers sitting on a dharna.Rakesh Bains, state BKU spokesperson, said a meeting of the Kisan Sanyukt Morcha was held on Saturday and Balbir Singh Rajowal announced to stay put at the borders. Their next strategy would be decided after the next meeting on Sunday.Meanwhile, BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said the farmers had blocked the entry to Delhi on two borders and if their demand was not met, they would shut all borders.Besides, farmers from UP under the banner of the BKU (Asli) led by state chief Harpal Singh Balari also joined the protest on Saturday.Chander Prakash Yadav, state vice-president, BKU (Asli) from Uttar Pradesh, said we were detained in a college-turned-temporary jail in Chandrawali of Bulandshahr by the BJP government for the past two days so we couldn’t join the protest earlier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/support-pours-in-from-up-177433
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Khattar lacks courage: Selja||Kumari Selja, HPCC chief, on today lambasted CM Manohar Lal Khattar over his claim that state farmers were not part of the struggle against the Centre’s three farm laws.In a statement, she alleged that Khattar did not have “enough courage to know the pain and suffering of the farmers of Haryana, raise their voice, put forward their agony and demands to the Centre because he fears his high command”.“That is why the CM is deliberately saying that Haryana farmers are not participating in this movement. The truth is that PM Narendra Modi is concerned about his capitalist friends and the CM is afraid of his high command. For this reason, the state farmers are protesting today.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-khattar-lacks-courage-selja-177434
29-11-2020||Ambala||Ambala youth who turned off water cannon booked for murder attempt||Registration of three FIRs in three months have failed to deter Navdeep Singh (26), a farmer from Ambala, whose video in connection with the ongoing farmers’ agitation had gone viral for climbing atop Varun (a water cannon), turning the tap off and then jumping on a tractor-trailer.Navdeep is among those booked at Parao police station along with BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni, Jai Singh, Rakesh, Amarjeet and others on the charges of attempt to murder, rioting and causing obstruction in government duty on November 25.About the video, Navdeep said “It was not planned. I just climbed that vehicle and turned the tap off and then jumped on a tractor. Later I found that the video went viral and people were appreciating my efforts.” — TNSRioting, Assault cases in Rohtak, Sirsa||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-youth-who-turned-off-water-cannon-booked-for-murder-attempt-177435
29-11-2020||Yamunanagar||Four khair smugglers attack forest officials||Khair wood smugglers allegedly attacked the officials of the Forest Department in Kalesar National Park here, injuring a guard. The smugglers, identified as Intzar of Kalesar village, Aashik, Rashid and Sharif, all residents of the district’s Mamdu Bansh village, attacked the officials when they tried to caught them stealing khair wood trees from the forest. On the complaint of the forest guard, Pradeep Kumar, a case under various Sections of the IPC, the Indian Forest Act 1927 and the Wild Life Protection Act 1972 was registered. According to information, forest guard Pradeep and forester Jashwant Singh were patrolling the C-3 area of the park around 5.30 pm on November 25. They saw some people stealing khair trees. When they tried to catch them, the smugglers attacked the duo, injuring Pradeep. The officials also recovered three fallen trees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-khair-smugglers-attack-forest-officials-177436
29-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Dog killed in hit-and-run, cops file FIR||Gurugram, November 28A DLF Phase 3 resident has moved to the police against an unidentified car for hitting and killing his pet dog. Though the incident happened almost 10 days ago an FIR was registered in this regard on Saturday.According to the complaint filed by Anil Kumar of Nathupur village, on November 17, when his pet dog was sitting in a vacant plot near the market, a speeding car crushed the pet and the accused managed to flee the spot.An FIR has been registered against an unidentified car driver under Sections 279 and 428 of the IPC. “A probe is on and action will be taken as per the law,” said Investigating Officer Head Constable Jagjeet Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dog-killed-in-hit-and-run-cops-file-fir-177437
29-11-2020||---||Amid Covid surge, school break extended by 10 days||Chandigarh. November 28The Haryana School Education Department has decided to extend the ongoing break in the state schools by another 10 days. The schools were closed after a number of students had tested positive for Covid and were scheduled to reopen on November 30.However, in view of the surge in cases, the government has decided to extend the break by another 10 days. This was confirmed by Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar here on Saturday. The schools are likely to reopen on December 10.Earlier, Health Minister Anil Vij had said the rising cases over the last few days had prompted the review of reopening of schools. “The Health Department is of the view that the school break should be extended by another 10 days. This has also been conveyed to the School Education Department,” he said.Record 1.21L samples testedWith 30 deaths and 1,967 fresh cases, the Covid-positive tally jumped to 2.3 lakh today.Five deaths each were reported from Gurugram, Faridabad, Hisar and Bhiwani, two each from Yamunanagar, Rohtak, Rewari and Sirsa and one each from Sonepat and Jhajjar. So far, 2,375 people have died with 2,077 having co-morbidities.Meanwhile, the state carried out record testing today. ACS Health Rajeev Arora said, “A total of 1.21 lakh tests have been conducted today which is a record. We observed Saturday as sampling day in the entire state. In Gurugram, 25,101 samples were taken while in Faridabad, 10,459 tests were conducted.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-covid-surge-school-break-extended-by-10-days-177438
29-11-2020|| 
||Panipat SP transferred to UT||Chandigarh, November 28  The state government has transferred the services of SP Panipat Manisha Chaudhary to the Central Government. Also, she has been directed to report for duty to the Joint Secretary (UT) of the Ministry of Home Affairs, leaving her current appointment with immediate effect.  It is worth noting that regarding the inter-cadre deputation, Chaudhary has been appointed SP (Security and Traffic) in the Union Territory of Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-sp-transferred-to-ut-177439
29-11-2020||---||1,628 trees ‘stolen’ from panchayat land, 14 booked||Yamunanagar, November 28As many as 1,628 eucalyptus trees were allegedly stolen by 14 lease holders from 70 acres of panchayat land at Nadipar village of Sadhaura block in Yamunanagar district.On the complaint of Block Development and Panchayat Officer of Sadhaura (additional charge) Dinesh Sharma, a case was registered against 14 lease holders under Section 379 (theft) at Sadhaura police station on November 25.As per the FIR, Raj Kishan, Lal Chand, Mohinder, Rajesh, Suresh, Satish, Balak Ram, Satish, Shayo Ram, Pala Ram, Avinash, Sangat Singh, Om Prakash and Gurdev, all residents of Nadipar village, took the panchayat land of the village on lease for 2020-21.They allegedly stole 1,628 eucalyptus trees from the 70-acre land out of the total panchayat land they took on lease and sold those.The FIR further reads that when the matter came to light, the gram panchayat of the village passed a resolution on June 24 and informed the BDPO office, Sadhaura, in connection with this theft.BDPO Dinesh Sharma said that sarpanch Data Ram had been suspended by Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar and an inquiry against the sarpanch was being done by the Bilaspur SDM in this connection.DC suspends sarpanch||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-628-trees-stolen-from-panchayat-land-14-booked-177440
29-11-2020||ibune News Service
||55-yr-old woman murdered in Rohtak||Rohtak, November 28  A 55-year-old woman was murdered by unidentified assailants at her house in Kewal Ganj locality here on Friday evening. The victim was identified as Sunita Jain. She was alone in the house when the assailants broke into the house. The deceased’s son, Rahul, in the police complaint, said the killers also looted jewellery and cash from the house. The police have started an investigation after registering a case of murder and loot but no lead about the killers has been given yet. According to the police, a family member reported the murder after he found Sunita lying in a pool of blood. Sunita was taken to a hospital where she was declared brought dead. The body bore two deep injury marks on the neck and stomach inflicted by a sharp-edged weapon. Later, the police and a team of forensic experts inspected the scene of crime and collected some samples from there.  Kuldeep Singh, SHO, Old Sabji Mandi police station, said investigation was under way to identify and nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/55-yr-old-woman-murdered-in-rohtak-177441
29-11-2020||---||1 held with stolen phone||AmbalaThe district police have arrested Gurdeep Singh of Saha near here in a case of theft and claimed to have recovered a stolen mobile phone from his possession, said the officials here on Saturday. The arrested accused was produced before a local court, which remanded him to 14-day judicial custody, the officials added. TNSInmate held with phonesAn inmate of the Central Jail here, Ankit Pandey of Ambala Cantonment, was held with two mobile phones, said the police. The arrested accused was produced before a local court, which remanded him to 14-day judicial custody, the officials added. TNS2 held with stolen cashThe district police have arrested two persons - Suraj and Ajay of Babiyal Saini village - in a case of theft and claimed to have recovered Rs 27,800 stolen cash from their possession, the officials said here on Saturday. The arrested accused was sent to 14-day judicial remand by a local court, the officials added. TNSTwo held for assaultThe district police have arrested two persons - Neeraj and Bharat of Ambala Cantonment - in a case of assault and criminal intimidation, said the officials here on Saturday. Both the arrested accused were produced before a local court, which remanded them to 14-day judicial custody, the officials added. TNS3 persons go missingThree persons had gone missing from their respective places in separate incidents reported to the district police during the past 24 hours, said the officials here on Saturday. The police have lodged separate missing person's reports and launched a manhunt to trace the missing persons, the officials added. TNSThree hurt in mishapThree bikers Rohit Kumar, Gaurav and Kartik of Saha near here, sustained serious injuries in a hit-and-run mishap reported in Saha, said the police here on Saturday. The police have registered a case against the accused unknown vehicle driver, the officials added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-held-with-stolen-phone-177447
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Manisha Chaudhary all set to join UT||Manisha Chaudhary will soon join the post of the SSP (Traffic), Chandigarh. The post had fallen vacant after DIG Shashank Anand was relieved of the charge on the completion of his three-year term on July 29.The Haryana Government today transferred the services of the 2011-batch IPS officer to the Central Government.She has been directed to report to the Joint Secretary (UT) of the Ministry of Home Affairs, leaving her appointment as the Panipat SP with immediate effect. The ministry had approved her appointment as the SSP (Traffic and Security), UT. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/manisha-chaudhary-all-set-to-join-ut-177409
29-11-2020||Panchkula||Man burnt alive at Morni house||Smoking a cigarette proved fatal for a 40-year-old man at his house at Thana Badiyal in Morni last evening.The victim, Madan Singh, died after the mattress he was lying on caught fire due to a burning stub while he was consuming alcohol.The police said the incident came to light when the victim’s brother, who lives around 50 metres away, noticed the smoke emanating from the house around 11 pm.He entered the house and saw fire around the bed. He shifted the partially charred body of his brother, a habitual drinker, to the hospital, where he breathed his last.On the basis of statements of the victim’s family members, the police have ruled out any foul play behind the incident.The body was shifted to the Sector 6 Civil Hospital for post-mortem. It was later sent to BPS Government Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, for forensic examination. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-burnt-alive-at-morni-house-177410
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Apologise for brute force: Capt Amarinder to Haryana CM Khattar||Reacting to his Haryana counterpart ML Khattar’s “sponsored stir” charge, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh today said: “Some people are blind not to see the lakhs of farmers trying to enter Delhi from across the country.” On Khattar’s charge that he had tried calling him a number of times but in vain, Captain said : “Khattar is lying that I did not respond to his calls. After Haryana’s treatment of my farmers, I will not take his calls now. Unless he apologises and admits he has wronged the farmers of my state, I will not forgive him.”He urged the Centre to immediately hold talks with the kisan unions to defuse the situation “created by Haryana’s attempts” to forcibly stop the farmers’ march.“Why wait till December 3,” he asked. Urging the Centre to accept the farmers’ demand for assured MSP, the CM said, “I fail to understand why they can’t make it a legal obligation.” Expressing concern over the situation getting out of control due to the “use of force” by the Haryana Police, he said the farmers had the right to march to the Capital to air their grievances. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/apologise-for-brute-force-capt-amarinder-to-haryana-cm-khattar-177358
29-11-2020||Gurugram||Punjab CM is not ready to talk as stir sponsored: Haryana CM||Alleging that the farmers’ agitation was funded by the Punjab Government, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today claimed that no farmer from Haryana was part of it. “I am thankful to our farmers for not participating in the stir, mainly sponsored by a political party and some organisations in Punjab. They (farmers) were carrying Punjab Government cards and their CM is not ready to talk about it,” Khattar said.Lashing out at the Punjab CM, he claimed to have repeatedly tried to contact him in the past three days. “I dialled his number a couple of times, but was told each time by Captain’s staff that he was busy. He would earlier respond within an hour or so.” His staff later released details of the calls made.Praising the Haryana Police for “complete restraint,” the Chief Minister appealed to the Punjab farmers to send their representatives for talks with the Union Government.“Assembling in Delhi in large numbers is of no use. The Centre is ready for talks. Dialogue is the only way out,” the Chief Minister added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-cm-is-not-ready-to-talk-as-stir-sponsored-haryana-cm-177359
29-11-2020||---||Locals cancel travel plans via Haryana||Bathinda, November 28People planning to travel via Haryana to Delhi are a harassed lot nowadays. Many of them have either changed or cancelled their programme due to the farmers’ agitation.Locals are facing more problems as the passenger trains have so far not resumed from Bathinda though the ‘rail roko’ protest of farmers has ended. Hence, locals have only one way to commute and that is by road.Atul Garg, a resident of Bathinda, said, “My daughter had to travel to Rohtak in Haryana to attend her friend’s wedding tomorrow. Since we are not aware whether it is safe to travel or not, she cancelled her plan.”Naman Jolly, a resident of Meerut, had to travel to Ludhiana for an important business trip. He said, “Farmers are proceeding on the Panipat-Ambala National Highway and barricades have also been put up at many places, so he cancelled his meeting”.Robin Jindal , a resident of Bathinda, who has been living and working in Delhi, had come to Bathinda some days back to meet his parents. He said, “I had to go back to Delhi today, but now with farmers agitation going on along the borders, I have cancelled my plan for now. I will continue work from home for a few more days and assess the situation before going back.”Even taxi drivers have also been hit hard due to the stir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/locals-cancel-travel-plans-via-haryana-177310
