29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 10 COVID-19 deaths, 414 fresh cases||Haryana on Tuesday reported 10 more coronavirus deaths, taking the death toll to 2,892 even as 414 fresh cases pushed the state's infection tally to 2,61,672.Two deaths were recorded in Kurukshetra and one each in Gurgaon, Hisar, Ambala, Rohtak, Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Jhajjar and Charkhi Dadri districts, according to the state health department's daily bulletin,  Among other districts which reported new cases are Gurgaon (94) and Faridabad (47).The number of active cases in the state is 3,900 and 2,54,880 people have been recovered. The recovery rate stands at 97.40 per cent.  Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Health Department) Rajeev Arora said the COVID situation in the state was comparatively much better now.There was a stage when cases per day used to be over 2,000 which have come down to about 400 per day for the last week."The positivity rate of past few days works out to 1.2 per cent and in the entire state active cases are less than 4,000, while the recovery rate is also 97.40 per cent and the fatality rate is 1.11 per cent. One can say COVID situation is under control to a great extent," he said."But this does not mean that anyone should lower guard at this stage. The people will have to follow all COVID-related guidelines like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing etc. Because we have seen in many countries how situation took an ugly turn just when things seemed to be under control,” Arora said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-10-covid-19-deaths-414-fresh-cases-191091
29-12-2020||Sushil Manav||Haryana withdraws 6,000 posts of cops advertised 18 months back||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 29Haryana on Tuesday withdrew an advertisement wide which the government had invited applications for filling 6,000 posts of constables in the state police force.The advertisement for filling 5,000 posts of male constables and 1,000 posts of woman constables issued on June 9, 2019, was withdrawn by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) today through a notice issued on its website.“The advertisement has been withdrawn following a letter in this regard from Haryana police. The posts have been withdrawn by the police department,” said Bharat Bhushan Bharti, Chairman of the HSSC.Manoj Yadava, Director General of Haryana Police, said the posts would be re-advertised with an increased demand.“We will place a fresh demand for 5,500 posts of male constables instead of the 5,000 advertised earlier. Similarly, 1,100 posts of woman constables will now be advertised in place of 1,000 earlier. Besides this, 698 woman constables are to be recruited for Durga One Battalion, an exclusive all woman battalion of the armed police announced by Haryana government. Hence, a fresh advertisement will be released soon with 1,298 more posts,” said Yadava.Sources, meanwhile, said the advertisement has been withdrawn, mainly, to allow economically weaker section (EWS) candidates to apply for the posts in accordance with an announcement made by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in the state assembly.In the Haryana Assembly session held in November this year, Khattar had announced that relaxation of five years in age would be provided in police recruitment to the candidates belonging to the economically weaker section.Previously, the minimum age for a police job in Haryana is 18 years and the maximum age for all applicants must be under 25 years.Khattar had said the state government had implemented the provision of 10 per cent reservation to the EWS-category candidates in the government jobs based on the pattern of central government.The CM had also announced that the EWS candidates would also be allowed to apply in the existing vacancies.Sources said once the posts were advertised afresh, the EWS candidates who become eligible by virtue of the government’s announcement would also be able to apply for these posts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-withdraws-6-000-posts-of-cops-advertised-18-months-back-191078
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Yamuna pollution: NGT’s monitoring committee pulls up Haryana over not paying environmental compensation||The National Green Tribunal (NGT)’s Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC) has passed strictures against Haryana government over not naming erring officers for the delay in setting up new Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) and operational deficiencies in the existing ones, and not paying environmental compensation.In its fifth report, submitted to the NGT, the YMC has pointed out that Haryana government has not complied to the directions of the NGT dated September 11, 2019.The order had called for Rs 5 lakh per month per STP compensation to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for not able to fix operational deficiency within three months. Regarding the STPs under construction, it was ordered to deposit Rs 10 lakh per month per an incomplete STP after July 1 of this year along with Rs 10 lakh per month for discharging untreated effluent.Also, with regard to the situation where works with regard to STP, sewerage network and its connectivity had not started, Haryana government was ordered to pay compensation at the rate of Rs 10 lakh per month per STP, sewerage network and its connectivity after December 31 of this year.“It will be open to Govt. of Haryana to recover the said amount from erring officers/contractors,” the NGT had said.The Chief Secretary was ordered to identify officials.“We have held meetings and collected details from all stakeholder departments and have submitted comments to the Chief Secretary for final consideration. After that, a reply will be submitted on the report,” said S. Narayanan, Member Secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB).Now, in its fifth report, where a chapter is dedicated to lapses on the part of Haryana, the YMC says that 24 STPs, having 763.5 MLD capacity, in Yamunanagar, Panipat, Sonipat, Rohtak, Bahadurgarh, Gurugram, Faridabad and Palwal were randomly checked where 16 STPs, having 452.5 MLD capacity, were found not complying the standards; thus the complying status given by the government departments were incorrect.It adds that “the officers of HSPCB being the regulatory authority are not performing their duty assigned under the Provision of Water Act, 1974/Environment Protection Act (EPA) 1986”.On the same lines, 12 Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETPs) were randomly checked and all were found non-complying.“The Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) is constructing the CETPs without considering the effluent characteristics of the industries operating in the Industrial Estate. This is the only reason for poor efficacy of the existing CETPs,” said the YMC.It has been pointed out that 66 MLD untreated industrial and domestic effluent is being discharged from Jagadhri-Yamunanagar township to ditch drain for which neither the Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar nor the Public Health Engineering Department is taking responsibility.In Sonipat, none of four CETPs and three STPs is functioning properly. In Faridabad, there is no functional STP in the town; 210 MLD of untreated domestic effluent is being discharged to the Yamuna through Budia Nalaha and Gounchi Drain.The construction work of seven CETPs at Faridabad, Gurugram and Yamunanagar have not yet started. Septage management in all major townships is not being followed; adding a significant amount of pollutants to the Yamuna through 11 major drains. The online monitoring devices for checking discharge of effluents are not calibrated regularly, thus do not reflect the actual status of treatment and HSPCB does not have any mechanism to verify the authenticity of data generated, says YMC.The next date in NGT is on January 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamuna-pollution-ngts-monitoring-committee-pulls-up-haryana-over-not-paying-environmental-compensation-191068
29-12-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram businessman nabbed in Rs 22.7-crore ‘GST scam’||Gurugram, December 29A city-based businessman has been arrested in alleged GST scam of Rs 22.74 crore by the team of Central Goods and Services Tax Commissionerate.He was produced in a Delhi court and sent into judicial custody. The team also recovered over Rs 90 lakh from his Sector 15 house and seized many documents.The arrested businessman identified as Rajesh Kumar Gupta owns a firm in the name of Deepchand-Rajesh Kumar on Pataudi Road. Through this firm, he does business of gutkha, tobacco besides bidi and cigarettes. He holds agency of several prominent companies of bidi, cigarettes. The commissionerate got information about the GST embezzlement through this firm and a raid was conducted a week ago.Charul Baranwal, Principal Commissioner of Goods and Services Tax Commissionerate, said Deep Chand-Rajesh Kumar at Pataudi Road issued input tax credit of Rs 22 crore 74 lakh. Along with this, invoices worth Rs 26 crore 11 lakh were released to various firms. The invoices have been issued to firms from 13 different states. “The goods have not been sent to those firms. By issuing an invoice without sending the goods, the operator of this firm Rajesh Gupta committed a big scam of GST theft,” Baranwal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-businessman-nabbed-in-rs-22-7-crore-gst-scam-191067
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana police reunite 1,716 missing children with families in 2020||Haryana police traced 1,716 missing children in the year 2020, and handed them over to their families in different parts of the country.Among the missing children, 771 are boys and 945 are girls. Some of these children had been missing for a long period of time.The police had also tracked and rescued 1,189 child beggars, and 1,941 child labourers during the year. These children were found either working in shops or doing odd jobs for their livelihood.Sharing this information, here, on Tuesday, Director General of Police (DGP), Haryana, Manoj Yadava said that apart from maintaining law and order, and to curb crime during these hard times of a pandemic year, our officers and jawans also prioritized to trace and reunite missing children with their family.Out of the total, 1,433 missing children were traced and reunited by field units and the remaining 283 were tracked by the specialised Anti-Human Trafficking Units of State Crime Branch—who showed great dedication to this noble cause.Explaining the prime objective of this noble programme, the DGP said, that it was started to prevent child trafficking, and save the innocent from persons who tried to engage them in begging and other antisocial behaviour.Under this programme, the police visit public places like bus stands, railway stations and religious places, besides the institutions such as shelter homes to search for children who may have separated from their parents.Police also visit shelter homes, and make an effort to track down the parents of missing children who are unable to reveal much about their families.Our personnel screened all the missing children to extract the required information from them which helps in reuniting them with their parents, he added.Haryana Police is conducting this drive to reunite missing children with the support of Child Welfare Councils, Non-Government Organizations and departments concerned.Enumerating the district wise figure, he informed, that the police have been able to trace 213 missing children in Panipat, 50 in Panchkula, 40 in Gurugram, 80 each in Faridabad and Rohtak, 55 in Ambala, 98 in Yamunanagar, 56 in Kurukshetra, 23 in Karnal, 24 in Kaithal, 97 in Sonipat, 45 in Bhiwani, 39 in Jhajjar, 27 in Charkhi Dadri, 86 each in Sirsa and Hisar, 23 in Hansi, 49 in Jind, 41 in Fatehabad, 72 in Rewari, 122 in Palwal, 6 in Narnaul and 16 in Mewat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-police-reunite-1-716-missing-children-with-families-in-2020-191032
29-12-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram market set to become polythene-free by Jan||In a first of its kind of initiative, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), is set to declare the Sector-23 market in Gorai a polythene-free zone by January 2021.For this, the civic body has already deputed its staff in the market to keep a constant vigil.The market has nearly 130 shops and more than 50 street vendors, who produce 45kg of plastic waste and polythene everyday, said the MCG officials.“We all know that plastic is harmful to us and our family but why we still use it. If we continue to use it for our own convenience, then it can be difficult for the next generation to breathe. We should stop using plastic from today itself,” said Dheeraj Kumar, Joint Commissioner, Swachh Bharat Mission, MCG.Cleanliness could not be achieved only on behalf of the government, the Joint Commissioner added.“It is very important to have citizens’ participation in it. The city residents should consider it as their moral responsibility and consider Gurugram city as their home and contribute to making it clean. They must stop using single-use plastic and polyethene. Keep wet, dry and household waste in your house separately,” Kumar said.For this initiative, the MCG has distributed more than 9,000 cloth bags in the market, which were prepared at recently opened cloth bag bank.The corporation officials said footfall of the visitors at the market is high as it is located just near the Delhi-Gurugram border. The market has restaurants, eateries, jewellers, electronic, clothing, daily need shops, among others.Apart from people living in Sector-23, residents from Palam Vihar, Dundahera village, Sector-18, Udyog Vihar and Bijwasan in Delhi are also frequent visitors to the market.“We would set an example by making this market the first polythene-free market in Gurugram. Most of the shopkeepers in the market have stopped using polythene and soon it will become the first polyethene-free market,” said Kuldeep Singh, Cleanliness Brand Ambassador of MCG. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-market-set-to-become-polythene-free-by-jan-190978
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cold wave grips Punjab and Haryana||Cold wave conditions sweeping most parts of Punjab and Haryana for the past few days further intensified on Tuesday with the minimum temperature in Hisar settling at zero degree Celsius.It was the season's coldest night so far at many places including Hisar, Narnaul, Amritsar and Chandigarh.The minimum in Hisar in Haryana dropped by six notches below normal, while Amritsar recorded 0.4 degree, Meteorological Department officials here said.They said that fog reduced visibility early in the morning at several places in the two states.As biting cold conditions persisted, Narnaul in Haryana also reeled under intense chill recording a low of 0.3 degree Celsius, five notches below normal.Among other places in the state which were under the grip of piercing cold included Karnal, Sirsa, Rohtak and Ambala, which recorded respective minimums of 2.6, 2.5, 2.6 and 3.5 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh also reeled under severe chill recording a low of 2.8 degrees Celsius.Among other places in Punjab which braved severe chill included Ludhiana, which recorded a low of 1.6 degrees Celsius.Halwara reeled at a low of 1.3 degrees Celsius while freezing cold swept Adampur, which recorded a low of 1.7 degrees Celsius.Bathinda, Faridkot, Patiala and Pathankot also experienced a cold night recording respective minimums of 2.1 degrees Celsius, 2.9 degrees Celsius, 3.6 degrees Celsius and 3.7 degrees Celsius.Severe cold conditions will continue in the two states over the next two days, as per MeT department forecast. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cold-wave-grips-punjab-and-haryana-190977
29-12-2020||Hisar||Youth shot dead||ChandigarhVij may be discharged soonHome and Health Minister Anil Vij is likely to be discharged from Medanta Hospital, Gurugram, in the next few days. Doctors are satisfied with the progress in his health. Dr AK Dubey, MS, said Vij was on minimal oxygen support and was stable now. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-shot-dead-190847
29-12-2020||---||Five armed men loot Rs 45,000 from Jind bank||Hisar, December 28A group of five armed robbers reportedly looted Rs 45,000 from Barsola branch of the Central Bank of India in Jind district and fled the spot.The masked accused had reached the bank on motorcycles. DSP Sadhu Ram said four accused had gone inside the bank, while one stayed outside.After opening fire into the air, one of the accused snatched cash from the cashier after which all fled on motorcycles.The police have registered a case and started a hunt for the accused. The DSP said they were checking CCTV footage to identify the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-armed-men-loot-rs-45-000-from-jind-bank-190848
29-12-2020||TRAVELLING on the road around the cotton market and mela mandi in Narwana has become a risky affair for vehicles||Travelling on Narwana roads a risky affair||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaMove to improve urban mobility in GurugramThe Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority has explored various ways to improve mobility in the city between 2021 and 2041. This has been approved by the Chief Minister and will be rolled out in four phases. As a matter of fact, 66 per cent of the traffic in Gurugram due to Delhi-bound pressure. This will solve the problem of heavy traffic. New links will be created.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramMC Poll over, public walls still defaced in AmbalaThe poll to the Ambala Municipal Corporation and other cities of the state is over. Over the years, the Election Commission has taken concrete steps to make the process impeccable so that the public do not face any inconvenience. Still pasting bills on the walls of houses in the absence of owners is causing discomfort. The self-embedded adhesive used on the bills is difficult to remove. I don't think any hype through bills is required nowadays because there has been change in the thinking process of people. Only after discreet thoughtful consideration and by judging their competency and ability, people elect representatives. I hope the MC will take action to remove these bills so as to avoid the defacement of walls.Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/travelling-on-narwana-roads-a-risky-affair-190859
29-12-2020||Kurukshetra||Jha is KU cultural council chief||Book on start-ups releasedFaridabad: Prof Dinesh Kumar, Vice Chancellor, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, released a book titled 'Start-ups for New India' authored by Mohan Kumar, a research scholar. The 82-page book has captured technology-based 10 ideas that could take future start-ups to new heights. The author, who has more than 15 years of corporate experience in finance and taxation, said the book would help beginners shape up their start-up ideas and make them aware of issues and challenges. Meanwhile, the university has also come up with its dedicated start-up policy and set up a technology business incubation centre on the campus to support and promote students' innovating ideas.32nd annual day celebratedAmbala: The 32nd annual day celebrations at DAV Public School were organised online by students and staff. Students presented spectacular performances. Chairman Ashwin Sareen, Director Shivani Sareen and Principal Seema Dutt congratulated the achievers of both academic and co-curricular activities and exhorted the students to hone their skills.VC releases calendar for 2021Faridabad: Prof Dinesh Kumar, Vice Chancellor, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, released the university and table calendars for 2021. The university calendar showcases the bust of Jagadish Chandra Bose, known as the father of modern science in the Indian subcontinent. The brass metal bust of Bose with the inscription of his scientific contribution has been installed in front of the VC’s Secretariat. The university was named after the scientist in 2018. The VC said 2021 was an important year for the university in terms of development. The university had recently been allotted land at Bhakri village on Faridabad-Gurugram road for expansion. The foundation stone of the second campus would be laid soon, he said.Alumna makes MDU proudRohtak: Dr Mallika Sharma, alumna of the department of psychology, Maharshi Dayanand University, (MDU) has joined the University of Reading as a faculty member. Currently, she is teaching the cognitive behaviour therapy course. Dr Mallika obtained her postgraduation and PhD degrees from the MDU psychology department. Co-ordinator, alumni affairs, Dr Deepti Hooda said it was a matter of great pride for the university. The faculty of the department congratulated Dr Mallika on her achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jha-is-ku-cultural-council-chief-190860
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Cong celebrates 136th foundation day||A function was organised by the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) at its headquarters here on Monday to celebrate the 136th foundation day of the party.  HPCC chief Kumari Selja hoisted the party flag and said on December 28, 1885, the country got the Indian National Congress, which played an important role not only in instilling a sense of nationalism among the Indians, but also making India independent.  She said: “When the country got freedom from the Britishers, it was facing many crises due to the severe shortage of resources. Despite the odds, the Congress governments played an important role in development of the country.” The Congress was founded in 1885 with 72 persons. Haryana people were proud that Lala Muralidhar of Ambala was one of those 72 persons, she added. “Under the present BJP rule, millions of farmers and labourers are sitting on streets in this fierce cold against the conspiratorial agricultural laws of this government. More than 40 farmers have lost their lives. Today, the government is seeing only the interests of a few capitalists,” Selja added.  Others present included MLAs Pradeep Chaudhary, Renu Bala, Shelly Chaudhary and former Deputy CM Chandramohan Bishnoi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cong-celebrates-136th-foundation-day-190833
29-12-2020||Chandigarh||TET on Jan 2, 3||Board of School Education Haryana, Bhiwani, will conduct Teacher Eligibility Test (HTET) Level-1, 2 and 3 on January 2 and 3, 2021. A board spokesperson said on January 2, the reporting time was 2.30 pm for the Level-3 exam while onJanuary 3, candidates would have to enter the hall at 9.30 am for the Level-2 exam and at 2.30 pm for the Level-1. All Covid protocols will be ensured. He said as per the directions issued in the admit cards, they were required to reach the exam centre two hours and 10 minutes before the test. Entry to the exam centre will be closed an hour before the test. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tet-on-jan-2-3-190834
29-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||40 Mahendragarh stone crushers may face closure over violations||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, December 28As many as 40 stone-crushing units in the district may face closure over the violation of environment norms as the administration has made a recommendation to the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) in this regard.At present, there are 123 stone-crushing units in the district. However, these 40 units were found functioning in violation of the siting and pollution criteria.This comes in the wake of the NGT order, wherein it had ordered the closure of all illegal stone crushers running close to residential areas, health and educational institutes, ponds and forest areas in violation of rules. The green tribunal had also ordered the physical inspection of every stone-crushing unit in the district in order to verify the siting and pollution criteria as well as the legality of water sources being used.Deputy Commissioner Ajay Kumar said the recommendation had been made on the basis of a report filed by a district-level committee, which physically inspected the units.“During the inspection, at least 40 units were found operating without meeting the siting parameters. The groundwater cell has been asked to survey these units and take action if any violation was found. Public health officials have also been directed to verify whether these units are using STP-treated water,” the DC added.He said the process to cancel ‘consent to operate’ of 22 other units had been initiated. “A team of the Pollution Department recently conducted a surprise inspection of 11 stone-grinding units and found three of them running in violation of pollution norms. The order to shut these units has been issued,” said the DC, adding that another unit was also found guilty of extending its area illegally. It would also be closed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/40-mahendragarh-stone-crushers-may-face-closure-over-violations-190836
29-12-2020||Ambala||Oppn protests EVM ‘tampering’||Alleging that the EVMs were tampered with, a large number of people belonging to different political parties on Sunday night held a demonstration outside OPS Vidya Mandir School, where the EVMs were stocked in a strong room after the polling for the Ambala Municipal Corporation poll. The results will be declared on Wednesday.As the machines were being brought to the school, people started gathering outside the school and started raising slogans against the BJP government. Meanwhile, heavy police force was deployed to avoid any untoward incident.The protesters claimed that the lights were off and they had apprehension that the BJP might get the EVMs tempered with. They demanded that the results should be declared by Monday morning.Ambala City SDM-cum-returning officer Sachin Gupta said: “All candidates were invited and video recording was done. The strong room was sealed in their presence. Everything is being done as per the rules. Two LED screens have been installed so that the candidates and their supporters can keep a watch. The candidates and their supporters were satisfied and assured that the EVMs are safe.”Meanwhile, the girl who was detained on the charge of impersonation at booth number 171 on Sunday was released on bail. Sadar police station SHO Suresh Kumar said: “The girl was released on bail on Monday. The matter is being investigated and we are getting all her details verified.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/oppn-protests-evm-tampering-190837
29-12-2020||---||Woman protester dies in accident||Hisar, December 28A farm activist, Malkiat Kaur (70) from Mansa, died in a road accident near Fatehabad town on Monday morning. She was crossing the road when the incident happened. She was associated with Mazdoor Mukti Morcha in Punjab.The victim’s son, Bhola Singh, informed that his mother was ‘pradhan’ of Majdoor Mukti Party and a member of the CPI in Punjab. She was leading a ‘jatha’ of farmers to go to Tikri border. She was rushed to a hospital where she died during treatment.The police have registered a case against an unidentified driver on the complaint of Bhola Singh under Section 279 and 304-A of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-protester-dies-in-accident-190853
29-12-2020||---||BJP MLA from UP extends support for agitating farmers||Palwal, December 28Avtar Singh Bhadana, BJP MLA from Mirpur in Uttar Pradesh, announced his support for the agitating farmers here on Monday. He visited the protest site at Antoha village in the district.Addressing the protesters, he said he had always stood by farmers and fully supported the ongoing agitation. He said the protest had been getting mass support from people from all walks of life.The former Faridabad MP said though his resignation from the BJP was yet to be accepted, he could not side with the ruling party or the government in this moment of crisis for farmers.Meanwhile, 11 farmers sat on fast as the relay fast entered the eighth day. Dharna was being held at the site since December 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-mla-from-up-extends-support-for-agitating-farmers-190854
29-12-2020||---||Farmers start relay fast||Karnal, December 28Farmers, who are staging dharna at Bastara toll plaza against the three farm laws, began day-long ‘relay’ fast there.On the first day, six farmers led by Ajay Rana observed fast. Rana would fast daily and five different farmers would join him every day, said Rampal Chahal, president of the committee constituted by the farmers for Bastara toll plaza.He said that the passage through the toll plaza would remain free for commuters till the fulfilment of the demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-start-relay-fast-190855
29-12-2020||---||INLD president writes to PM over farm laws||Chandigarh, December 28Former Chief Minister and national president of the INLD Om Prakash Chautala on Monday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealing for the withdrawal of three agricultural laws in the interest of the country and farmers.In his letter, Chautala said it had been over a month since the farmers started their agitation, but no concrete solution had been found so far. “This is a sad situation as the farming community generally does not participate in any movement. If this is happening today, then it needs to be viewed sensitively,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inld-president-writes-to-pm-over-farm-laws-190856
29-12-2020||Deepender Deswal||Micro-managers in villages regulate milk supply at Tikri||Tribune News ServiceHisar, December 28Haryana villages have been ensuring uninterrupted supply of milk for farmers protesting at the Tikri border for over a month. Various villages have coordinated to ensure that there is neither excess supply nor shortage of milk at the dharna site.“We need around 2,000 quintals a day and have enough supply every day. We do not issue instructions, yet it seems that villagers have taken turns to supply milk to meet our needs. It is micro-management to ensure balanced supply of milk,” said Vikas Sisar, a farmer leader at Tikri. Ujhana village in Jind district had been supplying around 2,500 litres of milk at the Tikri border, about 160 km away, on alternate days.Villagers said they had supplied around 38,000 litres of milk so far. They pointed out that they had roped in a tanker to supply the milk.“We have devised a system to ensure regular supply of milk and other grocery items. A committee of 60 youths is engaged in milk collection. The village has been divided into five areas and 12 persons cover each area,” said Ram Niwas, a youth.He said the milk was taken in a tanker having a capacity of 2,500 litres. He said the owner had provided the tanker for use during the agitation and fuel cost was borne by villagers.“This is an opportunity to show solidarity with farmers. It is heartening to see that most cattle owners are forthcoming in donating milk,” said Mannu Singh, another youth.Sarpanch Rohtash Singh said the youths had also been collecting other essential items as per requirement of the farmers protesting at the Delhi border.Vikas Sisar, involved in management at the Tikri border, said there was no shortage at the dharna site. “Villagers in Hisar and Jind districts have taken turns to supply milk. We never felt the need to inform them about the need for milk or anything else,” he said.He expressed surprise over micro-management of villagers in Hisar, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Jind and Bhiwani, who had been working in tandem to ensure neither excess supply nor shortage of milk and other items at the Delhi border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/micro-managers-in-villages-regulate-milk-supply-at-tikri-190838
29-12-2020||---||Seen such a disciplined stir for first time, says Hooda||Rohtak, December 28Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda met protesting farmers at the Makrauli toll plaza on the Rohtak-Panipat highway on Monday to express solidarity with them.“The three farm laws are not only anti-farmer, but also against labourers, the poor and other sections of society. The Centre should immediately repeal the laws,” he said while addressing farmers.The former Chief Minister said he had seen such a disciplined and peaceful agitation for the first time. “I am not saying this for political mileage. Politics is a separate thing. I stand with the farmers and fully support the agitation,” he said.He said it was the responsibility of every citizen to support the farmers. The government should feel their pain and come forward to resolve issues concerning them, he added.Hooda said the prices of pulses, vegetables and grain would rise as the limits on hoarding were being removed. He said the government should enact a law to guarantee MSP for farmers.Earlier, Hooda celebrated the 136th foundation day of the Congress with workers at the party office. He hoisted the flag and shared the ideology and history of the Congress with the workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seen-such-a-disciplined-stir-for-first-time-says-hooda-190839
29-12-2020||---||Modi’s pat for Dadri youth pleasant surprise for village||Hisar, December 28Residents of Jhojhu Kalan village in Charkhi Dadri district were taken by surprise when Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned the name of Pradeep Sangwan, a youth of the village during 'Mann Ki Baat' on Sunday.Pradeep, residing in Manali in Himachal Pradesh for many years, is a young environmentalist who has been working on a campaign -- Healing Himalayas -- to clear it of plastic waste from Himalayas for last five years.Pradeep is a son of Suraj Bhan Sangwan, a retired Army personnel who is now pradhan of Sangwan Barah khap. He lives in Dadri town and has a residence in the village.Gajender Singh, a panchayat member, said Suraj Bhan often visited the village, but rarely discussed the campaign of his son.He said Pradeep, after initial schooling in the village, went with his father, who was serving in the Army. He said Pradeep was interested in the Himalayas and hilly areas and decided to stay in Himachal Pradesh to pursue his passion after graduation.Dalbir Singh, sarpanch of the village, said the village was proud of the work of Pradeep, who had led a campaign against plastic to save the hills.He said they had been inspired by him and wanted to start a campaign for cleanliness, especially against excessive use of plastic and polythene, in the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/modis-pat-for-dadri-youth-pleasant-surprise-for-village-190846
29-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||Interim bail pleas, where regular bail uncertain, raising load: Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28Facing pendency of more than 6 lakh cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the new trend of filing pleas for interim bail in cases where regular bail is uncertain has been adding to the load.“Many a time, the petitioners are successful in getting relief in that way, resulting in an increased number of such petitions,” the HC noted.No to fabricated reasonsThe instant plea seems to have been filed solely for coming out of custody for one reason or other. An accused in custody may approach the court seeking temporary release on genuine grounds, but not for concocted and fabricated reasons. — Justice HS Madaan, HCThe assertion by Justice HS Madaan came on a petition in which a murder case accused was seeking a month’s interim bail to make arrangements for his daughter’s surgery as she was said to be suffering from “bilateral profound sensorineural hearing loss”. The bail plea added that his aged mother required eye surgery.Justice Madaan observed that the petitioner had moved a similar plea before the Additional Sessions Judge, Rewari, which was dismissed with the observations that the mother of the accused had four brothers, who could assist and attend to her for the surgery, and his wife was there to look after his minor daughter. “I do not see any reason to disagree with the Additional Sessions Judge, Rewari, in that regard.”Dismissing the plea, Justice Madaan stated that a trend had been observed of late that petitions for grant of interim bail were being filed for various reasons such as marriage of relative, bereavement and illness of family member after realising that a petition for regular bail might not be allowed on merit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/interim-bail-pleas-where-regular-bail-uncertain-raising-load-court-190835
29-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Untraceable, 38 UK returnees to face action||Gurugram, December 28The Health Department has sought police action against 38 UK returnees in the city, who remain untraceable. On the other hand, none of 319 returnees, who were tested for Covid, has reported positive.According to the department, it had received a list of 1,240 passengers with travel history to the UK. Of them, 529 were duplicate entries and three were cross notifications.“As many as 38 passengers remain untraceable due to wrong address and cellphone number. Their names are being shared with the Commissioner of Police, Gurugram,” said Dr Virender Yadav, Chief Medical Officer.“Action will be taken against those who have furnished wrong details and are still not traceable. We are coordinating with other districts as well,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/untraceable-38-uk-returnees-to-face-action-190831
29-12-2020||Sushil Manav||3,263 cases in week, lowest in 6 months||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 28With the number of fresh Covid cases dropping to less than 3,500 (500 per day) in the past seven days, the rate of new infections in Haryana is at a six-month low.Also, the active cases in the state have come down to 4,269, which again is the lowest after June this year. With 17 active cases per lakh population, Haryana has the lowest number in the region followed by 62 active cases per lakh in Himachal Pradesh, 41 in Delhi and 33 in Chandigarh.However, Punjab has slightly lower active cases per lakh than Haryana at 16.Don’t lower guardThe virus spread has shown a downward trend this month, but it doesn’t mean people should lower their guard. As far as the government efforts are concerned, testing is on at the same pace. People should observe the Covid protocols whenever they step out of their houses. — Rajeev Arora, ACS, Health, HaryanaWith a recovery rate of 97.2 per cent, Haryana is better than others in the region. Chandigarh has a recovery rate of 96.6 per cent, Punjab 94.1 per cent and Himachal Pradesh 90.4 per cent.Delhi, with 97.2 per cent, has the recovery rate exactly equal to that of Haryana.Of the 22 districts in the state, 17 have 20 or lesser number of active cases per lakh population, eight districts have less than 10 while seven districts have less than five active cases.The Covid spread in the state is showing a receding trend for the past few weeks, with the one ending on Sunday recording 3,263 new cases.The last time the state recorded less than 3,500 cases a week was in June this year when 2,760 and 3,427 new infections were witnessed in the second and third week of the month.With new infections hovering between 4,200 and 8,800 per week in July and August, the virus witnessed an unusual spurt in September when 17,616 cases were reported in the third week.Cases hovered around 8,000 per week during October, only to shoot again in November when during the second and third weeks, 17,070 and 17,626 new cases, respectively, surfaced.December again brought much-needed respite for people as the first week saw 8,496 cases, second witnessed 5,252 infections while the third one from December 21 to 27 saw just 3,263 cases.With 70 active cases per lakh population, Gurugram is the worst followed by Panchkula (44), Faridabad (30), Panipat (25) and Kurukshetra (23).Nuh district has just one active case per lakh population, Bhiwani has two, Kaithal and Palwal have three each, Hisar has four and Mahendragarh and Fatehabad have five active cases per lakh population each.8 more succumb, 351 fresh cases surface in 24 hours||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-263-cases-in-week-lowest-in-6-months-190832
29-12-2020||---||Abhay Chautala joins protesters at Singhu||Sonepat, December 28Senior INLD leader Abhay Chautala visited the Singhu border on Monday and extended support to the protesting farmers.Abhay said the Union government should accept the demands of farmers. On the SYL issue, he said the top priority was to win the fight against the three farm laws.The Prime Minister and Chief Minister of Haryana were responsible for not bringing the SYL waters to Haryana, he stated.Meanwhile, farmer leaders postponed the tractor-trolley rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway by one day due to the talks with the government on Wednesday.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, state president of the BKU (Lakhowal), said the protest rally from the Singhu border to the Tikri border, scheduled for Wednesday, would now be taken out on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/abhay-chautala-joins-protesters-at-singhu-190851
