30-09-2020||New Delhi||Not advisable to give Rs 100 per quintal incentive to farmers for not burning stubble: EPCA||A Supreme Court-mandated pollution control authority has said it “may not be a viable option” to provide an incentive of Rs 100 per quintal of paddy produced to farmers for not burning stubble.If at all necessary, any such incentive should be provided by state governments from their own budget, the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority told the apex court in a report submitted on Wednesday.Following the Supreme Court guideline to incentivise farmers to stop stubble burning, the governments of Punjab and Haryana last year announced a bonus of Rs 2,500 an acre for small and marginal farmers.Farmers say the incentive can help them cover the cost of fuel used in operating machinery for in-situ management of stubble.Last year, the Punjab government provided incentives amounting to Rs 28.51 crore to 31,231 farmers. The state has sought funds from the Centre this year, saying it won’t be able to pay on its own.The Haryana government provided incentives amounting to Rs 1.63 crore to 3,930 farmers last year. This year, it plans to disburse bonuses worth Rs 301 crore.          The EPCA report said, “After deliberations, it was found that inclusion of cost of stubble removal in MSP (minimum support price) may not be a viable option.”   “It has been agreed that any such incentive, if at all necessary, should be provided by the state government from their own budget,” it said.EPCA member Sunita Narain said, “Incentive should not be given to stop people from doing something bad.”“We believe the farmers can be incentivised in different ways – by giving free machinery or buying stubble from them. An incentive for not burning stubble is a perverse incentive. This has been our view for the last three years,” she said.Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh attract attention during the paddy harvesting season between October 15 and November 15.Farmers set their fields on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue left behind after harvesting and before cultivating wheat and potato. It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution in Delhi-NCR. Last year, Punjab produced around 20 million tonnes paddy residue. Farmers burnt 9.8 million tonnes of it.Farmers in Haryana burnt 1.23 million tonnes out of the 7 million tonnes of paddy residue produced.Despite a ban on stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, farmers continue to defy it as there is a short window between harvesting of paddy and sowing of wheat.The high cost of manual or mechanical management of straw is a major reason why farmers choose to burn it.State governments are providing 50 to 80 per cent subsidy to farmers and cooperative societies to buy modern farm equipment for in-situ management of paddy straw, installing paddy straw-based power plants and running a massive awareness campaign against stubble burning.But these measures are yet to make any significant impact on the ground. — PTI
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 26 more COVID-19 deaths, 1,625 fresh cases||The COVID-19 death toll in Haryana rose to 1,382 on Wednesday with 26 fatalities, while the infection tally reached 1,28,599 after 1,625 more people tested positive for the disease, according to a health bulletin.Of the 26 fatalities, four were reported from Panipat, three each from Yamunanagar and Jhajjar, and two each from Faridabad, Gurgaon, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad while one fatality each was reported from Ambala, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Kurukshetra, the bulletin said.The districts which reported a big spike in COVID-19 cases are Gurgaon (282), Faridabad (155), Hisar (142), Kurukshetra (134), Sonepat (119) and Panchkula (113).There are 14,340 active cases in Haryana and the recovery rate is 87.77 per cent. PTI
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Rajasthan, Haryana record highest gangrape rate in country||Rajasthan followed by Haryana has the highest gangrape rate cases in country in 2019, says National Crime Record Bureau’s ‘Crime in India’ report. The rate has been calculated with number of crime incidents per lakh women population. Rajasthan reported 902 gangrapes, as registered under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), while Haryana recorded 159 with 2.4 and 1.17 cases per lakh population respectively. In absolute numbers, Haryana is on fourth spot in gangrapes while Rajasthan tops.The neighbouring Delhi recorded 47 gangrapes while 29 were committed in Punjab and four in Himachal Pradesh. J&K didn’t record any such incident.   In 2018, Rajasthan had reported 556 gangrape cases while Haryana had registered 155. In rapes under all categories, four cases were reported daily in 2019 under the IPC in Haryana as 1,480 cases were registered with a rise of 14.2 per cent from the previous year.Haryana had 49 cases where repeat offenders were involved, which was also the second highest in the country with Madhya Pradesh recording 52 such cases. There were 308 cases of repeated rape on same women in Haryana. In 97 per cent cases, offender was known to the rape victim. Besides that, 1,117 girl child rape cases were registered under Section 4 and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSOA) with a rise of 9.5 per cent from 2018 in the state.  There were six cases of murder with rape too, but they are being counted under the head of murder, as the NCRB records the cases with multiple offences under that head which attracts maximum punishment. There were 14,683 crime incidents against women in Haryana in 2019 which was a rise of 2.5 per cent from 2018. These cases also included 248 incidents of dowry deaths, 4,867 cases of cruelty by husband or his relatives, four cases of acid attack and 2,803 incidents of kidnapping and abduction. Haryana recorded a rate of 108.5 crimes against women per lakh population which is the fifth highest in the country. Assam was the most unsafe for women with 177.8 crime incidents against women per lakh population followed by Delhi (144), Lakshadweep (115.2) and Rajasthan (110.4). In Haryana courts, the conviction rate in crime against women in 2019 was just 16.1 per cent and for crime against children too it was 27 per cent only, which points towards poor investigations.  In crime rate of murder and dacoity cases, Haryana is ranked third in the country with 1,137 and 153 cases in 2019 respectively. As many as 84 murders took place due to love affairs and illicit relationships alone. In crimes against Scheduled Castes (SCs) there was rise of 13 per cent in 2019 as the state recorded 1,086 cases which included 221 rapes (under IPC), 101 child rapes (under POCSOA) and 43 murders. The conviction rate in courts in crimes against SCs was just 22.3 per cent.
30-09-2020||Chandigarh||Vijai Vardhan is new Haryana chief secretary||Haryana Government on Wednesday appointed Vijai Vardhan as new state chief secretary.A 1985 batch IAS officer, Vardhan, who was currently posted as Financial Commissioner Revenue (FCR) and Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management, succeeds Keshni Anand Arora, who retired on Wednesday. He will have tenure of over one year as chief secretary and will retire on November 30, 2021.Vardhan is among the most senior officers in Haryana bureaucracy, second only to Sunil Gulati, a 1984 batch IAS officer currently posted as Chairman, Haryana Minerals. He is a well-known name in literary circles and has a couple of books to his credit on Kurukshetra and Pinjore Gardens, besides some published poetry. He is also a noted voice-over artiste for documentaries, theatre performances and social causes.Meanwhile, Sanjeev Kaushal will replace Vardhan as FCR while Rajeev Arora, ACS(Health), will also hold the charge of ACS(Home).Alok Nigam, ACS Forests and Wildlife and Medical Education and Research has been given additional charge of Public Works Department.Devendra Singh, currently holding the charge of ACS, Irrigation and Water Resources and Public Health Engineering, will also hold the charge of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare.
30-09-2020||New Delhi||BSP drops idea to contest in assembly by-election in Baroda in Haryana||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has dropped the idea of contesting by-election in Baroda assembly in Haryana, scheduled for November 3.The party, however, is firm to mobilise support against the BJP-JJP coalition government and work for defeating their joint nominee in Baroda.The decision not to contest in the by-election has been taken by BSP supremo and former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Mayawati in consultation with senior party leaders from Haryana on Monday.During the meeting, Mayawati told the leaders that the party should focus on the coming panchayat elections which will help build party’s base at the grass-root level, across the state.The panchayat elections would be held sometime early next year. “The party is not in a position to win in Baroda. Hence, tactically, it should not expose itself and demoralise the cadre by losing in the election which would have long term implication,” Mayawati said at the meeting.During the meeting the leaders batted for contesting the by-election.A BSP leader said Mayawati also sought the present ground realities in Haryana, especially in Baroda.The BSP strategy is to adopt policy of “wait and watch” regarding extending support to any candidate in the fray.Mayawati’s directive to BSP cadre for now is to support an Independent candidate, but she will take a final call before the day of the election. She conveyed as much to leaders during the meeting.BSP nominee had got about 3,500 votes in Baroda in the last assembly election in the state.In the exigency of a close contest, BSP vote bank would assume importance.The by-election has been necessitated due to the demise of sitting Congress MLA Krishan Hooda.
30-09-2020||Ambala||Haryana farmers protest delay in procurement of paddy, block highway||Farmers put up a road blockade on two highways in Ambala district on Wednesday to protest alleged non-procurement of paddy at the designated centres by government agencies.The vehicular traffic on the Ambala-Hisar and Ambala-Jagadhri highways was affected due to the road blockade.Hundreds of farmers had put their tractors and trolleys in the middle of the highways and sat on a dharna there.They blocked the Ambala-Hisar Highway near the city while the Ambala-Jagadhri Highway was blocked near Saha village.Police had diverted the traffic on the highways through alternate routes.Police force has been deployed in various grain markets and highways, police said.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders Sukhwinder Singh Jalbera and Ramesh Rana said that the farmers started bringing their paddy in various grain markets of Ambala district for the last few days.They claimed that their produce is not being purchased and it has been lying in the open area of the grain market.   In Kurukshetra district, farmers had held protests at various mandis, alleging delay in paddy procurement and a lack of coordination between the government departments and various agencies.The state government had started procurement in Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar from Sunday, while in other districts it began on Tuesday.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said that the farmers will not be allowed to face any problem in the procurement process.He had asked the procurement agencies to immediately lift the procured paddy from Wednesday.Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh had said farmers were facing problems in various mandis of the state as well. PTI
30-09-2020||Rohtak||Rohtak: Dental patients to get treatment at home through e-sanjeevani OPD||Amid the ongoing global pandemic, the Post Graduate Institute of Dental Sciences (PGIDS), Rohtak has started an e-sanjeevani OPD to provide free medical consultation online.People who have dental issues, but avoid going to the hospitals due to the virus have the ideal solution. “The patients will have to get themselves registered at esanjeevaniopd.in to avail the benefit of the facility while sitting at their home. They will be able to get prescriptions from the doctors from Monday to Saturday between 9 am to 4 pm except for lunchtime from 1 pm to 2 pm. The facility will benefit a large number of patients in and outside Haryana,” said Dr Sanjay Tiwari, Principal of the PGIDS.He maintained, that there were a considerable number of people, who were suffering from dental problems, but were not coming to the hospital in order to protect them from COVID-19 infection, hence, this online consultation facility through e-sanjeevani OPD had been launched, so that, such patients could get treatment without coming to the hospital. The facility of e-sanjeevani OPD—being run by various hospitals in other states—was proving beneficial for the patients to a large extent, he added.“Dr OP Kalra, Vice-Chancellor of Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, is leaving no stone unturned to provide high-quality medical facilities to the patients in this time of Covid pandemic. The e-sanjeevani OPD facility is the outcome of his efforts. He will launch the facility on Wednesday,” Tiwari added.
30-09-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Roads blocked by street vendors in Karnal||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comRoads blocked by street vendorsStreet vendors have blocked all roads of the new fruit and vegetable market by setting up their fruit ridges on both sides of the roads, causing a lot of trouble to visitors there. Similarly, the old vegetable market is also occupied by street vendors. The district administration, marketing board and the Municipal Corporation should jointly take appropriate action against the occupiers. Shakti Singh, KarnalA step in the right directionAs per notification of the Food Safety & Standards Association of India (FSSAI), effective from October 1, 2020, a "best before date" label will become mandatory for all loose sweet packets and non-packaged sweets i.e., the container and tray holding the sweets at the outlet for sale must display the same. It is a step in the right direction to safeguard the health of the citizens. Subhash C Taneja, GurugramRoad to Panchkula DLF Valley in bad stateI would like to draw the attention of the authorities towards the pathetic state of road from Chokhi Dhaani to the DLF Valley. Residents have tough time moving on this potholed, broken road everyday. It is a real torture. The residents have approached the DLF authorities and the MC authorities for the past months but no action has been taken so far. Col KJ Singh (Retd), Panchkula
30-09-2020||Kurukshetra||Short-term course completed by National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra||Tributes paid to Bhagat SinghFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, paid tributes to Shaheed Bhagat Singh on the occasion of his 113th birth anniversary. Vice- Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar said Bhagat Singh was a revolutionary hero of Indian Independence movement. His personality attracts the youth. It is the need of the hour to make youth aware of his sacrifices and his vision for the country,” he added. Registrar Dr SK Garg and senior officials of the university were also present on this occasion.Webinar on overall well-beingKarnal: A webinar on ‘a holistic approach to overall well-being’ was organised under the aegis of NAHEP and the student empowerment unit to commemorate 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi at the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI). Dr MS Chauhan, Director, NDRI, presided over the programme and said the objective of this webinar was to bring about much needed awareness among the faculty and students about maintaining the work-life balance for their holistic development and overall well-being. He emphasised on success code, which includes self-acceptance, personal growth, autonomy, positive relations with others and life satisfaction.Discussion on stubble burningKarnal: The IIT Delhi Alumni Association (IITDAA) in association with the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) organised a webinar on "stubble burning: Status, challenges, and way for forward" under Maha Parivesh series of workshops initiated by Dr Geetanjali Kaushik, Joint Secretary, and Convener, IITDAA. In the president address Ravindra Kumar, IITDAA, said the residents in NCR, Haryana and Punjab suffered each year due to stubble burning. This was a result of mechanisation of crop harvest which led to generation of greater agro residues. Dr Vikram Singh, IIT, Delhi, said stubble burning was a three to four week activity when paddy straw was burnt.
30-09-2020||---||Panel set up to check sale of adulterated food items in Haryana||Chandigarh, September 29Following complaints about the sale of adulterated and spurious products of daily use, including tea, spices, milk and ghee, the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) of the Haryana Government has constituted a committee to launch a special drive against offenders.The committee will comprise Subhash Chander, Designated Officer, FDA, Panchkula, Shyam Lal Mahiwal, Food Safety Officer, Panipat, and Arvinderjeet Singh, Food Safety Officer, Hisar. DK Sharma, Joint Commissioner, FDA, will monitor the working of the committee, an order issued by Lalit Siwach, FDA Commissioner, said.The committee will submit its reports on a weekly basis, the order further said.
30-09-2020||---||Naib tehsildars to visit villages||Chandigarh, September 29For the first time, naib tehsildars will go to every village and farm to measure the land. At present, only patwari or kanungo used to visit the villages for consolidation work.As many as 57 naib tehsildars, who have completed their training, have not only been allotted one village each, but have been given directions to start the consolidation work from October 1.
30-09-2020||---||4 held for selling off minor girl in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, September 29Four persons allegedly involved in selling off a 17-year-girl to a 40-year-old man from Rohtak have been arrested. One of the accused is the minor girl’s mother.The other accused are Vikarm, Ramfal and Kitab Singh, all residents of Rohtak’s Dhamad village. All accused were produced in a local court on Tuesday.“The girl’s mother, Ramfal and Kitab Singh were sent to judicial custody, while Vikram was remanded in police remand,” said Sukhbir Singh, SHO, City police station.As per the FIR registered at the City police station on September 19, the Child Line, Rohtak, informed the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Rohtak, on September 8 that a minor girl of Yamunanagar was sold off and taken to Dhamad village.Subsequently, a joint team of the Child Line and police rescued the girl. At present, she is putting up at a shelter home here.On September 7, Vikram, along with two members of his family, visited the girl’s home here. They gave Rs 56,000 to the girl’s mother and brought her to Dhamad village, where Vikram married her in a temple.A case was registered against the accused under Sections 370 and 366-A of the IPC, and Sections 9, 10 and 12 of the Child Marriage Prohibition Act on September 21.
30-09-2020||Rohtak||178 overseas applicants seek admission to Maharshi Dayanand University Rohtak||As many as 178 students from 22 countries have sought admission to different undergraduate and postgraduate programmes at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) in Rohtak.As per official sources, the MDU administration has got applications from the students of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, China, Sri Lanka, Kazakistan, Indonesia, Iraq, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Nigeria, Rwanda, Palestine, Senegal, Tanzania, Uganda, Yemen, Zimbabwe.Sarvajeet Singh Gill, Deputy Adviser (International Relations), Centre for International Academic Affairs at the MDU, said 147 applications had come through the Study In India programme of the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) and 10 through the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), while 21 students had applied through the university portal directly.“The MDU is among the country’s universities and educational institutes that are organizing the online orientation programmes as part of the Digital Orientation Week under the aegis of the Union Ministry of Education from September 28 to October 1,” he said, adding that the university’s orientation session would be held on September 30.Gill said of the 157 applicants allotted to the MDU through the MHRD and ICCR, 113 had been found eligible for the courses they had applied for.The academic disciplines for which the applications of the foreign students have been received at the MDU include law, economics, public administration, English, genetics, microbiology, bioinformatics, management, commerce, computer sciences and applications, education, food technology, hotel and tourism management, journalism and communication, geography, Hindi, library and information science, physical education, psychology, physics, political science, sociology, Sanskrit, visual arts, engineering and technology, botany and environment science. — TNS
30-09-2020||Rohtak||Haryana cop shoots himself dead over family feud in Rohtak||A head constable of the Haryana Police reportedly committed suicide by shooting himself at his rented accommodation near Sukhpura chowk here on Monday night.Posted in RohtakThe deceased has been identified as Satyendra Malik of Sonepat district.He was deputed at the traffic wing in Rohtak. Domestic feud is stated to be the reason behind this extreme step.The deceased has been identified as Satyendra Malik of Sonepat district. He was deputed at the traffic wing in Rohtak.Domestic feud is stated to be the reason behind this extreme step. He had been living separate from his wife.The incident came to the fore late in the night when the police found Satyender dead in a room of the house on getting the information about the firing. The police then sent the body to the PGIMS for post-mortem. — TNS
30-09-2020||---||One nabbed with 210 bottles of English liquor in Bhiwani||Hisar, September 29The Chief Minister’s flying squad has seized the bottles of liquor being smuggled from Bhiwani to Gujarat, which is a dry state.A resident of Rajasthan has been arrested after the registration of a case.According to the information, the Chief Minister’s flying team in Rohtak got a tip-off that a Tata Safari vehicle was being loaded with the bottles of English wine at a godown in the Bank Colony locality of Bhiwani town. The vehicle driver tried to flee the spot as the team raided the house.A police spokesperson said the vehicle driver, Ram Kisan, was nabbed from the spot and 210 bottles of English wine of different brands were seized.The driver revealed to the police that liquor contractor Sudhir Sharma had planned to smuggle the bottles to Gujarat.The police booked Ram Kishan and Sudhir Sharma under Section 61 of the Punjab Excise Act and started the investigation.
30-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Can’t stay at in-laws’ acquired house against their wishes: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that a daughter-in-law has no right to residence in the self-acquired property of her parents-in-law and she cannot be allowed to live in their house against their wishes.Justice Raj Mohan Singh, Punjab and Haryana High CourtREVISION PLEA DISMISSEDI find that the petitioner has no right of residence in the house in question under Section 17 of the Act for the purpose of living in the self-acquired property of the plaintiff-respondent. I do not find any justification to differ with the order dated August 6 passed by the Additional District Judge, Sonepat. This revision petition is, accordingly, dismissed.Referring to a plethora of judgments on the issue, Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted that parents-in-law having self-acquired property were the real owners and the daughter-in-law had no right to claim it as shared house. The daughter-in-law had moved the High Court, assailing an order dated August 6 passed by the Sonepat Additional District Judge, restraining her from entering the matrimonial home.The matter has its genesis in a civil suit, in which the plaintiff-mother-in-law had averred that the defendant-daughter-in-law had threatened to dispossess her and her husband from the property. The mother-in-law had claimed that the property was owned by her on the strength of a registered sale deed dated January 11, 2017.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the marriage of the defendant-petitioner was solemnised in April 2012. The petitioner had two children, but was having a matrimonial dispute with her husband. The petitioner had threatened to commit suicide and implicate the respondent-mother-in-law and her family in several false cases.Taking up the matter, Justice Raj Mohan Singh noted that the trial court, vide an order dated July 4, dismissed the application for interim injunction by the mother-in-law after observing that the residence was a shared house under the Domestic Violence Act and as such, the defendant-petitioner could not be forcibly evicted as her belongings were lying there, but the Additional District Judge restrained her from entering the matrimonial home.Taking up the revision petition through video-conferencing, Justice Raj Mohan Singh observed that it had been held in the judgments referred to that the daughter-in-law did not have any right to protection under Section 17 of the Act for the purpose of living in the house belonging to her parents-in-law and exclusively owned by them.“I find that the petitioner has no right of residence in the house in question under Section 17 of the Act for the purpose of living in the self-acquired property of the plaintiff-respondent. I do not find any justification to differ with the order dated August 6 passed by the Additional District Judge, Sonepat. This revision petition is, accordingly, dismissed,” Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted.
30-09-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Child panel chief booked for lapse in minor’s rape case in Palwal||Tribune News ServicePalwal, September 29Two persons, including the Chairperson of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Palwal, have been booked under the Juvenile Justice Act for negligence in handling the rape case of a 16-year-old girl.Juvenile Justice Act violatedA 16-year-old girl, who was six-month pregnant after being raped, was produced before the CWC on March 26She was kept at an orphanage in Bahrola village till she delivered a baby on June 26Provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act that were violated included breach of the victim’s privacy, failure to provide proper custody of the child during treatment, and exposing the identity of the victim in the mediaThe girl had given birth to a baby on June 26. According to the report submitted to the Deputy Commissioner by the police, provisions of the JJ Act that were violated included breach of the victim’s privacy, failure to provide proper custody of the child during treatment, no pre-release planning of the victim after hospitalisation and exposing the identity of the victim in the media after a video of the victim begging for help went viral on the social media soon after she was discharged from the hospital on June 29.The two accused have been identified as CWC Chairperson Darshana Bhardwaj and Prem Kumar Khullar, manager of an orphanage at Bahrola village in the district.The victim, who was six-month pregnant after a rape incident, was produced before the CWC on March 26. She had been kept at the Bahrola orphanage till she delivered a baby on June 26 under the care of the CWC. It is revealed that while the officials concerned wanted to shift the girl to a centre in Faridabad, the girl refused, claiming threat to her life. Her opposition was recorded on a video, which went viral on the social media.A police official said a probe concluded negligence on the part of the CWC Chairperson and the orphanage manager. No arrest has been made so far, he said.Bhardwaj said she was not aware of the case registered against her. “I can’t speak on the issue till I look at the FIR or the charges levelled against me,” she added.
30-09-2020||Kurukshetra||BKU road blockade today in Haryana||The BKU (Charuni) has given a call of blocking roads in front of grain markets across the state on Wednesday in protest against the non-procurement of paddy.Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU (Charuni) chief, said: “A delegation of the BKU met Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) PK Das on Tuesday and apprised him of the farmers’ concerns. We requested him to relax the condition of 17 per cent moisture content in the produce. The permissible moisture limit should be revised to 22 per cent. Farmers are ready for the moisture cut.”“The ACS did not give us assurance. Hence, farmers have been asked to block roads at 11 am in front of grain markets on Wednesday if procurement is not started by then,” Charuni said.The ACS said, “The condition of 17 per cent moisture content is set by the FCI and the Centre. We do not have the authority to change that.” — TNS
30-09-2020||Parveen Arora||Farmers, agencies in tizzy as arhtiyas boycott procurement in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 29With arhtiyas boycotting the paddy procurement, farmers and procurement agencies are in a bind.Their primary concern is who would procure paddy as rice millers have not registered themselves with the Food and Civil Supplies Department. Paddy is sold only to registered rice millers.On Monday, the arhtiyas had announced that they would not register PR paddy with the market committee on their behalf, a condition made mandatory for farmers to sell their produce.In case government agencies procure paddy, arhtiyas ask, what provisions have been made for lifting and storing the produce.“Officially, paddy procurement has started. But there is no clarity on two points: who will procure the produce and where will paddy be stored. The government claims to procure the produce, but it’s been four days that farmers have been waiting for the government to honour its word,” said Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association.Arhtiyas are also demanding a revision in the limit on bringing the produce to the grain market. At present, a farmer can bring 25 quintals per acre to a grain market. Arhtiyas, however, are demanding the limit be raised up to 40 quintals.Their third demand concerns Uttar Pradesh farmers, who have been stopped from bringing their produce to the grain markets of Karnal district. “Farmers from UP have borrowed money from us. So they should be allowed entry in grain markets of the district,” Chaudhary said.Meanwhile, only 120 quintals of paddy was procured by the Food and Civil Supplies Department on Tuesday.“Not a single grain of my produce has been procured in the past there days. The arhtiyas’ decision not to register paddy has added to farmers’ woes,” said Jasmer Singh, a farmer sitting beside the heap of his unsold paddy in the grain market here.Another farmer Arjun Singh pleaded with the state government to start procurement in reality, and not on paper.Sunder Singh Kamboj, secretary, market committee, assured farmers of procuring their produce. “They need not worry,” he said.Protests in Indri, Gharaunda
30-09-2020||---||Dushyant Chautala lists out farm laws’ benefits||Karnal, September 29Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday lauded the Centre over the passage of the three farm Acts and spoke on their benefits.He said the Acts would allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country at the best prices. Some youths raised slogans against him and showed a placard on ensuring MSP for farmers’ produce.“The Acts are farmer-friendly and are for the benefit of farmers. They can sell their produce across the country as per their choice,” he said.He claimed that the Congress was misleading people on the issue. He said contractual farming would benefit farmers.He said paddy procurement had begun in five districts and would commence elsewhere in the state from October 1. He said every grain would be procured on MSP.He said cotton would also be procured on MSP. “The government is making efforts for doubling the income of farmers and their produce will be procured on MSP,” he said.Asked about farmers from other states not being allowed to sell in grain markets of Haryana, he said all farmers would have to get themselves registered on the online portal with Aadhaar number.
30-09-2020||Ravi S Singh||Litmus test for Haryana govt: Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 29Soon after the Election Commission announced the schedule for the Assembly byelection, former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the poll would be a litmus test of the popularity of Manohar Lal Khattar-led coalition government.Om Prakash Dhankar, State BJP ChiefBJP confident of winThe ruling coalition will win the bypoll on the development plank. The Congress has tried hard to mislead farmers in the name of MSP.Former Haryana BJP chief Subhash Barala said the state government under the leadership of Khattar and the Centre led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been exemplars in governance and would be the first choice of voters. “The BJP’s popularity graph is increasing in Haryana as in the rest of the country,” Barala said.“The Baroda byelection will be a referendum on the performance of the state government,” said Hooda, also Leader of Opposition in the Haryana Assembly.Elaborating on his referendum theory, he said it would be a “vote of no-confidence” against the BJP and its six-year rule in the state.“The government has failed to deliver on all fronts. It has been long on promises, but short on delivery. People are just waiting to vote against it with both hands,” he said.He said unemployment, farmers’ distress and deteriorating law and order would be among the issues dominating the byelection.Hooda, considered to be influential in rural areas encompassing Baroda and among the farming community, said the byelection would be a watershed moment and he would hit the campaign trail after the name of the party nominee was finalised.
30-09-2020||Sushil Manav||Baroda bypoll on November 3||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29Stakes are high for the ruling BJP-JJP combine as well as the Congress as the Baroda segment of Sonepat district goes to polls on November 3.The bypoll was necessitated due to the death of Congress MLA from Baroda Sri Krishan Hooda, who died after a prolonged illness on April 12.As per the schedule issued by the Election Commission of India today, the notification for byelection to 54 Assembly seats across the country, including Baroda, would be issued on October 9.The last date for nomination is October 16, scrutiny will be done on October 17 and the last date for withdrawal of candidature is October 19. The date of polling is November 3. Counting of votes will be held on November 10.The byelection is crucial both for the BJP-JJP alliance as well as the Congress, particularly former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, as the result will prove their popularity or otherwise among the electorate.A win will help the BJP-JJP alliance consolidate its position.A victory will also provide the Congress an opportunity to prove its claims the ruling coalition has lost farmers’ confidence after the controversial farm Acts.The INLD, too, is looking at this bypoll as an opportunity to re-establish its foothold after being relegated to just one seat in the 2019 elections.Abhay Chautala, secretary general, INLD, said the party would announce its candidate at an appropriate time. He said people would reject both Congress and ruling BJP-JJP alliance.
30-09-2020||---||Covid-19: 25 more succumb, 1,562 fresh cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, September 29With 1,562 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, the Covid tally in the state went past 1.26 lakh today. A total of 25 deaths pushed the toll to 1,356.Three deaths each were reported from Rohtak, Hisar and Yamunanagar, two each from Panipat, Bhiwani, Kurukshetra and Sirsa and one each from Fatehabad, Nuh, Panchkula, Palwal, Ambala, Rewari, Gurugram and Faridabad.The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (242), followed by Faridabad (168), Kurukshetra (143), Rohtak (114), Sonepat (112) and Hisar (99).A total of 1,186 fatalities had comorbidities. A total of 2,403 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 1.1 lakh.In Rohtak, 116 shelter home inmates positiveA total of 116 inmates at a shelter home for the mentally and physically challenged on the outskirts of Rohtak have tested positive for Covid.Two Covid-positive inmates have died recently. The manager of the shelter home has recovered after testing positive.The health authorities have deployed two teams to carry out regular check-up of inmates, trace their contacts and take other measures as per the protocol.“Covid-positive inmates of the Jan Sewa Sansthan, who were below 18 years or above 45 years of age were initially shifted to the Civil Hospital or PGIMS. They were sent back to the shelter home in view of their special needs,” said Dr Tarun Madhur, district public health manager for Covid. An isolation facility was set up for them on the premises of a school being run by the Jan Sewa Sansthan, he added.
30-09-2020||---||Ex-MLA dies post recovery in Karnal||Karnal, September 29Mamu Ram Gonder, former INLD MLA from Nilokheri, reportedly died of Covid infection at a private hospital in Panchkula today.The 70-year-old leader had tested Covid positive but after 21 days tested negative on Friday. His last rites will be performed on Wednesday at his native village Gonder.He remained an MLA between 2009 and 2014 and had joined the BJP days before the 2019 Assembly elections.His son Sonu Gonder confirmed his death and said his father was admitted to the KCGMC after he complained of shortness of breath on September 2. “His first report on September 4 was Covid-negative. After his health deteriorated, we shifted him to Fortis hospital in Mohali, where he tested Covid-positive. We shifted him to another private hospital and he tested negative just four days ago. Doctors said Covid had damaged my father’s lungs, leading to his death,” Sonu said.Tested -ve 4 days agoMamu Ram Gonder, former INLD MLA from Nilokheri, tested negative for Covid four days ago. Doctors say the virus damaged his lungs.
30-09-2020||Ravinder Saini||Special drive in Jhajjar to test students for Covid||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, September 29The district health authorities have launched a special campaign to conduct Covid test of students of government educational institutes to detect the infection, if any, at an early stage.The samples of 233 students of Government Polytechnic Institute and Government Post Graduate Nehru College were collected here today.Sanjay Dahiya, Civil SurgeonTo help in early detection of infectionInitially, we plan to reach out to educational institutes near containment zones or where cases are high.... The drive will not only help in detecting the infection at an early stage but also ensure the monitoring of SOPs in educational institutes.The authorities claim Jhajjar is the first district in the state to conduct Covid tests of students. Two of the six mobile vans have been dedicated to the campaign to collect samples of students from their educational institutions.As per the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), Covid test is mandatory for teachers before rejoining schools/colleges but the condition is yet to be imposed on students, while experts say test of students is also equally important to check the spread of virus.“Under the campaign, we have planned to initially reach out to the educational institutes located either near the containment zone or where cases of infected persons are high. The parents’ consent is mandatory for students below 18 years,” said Civil Surgeon Sanjay Dahiya.He said the principal of the schools would be requested to obtain the parents’ consent one or two days prior to the test, which is mandatory for adult students. “The RT-PCR test of 100 students in Government Polytechnic Institute and 133 students of Government PG Nehru College has been conducted. Their report would come between 24 hours to 36 hours,” he added.“The campaign will not only help in detecting the infection at an early stage but also ensure the monitoring of standard operating procedure like social distancing, proper sanitisation of the campus etc in educational institutes,” Dahiya said, adding that they had increased the number of Covid samples from 1,000 to 1,500 per day. Over 80,000 Covid samples had so far been taken wherein 2,449 persons had tested positive, while 21 had died of the infection.
30-09-2020||---||Faridabad man falls for SIM upgrade trick, loses Rs 1.10L||Faridabad, September 29The cyber crime cell of the police has arrested eight persons for duping a Faridabad resident of Rs 1.1 lakh on the pretext of upgrading his mobile phone SIM to 5G.This is the second such arrest made by the local police in the past one month in connection with the racket of online fraud of withdrawing money from the bank account of the mobile phone users in the name of upgrading their mobile phone SIM to 5G.ACP Dharna Yadav said the cyber crime cell raided various villages of Jamtara district of Jharkhand and Gadag district of Karnataka and arrested eight persons involved in the online fraud.The accused had withdrawn Rs 1.1 lakh from the bank account of one Mithas Pinto of Faridabad’s IP Colony on August 28 after getting his mobile phone details for free upgrade to 5G. The police launched a manhunt after registering a case.Vishnu Mandal, Pradeep Das, Naresh Das, Vikki Kumar, Rakesh Das, Santosh Mandal and Sushil Mahto were arrested from Jamtara district of Jharkhand, while Raja Hussain was nabbed from Karnataka.Second case in a monthThe police had carried out a similar raid last month after Rs 2.3 lakh was withdrawn from two bank accounts of Munesh Jain, a resident of Charmswood village here, in July this year. They arrested Saurabh, Ajay Mandal, Bharat Mandal, Shatrughan and Narender Kumar from Jharkhand.
30-09-2020||---||Fill vitals on ‘e-care’ app: Kurukshetra administration to home-isolated patients||Kurukshetra, September 29To monitor the health of home-isolated Covid patients, the district administration has asked them to fill their vital parameters on the ‘e-care’ mobile application.The patients are being provided the mobile application and are being motivated to use it to fill their temperature, oxygen levels, throat condition and breathing conditions. At present, over 600 people in the district are under home isolation, of which over 110 are using the application to update their vitals since last week.An official said: “A mobile application was prepared on the directions of the DC to monitor the Covid activities and the health of patients. After a person tests positive, a message with the link of the application is sent on their registered mobile number. They are also provided information about how to use the application and fill the vitals. In case the patient doesn’t own a smartphone then the field staff of the Health Department visiting them can also fill their vitals. The patients are being motivated to fill their vitals twice a day and also give remarks about their health condition and other related issues they are facing. The data is shared with the Medical Officers of the area concerned to keep a watch on their health.”Besides, the administration has also started providing the status of the Covid tests results to the Kurukshetra residents through the official website of the district. The person needs to enter the registered mobile number, which was provided to the Health Department during sampling, an OTP will be generated, and the person will be able to get the status of his Covid test.DC Sharandeep Kaur said: “The application has been prepared to curb the virus spread, monitor Covid patients and other activities in real time. It is being shared with patients and those under home isolation are being asked to fill their vitals and give remarks as well. It will help the patients to remain in constant touch with the Health Department.”HOW IT WORKS
30-09-2020||Parveen Arora||25K employees withdraw from PF after lockdown in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, September 29To meet financial emergency following the Covid-induced lockdown, as many as 25,000 employees in the private sector and contractual and outsourced workers of government departments in Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panipat, Kaithal, Panchkula, Ambala, Yamunanagar and Sonepat districts have withdrawn around Rs 49.96 crore from their Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) accounts in the past five months.Amit Singla, Regional pf CommissionerCLAIMS SETTLEDWe have settled every application related to Covid advance within three days of receipt. At least 25,000 employees have withdrawn money.After imposing the lockdown, the Centre had announced that an individual could withdraw an amount either equal to three-month basic salary and dearness allowance or 75 per cent of credit balance in the account, whichever was lower, as non-refundable advance.“We have settled every application related to Covid advance within three days of receipt. At least 25,000 employees have withdrawn money,” said Amit Singla, Regional PF Commissioner, Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation, Karnal.“A cut in salary following the lockdown led to a financial crisis, leaving me with no option but to withdraw from my PF. I had earlier planned to withdraw this amount for the wedding of my sister,” said a private sector employee.A contractual employee said the post-lockdown period had thrown up several challenges, forcing him to withdraw money to meet expenses. Another employee said he did not get salary for two months, due to which he had to apply for withdrawal. “When I did not get salary for April and May, I had to withdraw from my PF account,” he said.
30-09-2020||Yamunanagar||Father booked for killing 5-day-old girl in Yamunanagar||A man was on Tuesday booked for killing his five-day-old daughter in Roopnagar colony of the Badhi Majra area of Yamunanagar.A case has been registered against the accused, Neeraj, under Section 302 IPC at the Sadar police station. Neeraj was annoyed with his wife as she had given birth to a girl.In her complaint, Varsha, 24, said her husband came to her room at night and lied beside the newborn. “My husband is a drunkard. He came home drunk on Monday night and pressed our daughter severely, killing her on the spot,” Varsha alleged. She said she had married Neeraj in 2015 and he was annoyed with her as she had no child even after several years of marriage. “I gave birth to a girl on September 24,” she said. — TNS
