30-05-2020||Hisar||Bhiwani MLA’s family members, PA among 15 to test positive for coronavirus||Eleven people associated with Bhiwani Member of Legislative Assembly Ghanshyam Sharaf were among 15 who tested from the district on Saturday, officials said.Among those testing positive were nine members of Sharaf’s family as well as his personal assistant and his family member.  Sharaf however has tested negative, district officials said.Officials said the MLA and his personal assistant had attended a function in Chandigarh last week. After the personal assistant tested positive upon his return, district authorities ran tests on his family, as well as on Sharaf and his family.Bhiwani’s Chief Medical Officer said a woman and her one-year-old toddler were among the 15 who tested positive on Saturday.Sources said that health authorities had taken swab samples of Sharaf and his daughter, who had also tested negative, to test again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhiwani-mlas-family-members-pa-among-15-to-test-positive-for-coronavirus-92109
30-05-2020||---||Trial against Ram Rahim in Ranjit Singh murder case to resume on June 6||Chandigarh, May 30The CBI Special Court, Haryana, on Saturday posted the trial proceedings against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in the Ranjit Singh murder case for June 6.The trial is at the final stage but proceedings were held up due to the nationwide lockdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.During a hearing at Panchkula on Saturday, CBI counsel HPS Verma told the court that the prosecution arguments had been already concluded in the case and defence side had to conclude its arguments.The part arguments of the defence side were addressed before the onset of the prevailing health crisis.CBI Special Judge Jagdeep Singh ordered that in view of the instructions from the Punjab and Haryana High Court as well as the directions issued by the Office of District and Sessions Judge, the matter would resume on June 6.The Superintendents of District Jail Sunaria (Rohtak) and Central Jail Ambala were asked to ensure presence of Ram Rahim and another accused Krishan Lal via video-conference.According to the CBI charge sheet, Ram Rahim had thought that Ranjit Singh, a resident of Kurukshetra, was behind the circulation of the anonymous letter alleging sexual exploitation of female followers in Dera and hatched conspiracy to kill him. The murder took place on July 10, 2002.Along with Dera chief, Krishan Lal, Jasbir, Indersen, Avtaar, and Sabdil are also accused in the case.Ranjit Singh was shot when he was returning on his motorcycle after serving tea to his father, who was working on the fields in Khanpur Kolian village of Kurukshetra.On the way, four people fired at him and fled from the spot. Ranjit Singh died of bullet injuries.Sabdil and Jasbir were identified among the four persons who attacked Ranjit Singh. Sabdil was the gunman of Ram Rahim.Earlier, in the rape case of female followers, which was registered on the anonymous letter, Ram Rahim was sentenced to 20-year rigorous imprisonment in August, 2017. In the journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati murder case, the same court had sentenced Ram Rahim to life imprisonment in January, 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/trial-against-ram-rahim-in-ranjit-singh-murder-case-to-resume-on-june-6-92104
30-05-2020|| ||CP Gurugram replaces ADGP Subhash Yadav in Special Enquiry Team||Chandigarh, May 30Commissioner of Police (CP) Gurugram Muhammad Akil has replaced ADGP Subhash Yadav in the Special Enquiry Team (SET) formed to probe liquor smuggling across the state.ADGP Subhash Yadav is retiring on May 31.The SET is headed by ACS Power TC Gupta, with the third member being Additional Excise and Taxation Officer Vijay Singh.Confirming the development, Home Minister Anil Vij said the deadline for the SET had also been extended till July 31.Earlier, the SET was to give its report by May 31.“We asked TC Gupta how much more time was needed. He replied that he needed two more months. So, we have extended the deadline,” said Vij.Earlier, Vij wanted to empower the SET with Section 32 of the CrPC so that it could record statements of witnesses. But Advocate General Haryana BR Mahajan opined that Section 32 of the CrPC couldn’t be read solely, but along with Section 26 to Section 32.The AG added that the SET recommendations could lead to registration of FIRs and then the probe agency could go deeper and record the statements.As per the terms of reference, the SET will check the actual availability of stocks in all warehouses or godowns that were sealed by the Excise Department during the last two years and will examine the cases of seizure of illicit liquor in Haryana from April 1, 2019, to March 31, 2020, both by the police and the Excise Department separately.It will also collect and collate the result of investigation of the FIRs registered from March 15, 2020, till May 10, 2020, that have been registered in various parts of the state for pilferage of liquor from L-1 and L-13 godowns and also from the ‘malkhanas’ of the police stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cp-gurugram-replaces-adgp-subhash-yadav-in-special-enquiry-team-92102
30-05-2020||---||69 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Haryana; total tally now 1,790||Haryana, May 30As many as 69 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Haryana since morning, taking the tally to 1,790 on Saturday.Of the 69 new cases reported on Saturday, 61 are from Gurugram alone.Ambala and Fatehabad reported three cases each while two new cases have been reported from Nuh district.Meanwhile, the district health authorities in Hisar, on Saturday, home quarantined 11 members of a court, including a judge, court reader, two stenographers, three ‘ahalmads’, two peons, a naib court and an additional district attorney (ADA), after an undertrial was tested positive in the Central Jail number one in Hisar on Friday.With 941 people cured and discharged from the hospitals, there are 830 active COVID-19 cases in Haryana now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/69-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-haryana-total-tally-now-1-790-92045
30-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||Private schools in tight spot as merely 8 pc parents pay fee in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 30More than 450 private schools in the district are finding themselves in a tight spot as only eight per cent parents on an average have, as per the claims by two associations of private schools here, deposited the fee of their wards for April and May, while online classes are being conducted by majority of schools ever since the beginning of the new academic session.“A total over 2.5 lakh students are enrolled in the private schools and around 20,000 teaching and non-teaching employees work in those schools. We have no funds left, with which we pay salary to the employees, as parents are not paying the tuition fee even in instalments despite repeated requests. But, we are bound to the bear fixed expenses such as building tax, EMI of the buses and renewal of their fitness and other loans taken for running the school,” said Ravinder Nandal, district president, Haryana Private School Sangh.He informed that of the 450 private schools, 370 schools were affiliated to the Haryana Board of School Education (HBSE) and rest to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The fee deposit percentage in the CBSE-affiliated schools was much higher than the HBSE-affiliated schools, following better financial background of their students than latter, he added.“The HBSE schools have so far received an average two per cent fee while the figure of the CBSE-affiliated schools is 16 per cent. There are several other such schools where payment of fee is less than one per cent. We have given all options to the parents for depositing the fee as per their convenience but they are not ready to understand our ordeal. They have put us in a tough spot,” he added.Dr Ravinder Gugnani, president, Rohtak CBSE School Association, said the parents should understand that livelihood of thousands of teaching and non-teaching employees of private schools were dependent on the students’ fees.“How can we incur all expenses if the parents don’t pay the fees. We are not pressurising any parent, but those who can afford, must deposit the fee to help the school maintain its operations,” Gugnani added.Anshul Pathania, secretary of the association, said misinterpretation of the government’s orders being used as a tool to misguide the parents and absurd campaigns being run on social media against private schools were the main reasons behind the non-deposition of fee by the parents, who were not aware of neither income nor expenses of schools.“The parents should deposit the fee as per government’s guidelines keeping in view thousands of teaching and non-teaching employees, who get salary from the fees to feed their family. We demand the state government to fix date for fee collection and clearly communicate it to the parents. It should also formulate a policy with date-wise schedule for annual charges to be deposited,” Pathania added.Mayank Karan Hooda, another school owner, said surprisingly, parents neither were depositing the fee nor were approaching the school for any financial help. In this situation, the schools were put in a tough spot to come out of this crisis, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-schools-in-tight-spot-as-merely-8-pc-parents-pay-fee-in-rohtak-92044
30-05-2020||---||Large traffic seen on Delhi-Gurugram border after Friday’s chaos||Gurugram, May 30There was a large volume of traffic on the Delhi-Gurugram border on Saturday morning as police allowed commuters with valid passes to go following Friday’s chaos.After Friday's chaos, police allowed the pass holders to enter the city. A large number of vehicles collected as cops checked passes and IDs of people commuting on the route.On Friday, there was chaos on the border after it was sealed, leading to long queues of vehicles, commuters arguing with police and staging a protest.Acting on Home Minister Anil Vij’s order, the Gurugram police had sealed the Delhi-Gurugram-Sirhaul border on NH 8, Chakkarpur border on Mehrauli-Gurugram (MG) road, old Delhi road at Kapashera and other stretches connected to Delhi.Police were deployed in great numbers and barricades put up, blocking entry of people barring those with valid passes and involved in essential services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/large-traffic-seen-on-delhi-gurugram-border-after-fridays-chaos-92016
30-05-2020||Karnal||Under mysterious circumstances, 26-year-old man found charred to death in Karnal||Under mysterious circumstances, a 26-year-old man was charred to death at his transformer repair shop in the wee hours of Saturday at Jundla village, Karnal. The deceased has been identified as Rohit alias Deepak, a resident of Gagsina village in the district, said Baljeet Singh, SHO Sadar. As per the Jundla police, the fire broke at around 4 am, when the victim was sleeping inside the shop. Family members of the deceased suspect murder. Forensic Science Laboratory team and officials of power corporation are collecting evidence to determine the cause of the fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/under-mysterious-circumstances-26-year-old-man-found-charred-to-death-in-karnal-91996
30-05-2020||Sushil Manav||Spike forces state to change strategy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 29The spike in Covid cases, particularly in Gurugram, Faridabad and other towns of the state in proximity to Delhi, has forced the health authorities in Haryana to shift strategy.The Health Department has now decided that Covid beds in these towns will now be reserved only for those who really need hospitalisation. Those who are asymptomatic will be isolated at home or in government and paid facilities as per the patients’ choice.As many as 591 people have tested positive in Haryana in the past six days and 370 of them are from Gurugram and Faridabad – 258 from Gurugram and 112 from Faridabad.Of the 1,721 positive cases in Haryana since March 17 when the first Covid cases was reported in the state, 520 are from Gurugram and 307 from Faridabad, both having proximity to Delhi.Among the 762 active Covid cases as on today, 455 are from these two districts — 293 in Gurugram and 162 in Faridabad.“There is nothing unusual or unexpected as far as spike in cases in the NCR, particularly in Gurugram and Faridabad, is concerned. It was expected once relaxations in the lockdown were given from May 17. Gurugram and Faridabad are practically part of Delhi where the number of positive cases has crossed 15,000. However, we are taking measures in view of the increasing numbers and also to contain the spread of the virus,” said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, Haryana, who is camping in the NCR for the past two days in view of the spike in cases.Arora headed meetings with district-level officers at Gurugram on Thursday and was busy discussing the issue with officers in Faridabad today.“We have decided that since the number of Covid cases are increasing fast, the hospital beds will from now be kept free for those who really need hospitalisation. All asymptomatic, pre-symptomatic and those with mild symptoms will be isolated at home if they have facility and give consent for it. Otherwise, they will be kept in government quarantine facilities, if they want free isolation, or they can opt for paid isolation facilities. We have arranged free isolation facilities in hostels and dharamshala,” said Arora.He said rapid response teams have been constituted for visiting these facilities in the morning and evening so that those who need hospital care could be immediately shifted.The ACS said the 500-bedded ESIC Medical College and Hospital where 100 beds were reserved for Covid patients has now been completely converted into a Covid hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/spike-forces-state-to-change-strategy-91711
30-05-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Delhi-Gurugram border sealed, chaos prevails||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, May 29Massive traffic jams were witnessed on the Delhi-Gurgaon border on Friday as the Haryana Government restricted entry following a spike in coronavirus cases. Hundreds of vehicles stood bumper-to-bumper as motorists indulged in heated arguments with cops on duty as they allowed only essential service providers and e-movement pass holders to drive through.Acting on Home Minister Anil Vij’s order, the Gurugram police sealed the Delhi-Gurugram-Sirhaul border on NH-8, Chakkarpur border on Mehrauli-Gurugram (MG) road, old Delhi road at Kapashera and other stretches connected to Delhi. Police personnel were deployed in large numbers and barricades put up.The chaos started around 8 am when social media went abuzz with reports of a free run at the border despite Vij’s order. Within minutes, the administration and local police swung into action allowing only restricted entry. Soon, a group of around 50 cyclists claiming to be industrial workers blocked the road after being stopped from crossing the border. They alleged that while cars were allowed, they were being stopped.The blockage led to a massive jam and the police refused entry to everyone, including persons with daily travel passes issued by the Gurugram, Delhi and Noida administrations. The police opened just one lane at the border for essential services providers. In no time, vehicles piled up, people argued with cops, but were turned away.“Is this some kind of joke? One day you say ‘get a pass and come, start your office’; and the next day the minister decides to close the border. After driving for an hour, we are made to stand and are roughed up by cops. I have a tech startup and have an important meeting with an investor. When I reached the border, I was denied entry despite a valid daily pass issued by the Gurugram DC. The cops have no written orders to block our entry,” said Rajan Shrivastav, a Noida resident, who has his office in Sector 44.Home Minister justifies curbsHaryana Home Minister Anil Vij suggested that the lockdown continue beyond May 31 and justified the strictness at the Delhi borders, saying free movement will lead to a surge in cases. “Giving more relaxations at this stage can lead to increase in cases. Because the stage at which coronavirus is right now, need of the hour is that lockdown should be extended.” He said he had spoken to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to reduce the time period of a containment zone. “28 days is too long, 14 days will be apt as incubation period of the virus is also this much,” Vij said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-gurugram-border-sealed-chaos-prevails-91712
30-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court takes note of fiscal crunch plea||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 29Taking note of Haryana’s plea that the state was facing a financial crunch due to the pandemic, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today gave it a concession of 60 days from the end of lockdown to remit arrears of pension to a widow after amount verification.The order came on a petition filed against Haryana and other respondents by Omwati and another petitioner. Justice Arun Monga’s Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the petitioner was a survivor and widow of a victim of the Emergency.She was seeking issuance of directions to the respondents for release of monthly pension of Rs 10,000 from November 1, 2017, in accordance with a notification dated April 16, 2018, issued by Haryana.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, Haryana Additional Advocate General Hitesh Pandit submitted that he had a pre-hearing conference with the department concerned and the requisite sanction for releasing the amount had been accorded.“However, owing to the pandemic, there is partial lockdown going on and currently, the state government is under a huge financial crunch,” he told the Bench.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-takes-note-of-fiscal-crunch-plea-91713
30-05-2020||---||With 217 cases in a day, Haryana tally jumps to 1,721||Chandigarh, May 29With 217 cases recorded in a day, the highest so far, the state’s tally jumped to 1,721 today. Gurugram accounted for 115 (53 per cent) cases today, the highest for any district.Fresh cases were also reported from Faridabad (31), Sonepat (19), Palwal and Kaithal (7 each), Karnal and Rohtak (6 each), Hisar, Rewari and Charkhi Dadri (5 each), Mahendragarh (3), Bhiwani and Nuh (2 each) and Panchkula, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Kurukshetra (1 each).A total of 59 patients recovered in a day. The recovery rate fell from 58.58 per cent to 54.62 per cent while doubling rate reduced from 16 days to 13 days.A 62-year-old man, who died at a hospital in Faridabad three days ago, was found to have been infected. He was suffering from diabetes and other ailments. This was the eighth casualty due to Covid in the district, but was yet to be counted in the state tally.The new cases in Faridabad include 10 women. Four members of the family of a patient also confirmed for Covid. Two journalists are among the fresh cases.Among the fresh cases in Sonepat are a government employee in Delhi, a mother-son duo who returned from Jodhpur on May 25, a Haryana Police personnel and a Delhi Police official.Among the seven cases in Palwal are three members of a family. Among the seven cases in Kaithal are three from one locality.Six residents of Rohtak, including a junior resident of the PGIMS, tested positive. In Mahendragarh, the three cases include a CRPF constable.Two persons, including the personal assistant of local MLA Ghanshyam Saraf, tested positive in Bhiwani. Health officials took the samples of the MLA and members of his family for testing. Sources said the personal assistant, along with the MLA, had gone to Chandigarh recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-217-cases-in-a-day-haryana-tally-jumps-to-1-721-91714
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||Govt launches online grievance redressal system||The Haryana Principal Accountant General (Accounts and Entitlement) Office has launched an online grievance redressal system for pension revision cases of state government pensioners.Giving information in this regard here today, Principal Accountant General, Vishal Bansal said the facility had been started to resolve cases related to revision of pension by the Drawing and Disbursing Officer concerned, who would send their information to the Accountant General Office through online process.He said the Accountant General’s Office would send the pension authority online to the Drawing and Disbursing Officer, treasury and pensioner.In addition, the pensioners could obtain the pension authority through user ID created at their own level. For this facility, pensioners would have to register themselves on this system. He said pensioners could contact on the toll-free number 18001023292 and register their complaints on the online grievance redressal system through their mobile phone numbers.He said the pensioner would be informed about the grievance redressal on his mobile phone as well as the grievance redressal system. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-launches-online-grievance-redressal-system-91715
30-05-2020||---||4-year-old sexually assaulted||Yamunanagar, May 29A four-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by a youth in a village falling under Pratap Nagar block of Yamunanagar district.On the complaint of the victim’s father, a case was registered against Sandeep Kumar (18) under Section 376-AB (whoever commits rape on a woman under twelve years of age) of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act at Pratap Nagar police station on May 27.Pratap Nagar SHO Shamsher Singh said the accused had been arrested. He said he was produced before a court on Friday and sent to judicial custody for 14 days.According to information, the child was playing outside the village temple situated close to her house around 5.30 pm on Wednesday. The accused came there and took the child to a lonely place near the temple where he allegedly sexually assaulted her.“After the attack, the girl came weeping to her mother and told her about the incident. She was very nervous and was suffering from severe pain,” alleged the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-year-old-sexually-assaulted-91716
30-05-2020||Gurugram||Man held for raping minor||The police today arrested a Badshahpur resident for allegedly raping and impregnating a 15-year-old Bihar native. The accused allegedly raped her for four months and threatened to kill her. Scared, she kept quiet. Yesterday, she realised she was pregnant and moved the police. The accused confessed to crime, was produced in a city court and sent to judicial custody. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-raping-minor-91717
30-05-2020||Sushil Manav||Mustard purchase scam in Mahendragarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 29Four officials of the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board (HSAMB) have been suspended and chargesheeted following a scam in mustard procurement involving issuance of gate passes without arrival of the crop. The licences of 15 arhtiyas (traders) have been suspended and orders issued for registration of an FIR.Modus OperandiThe arhtiyas completed the stock later by arranging the mustard crop from the open market or from RajasthanGate passes found to have been issued for nearly 4,000 bags in excess of actual quantity of mustard procuredJ Ganesan, Chief Administrator of the HSAMB, has suspended the secretaries-cum-executive officers of the Kanina, Ateli, Mahendragarh and Narnaul market committees in Mahendragarh district and issued them chargesheets after a probe by the district authorities found gate passes having been issued for nearly 4,000 bags in excess of the actual quantity procured. “The licences of 15 arhtiyas involved in the scam have been suspended. The process for cancelling their licences will be started. We are writing to Hafed and the Haryana Warehousing Corporation for action against their officials involved in the scam. I have ordered registration of an FIR,” Ganesan said.He said he had told the Deputy Commissioner to conduct a probe after receiving complaints that some arhtiyas, in connivance with HSAMB officials and procurement agencies, were siphoning government money in the name of mustard purchase. Similar complaints had been received from Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Hisar, Fatehabad and Sirsa, but the authorities there were yet to complete their probes, said Ganesan.Haryana procures eight quintals per acre of mustard at the MSP of Rs 4,425 from only those farmers who have registered their crop on the government portal ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’. In the open market or in Rajasthan, the crop is available at Rs 4,000 per quintal or even at lower rates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mustard-purchase-scam-in-mahendragarh-91718
30-05-2020||Gurugram||Gangster shot dead in Gurugram||A gangster, who was a close aide of another dreaded criminal, was gunned downed by around a dozen armed men in Gurugram’s Feroze Gandhi Colony on Friday, the police said.Deceased Vikas Dureja, alias Anda, was said to be right-hand man of dreaded gangster Birender Singh Dayma, alias Bindar Gujjar, and was leading the gang in the latter’s absence. Gujjar is lodged in a Mumbai jail in connection with the killing of another Gurugram gangster Sandeep Gadoli in February 2017 .The police suspect either the men owing allegiance to Kaushal or Gadoli many be involved. Vikas was on way to a nearby market in a Maruti Swift car around 2.30 pm when he was cornered by his attackers 300 to 400 metres away from his house. As an SUV blocked his path from the front, Vikas tried to reverse his car but around half a dozen attackers riding two motorcycles blocked his way. He was subsequently killed in indiscriminate firing. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gangster-shot-dead-in-gurugram-91719
30-05-2020||Chandigarh||High Court no to PIL on school fees||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today did not entertain a PIL for prohibiting private schools from charging fees, other than tuition fee. A Division Bench asserted that it was not inclined to entertain the plea at this stage. No private schools had been impleaded.The petitioner, Bal Kranti Trust, had approached the Chairman of the Grievances Redresssal Committee and the matter was pending.Appearing before the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, Additional Advocate General Deepak Balyan submitted that the committee was competent to decide the complaint. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-no-to-pil-on-school-fees-91720
30-05-2020||---||US deportees blame travel agents, 73 FIRs registered||Chandigarh, May 29After recording of the statements of the deportees from USA, the Haryana Police today registered 73 FIRs against travel agents in various districts of the state.A total of 76 people from the state were deported and statements of 73 people have been recorded so far.The statements of deportees have now been recorded. It is a big scam as travel agents looted them. People sold their plots, houses, shops and agricultural land to collect money for payment to these agents. These people used to be made to enter the US from illegal routesAnil Vij, Home Minister Earlier, Home Minister Anil Vij had asked DGP Crime PK Agarwal to inquire from the deportees whether they were duped. “The statements of deportees have now been recorded. It is a big scam as travel agents looted them. People sold their plots, houses, shops and agricultural land to collect money for payment to these agents. These people used to be made to enter the USA from illegal routes including the Mexico side,” said Vij.Out of 76 deportees, 21 had also tested Covid-positive. “The 73 FIRs have been registered district-wise,” said DGP Crime. Eleven cases were registered at different police stations in Ambala while 16 cases were registered at Kurukshetra.One of the victims from Ambala accused a local BJP leader, Makhan Singh Lobana, and his brother Chhinda Fauji too. Denying the allegations, Lobana said, “Chhinda Fauji is my cousin but I have nothing to do with him. He had been using our name. I have nothing to do with his work or any such activity.” SP Ambala Abhishek Singh Jorwal said, “Chhinda is accused in multiple cases and if Lobana is also involved, action will be taken as per the law.”SP Kurukshetra Astha Modi said, “The victims have been told to provide documents and details related to financial transactions. There are directions to expedite the investigation and all the SHOs concerned are personally monitoring the cases. In some of the cases, the accused are common. For instance, there is an accused, a resident of Pundri, who is common in four cases in Kurukshetra and two cases in Kaithal.”In Karnal, 25 FIRs against 26 travel agents were registered. The family members accused the agents of luring them on the pretext of jobs with handsome salary, but they were sent illegally.Kuldeep Mann, a resident of Ghoghripur village in Karnal, said that he sent his brother Manjeet Mann to the USA by selling half acre of land.SP Karnal Surinder Singh Bhoria said, “I appeal to the people to beware of such fraudsters. People should check the registration of the immigration agents first.” Vij also said that the investigations were also being carried out to know about other victims of these travel agents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/us-deportees-blame-travel-agents-73-firs-registered-91721
30-05-2020||Gurugram||3 nabbed for youth’s murder||A 28-year-old youth was shot dead on Thursday evening at Shivaji Nagar area. The police nabbed three accused on Friday.The victim, identified as Manan Gujjar, a resident of Shivji Park, was shot dead while he was in his friend’s mobile shop.The police said that his three friends have been arrested as they had some monetary dispute. The trio has been identified as Bhanu Sharma alias Dhilu, a resident of Gandhi Nagar, Annu and Manish, residents of Shiv Nagar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-nabbed-for-youths-murder-91742
30-05-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Chaos reigns as Delhi-Gurugram border is sealed||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, May 29There was chaos on the Delhi-Gurugram border on Friday after the border was sealed, leading to long queues of vehicles, commuters arguing with police and staging a protest.Acting on Home Minister Anil Vij’s order, the Gurugram police sealed the Delhi-Gurugram-Sirhaul border on NH 8, Chakkarpur border on Mehrauli-Gurugram (MG) road, old Delhi road at Kapashera and other stretches connected to Delhi.Police were deployed in great numbers and barricades put up, blocking entry of people barring those with valid passes and involved in essential services.Chaos started at around 8 am when social media went abuzz with reports of a free run at the border despite Vij's order. Within minutes the administration and local police swung into action allowing restricted entry. Soon a group of around 50 cyclists who claimed to be industrial workers blocked the road after being stopped from crossing the border.They alleged that while cars were being allowed to go they were stopped. The blockage led to a massive jam and police refused entry to all others, including those having daily travel passes by Gurugram, Delhi and Noida administrations.The police opened just one lane at the border for letting in those with essential services. Soon, vehicles accumulated, people argued with cops and were turned away. This all was on when this report was filed.“Is this some kind of joke that one day you say ‘get a pass and come, start your office’; and the next day the minister out of the blue decides on closing the border. After driving for an hour we are made to stand and are roughed up by cops. I have a tech start-up and am due for an important meeting with an investor. When I reached the border I was denied entry despite having a valid daily pass issued by the Gurugram DC. The cops have no written orders allowing them to block our entry,” said Rajan Shrivastav, a Noida resident with his office in Sector 44.Many patients and private hospital doctors also claimed that they were denied entry. “I had booked an appointment with an endocrinologist on Practo. I was stopped at the border as cops refused to acknowledge the online acceptance of appointment, asking for a hospital’s doctor card or patient record. This is against the MHA guidelines,” said Sudipta Gogoi, a resident of Delhi's Vasant Vihar.Interestingly, one of the cops on duty on the Sirhaul border said, “We allowed somebody with an online appointment and soon people stood there making bookings to get entry. We have to exercise restraint. There were many people who had expired passes but went ahead changing them through a software. Despite being repeatedly asked to maintain social distancing they got out and argued.”Gurugram reported 68 fresh cases on Thursday and 121 in the past one week.Commissioner appealsGurugram CP Maohamad Akil said, “We are allowing all those mandated by the Delhi high court, who are involved in essential services, with valid passes. This is for safety of all citizens and they should abide by the orders. The cops on border are risking their lives to everyone safe, so please cooperate with us.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chaos-reigns-as-delhi-gurugram-border-is-sealed-91588
