30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt hires drones for spraying pesticide on locust swarms||The Haryana Government is prepared to deal with locust attacks and has hired drones for spraying pesticide if needed, state Agriculture Minister JP Dalal said on Thursday.The minister told the farmers that they need not worry about the locust attacks, but cautioned them to stay vigilant.During the past few days, small swarms of locusts have been spotted in some districts of Haryana, including Sirsa which borders Rajasthan.Speaking to reporters in Bhiwani, Dalal said there are enough stocks of pesticides and all necessary arrangements are in place to deal with the threat posed by locusts.Dalal also said, “We have hired drones and we will use them wherever the need is felt. Also, if need arises, we will get pesticides sprayed even by helicopters.”             He said tractor-mounted spraying guns will be mostly used to eliminate the insects.Dalal said the Centre had recently issued an advisory warning of more locusts attacks this year. The minister said as large swarms of locusts had entered Rajasthan they could enter neighbouring Haryana after breeding.Meanwhile, the Haryana agriculture department has decided to deploy two drones in Hisar and Mahendragarh districts by Thursday evening.These drones can be deployed in other affected areas as well, if required, said Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department, Sanjeev Kaushal.He said that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has given clearance for deploying the drones.Kaushal said a tender had also been issued for engaging five more drones, with minimum pay load capacity of 10 litres and flight operation capacity of at least four hours every day, for undertaking aerial spray operation in affected areas.These drones could be deployed for spraying in fields, community land, sand dunes, tree tops, acacia plantation, or any other affected area, as required by the department, he said.Kaushal said the department was putting in place several measures to control the swarms of locusts, including stocking additional quantities of pesticide, deploying tractor-mounted spray pumps, and acquiring fogging machines.The preparatory measures have so far prevented significant losses in most areas during locust attacks in Jhajjar, Charkhi Dadri, Palwal, Sirsa, Nuh, Rewari, Bhiwani and Narnaul since June 26, he said.Kaushal assured that the department was closely monitoring the situation, and urged farmers in the affected districts to stay alert and inform the officials if they see locusts anywhere.A fortnight ago, swarms of locusts had reached Sirsa, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri and Mahendragarh districts.Dalal had assured farmers that the government would take all necessary measures to control locust infestation in case the insects are spotted in any district and they will be compensated for their losses.The farmers beat “thalis” (plates) and other utensils to drive away the insects and protect their crops, while administration and agriculture department officials deploy tractor-mounted spraying guns and other machinery to spray pesticides once the insects settle down in fields or on trees etc.Last month, a huge swarm of locusts had reached Rewari from Rajasthan. While a part of the swarm settled overnight in the district, the remaining headed towards Gurgaon the next morning and eventually moved towards Uttar Pradesh.Haryana had issued a high alert two months ago after swarms of locusts attacked crops in Rajasthan and a few other states.Locusts, popularly known as “tiddi dal”, are short-horned grasshoppers with highly migratory habits and voracious feeding behaviour. PTI
30-07-2020||Pradeep Sharma||'Dangal' girl Babita Phogat, kabaddi player Kavita appointed sports dy directors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 30The BJP-JJP Government has appointed ‘Dangal’ girl and BJP leader Babita Phogat and professional kabaddi player Kavita Devi as deputy directors in the Sports and Youth Affairs Department.The sportswomen, who had applied to the state government for the post in late 2018, have been appointed under the Haryana Outstanding Sportspersons (Recruitment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 2018, an order issued by Principal Secretary, Sports and Youth Affairs stated.The daughter of ‘Dangal’ fame wrestling coach Mahavir Phogat and two-time Commonwealth gold medallist, Babita worked as Sub-Inspector in the Haryana Police before putting in her papers to join the BJP to contest the 2019 Assembly polls from the Dadri constituency.However, her maiden entry into electoral politics came a cropper with the international wrestler finishing a miserable third in the contest, which was won by the BJP rebel Sombir Sangwan.Last year, Babita had dragged the Haryana Government to the Punjab and Haryana High Court claiming that she be promoted to the post of DSP like her sister Geeta Phogat, also a Commonwealth gold medallist. However, she later withdrew her petition and ultimately resigned from service to enter politics.Other appointee Kavita was a member of the Indian team that won gold medal in 2014 in the Incheon Asian Games.
30-07-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  ||There are black sheep in Excise & Taxation Department who are delaying enquiries: Haryana Lokayukta||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, July 30  Coming down heavily on the Excise and Taxation Department in a case of misuse of TIN number of one firm by another, Haryana Lokayukta Justice Nawal Kishore Agarwal (retd) has said there were “black sheep” in the department who were “delaying” enquiries.A Sirsa resident had approached the Lokayukta in 2017 against M/s Pratham Industries for allegedly cheating the government of lakhs of rupees by using the TIN number of another firm – M/s Manish Marbles.  The Lokayukta asked ACS Excise and Taxation Department to enquire into the matter in February, 2019 but despite reminders no report was received.On February 10 this year, a show-cause notice was issued to the ACS, Excise and Taxation, following which the enquiry report was received on March 6.   The Lokayukta observed that the enquiry report issued by the Joint Excise and Taxation Commissioner (Range), Hisar, and endorsed by Excise and Taxation Commissioner claimed that “the cases against M/s Pratham Industries had become time barred and M/s Manish Marbles is not involved in tax evasion matter”.Justice Aggarwal said the department sent an action taken report exonerating assesses instead of the enquiry report which he had sought."The Excise and Taxation Department did not wait for the report of this Authority and in fact decided the matter at its own end,” he said.He added that the matter at hand was how and in what manner the officers of the Excise and Taxation Department were ignoring evasion of tax and causing huge loss to the public exchequer. “Furthermore, if such matters are taken as an example then it will not be difficult to presume the quantum of loss to public exchequer due to evasion of tax in the entire state of Haryana.” He said that it was “incumbent upon the officers to get some legal opinion, whether in such cases the rules of limitation apply or not, and whether or not any offence under law of the land has been committed by such tax evaders”.“In such a case, failure of supervising machinery to detect such misdeeds, may be due to negligence or may be by any deliberate act of a particular public servant, is apparent on the face of the record..,” said the Lokayukta.  “In the aforesaid facts, situation of the case, there is no iota of doubt in my mind that there are some black sheep in the department, who delayed the enquiries and have not done their duties to detect such matters,” he added.Justice Aggarwal has called for an enquiry into the case by the ACS, Excise and Taxation Department, and for taking stern action against erring officials if complainant’s allegations are correct.  He has also recommended forming an SIT for a special audit of tax evasion incidents in the entire Haryana state.
30-07-2020||Panipat||Enraged protestors block NH-44, pelt Panipat police with stones; water cannon used by cops||Enraged over police inaction in the alleged murder case of three children, family members of the victims, along with a hundred villagers, on Thursday protested and blocked the traffic on National Highway-44, near the mini secretariat.Reportedly, the police have not arrested the accused involved in the alleged murder case.Police have used water cannons and lathi-charged against the protestors to disperse them. This caused some protestors and police personnel minor injuries.The protestors also pelted stones at the police. They broke glasses and around two dozen private vehicles parked under the flyover after the police lathi-charged them.As per the schedule, Kashyap community and hundreds of villagers gathered at Binjhol village and moved towards the mini secretariat.The villagers, under the banner of Kashyap Samaj Sangharsh Samiti, held a protest march against the police by raising slogans.Heavy police forced was deputed near the mini secretariat. The gates were closed to stop the protestors from entering the mini secretariat.The villages raised slogans. They also had heated arguments with the officers.Enraged protestors, set on Dharna at NH-44, blocked the traffic on both sides for over 50 minutes.Meanwhile, SDM Swapnil, Ravindera Patil, DSP City Virender Saini, DSP Sandeep Kumar, along with the heavy police force reached there and tried to pacify the protestors. But the protestors were adamant and demanded the arrest of the accused involved in the murder of three children.The police warned the protestors, but they did not pay any heed to their warning. The police called the water cannon, and used that to disperse them. The police rained the lathis over the protestors for around 10-12 minutes.The protestors also got violent as they pelted stones over the police.Superintendent of Police, Manisha Chaudhar, said: "The villagers have met several times, about the progress in their case, and every time we briefed the details to them, but they were adamant on the arrest of the accused in the case.""They had given a call regarding the protest on July 30, and as per their call, they came here with sticks and stones in their hands, and also blocked the traffic on NH-44," she continued."Our officers tried to pacify the protestors for a long time, but they were not even ready to hear," she added."We have pacified them several times so that they don't disturb law and order situations, but when they tried to gherao the mini secretariat and blocked the traffic on NH-44, we had to use mild lathi charge and water cannon to disperse them", the SP maintained."Some police personnel sustained injuries, and we have also detained some protestors who were leading the protest", she said."A case would be registered against the protesting people under various sections", the SP asserted.Notably, the dead bodies of three children—Lakshya, Vansh and Arun of Binjhol village were found in the minor canal flowing adjoining to an illegal bleaching unit on July 8.The police have registered a case against 12 persons allegedly for murdering three children.SP Manisha Chaudhary had constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to inquire into the matter. The cause of death of three children was not cleared so far.
30-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju sanctions Rs 5 lakhs to financially distressed Wushu player from Haryana||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 30Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports Kiren Rijiju has sanctioned an amount of Rs 5 lakh for Shiksha, a financially distressed national Wushu champion from Rohtak.The Tribune had carried a news report on July 11, mentioning that the national Wushu champion girl has been forced to work as a farm labourer at her village Indergarh in Rohtak district to support her family.Shiksha has also been helping her mother, who works as a labourer under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.“I am highly thankful to the Union Minister, Kiren Rijiju, for the kind gesture. I am also grateful to The Tribune newspaper which voiced my concern and took it to the topmost level. I promise to give my best and bring laurels to the country at the international level,” said Shiksha.The Wushu champion said after the publication of the said news report in these columns, the district sports authorities have also started pursuing her case for the release of her due cash awards from the state government.“We are pursuing her case and she will get her due cash awards at the earliest,” said District Sports Officer Sukhbir Singh.A national champion in Wushu and Kickboxing, Shiksha is pursuing BSc (Sports Science) course at Maharani Kishori Jat Kanya Mahavidyala in Rohtak.Shiksha has won two gold medals and a bronze medal in All-India Inter-University Kickboxing championships, two silver medals in All-India Inter-University Wushu championships and 24 gold medals in state Wushu championships.
30-07-2020||jendra Ahlawat||Faridabad-Gurugram Metro report ready, awaits state approval||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, July 29The detailed project report (DPR) of the much-awaited Metro connectivity between Faridabad and Gurugram, two largest commercial hubs of Haryana, is ready for the final approval of the state government.Prepared by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), the report has been handed over to the Haryana Mass Rapid Transport Corporation (HMRTC).The work of preparing the report of the project costing Rs 5,900 crore was given to the DMRC last year after the state government had agreed to the proposal of linking the two largest cities of the state with Metro, said sources in the Department of Town and Country Planning, Haryana.It was first time on April 11, 2016, when Chief Minister Manohar Lal had announced at a public meeting here that the state government was planning to link Faridabad and Gurugram with Metro rail corridor in view of the growing demand for a better and faster transport facility. Though the project has been in the pipeline for the past over four years, the preparation of the DPR had been hanging and got delayed perhaps due to the Lok Sabha and Assembly polls last year, the sources added.Meanwhile, Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment and local MP Krishan Pal Gurjar, who had claimed in 2018 that the project was expected to be ready by April 2021, said the new deadline of the completion and launch would be known after the final approval by the state government.Admitting that the DPR had been received from the DMRC, Nadim Akhtar, Adviser, Planning, HMRTC, said it now needs the final approval of the state government.No change in the proposed budget of Rs 5,900 crore has been made, he added.Notably, the DPR prepared in March and handed over to the HMRTC on June 10, has also been placed before the Public Undertaking Committee of the state Assembly. The project will have six elevated and two underground stations. While Badkhal Enclave and Aravali Golf Course have been proposed to be underground the rest will be elevated ones.However, Congress MLA from the NIT Assembly segment here Neeraj Sharma has opposed the station at Aravali Golf Course and demanded to replace it with Baba Deep Singh Chowk (Pyali Chowk) here, as he claimed that it would serve more passengers and save money as it could have an elevated station due to more space. He has threatened to launch an agitation if the demand is not met.32.14-km-long corridor
30-07-2020||Nitin Jain||Now, doorstep delivery of citizen services in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, July 29Online citizen services will now be delivered on doorstep in Ambala. At present, three services pertaining to issuance of birth, death and marriage certificates have been made available via a private firm.The pilot project, which was delayed due to Covid-induced lockdown, was rolled out by Local Government Minister Anil Vij after allotting the work to a private firm, said senior officials.It would be replicated in 17 other civic bodies, having over 1 lakh population each, which had been covered under the digitisation project. The project would entail service charges of Rs 100 per service.Initially, birth, death and marriage certificates, amendment of entry in birth and death register, delayed registration of birth and death and domicile certificates will be issued under the pilot project while the assessment, change of entry and payment of property tax and renewal of trade licence and payment of MC property rent will be covered in the next phase.Vij also launched a toll free number, 76693-00050 and WhatsApp numbers, 85720-31425 for services in Hindi and 70823-35869 for English.A private firm hired for the purpose will also launch a web portal for the citizens to avail the service they require and the same will be provided on their doorstep.
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Government to launch waste collection drive on August 15||The state government will inaugurate the Mahagram Yojana, wherein efforts will be made to make the streets of big villages garbagefree, from Faridabad Sotai’s village on Independence Day, August 15.  Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala held consultations with senior officials of the Public Health Engineering Department and the Development and Panchayats Department to review the progress made under the scheme. He directed the officials to take cue from Hisar’s Nayagaon village, where the cattle dung was put to use, and explore the possibilities of setting up solid waste treatment plants, along with sewerage and biogas plants.  The Deputy Chief Minister was informed in the meeting that the yojana was started in the state for villages with a population of more than 10,000. Under the scheme, 129 villages were selected where sewerage would be set up. He was also told that at present, the scheme was in its first phase, and was launched in 20 villages as a pilot project. The yojana would be implemented in 38 villages in the second phase, and 71 villages in the third phase. — TNS
30-07-2020||Sanjay Yadav
||Lacking smartphones, Nuh admn introduces ‘mohalla paathshalas’||Gurugram, July 29 Deprived of online classes for want of smartphones, hundreds of students of Nuh are finding respite in special ‘mohalla paathshalas’ started by the Nuh administration.  Graduates of each mohalla or residential societies have been roped in to conduct small community classes for these children. With small batches, the youth known as ‘shiksha mitras’ are conducting open-air classes and have got huge response within two days of the commencement of the programme. “Imparting education during the Covid crisis is a big challenge. The problem is graver in Nuh, where the majority of students don’t have any infrastructure or smartphones to attend e-classes. This initiative will keep the children connected to lessons till regular schooling restarts,” said Pankaj Yadav, ADC, Nuh. Facing challenges like lack of smartphones, cable or DTH-enabled TV sets or evennetwork, erratic power supply and employment of students in farms, the local Education Department and private schools have so far failed to run online classes smoothly and had no choice but to wait for schools to reopen. In such a situation, this endeavour has come as a ray of hope. In the first phase, 30 people enrolled as ‘shiksha mitra’ and the first class started in Biwan village. Now, classes are being held in different villages. To ensure social distancing, each class has only 12 to 15 students, who wear masks.  “We just have one smartphone, which I have to take with me. We have no DTH also. My son had attended no classes in the past four months. When I got to know about ‘mohalla paathshala’, I immediately enrolled him there. This is our only option,” said Altaf of Bhakdoji village.
30-07-2020||Yamunanagar||Fraud case against rice miller||The police have booked a rice mill owner for allegedly misappropriating custom-milled paddy worth Rs 8.14 crore.In his police complaint, Anil Rawat, district manager, Hafed, said Shree Ram Agro Foods owner Dinesh Kumar was allotted 42,490.12 quintals of paddy for milling during the 2019-20 season. He was to return 28,468.38 quintals of rice to the FCI by July 15 (an extended date), but he gave only 5,796.68 quintals.“During the inspection of the mill on June 25, it was found that the owner mill didn’t return 29,449 jute bags and 662 wooden crates to Hafed.”Kumar was booked under Sections 407 and 420 IPC at Chhachhrauli station. — TNS
30-07-2020||Nitish Sharma||Bust of martyr Major Yogesh Gupta to adorn chowk named after him||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, July 29Eighteen years after the martyrdom of Major Yogesh Gupta, his bust is finally ready to be put up at the chowk in Ambala Cantonment renamed and constructed in January last year.The MC had renamed Rajiv Gupta Ultrasound Chowk after Major Gupta. He sacrificed his life while fighting terrorists in Surankot in J&K on July 12, 2002. It took over 16 years to get a chowk renamed and another year to get the bust ready. Major Gupta’s family requested the MC to get the chowk repaired and get some lights fitted.“The bust is ready and we are likely to receive it soon. We are thankful to the MC for accepting our demand and getting the bust prepared,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, the martyr’s father. The family said they would request Home Minister Anil Vij to unveil the bust. The wait for a gallantry award was still on.
30-07-2020||Rewari||2 booked for killing father over  property||The Bawal police have booked two youths on the charge of murdering their father, a retired CPRF personnel, on the complaint of their stepmother. She has cited property dispute between the father and his sons behind the crime.Neelam Devi said she and her husband Suresh Chander were strolling outside the house on July 25. Sandeep and Sachin came there and started thrashing Suresh and threatened her with dire consequences if she intervened.Suresh was admitted to a local trauma centre and later, referred to the PGIMS in Rohtak. He died today.The body was handed over to the kin after autopsy. — TNS
30-07-2020||Sunit Dhawan||MoU for tele-ICU facility at four medical colleges||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 29The state government has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Springer Healthcare Systems, a Gurugram-based healthcare company, for the provision of tele-ICU facility for critical Covid patients admitted to the ICUs of four medical colleges-cum-hospitals in the state.The facility will be provided for three months as part of the company’s CSR initiative.It will enable bedside ICU staff to consult or interact with off-site clinicians with respect to the health of patients. Besides, one centralised critical-care team will be able to oversee the monitoring of patients admitted to the ICUs at different locations, and exchange information regarding health, electronically, and in real time.“The Haryana Government has agreed to strengthen the ICU care during the Covid-pandemic at the state’s medical colleges and hospitals by connecting the ICUs with a command centre, and upgrading the skills of its nurses and ICU staff,” reads the MoU.A source said the state-run medical colleges covered under the project were PGIMS in Rohtak, SHKM Medical College in Mewat, ESIC Medical College in Faridabad and BPS Medical College in Sonipat, while the Civil Hospitals of Panchkula and Gurugram will also be included.“The idea is to improve the care of critical Covid patients admitted to the ICUs of the state’s medical colleges, and ensure uniformity in their treatment,” said Dr Dhruva Chaudhry, senior professor at the PGIMS, Rohtak.Karnal to have 2 more sample collection sitesKarnal: The Health Department has decided to start two more permanent sites for Covid sample collection — one at the polyclinic in Sector 16 and the other at a dispensary in Sector 6. At present, the only collection point is at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College. tns
30-07-2020||Nitish Sharma||Rafale jets bring joy to Ambala residents||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, July 29Ambala residents were elated on the arrival of the first batch of five Rafale jets at the Air Force Station in Ambala on Wednesday.The residents were eagerly waiting since morning and all eyes, especially in Ambala Cantonment, were on the sky to see the fighter jets.The roads leading towards the Air Force Station were closed and tight security arrangements were made by the administration.The district administration had imposed Section 144 of the CrPC in four villages falling in the vicinity of the airbase. A large number of people had stopped their vehicles on the national highway to catch the glimpse of the Rafale jets.While the residents distributed sweets, performed havan, released balloons and danced to show their enthusiasm, hoardings of BJP leaders were erected at many places in Ambala to welcome the fighter jets.A local resident said, “Everybody is talking about Ambala today. We are celebrating the arrival of Rafale by distributing sweets.”Another resident, who had parked his car on the highway, said, “We are waiting to see Rafale coming. We feel proud as the planes are coming to Ambala first.”Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel danced while holding the national flag in his hand to show his happiness. He said, “It is a matter of pride for all of us that the much-awaited weapon has arrived today. The 1857 Revolt, the First War of Independence, started from Ambala Cantonment and now, Rafale is being stationed here. Ex-servicemen and residents all are very happy. Had there not been a fear of Covid spread, the atmosphere would have been different in Ambala.”Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said, “This is a very proud and historic moment for us that the Rafale jets will be stationed in Ambala Cantonment.” He also tweeted from his official handle to welcome the jets.
30-07-2020||---||Virus claims seven more lives in Haryana||Chandigarh, July 29With 755 cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 33,631 today. Seven deaths pushed the toll to 413. Two deaths each were reported from Faridabad and Panipat and one each from Gururgram, Sonepat and Rohtak.A 70-year-old woman from the Mohna road and a 68-year-old man from the NIT succumbed to the viral disease in Faridabad.New cases were reported from Faridabad (198), Gurugram (91), Ambala (75), Panchkula (46), Jind (43), Panipat (38), Rohtak and Karnal (35 each), Rewari (32), Sonepat (26), Sirsa (21), Fatehabad (18), Palwal (17), Hisar and Yamunanagar (14 each), Nuh and Kurukshetra (13 each), Mahendragarh (10), Kaithal (7), Bhiwani (4), Charkhi Dadri (3) and Jhajjar (2).Fresh cases in Faridabad were reported from Ballabgarh, Old Faridabad, Dabua Colony, Jawahar Colony, AC Nagar, NIT, Sanjay Colony, Kheri Kalan, Sector 3, Sector 15, Sector 19, Sector 23, Gopi Colony, Mahaveer Colony, Adarsh Nagar and Subhash Colony.Fresh cases in Ambala comprised 27 from Ambala City, 23 from Ambala Cantt, 10 from Mullana, five each from Shahzadpur and Chaurmastpur, four from Barara and one from Naraingarh.
30-07-2020||---||Set up 9 more testing labs in 10 days: Khattar||Chandigarh, July 29Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed the officials concerned to set up nine new Covid testing labs in the next 10 days in the state and conduct a special campaign to motivate people to wear masks during Unlock 3.0.The CM was presiding over the meeting of the disaster management committee with various departments to take stock of the Covid situation in the state on Wednesday. He also directed the Police Department to strictly enforce wearing of masks and issue challans to the offenders on the spot and giving them at least five masks.Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajeev Arora apprised the CM that the average Covid-positive rate in the state was 5.82 per cent while it is 8.56 per cent in the country. Haryana’s recovery rate is 78.35 per cent, while it is 64.23 per cent in the country, he added. Arora said the death rate was 1.23 per cent in the state and 2.26 per cent in the country. Covid suspected cases are 32,876 of which 25,758 patients are cured, he added.The CM directed the officials that at least one Covid testing lab should be opened in each district, which is facilitated by the RT-PCR system instead of antigen testing.Meanwhile, Additional Chief Secretary, Medical Education and Research, Alok Nigam said there were 16 Covid labs in the state, including 11 in government hospitals.
30-07-2020||Gurugram||Proud moment for Gurugram||There were celebrations at Basai village in Gurugram as one of the pilots who flew Rafale from France to India, Rohit Kataria, hails from the village.The Kataria family said the village was proud that Rohit had become an integral part of defence history. “We are excited and happy…and relieved that he has returned safely. He has flown almost all Air Force aircraft including Mirage and Sukhoi. It is a double celebration as he has also been promoted as group captain,” Col Satbeer Singh (retd), Rohit’s father, said. — TNS
30-07-2020||Parveen Arora||Flood-prevention repairs along Yamuna incomplete||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 29Though the monsoon is in full swing, the repair of the Yamuna canal abanks to prevent floods in nearby villages is yet to be completed.The Irrigation Department was supposed to complete the repair and construction of studs at seven places in the district by June. But even one month after the elapsing of the deadline, only 60 per cent of the work has been completed, sources in the department say.The department has constructed one stud and repaired three at Dakwala complex. At Mustafabad complex, it has constructed three studs and repaired seven along with a revetment (sloping structures placed on banks or cliffs in such a way as to absorb the energy of incoming water) of around 1,365 ft.Among the uncompleted works are the repair of studs at Kundakalan complex, Sadarpur complex and Kalsora complex, and the construction of studs at Shergarh Tapu and a 840-ft revetment at Kalsora complex.The delay in completing the works has generated a fear of floods among people living in more than 20 villages along the river. Nasib Singh, a village resident, accused the department of not taking the repair of the Yamuna canal banks seriously, putting people’s lives at risk.The authorities, however, blamed the Covid-induced lockdown for the slow pace of work. Navtej Singh, Executive Engineer (XEN), Irrigation, said: “There was shortage of labour and construction material because of the lockdown. The urgent works have been completed at a cost of Rs 5 crore.”Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said he had formed a team led by a Sub-divisional Magistrate (SDM) to monitor the works. “The last few days of August and the initial days of September are critical in view of floods. I have directed the authorities to complete the work soon,” he added.
30-07-2020||Karnal||Two women die in hospitals, kin claim negligence||A pregnant woman and the mother of a newborn have died 12 hours apart, one at the Civil Hospital and the other at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC). The family members of the deceased have alleged negligence.  “I have asked the authorities to file reports in two days,” said Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon. Jyoti (25) of Dabrki Kalan village  came to the Civil Hospital on Tuesday afternoon. She died in the evening. Her relative Pinki alleged negligence on the part of doctors. The Covid test of the pregnant woman, conducted after her death, found her negative. Dr Ashwani Ahuja, Principal Medical Officer, said the cause of death would be known after receipt of the autopsy report. Paramjeet Kaur of the Hansi road came to the KCGMC on Tuesday. She gave birth to a son in the wee hours on Wednesday and died hours later. Members of her family filed a police complaint against doctors. “We are investigating the allegations. Further probe will be conducted after receipt of the postmortem report,” said SHO Sanjeev Gaur. — TNS
30-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||Ahead of Raksha Bandhan, parcels for dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim decline||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 29With the Covid threat still looming large, women and girls have opted to send rakhis to their brothers via couriers. A testimony to this is the fact that the number of parcels received in post offices here has doubled when compared to the last year’s number.However, this time around, couriers addressed to jailed Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh have witnessed a significant decline from 1,000 couriers per day last year to less than 60 this year. “The dera followers come from lower sections of the society, and a majority of them are either daily wagers or small shopkeepers. Hit hard by the pandemic, the followers are struggling to make ends meet amid the economic slowdown. Hence, they are not enthusiastic this time to spend on sending rakhis or raksha bandhan wishes to pitaji. I, too, have not sent him rakhi this time around,” said a dera follower, who runs a grocery shop in Jhajjar city.Another dera follower from Kalanaur town here said health safety amid the rising number of Covid cases was one of the major reasons why the followers were refraining from buying rakhis.“More than 25,000 parcels of rakhis were received for the jailed dera chief last year, and the average number of parcels received per day was over 1,000. However, this year, merely 200 rakhi parcels have come to date. Our employees had to work extra time to deliver the parcels in time last year, but this time there is no burden on us,” said Vikas, sub-postmaster at a post office in Sunaria Kalan village.On the other hand, the Department of Posts has been receiving around 1,000 rakhi parcels every day for the past one week, as against 500 parcels last year. Given the surge in the number of parcels, the department has decided to deliver the parcels even on weekends so that people could get rakhis in time, said DV Saini, superintendent of post office in Rohtak Division.
30-07-2020||Mahendragarh||Mahendragarh villagers seek removal of CUH VC||Women of Jant and Pali villages here on Wednesday organised a ‘matka fod’ protest outside the Central University of Haryana (CUH) demanding the removal of acting Vice Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad and a CBI probe into the recent recruitment of teaching and non-teaching employees.They alleged that corruption, favouritism and casteism had been committed in the recruitments.Earlier, the women joined the dharna being staged by the men of both the villages outside the university for the past 23 days following the same demands. The women also shouted slogans against the university authorities before holding the protest.“Jant and Pali villages had provided the land for setting up the university. At that time, the authorities promised us to ensure reservation of both the villages in the recruitment of Class IV employees, but it is not being done. Even persons having criminal cases against them are being recruited,” said Ashok, a protester. — TNS
30-07-2020||chandigarh||BJP digitally opens 6 hi-tech dist offices||The BJP digitally inaugurated six hi-tech district offices of the party in the state today. National party chief JP Nadda joined the ceremony from Delhi, CM Manohar Lal Khattar joined from Chandigarh and state president OP Dhankar joined the programme from Hisar. Inaugurating the six district offices in Hisar, Fatehabad, Sonepat, Palwal, Rewari and Nuh, Nadda said that all 22 districts of the state would have their own party offices soon. “Five hundred offices are ready and 400 more are in the pipeline. In Haryana, we inaugurated the first district office in Jind. Six are being inaugurated today while seven more will be inaugurated next month. In Sirsa, we are looking for land,” he said. Maintaining that these offices were equipped with the latest gadgets and all kinds of facilities, Nadda urged the workers to use these to strengthen the organisation by reaching out to the people digitally. Addressing the workers, the BJP national president appreciated the work done under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the Covid pandemic in which the BJP and its workers ensured food and financial aid to those in need.  “The Prime Minister led from the front and took the harsh decision of a lockdown when other countries like the USA, Italy and Spain were still unsure on whether to save the economy or focus on the health of the people. Go to the people and tell them this,” Nadda said while appreciating the leadership of the Chief Minister in the state. Khattar congratulated the workers and said that the inauguration of the offices was a milestone for the party. “The inauguration of our offices is not just the inauguration of buildings but of the party,” he said. He said that there was a time when party stalwart Dr Mangal Sen’s house was considered the party office. “The organisation has to reach out to the general public by making full use of the offices and become the centre for propagating the government’s plans,” he said. Dhankar said that the difference between a regular office and a BJP party office is that the former is open from 10 am to 5 pm while the latter is open 24x7 on all 365 days. — TNS
30-07-2020||---||Haryana Government to deploy drones to sight locust threat||Chandigarh, July 29State Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister Jai Prakash Dalal said as a result of adequate arrangements made by the department in view of the threat from locust swarms, the situation today was under control.However, it had been decided to deploy two drones for surveillance, said the minister at a review meeting of the department.At the meeting, Director General of the department Vijay Dahiya said a letter had been written to the Directorate of Civil Aviation, Government of India, seeking permission to deploy the drones. Besides, monitoring of swarms of locusts via a helicopter, as was being done in Rajasthan, was also discussed, he added.
30-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Chemist who sold Covid drugs to Iraqi smugglers nabbed||Gurugram, July 29In continuation with yesterday’s raid on a drug cartel smuggling Covid and cancer treatment drugs overseas, a joint team of the police and District Drug Control Department, Food and Drugs Administration, nabbed a chemist late in the evening today.The accused, Pardeep, proprietor of Medigreen Pharmacy, Jharsa, Gurugram, allegedly sold Remdesivir injection to the smugglers without bills.The team seized 84 vials of Covid treatment drug Remdesivir from the possession of Pardeep. He had hidden those in a tubewell room at his field in his village approximately 30 km from Gurugram.Pardeep reportedly told the police that the injections were to be sold to smugglers who were nabbed yesterday. Those were to be sent to Iraq.The Ramdesivir injections were purchased without invoice by Pardeep for Rs 15,000 per vial and sold above MRP to Mohnaad without issuing sale invoice.
30-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Doctor not paid for months, HC terms it unfortunate||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 29A frontline health worker has not been paid his salary even during the Covid pandemic. In his petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the doctor, presently working as senior resident at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak, has claimed that his salary has been pending for several months.Describing the matter as quite regrettable, Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal directed his previous place of working to complete all formalities before sending the requisite papers to the respondent-institute within two weeks. The institute was directed to release outstanding salary within a one week thereafter.Taking up the matter through video-conferencing, Justice Grewal asserted: “He has admittedly not been paid salary for the last several months, which is rather unfortunate. He is being made to run around several departments for completing the papers.”The matter was brought to Justice Grewal’s notice after Dr Vijay Ahlawat filed a petition against Haryana and other respondents, seeking a direction to release his salary from June 2019.His counsel told the court that the petitioner was an HCMS doctor. His service book was with the Civil Hospital at Charkhi Dadri, where he was previously employed. The institute was insisting on his last pay certificate before disbursing salary. The counsel contended that all documents available with the petitioner had been handed over to the respondents.Justice Grewal’s Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that that the institute had written to the Civil Hospital to send the relevant documents, including last pay certificate, so that salary could be disbursed. Arguing on the institute’s behalf, the counsel contended that the petitioner was earlier on extraordinary leave and salary yet to be paid was for the last three or four months.Before parting with the order, Justice Grewal asserted that the respondent-institute had written to the respondent-hospital to provide all relevant documents, including service book. It was, as such, necessary to issue directions to the respondent-hospital to complete the necessary formalities and forward the requisite papers to respondent-institute for disbursal of the petitioner’s salary.
30-07-2020||Kurukshetra||Talk on Paradigm shift in education||Tender floated for question papersRewari: For the first time, Indira Gandhi University (IGU) here has floated a tender for the printing of questions papers for semester, annual and entrance examinations for academic session 2020-21. Prof SK Gakhar, Vice Chancellor, said the move aimed at bringing transparency in the system. "Earlier, the Controller of Examination (CoE) used to personally contact some firms and issued the tender to the most suitable one, but now we have changed this mechanism. The move will maintain confidentiality as usual since the tender has been invited to the personal email ID of the CoE,” Prof Gakhar said.Webinar on finance mgmt amid CovidMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) organised a national webinar on “Strategy for managing personal finance, including mutual funds, during and after Covid”. Presiding over the webinar, Vice Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad threw light on the importance of financial management and stressed on market knowledge and investment necessities. Keynote speaker Suryakant Sharma from the Association of Mutual Funds in India specified why investment is necessary. Guest speaker Deb Bhattacharjee from the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) underlined the various aspects of personal investment.
30-07-2020||  Laxity in issuing property tax bills||Road work on at Slow pace||House/property tax running in many crores is lying piled up in the Municipal Corporation of Hisar. The accumulation of the taxes is not due to the reluctance of the payers but it must be attributed to the lackadaisical functioning of the MC as the bills of house/property tax are not issued yearly. Besides, the record is not updated. How ludicrous is this that the tax payers on certain occasion are asked to produce the receipt of tax paid last time. This time, the MC is on toes to recover the taxes by handing over bills for years together, causing monetary hardships. To avert the piling up of taxes and inconvenience to the tax payers, the MCs in Haryana should issue yearly bills without fail. Baljeet Singh, Hisar   Slow pace of road construction  A stretch of the Kurukshetra road near the railway crossing of Teek village in Kaithal is lying incomplete for years, putting commuters’ lives at risk. Both sides of the road have deep pits, which often get filled with water during monsoon. The department concerned is waiting for any untoward incident to happen. It is our traditional way to keep the work pending while making roads. A final touch is never given. Only making tall claims interests our government, whichever is in power. Kapil Sharma, Kaithal  Social distancing goes for a toss Amid spiraling Covid cases, people are flouting social-distancing norms and are putting theirs as well as others’ lives in danger. No social distancing is being followed even in key areas like market and government offices. Self-awareness is the need of the hour as wearing masks, frequently washing hands and social distancing are the only ways to lessen the chances of being infected or spreading the deadly virus. Everyone needs to realise that the risk of acquiring Covid is closer than we think. Awareness campaigns should not fall silent. The authorities concerned must adopt strict measures towards the effective implementation of precautionary guidelines issued by the government for the welfare of citizens. Brij Mohan Kumar Tehri, Tohana  Roadside encroachments on the rise  The busiest station road of Yamunanagar city is almost entirely encroached upon by local vendors i.e. rehriwalas and fruit-sellers, etc. The movement of traffic is badly affected, resulting in frequent Jams. The haphazard parking of vehicles on this road make the position more critical. The local MC/police authorities have not been paying any attention to this problem since long, leading to the worsening of situation. The six-laning of road from fountain Chowk to Agrasen Chowk on this stretch has become useless due to encroachments. I request the administration to conduct frequent drives to control the rising problem of encroachments on the roads. Suresh Kumar, Yamunanagar  Corruption at its peak  Whenever a political crisis happens in any state, the MLAs, especially Independent ones, start demanding money and are offered exorbitant amount, sometimes even up to Rs 30 crore each like in Rajasthan. In Haryana, during the lockdown, the liquor mafia sold illegal booze worth crores day and night, exposing the political-bureaucratic-criminal nexus. Now we are told that during the lockdown, the entire administration facilitated the officials to go ahead with the registration of properties in bulk, breaking all kinds of rules and the scandal could run in thousands of crores. Similarly, sometime ago rice millers played all types of illegal tricks to mint money. It appears that the government has no interest to set up an example of honesty before the electorates. Ramesh Gupta, Narwana
30-07-2020||Yamunanagar||7-yr-old sexually abused||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly sexually abused by her neighbour in a village in Yamunanagar district on Monday. On the complaint of the mother of the victim, a case was registered against Golden at the women police station on Tuesday. TNSChandigarhJBT transfers from AugustIt has been decided to start inter-district transfers of junior basic teachers (JBTs) in August. A promotion list of 298 headmasters has been released. The teacher-student ratio of 1:25 for primary, 1:30 for middle and 1:35 for secondary and senior secondary classes will be followed. These decisions were taken at a meeting of the Haryana Vidyalaya Adhyapak Sangh with the Education Minister and Additional Chief Secretary for School Education. TNS
30-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||PhD degrees of 500 lecturers under lens||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 29UGC Norms ‘Flouted’The PhD degrees of over 500 extension lecturers employed in government colleges across Haryana are under scanner following complaints that these were acquired from private universities without fully adhering to UGC norms.According to the University Grants Commission (UGC), a PhD candidate must strictly follow its guidelines, including the course guide should be from the same university from where a degree is pursued, research thesis must be original and one-month course work and other seminars should be mandatorily attended.Ankur Gupta, Principal Secretary, Higher Education Department, has directed all government college principals to verify degrees pursued from outside Haryana and submit a report within a week. The department has sought details of the university from where degree has been pursued, enrolment information, coursework attendance and examination dates. Of the around 2,000 extension lecturers employed in government colleges across Haryana, over 500 have acquired PhD degrees from private universities in other states. Each of them draws a monthly salary of Rs 57,700.Kartar Singh, a social activist, claimed many degrees had been obtained from OPJS University in Churu district of Rajasthan whose owner was recently arrested in a post-matric scholarship scam. “Several of the PhD candidates pursued degrees while doing regular jobs in Haryana colleges. They didn’t take leave for attending course work and seminars. I recently submitted proof to the state Chief Secretary and demanded FIRs against guilty,” he said.
