30-04-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Frivolous request to celebrate birthdays, anniversaries leave police baffled||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, April 30Frivolous requests to celebrate birthdays, give surprises to relatives or organise video proposals has left Gurugram police baffled. In what has emerged as the biggest nuisance in the past 15 days of the lockdown, people out to garner social media attention have been asking police personnel to bring them cakes.What, however, has made things worse is people asking police to deliver roses to their lovers or help them organise surprise proposals in Delhi police’s special salute ‘parikrama’ style.“In the past ten days, we have received 50 per cent of calls for such requests. People are even sharing social media videos as templates to be followed while abiding by their request. We have been telling people that helpline is for managing the Covid-19 crisis, but hardly anybody understands,” said one of the helplines operators.“We are risking our lives to save you. Yes, we are humans, and have a soft side to make residents feel special in cases as per requirement. But, we are not cake and flower delivery boys. Such requests trivialise our efforts. We get such calls whole day. One of our patrolling teams got a call at midnight from a boy in DLF asking us to go his girlfriend’s house and give her a ride on our PCR bikes as a birthday gift. He even offered us money,” revealed one of the DCP.Not only such requests, but a number of cops, including Commissioner Mohammad Akil, are receiving prank calls at night with excuses to “check police’s reaction time”.Irked with the tendency, the police have now issued an appeal asking people to realise the gravity of the situation. “Please realise the seriousness of the issue that has brought the nation to standstill. We are frontline warriors, who are risking our lives to keep you safe in homes. Such frivolous activities distract us and trivialise our efforts to execute our duties. We appeal to all of you to abstain or we shall be penalising the defaulters in the strictest manner,” said Akil.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/frivolous-request-to-celebrate-birthdays-anniversaries-leave-police-baffled-78576
30-04-2020||Jind||10-year-old boy dies after drinking water from bottle contaminated with pesticide||A 10-year-old boy died and his younger brother and grandmother were critical after they drank water from a bottle which was discarded in the fields in Ludana village of Jind district.They had gone to the fields to gather remains of the wheat from the fields. According to information, at noon, they felt thirsty and found an empty bottle at a tubewell.They filled the bottle with water and drank. It turned out that the bottle was discarded after use of pesticide in it. After drinking pesticide mix water, the condition of the three deteriorated and they were rushed to the hospital.The police said that Sagar, aged 10, died during treatment while Rohit, 8, and their grandmother Santra Devi were admitted in the PGIMS at Rohtak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-year-old-boy-dies-after-drinking-water-from-bottle-contaminated-with-pesticide-78566
30-04-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Man commits suicide in Gurugram; wife had tested positive for COVID-19||A 53-year-old man, a resident of Acharya Puri colony, allegedly committed suicide on Thursday. His wife had tested positive for COVID-19 yesterday evening.His body was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his house today morning.As the news reached health authorities, a team reached the colony and sealed it declaring it containment zone.No suicide note was recovered while the son of the deceased told police that his father was depressed since evening. According to the police, the wife of the deceased identified as Satbir Saini was admitted in a private hospital since the last four days as she was suffering from stomach ulcer.It was only yesterday late evening when she was found COVID-19 positive and rushed to a Covid hospital in isolation.Police sources said prima facie it appears that depression over his wife’s Covid status made him take the extreme step though they were investigating further.  The son of the deceased is reportedly working as pharmacist.“We are looking into the matter from all angles. Possibility of depression due to his wife found corona positive seems to be prominent now. The post-mortem is on,” said Inspector Jasvir Chahal, SHO of sector 14 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-commits-suicide-in-gurugram-wife-had-tested-positive-for-covid-19-78535
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar chairs all-party meet on Covid situation||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday chaired an all-party meeting on the Covid-19 situation and said senior political leaders of the state extended full support to the government’s various steps for tackling the crisis.Khattar thanked all state leaders for extending support to the Haryana government’s steps for curbing the spread of coronavirus.The chief minister held a two-hour-long video conference, in which former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, Home Minister Anil Vij and opposition INLD MLA Abhay Singh Chautala, among others, participated.There was complete support for the recent decision of putting strict curbs on daily travel across borders of Jhajjar, Sonipat, Gurgaon and Faridabad, the districts which fall in the national capital region, an official statement said after the meeting.Haryana has maintained that many of the coronavirus cases in its NCR districts have their origins in infections emanating from the national capital.Home Minister Anil Vij expressed hope that with curbs on inter-state movement, Haryana would soon be able to check the spread of the virus.During the meeting, the fourth one to be held after the lockdown was announced to check the coronavirus spread, the leaders were informed that the procurement of wheat and mustard was in full swing.About 30 lakh metric tonnes wheat and over 2.90 lakh metric tonnes mustard has been procured till Wednesday.A total payment of about Rs 591 crore for mustard has already been remitted in accounts of 52,645 farmers. Apart from this, another payment of Rs 700 crore for wheat is being released on Thursday and will be credited to the account of farmers in the next three-four days.In the meeting, it was also decided to refer the inquiry of suicide case of an inspector of the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, Kurukshetra to the Central Bureau of Investigation.Inspector Ashish had committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance on Friday and his wife had lodged a police complaint, alleging that he took the extreme step due to harassment by department officials.The officers present in the meeting included Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora, Chief Minister‘s Principal Secretary Rajesh Khullar, CM’s Additional Principal Secretary V Umashankar,  Additional Chief Secretary (Revenue) Dhanpat Singh, ACS (Home) Vijai Vardhan and ACS (Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare) Sanjeev Kaushal. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-chairs-all-party-meet-on-covid-situation-78530
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 9 new cases from Jhajjar, Gurugram||Haryana on Thursday reported 9 new cases of coronavirus from Jhajjar and Gurugram districts, taking the state's case tally to 325.Jhajjar reported seven more cases on Thursday, taking the district's case tally to 25.Two paramedics of Medanta Hospital in Gurugram tested positive for the contagion, taking the district's tally to 54.Meanwhile, 70 students who were brought back from Kota test negative for the deadly disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coronavirus-haryana-reports-9-new-cases-from-jhajjar-gurugram-78493
30-04-2020||Jhajjar||107 Jhajjar factories get nod for resuming operations with 7,966 labourers||Merely 16 per cent factories and industrial units in the district have got permission to resume operations in the last week. The condition of having living arrangements for the labourers, inside the factories, is the major reason behind the rejection of applications of the remaining 84 per cent factories.  A total 663 factories located in Bahadurgarh and other parts of the district had applied for the permission but merely 107 got the approval with labour strength of 7,966 and the applications of remaining 556 applications were turned down following not fulfilling the norms, said sources.  None of over 1,000 footwear manufacturing units located in Footwear Park in Bahadurgarh applied for the permission following the decision taken by the Bahadurgarh Footwear Park Association in this respect. This is the biggest footwear park of India, which ensures 50 per cent production of non-leather footwear of the entire nation. Its annual turnover is more than Rs 10,000 crore. “There are more than 6,500 small, medium and large scale factories/ industrial units in the district and 125 among those engaged in food processing, manufacturing pharmaceuticals and other essential goods are working as usual during the lockdown period while the district authorities have given its nod to 107 other factories for resuming their operations,” informed Narender Chhikara, Senior Vice President, the Bahadurgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industries (BCCI).Chhikara maintained the majority of factories do not have the stay arrangement for workers inside the units hence they opted to wait for the lifting of lockdown instead of going ahead with the condition. Even, many industrialists did not apply as they were afraid of an FIR against them in case any worker gets infected. "Another condition of using 33 per cent of total workers also discouraged the industrialists to restart production", he added.Sanjit Kaur, General Manager, District Industries Center, Bahadurgarh, informed a total of 232 factories with a labour strength of 9,625 were, at present, running their operations in the district. "The congested space and no arrangement for labour stay in the factory premises were the reasons for the rejection of a large number of applications for permission", she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/107-jhajjar-factories-get-nod-for-resuming-operations-with-7-966-labourers-78471
30-04-2020||Ravinder Saini||Jhajjar emerges as new Covid-19 hotspot district with 25 cases||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, April 30Jhajjar has emerged as the new hotspot district of Haryana with 25 Covid-19 positive cases surfacing in the last few days. Twelve cases were reported on Wednesday, while seven more tests came up positive on Thursday.All the cases have a direct or indirect connection with neighbouring Delhi. Out of those, 12 have a connection with Delhi’s Azadpur vegetable market, from where these people used to bring vegetables and fruits to Jhajjar and Bahadurgarh towns. Eleven of the 12 Covid-19 patients are commission agents, while one is a labourer. Nine sell vegetables in Bahadurgarh, while three work in the Jhajjar vegetable market.The sudden emergence of 18 Covid-19 cases has sent the district authorities into high alert, and they have closed the vegetable markets in both the cities till further orders. Besides them, four patients are the family members of a Covid-19 positive Delhi cop residing in Sulodha village. One is a Delhi pharmacist residing in Bahadurgarh, while another is the wife of a Bahadurgarh man employed at a hospital in Delhi.Significantly, all the 12 latest cases emerged during a random sampling drive, which was conducted by the health authorities following the apprehension about the transmission of the coronavirus infection in the district from Delhi. Apparently, more than 5,000 local residents were daily crossing the border to reach their workplace in Delhi despite the lockdown. They are employees of the Delhi Police, various departments of the Delhi government and different private hospitals or vegetable sellers.“Random sampling has helped in tracing Covid-19 patients in the district. Every one working in the vegetable markets at Jhajjar and Bahadurgarh were asymptomatic when their samples were taken. Many refused to give their sample while several resisted the move pleading that they were fit and fine but we convinced them and managed to collect their samples,” said Randeep Singh Poonia, Civil Surgeon, Jhajjar. Poonia maintained that the Azadpur vegetable market had become a hotspot of the Covid-19 infection, as a large number of vegetable sellers and buyers from the neighboring states like Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh converged there. Jhajjar was free from Covid-19 a few days back but the Delhi connection of the locals has made their work harder, he added.“We had the idea about the transmission of Covid-19 in Jhajjar from Delhi hence all those travelling to Delhi were being screened on a daily basis. We are now identifying the contacts of all the Covid positive cases in the district so that they could be screened and quarantined,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-emerges-as-new-covid-19-hotspot-district-with-25-cases-78463
30-04-2020||---||Schools, colleges unlikely to open before July: Minister||Chandigarh, April 29Schools and colleges are unlikely to open before July, but the state government is considering more relaxations to industries and a revival of business activity in markets as a part of its lockdown exit plan after May 3.CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday presided over a meeting in this regard at his residence which was attended by his Deputy Dushyant Singh Chautala and senior officers of various departments. The CM announced some relaxations for industry, including increasing shift duration from eight to 12 hours, subject to payment of overtime in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Dispute Act. He also hinted at more relaxations to the industry and business sector post May 3.“We had thought we will be able to start the academic session in schools and colleges from June. But given the increasing number of Covid cases across the country, it seems highly unlikely. It is very difficult to maintain social distancing in educational institutions,” said Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar.Dushyant, who also holds the portfolio of Industry Department, said the government was considering more relaxations to units and factories in non-containment zones so more industries could restart operations. He suggested opening of shops on odd-even pattern by giving them serial numbers. This, he said, will restart economic activity, while maintaining social distancing.“If we don’t open shops, industrial units will not be interested to operate, since they will have no place to sell their goods,” said Dushyant.The state government had on April 20 allowed industries to start operations in non-containment zones with depleted strength of workers. They were told to either provide accommodation to workers on their premises or arrange for their transport in buses while observing social distancing. However, few industrial units showed interest in the government’s offer because of the stringent conditions and SOPs.In a videoconference with industry representatives on Tuesday, the government had hinted at some relaxations while the former too offered suggestions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/schools-colleges-unlikely-to-open-before-july-minister-78364
30-04-2020||---||Five injured in ‘firing’||Yamunanagar, April 29Five persons were injured after a man allegedly opened fire on the victims over a land dispute in Yamunanagar on Wednesday. The incident took place in Kandrauli village of Radaur sub-division of the district.SHO, Jathlana police station, Manoj Kumar said four persons of Kandrauli village were booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and under Arms Act, on Wednesday.According to information, members of a family of Kandrauli village and their several relatives assembled in the Kandrauli village on Wednesday morning to solve the dispute related to division of the family’s agricultural land among members. It is alleged that during this meeting, an argument took place among the family members, wherein one of the family members opened fire with a licenced revolver.“Six bullets were fired with a revolver injuring five persons,” the SHO further said.As per information, Surender Pal, Rajpal, Udeypal, Yagapal alias Monu — all residents of Kandrauli village, and Joginder Singh of Chharpura village of Kurukshetra district received bullet injuries. Community Health Centre, Radaur, referred them to the Civil Hospital, Yamunanagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-injured-in-firing-78355
30-04-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar: Relaxation for industry from April 30||Women commission launches helplineThe number, 95600-80115, named as “Ayog Sakhi” will be used only for receiving plaintsThe number will be in addition to other helplines addressing varied issues that a woman and those dependent on her may face during the lockdownChief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced certain relaxations for industry in the non-containment zones from April 30.In his address to the residents from here, Khattar announced that the industries in 15 districts and non-containment blocks (having less than 10 Covid-positive cases) of the remaining seven districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Nuh, Sonepat, Panipat and Panchkula had been allowed to operate with 50% workforce by enforcing social distancing.He said the industries could increase the working hours of labourers to 12 hours on payment of double wages. The IT sector would operate with 33% work force, he said.In view of 28 Covid cases being reported from either Delhi Government employees coming back to the state or their contacts in the past six days, he asserted that strict vigil was being kept on the Haryana-Delhi border and only persons and vehicles carrying essential goods were being allowed into the state.On the freeze on new appointments, Khattar announced that need-based appointments in universities would continue to be made.Khattar claimed that the recovery rate of Covid cases in Haryana was over 72% while the fatality rate was less than 1 per cent. With 81 active cases, the number of cases doubled in 21 days as compared to the national average of eight days, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-relaxation-for-industry-from-april-30-78344
30-04-2020||---||In Karnal, principal held for keeping school ‘open’||Karnal, April 29The City police on Wednesday arrested a principal allegedly for keeping the school open during lockdown at Subhash Gate in the city.The school has also been sealed by the Education Department for violating lockdown restrictions.The police and authorities of the Education Department found 11 students and 12 teachers there at the time of the raid.However, the school management clarified that the school was opened to disburse the salary to the staff members and students came there to get books.On a tip-off that SB Mission School was functional in Subhash Gate during lockdown, Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav constituted a team led by Ravinder Choudhary, District Education Officer, and sent it to the school.The team members, along with SHO City Harjinder Singh, raided the premises and found that staff members were inside a room where books were lying. The students were studying in another room. Chairman of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) Umesh Chanana also reached there and talked with the students. “We have sent our report to the DC,” said the chairman.“We have sealed the school for violation of norms. In the lockdown, all the education institutions have been directed not to open the premises. Online classes are being conducted by the department also. We have filed a complaint against the Principal,” said Ravinder Choudhary, DEO.SHO Harjinder Singh said that they have arrested Principal Samata Sharma for opening the school and a case under Section 188, 269, 270 of the IPC and 51 of Disaster Management Act has been registered against her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-karnal-principal-held-for-keeping-school-open-78343
30-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC upholds quarantining people from other states||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 29WHAT THE COURT RULEDThe Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday upheld the quarantining of people from other states at quarantine centre after holding that the “basic steps initiated by the Government of India and state governments to curb the impact of Covid are meant for service to humanity”.The Bench made it clear that their confinement in quarantine centre would not amount to illegal detention.Taking up the petition filed through videoconferencing by Mustak Hussain and another petitioner against the state of Haryana and other respondents, Justice Lalit Batra also upheld the confinement of Assam and Bihar residents at a school in Hathin even after they were granted bail in a criminal case registered during the lockdown period.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the petitioners, residents of Assam and Bihar, were found at a mosque in Huchpuri village on March 31, along with several Bangladeshi nationals belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat, even though a nationwide lockdown had already been promulgated due to Covid.Their counsel argued the two were granted bail by the court concerned vide order dated April 26 in an FIR registered on April 2 under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC, besides the provisions of the Foreigners Act, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act at Hathin police station in Palwal district.The Bench was also told that they were found negative for Covid and their confinement in quarantine centre “Mewat Model School, Hathin” amounted to illegal custody/detention. As such, they were entitled to be released forthwith.Opposing the plea, the state counsel submitted the petitioners were quarantined and their entire boarding, lodging and medical facilities were being taken care of by the authorities at state expense.Dismissing the plea, Justice Batra asserted the entire country was under lockdown and transport facility was unavailable due to the impact of Covid. Besides, the quarantine centre was one of the hotspots. In view of their safety and health and to avoid the spread of Covid, their lodging for the time being at the quarantine centre could not be described as illegal confinement/detention.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-upholds-quarantining-people-from-other-states-78342
30-04-2020||Nitish Sharma||No arrivals from Punjab at Ambala mandi||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, April 29Nearly 70 per cent share of the total wheat arrivals at the Ambala City Grain Market comes from Punjab farmers but this year, there have been no arrivals from Punjab so far. Only local registered farmers are being given preference and are being called as per schedule due to the Covid crisis.As per the information available, the total arrival last year at Ambala City grain market was 12 lakh quintal.Orders awaitedA schedule of farmers has been prepared and then they are called to bring their produce. Nearly 70% of the total arrivals used to come from Punjab. At present, there are no instructions regarding purchase from Punjab’s farmers and whatever directions we will receive from the higher authorities, we will implement those. — Asha Rani, Secretary, Ambala City Market CommitteeDuni Chand, president of Ambala City Grain Market Commission Agents Association, said, “The situation has badly affected business as our farmers from Punjab haven’t been allowed to bring produce from there due to Covid. The current wheat season has been bad for not only farmers but also commission agents.”“The Ambala City grain market depends on arrivals from Punjab as a large number of farmers who live in villages near here had been bringing their produce to the city mandis for decades. The situation will also affect the revenue of the market committee as well,” Chand said.“We have raised the issue with senior officials of the marketing board but to no avail. Even if there is relaxation after May 3, the City grain market is unlikely to get as much produce as it used to get in previous years.“The farmers who used to bring their produce from Punjab have already started selling it in their state only. Besides this, due to untimely rainfall, there was a decline in yield too. Some of my farmers have claimed a loss of 5-6 quintal per acre,” he added.There are 260 licenced commission agents in Ambala City grain market. Of them, 213 are working in the current season. The total arrival so far has been 3.2 lakh quintal of which 1.99 lakh quintal wheat was lifted till Tuesday.Secretary, Ambala City Grain Market Committee, Asha Rani, said, “Following the guidelines issued by the government, there has been no purchase from Punjab farmers so far. Currently, a schedule of farmers has been prepared and then, they are called to bring their produce. Nearly 70 per cent of the total arrivals used to come from Punjab. At present, there are no instructions regarding purchase from Punjab’s farmers and whatever directions we will receive from the higher authorities, we will implement those.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-arrivals-from-punjab-at-ambala-mandi-78341
30-04-2020||
||To keep Rajasthan mustard out, nine district borders sealed||Chandigarh, April 29 With mustard crop finding its way to grain markets in the state from  Rajasthan, the Haryana Government has told DCs of Bhiwani, Sirsa, Charkhi Dadri, Palwal, Nuh, Rewari, Mahendragarh, Fatehabad and Hisar to restrict movement of the crop by invoking Section 144 CrPC. In letters to the DCs of these districts, which share their boundaries with Rajasthan, Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board (HSAMB) chief administrator J Ganesan said ever since mustard procurement began on April 15, 93,759 farmers had already brought 2.59 lakh MT stock in the state grain markets. Ganesan said the total procurement of mustard in Haryana was expected to be 8 lakh MT this year, of which 25 per cent was to be procured for the NAFED, while the rest of the stock would be purchased by state agencies. “It has come to the notice that there is possibility of movement of mustard from the adjoining states into Haryana. This would defeat the purpose of staggered procurement and hence endanger public health and safety and also lead to profiteering by unscrupulous elements,” he said in his letter. Meanwhile, Agriculture Department Additional Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal said prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC had already been promulgated in these districts and the police had been asked to increase vigil.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-keep-rajasthan-mustard-out-nine-district-borders-sealed-78340
30-04-2020||---||Three Gurugram nurses among Haryana’s 11 new cases||Chandigarh, April 29With 11 fresh cases, Haryana’s Covid tally touched 305 on Wednesday. Four cases were reported from Faridabad, three from Gurugram and one each from Sonepat, Jhajjar and Nuh. With inclusion of 14 Italian nationals, the cumulative number of cases touched 319 while 225 persons have recovered.Faridabad’s new cases included a 44-year-old woman and her 18-year-old son who were in touch with the CEO of a Delhi-based institute who tested positive on Monday. A 46-year-old Tablighi Jamaat worker of Badkhal village and a 25-year-old woman, a resident of Dabua colony who works with a Delhi-based NGO, also tested positive.In Gurugram, three women nurses of the Civil Hospital in Sector 10 deputed in Covid ward tested positive. Earlier too, such cases among healthcare workers in Gurugram have been reported. Gurugram has so far reported 54 positive cases, of which 38 have been cured and discharged. It has 26 containment zones.In Jhajjar, a 30-year-old labourer and 59-year-old commission agent of the local vegetable market tested positive. It is suspected they both had caught the infection from Azadpur Mandi in Delhi. With these, the total cases in Jhajjar district stand at seven. The Bahadurgarh pharmacist who tested positive is being counted in Delhi’s tally as he used to work in the National Capital, Jhajjar Civil Surgeon Dr Randeep Singh Poonia said.A woman in Khoobru village of Sonepat tested Covid-positive. The 40-year-old was a contact of a Delhi Police constable of the same village who tested positive earlier. A 48-year-old man of Nagina block tested positive in hotspot Nuh. He had returned from Mumbai where and used to work as a hawker. So far, the highest number of cases have been reported from Nuh (58), followed by Gurugram (54), Faridabad (50) and Palwal (34).In Rohtak’s Sampla, where a positive case had emerged recently, about 4,800 people were screened.CM Manohar Lal Khattar said on Wednesday that all borders with Delhi, including that at Sonepat, Jhajjar, Faridabad and Gurugram, had been sealed. He said 28 cases in the last six days were a result of infection brought by people working in Delhi.Health Minister Anil Vij said Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal had spoken to Khattar on Tuesday where the latter offered him rest houses and other facilities of the state for housing Haryana natives working in the National Capital.Meanwhile, 48,220 metric tonnes of wheat was procured from 6,314 farmers across the state. With this, 31.94 lakh metric tonnes wheat has been procured from 3.6 lakh farmers in the last nine days.Dabwali MLA Amit Sihag demanded that the state government make efforts to bring back stranded labourers, students and others. He said about 700 labourers were stranded in Jaisalmer district of Rajasthan while students were stuck in Kota, Pune, Noida and Bengaluru.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-gurugram-nurses-among-haryanas-11-new-cases-78339
30-04-2020||---||Rohtak administration restricts inter-district travel||Rohtak, April 29The Rohtak administration has not only restricted the inter-district movement without permission but also intensified its operation to penalise those roaming on roads in violation of lockdown protocols.Vegetable markets in Rohtak and Sampla towns have been closed for the public to avoid overcrowding. Also, commission agents have been directed to open their shops as per the odd-even system while a wide space has been made available to the retailers for the sale of vegetables/fruits while maintaining social distancing.The health authorities have started taking the samples of those having Covid-like symptoms at the block level to identify cases and avoid travelling of every suspect.Meanwhile, screening of people in containment zones at Kakrana village and Sampla town has been expedited. So far, thermal screening of 8,400 persons has been done in both zones. Of 1,180 samples tested, four have been found Covid positive while the report of 52 others is awaited.“We are making people aware of Covid and asking them not to move out,” said RS Verma, DC. He said nakas were set up at all border points of the district and main places in urban areas to restrict public movement.Suspects face social stigmaCivil Surgeon Anil Birla said: “Villagers are developing a negative attitude towards the suspects, whose sample is taken for Covid testing. Such people have made Covid testing a social stigma. So, we are also educating the people about the disease and motivating them to follow the lockdown.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-administration-restricts-inter-district-travel-78338
30-04-2020|| 
||AIIMS-Delhi to retest disputed Covid samples||Chandigarh, April 29  Following a controversy over the Covid reports of SRL Diagnostics, the Health Department has decided to get the disputed samples tested from All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, before taking action against the Gurugram-based private lab.  Health Minister Anil Vij said 11 tests conducted by the private lab were disputed. “Four tests in Ambala and seven in Gurugram are disputed. Now, AIIMS-Delhi will conduct retests,” he said.  Earlier, Vij had asked the Chief Medical Officers of Ambala and Gurugram to submit their findings to a six-member committee formed to look into the functioning of all private labs testing Covid samples. SRL Diagnostics is one of the five private labs, all in Gurugram, for Covid sampling in the state.  In Ambala, the SRL report showed a Covid-nurse positive, while her tests at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Karnal, and BPS Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat, returned negative. Later, all three samples were retested and found negative.  SRL Diagnostics has stood by results. “We decided to retest the samples earlier tested on April 18 using RNA extracts from the same samples stored with us under ICMR-recommended guidelines. The test results are out and are positive again,” said SRL Diagnostics in a clarification issued on April 23.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aiims-delhi-to-retest-disputed-covid-samples-78337
30-04-2020||Sushil Manav||Haryana begins rapid tests with South Korean kits||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 2925k kits received & distributedAs many as 2,000 kits have been allocated to Panchkula; 1,500 each to Gurugram, Nuh, Palwal and Faridabad; 1,000 each to Ambala, Panipat, Rohtak and SonepatIn all, 500 kits each have also been allocated to various government and private medical colleges of the stateAlmost a week after rapid diagnostic testing (RDT) was stopped across the country over faulty Chinese kits, Haryana has now launched it with South Korean kits to assess the prevalence of disease in specific areas.The Director General of Health Services, Haryana, has written to the civil surgeons of various districts to collect the RDT kits from warehouse as per distribution. Confirming the development, Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) ban on rapid testing was just for the Chinese kits.“Some other states have also started using kits procured from non-Chinese sources. The Chinese kits made available by the ICMR are being returned as communicated by them,” Arora added.The ACS said the civil surgeons had been told to provide proper training to medical officers, who were supposed to supervise testing in field, lab technicians and multipurpose health workers before testing. For this purpose, a video and a PPT presentation explaining how to conduct the rapid tests have been supplied to them.As per the directions issued to the civil surgeons (7% working in field and 7% in institutions), 14% kits to be used on health workers, 7% on police personnel, street vendors, sanitary staff, media professionals, newspaper vendors and district administration and the remaining 79% in the containment zones.Sources said the results of rapid tests would also provide the government in the preparation of the exit plan from the ongoing lockdown. The civil surgeons have also been told to send the report daily on a prescribed format as well as on their reporting app.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-begins-rapid-tests-with-south-korean-kits-78336
30-04-2020||---||117 blocks declared ‘saksham’ for Grade 3||Chandigarh, April 29Assessment criteriaA block is ‘saksham’ where more than 80 per cent students score over 50 per cent marks in the Ghoshna exam.‘Near-saksham’ block is where over 60 per cent pupils score above 50 per cent.‘Not-saksham’ block is where less than 60 per cent students score over 50 per cent.A block is ‘disqualified due to cheating’ where data analysis indicates mass cheating.The Saksham Haryana programme, an initiative of Haryana School Education Department which has been functioning for the past three years, has shown significant improvement in student learning levels across the state's 119 blocks. The Saksham Ghoshna examination was conducted in February.The Saksham Ghoshna exam results of Grades 3 and 4 have been a success with 117 and 116 blocks of the state being declared ‘saksham’respectively.Project Director, Chief Ministers Good Governance Associates (CMGGAs), Rakesh Gupta shared the details while presiding over a meeting through video conferencing with the District Education Officers (DEOs), District Elementary Education Officers (DEEOs), DPCs, DIET Principals, BEOs and CMGGAs with more than 200 officers participating in it across the 119 blocks in the state.He also shared the details about the ‘Ghar Se Padhao’ Abhiyan to ensure uninterrupted education to children.The assessment criteria of the Saksham Ghoshna exam were also disclosed at the meeting. Speaking on the results, he said that 93 blocks have been declared 'saksham' in Grade 5. In Grades 6 and 8, almost half of the blocks have been declared 'saksham' with 64 and 65 blocks, respectively, achieving this benchmark. A further 40 blocks were ‘saksham’ in Grade 7.Sharing details of the exam, he informed that it was third-party assessment for all six Grades from 3 to 8 in government schools in all 119 blocks in Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/117-blocks-declared-saksham-for-grade-3-78335
30-04-2020||Gurugram||Fake sanitiser unit busted, brothers held||The Gurugram Drug Control Department on Wednesday busted a fake sanitiser-manufacturing unit in Pataudi's Pahari village.  Brothers Sandeep and Sunder — both Class XII Commerce passouts - were found making hand sanitiser in a house under the brand name 'Bancy Advanced Instant Hand Sanitizer'. They used to churn the sanitiser in drums and pans and claimed sales of Rs 18 lakh since March. They had fake certification from UK and were using the WHO symbol and were fooling industries, which bought hundreds of litres of sanitisers from them.  Drug Controller Amandeep Chauhan said the duo was caught in a raid after a tip-off. "We received a complaint that a hand sanitiser by the name 'Bancy Advanced Instant Hand Sanitizer' is being illegally manufactured from an unlicenced premises in Pahari village Pataudi. The duo identified itself as directors of Jedar Industries Private Limited. We found a large quantity of hand sanitisers in two rooms. They had no valid manufacturing licence or sale-purchase records," he said.  The inspection revealed that Sandeep and Sunder manufactured the hand sanitiser by mixing ingredients in kitchen containers in unhygenic conditions near a washroom filled with flies and mosquitoes. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-sanitiser-unit-busted-brothers-held-78334
30-04-2020||Karnal||Person posing as Army man held in Karnal||The police have arrested a person who posed as an Army man at a naka in Sector 4 on Tuesday evening. He had stolen the dress of an Army man from a train at Ambala railway station. The accused has been identified as Rakesh, a resident of Sangrur, Punjab. Harjinder Singh, SHO, City police, said the police asked the suspected to show his I-card but he couldn’t produce it. “We have arrested him and a case has been registered under Section 140, 170, 171, 188, 411 and 419 of the IPC,” said the SHO. Two complete sets of Army uniform have been recovered from his possession. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/person-posing-as-army-man-held-in-karnal-78333
30-04-2020||Yamunanagar||Chowkidar dies in Y’nagar, kin alleges murder||A 59-year-old chowkidar was allegedly murdered in Chuna Bhatti area of Yamunanagar last night following old rivalry. The deceased has been identified as Karan Bahadur who was living at Chuna Bhatti, Yamunanagar. On the complaint of Nanha Ram, his cousin, who belongs to Nepal but is working as a library attendant in a college here, a case was registered against Sagar of Chuna Bhatti area under Section 302 (murder) of IPC at the City police station, Yamunanagar. The complainant alleged that he met Karan  last night and saw Sagar snatching Karan’s stick and hitting his head with it repeatedly.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chowkidar-dies-in-ynagar-kin-alleges-murder-78332
