30-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||Nation’s first elevated rail track to be operational by December 5||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 30Having missed several deadlines in the past one year, the Railways have now fixed December 5 as a new deadline to complete the entire work of the nation's first elevated railway track in Rohtak City.Sources said the electrification work was underway and it was likely to be completed by November 20. Thereafter, the final trial of electric train on this 4.8 km long track would be conducted while the track would be ready for operation by December 5.Local residents have been eagerly waiting for completion of the work since the first trial run of goods train with diesel engine on the track was successfully conducted on August 19. The authorities were satisfied with the safety parameters and movement of the train on the track.The foundation stone of the Rs 350-crore ambitious project was laid by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in March 2018 and a deadline of 18 months was fixed to complete it.The project missed the first deadline in November 2019 due to encroachment on the one side of the track. The work could not also be completed before the second deadline on April 30 and third on June 30. The deadline was extended twice thereafter.“We wanted that the work to complete by November 1 but it did not happen due to some unavoidable reasons. A meeting of officials of civil and electric wings of the Railways along with nodal agency of the project was convened some days ago wherein the officers assured me of completing the entire work by December 5,” said Deputy Commissioner Manoj Kumar.Pradeep Ranjan, Technical Advisor of the project, said the work pertaining to the structure had been completed and pillars of the track were being coloured. The electrification work was in progress.“The safety parameters will be examined again after the completion of electrification to give clearance for starting the operation over the track. The track will do away with five level crossings in the city, reducing traffic jams,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nations-first-elevated-rail-track-to-be-operational-by-december-5-163398
30-10-2020||New Delhi||Leading cardiologist advises Haryana govt on Covid management||A leading cardiologist based in Haryana Dr SS Bansal on Friday advised the Haryana government to help introduce HFNC machines which are a "better alternative to ventilators for clinical treatment of Covid patients with acute respiratory distress".Managing Director of Faridabad-based Metro Heart Institute, Dr Bansal also pitched for rationalisation of the price of Oxygen used in treatment of Covid patients.Speaking to TNS, Dr Bansal, whose institute has been at the forefront dealing with Covid cases, stressed that HFNC safeguards against multiple sources of infection, and hence enhances the survival rate of patients.Patients get exposed to sources of infections in case of administration ventilators.Faridabad and Gurgaon in the NCR were among the Covid hotspots in the region."After having dealt with hundreds of Covid patients, a safe conclusion favours HFNC device, which only a few hospitals have," Dr Bansal said.He said the fall in temperature during the winter coupled with air pollution should be a time to observe extra caution against Coronavirus, which is a respiration malaise.Besides, the infection of Coronavirus in such an atmosphere further aggravates the medical condition of patients.Bansal's take on the susceptibility of patients having co-morbidity and related issue is that Covid causes the most danger to those sufferings from heart ailments."The clinical examinations of patients in Metro Heart Institute reveals that Covid patients who had no prior medical history of Cardiovascular disease, developed symptoms of cardio problems after the Corona infection," Dr Bansal said, adding that wearing of the mask was an effective preventive measure.He said the virus affects various parts of the body like lungs, brain, intestine, kidneys, and heart. While lung is generally affected, the frequency of the virus affecting severely is comparatively less but severe.Explaining the phenomenon, he said the virus enters the body and park themselves on ACE receptors in organs from where they operate and spread to all parts of the body and debilitating the entire body system, especially the heart.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/leading-cardiologist-advises-haryana-govt-on-covid-management-163360
30-10-2020||Karnal||Covid Impact on farming discussed||JGU conferred IoE statusSonepat: OP Jindal Global University (JGU) has been conferred the status of an Institution of Eminence (IoE). It has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Ministry of Education, Government of India. The IoE policy was launched to implement the commitment of the Government of India to empower universities and higher educational institutions to help them build world-class teaching and research institutions. The responsibility of the selection and recommendation of 'Institutions of Eminence' was entrusted to an empowered experts committee that was appointed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. With the confirmed status as an IoE, JGU has entered a coveted group of 'Top 10 private institutions' in the country to be unshackled from regulatory controls and be given full autonomy. The search for IoE began in the year 2017 with the introduction of the UGC Regulations, 2017 for private institutions and UGC Guidelines, 2017 for public institutions. Founding Chancellor and benefactor of OP Jindal Global University Naveen Jindal said, "I am immensely delighted that JGU has been conferred with the status of an IoE. This is an incredible recognition for JGU and is a great tribute to the extraordinary achievements of the university. I congratulate the Vice-Chancellor, faculty, students, parents of our students and the staff for their hard work, commitment and dedication, which led to this fantastic recognition in a decade since its inception," he added.Online meeting organisedSirsa: An online meeting of the Youth Welfare Committee of Chaudhary Devi Lal University here was organised under the Chairmanship of Vice-Chancellor Prof RB Solanki. During the meeting, a budget of Rs 38 lakh had been approved for various youth welfare activities for current financial year. Solanki said the directorate of the committee played a vital role in overall development of students. Calendar of various activities for the session 2020-21 was also finalised during the meeting. The VC said the directorate should telecast motivational and thought-provoking short films for students to channelise their energy. Amendment in directorate of Youth Welfare rules/regulations (part-A) was also discussed in the meeting and same was resolved. On the occasion, Youth Welfare of the University director Dr Manju Nehra provided the information regarding various events which had been organised by the directorate and also put a light upon future activities of the directorate.Vigilance awareness week observedYamunanagar: As a part of the vigilance awareness week being observed by the Central Vigilance Commission with the theme "Satark Bharat Samridh Bharat", a pledge of integrity was taken by teachers and non-teaching staff of Guru Nanak Khalsa College here. They pledged to fight against corruption that had been a major obstacle to economic, political and social progress of the country. Principal of the college Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang, Dr Ravi Kapoor, Dr Alok Goel, Prof Bal Krishan, Dr Daljit Kaur, Dr Jasvinder Kaur, Dr RS Vohra and other teachers were also present in the ceremony that was organised by the NSS programme officers Dr Neena Puri and Dr Vinay Chandel. Sardar Bhupender Singh Jauhar, patron of managing committee of the college, appreciated the ethical initiative.Result of final year courses outMahendragarh: Central University of Haryana (CUH) has declared the result of final year for B Tech (Civil Engineering, Computer Science Engineering, Electrical Engineering and Printing and Packaging Technology), B Voc (Retail and Logistics Management and Industrial Waste Management); M Sc (Mathematics, Microbiology, Environmental Science, Chemistry, Nutrition Biology, Biochemistry and Statistics); MA (English, Journalism and Mass Communication, Political Science, Psychology, Education and Economics), Master of Hotel Management and Catering Technology and Bachelor of Education (BEd), said Vipul Goyal, Controller of Examination, of the CUH.GJUST shines in world rankingHisar: Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology has once again secured rank band 601-800 in Physical Sciences subject category with a total score of 23.1 to 31.6 released by The Times Higher Education World University Subject Rankings 2021 on Wednesday by The Times Higher Education, London. Recently, GJUST had established itself on the world level academic platform by securing 801 to 1,000 rank band with overall score between 25.1 to 30.1 in the TIMES University rankings for 2021. A total of 1,149 universities/institutes from all over the world have been included in this subject category. From India, only 48 universities/institutes have been included in this subject ranking. Vice-Chancellor Tankeshwar Kumar and Registrar Dr Avnesh Verma congratulated the university teaching and non-teaching staff for the achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-impact-on-farming-discussed-163312
30-10-2020||Ambala||Three killed in mishaps||Three persons were killed in separate mishaps during the past 24 hours. According to the police, an unidentified person was crushed to death near Manji Sahib gurdwara in Ambala City. In a separate mishap, a 26-year-old woman was killed near overbridge in Ambala Cantonment. In another accident, Ajit Kumar (60) of Yamaunanagar, was killed near Shahpur village in Naraingarh. The police have registered separate cases, the officials added. TNSOne held for assaultThe police arrested Bittu of Baldev Nagar near here in a case of assault and criminal intimidation. According to the police, Ravi of Ambala had reported that the accused had assaulted and threatened him with dire consequences on September 23. The accused was produced before a local court, which remanded him to 14-day judicial custody. TNS2 held for dowry harassmentThe police arrested two persons — Charan Singh and a woman of Patiala — in a case of dowry harassment. According to the police, a local woman had reported that her in-laws were subjecting her to cruelty and harassment for bringing more dowry ever since she was married in 2019. Both the accused were produced before a local court, which ordered to release them on bail. TNS1 held on threat chargeThe police arrested Deepak Kumar of Mahesh Nagar near here in a case of criminal intimidation. The arrested accused was produced before a local court, which remanded him to one-day police custody, the officials added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-killed-in-mishaps-163311
30-10-2020||MANY sweet makers commonly use silver foil to decorate sweets but in majority of cases||Ban use of foil to garnish sweets||Frontline covid warriors should be honouredALL people, institutions, doctors, para-medical staff, hospital staff, police officials, welfare organisations, sanitary and medical-waste disposal personnel, ambulance drivers, mortuary staff along with all unsung heroes who have selflessly and tirelessly given their services in safeguarding the citizens by fighting the pandemic, often forgetting their own safety amidst their own families/personal problems even facing backlash/ attacks from people reluctant to even rent out accommodation to them, are no less than gods/goddesses whom everyone worships and reveres. These Covid warriors must be honoured by the government and given due respect in the society.  Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaStreetlight poles in bad shape, lack maintenanceA NUMBER of streetlights poles on the Kallarheri-Panjokhara Sahib road are lacking maintenance and many of them had also collapsed. There is dense vegetation along the road, and unpruned trees are covering these poles at a number of places. As a result, dark patches develop at many spots on the road. It is a busy road, used by people visiting the Panjokhara Sahib gurudwara, and needs to be paid attention. The MC authorities must look into the issue and do the needful. It also bears potholes which add to the commuters’ woes. The authorities should ensure regular maintenance of such facilities. Colonel RD Singh, Ambala CanttFour-laning work on Saha road at snail’s paceTHE four-laning of Saha road, Ambala Cantt was announced last year. Though the work began on the project but the pace of the work being done is irking the commuters. No traffic controllers and signage are visible on the road. The commuters are a harried lot as traffic snarls due to this. The patches that were made on the road were also not up to the mark and due to poor quality work, vehicles plying on these roads get damaged. The concerned authorities must immediately look into the issue as the situation is going to worsen in the winters when the visibility will be low due to fog. The need of the hour is to accelerate the work on project. Sunil Nauharia, Ambala CanttBlacklisting of builders by HRERA a good stepIT is good to note that the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HRERA) is now blacklisting the builders who have defaulted the completion of previous projects on time. This is a good step as many buyers had suffered a lot due to these, especially in Gurugram district. They are firstly denied possession of their homes and also have to pay EMIs to the banks. It seems the government has taken them seriously and compelled the builders to help the buyers as much possible at the earliest. Subhash C Taneja, GurugramIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNE invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ban-use-of-foil-to-garnish-sweets-163310
30-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Nikita murder accused wants to be lodged in Bhondsi||Faridabad, October 29Main accused Tausif belongs to a political family that has been in power in Mewat for years. He has raised the demand to be lodged in a jail of his choice.Following a court order to send him to the Neemka jail in Faridabad, his lawyer moved an application that he should be sent to Gurugram’s Bhondsi jail instead.Nikita’s maternal uncle and her family’s lawyer Aidal Singh Rawat said they had received information that Tausif had moved an application to be moved to the Bhondsi jail. Rawat said Tausif’s maternal uncle Islamuddin, a notorious criminal, was lodged in Bhondsi jail. “They will run their nexus there. We will protest against this and appeal to court not to accept this demand,” he said.Tausif had reportedly changed his name to Ankit to get in touch with Nikita during their school days, fearing that his religion might become a hindrance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nikita-murder-accused-wants-to-be-lodged-in-bhondsi-163268
30-10-2020||Satya Prakash||PIL in apex court seeks probe into Nuh ‘forcible conversions’||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 29Alleging that the life and liberty of Hindus in Nuh area of Mewat in Haryana were in jeopardy, a PIL filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday demanded an SIT probe into forcible conversion and crimes against women of the Hindu community.Filed by a group of lawyers and activists — including Ranjana Agnihotri and Shishir Chaturvedi, the PIL alleged that dominant members of the Muslim community have overpowered Hindus of the area and sought the Supreme Court’s intervention for protection of fundamental rights of Hindus whose population has witnessed a decline over the years.“A number of Hindus have been forcibly converted to Islam and a number of Hindu women and minor girls have been abducted and raped. Hindu women are not safe at all. Muslims on a large number have committed atrocities on members of the Scheduled Caste,” read the petition filed days after the murder of Nikita Tomar, a college girl, by Tauseef in Ballabhgarh.The petition demanded a probe into all incidents of forcible conversion and crimes against Hindu women by an SIT comprising CBI and NIA officers and monitored by a retired Supreme Court judge. It also sought a direction to declare null and void all sale deeds executed by Hindus in favour of Muslims in the past 10 years under coercion and undue influence.Under the patronage of the Tablighi Jamaat, Muslims have gradually increased their strength “and now, the position is that the Hindu population is decreasing and it has come down from 20 per cent to 10-11 per cent since Census 2011,” stated the petition filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain.The petition cited a May 2020 report submitted to the Haryana Chief Minister by a four-member panel that said out of 431 villages in Mewat-Nuh, 103 had become totally devoid of Hindus and in 82 villages, only 4-5 Hindu families were left.The right to life and personal liberty and their right to religion were being “eroded by members of the Muslim community who were in dominating position”, the petition alleged.Accusing the State of Haryana of not disclosing the facts of various FIRs and complaints of heinous crimes lodged by Hindus against Muslims, the petition said the local police failed to exercise the powers vested in them by law, due to which the life and liberty of every Hindu was in jeopardy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pil-in-apex-court-seeks-probe-into-nuh-forcible-conversions-163269
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Nikita Murder: Govt to fast-track case||Haryana is set to bring those responsible for the murder of 21-year-old Nikita to justice in record time by speeding up investigation and fast-tracking the case.Following directions from Home Minister Anil Vij, the Haryana Police have initiated steps for speeding up investigation so that challan is filed as soon as possible for fast-tracking the case.Vij said he had discussed the issue with Advocate General (AG) Baldev Raj Mahajan on how best the case could be fast-tracked in court.“The police normally have to file the challan in 90 days. In this case, we have decided to do it in record time as an example,” said DGP Manoj Yadava. For this, the police had put the case in the category of “Chinhit Apradh”.“Chinhit Apradh” is a scheme started to identify serious and sensational crimes which adversely impact the psyche of the masses by shaking their collective conscience. The scheme ensures speedy and proper trial to secure conviction through an institutional mechanism.A state-level committee headed by the Additional Chief Secretary (Home) reviews progress in trial of cases under “Chinhit Apradh” and identifies bottlenecks in prosecution to take corrective measures.“I cannot say when the police will present the challan since certain new angles can always come up in the course of investigation. For the sake of quickness, the police will not compromise with quality of investigation,” said Yadava.Mahajan said there was a provision of making a request before the District and Sessions Judge for fast-tracking cases.Vij said the police had been directed to investigate whether an earlier case of kidnapping of Nikita by main accused Tausif in 2018 was closed under pressure from the Congress as his “cousin” Aftab Ahmed was a Congress MLA and former minister.Vij said the “love jihad” angle would also be investigated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nikita-murder-govt-to-fast-track-case-163270
30-10-2020||Sumedha Sharma||Wish we hadn’t forgiven him in 2018, says Nikita’s mother||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, October 29“Always seek police help, even for something as small as lewd comments. Once you do so, never settle for a compromise. In 2018, he was all tears as he swore never to trouble Nikita again. The panchayat assured us that he would never do it again. He came back and killed her because that apology hit his inflated ego. Had we not agreed to the compromise, she would still have been here,” said Vijaywati, Nikita’s wailing mother.The family, though in utter shock, were busy attending to police investigation and meeting mediapersons and members of social and religious organisations visiting their house.“The loss is yet to be registered as we have not got time to mourn properly. We wake up to a crowd that sits with us and makes us repeat the horror over and over again. I sometimes find myself calling out to her to serve water and tea and suddenly realise that she is not there anymore. I know everybody will leave one day and we will be alone, crying our hearts out,” said Vijaywati.According to the family, Tausif had abducted Nikita in 2018. Following an FIR, the family had struck a compromise and moved on as he apologised. The incident emerged as the most important part of investigation, with the police believing that it was a well-planned, cold-blooded murder. There were many eyewitnesses, including Nikita’s brother and three friends, who had been confined to their homes now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wish-we-hadnt-forgiven-him-in-2018-says-nikitas-mother-163271
30-10-2020||---||Nikita murder: Congress MLA Aftab Ahmed seeks sternest penalty for his ‘relative’||Chandigarh, October 29With BJP leaders assailing the Congress in the wake of the murder, the focus has shifted to the political connection of the family of the main accused.Tausif had allegedly kidnapped Nikita in 2018, but the FIR was later withdrawn after an affidavit by the girl’s family, denying the charges.In his tweet, state BJP chief OP Dhankar alleged that things had come to such a pass that people needed to protect their daughters and not cows alone from Congress men.BJP leaders were pointing a finger at Congress MLA and former minister Aftab Ahmed, alleging that he was Tausif’s cousin.Ahmed said Tausif was not his cousin but a relative. He clarified that he stood with the victim’s family and wanted the sternest punishment for the culprits.Reacting to allegations of “love jihad”, the Congress MLA condemned the attempts to give a religious angle to the case. “A criminal is a criminal and must be dealt with like that. His religion should not have any role to play in criminal investigation,” he said.Tausif’s grandfather Kabir Ahmed, also Ahmed’s grandfather, was elected MLA from Nuh in 1975 and from Tauru in 1982.Ahmed’s father Khursheed Ahmed, Iqbal Hussan and Hassan Mohammed were born from Kabir Ahmed’s first wife. Tausif’s father Zakir Hussain, Fakhruddin and Javed Ahmed were born from his second wife.Khursheed Ahmed was one of the tallest politicians Mewat ever had. He was elected to the Haryana Assembly in 1977, 1978, 1987 and 1996 and to the Lok Sabha from Faridabad in 1988.Aftab Ahmed was elected from the Nuh Assembly seat in 2009 and 2019. Tausif’s uncle Javed had contested the Assembly election in 2014 and 2019 from Sohna as BSP nominee.Tausif’s maternal uncle Islammuddin, who is alleged to have helped the accused in procuring the gun for the murder, is serving 10-year imprisonment in the Bhondsi jail for kidnapping a police official in Gurugram four years ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nikita-murder-congress-mla-aftab-ahmed-seeks-sternest-penalty-for-his-relative-163272
30-10-2020||Faridabad||Cong has nothing to do with killer: Selja||Amid reports of the key accused being associated with the family of a prominent Congress leader, state unit president Kumari Selja said the party had no connection with him and no leader supported him.“The Congress laid the foundation of woman empowerment and could and would never have anything to do with anybody who committed any crime against women,” she said.She went to the residence of the deceased to offer her condolences. She said she wanted the killers to get exemplary punishment, that would teach every eve-teaser, molester, stalker and murderer a lesson.“The BJP government’s “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao” slogan is proving completely meaningless in Haryana, where promising students are shot in broad daylight. This incident is a big failure of the police and the state government,” she said.Rajya Sabha member and Haryana AAP in charge Sushil Gupta, NIT MLA Neeraj Sharma, former minister Vipul Goyal and Tigaon MLA Rajesh Nagar also offered their condolences. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-has-nothing-to-do-with-killer-selja-163273
30-10-2020||Deepender Deswal||Roads with potholes blot on Fatehabad||Tribune News ServiceFatehabad, October 29Even the death of a youth, who fell into an overflowing open space along the Dharamshala road has failed to awaken the authorities out of sleep to ensure maintenance of roads in the town.The locals said about 1 km patch on the Dharamshala road was lying in dilapidated condition for last nearly one year. The Public Health Engineering Department (PHED) had dug up the road for laying storm water lines however it seems they have forgotten to repair the pothole-ridden road later. The road has deep low lying patches which get filled up during the rainy season. A youth Mahesh had drowned when he slipped into it in July.Surender Soni, a local resident and activist, said the residents had taken up the issue of construction of the road with the district authorities but so far nothing had been done. He said the residents met the Deputy Commissioner which had formed a committee of officials of the PHED, municipal council (MC) officials and local residents, but the condition of the road remained unchanged.He said the condition of road deteriorated after the PHED dug it up to lay the pipelines to discharge rainwater. The pipelines, meant to drain out rainwater, were not laid properly as their slope was laid towards the town instead of the outer side which results in backflow of rainwater and inundates the town.“The residents demand that the authorities must correct the slope of the storm water pipelines to ensure the flow of water outside the town and also get the repair work of the road done,” he added.Local BJP leader Praveen Jaura said the localities such as jeweller market, Nagar Parishad road, Jawahar Chowk and Bhattu road were affected due to the faulty sewer drainage. Seeking action against the erring officials who failed to perform their duty, he said negligence on the part of the officials had led to heavy inundation on various parts of the town during the rainy season.A senior official of the district administration said the road could be constructed after the pipeline was laid correctly. “The delay in the work is due to the PHED. Temporary arrangements are being made for the patch work on the pothole-ridden road,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/roads-with-potholes-blot-on-fatehabad-163260
30-10-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Over 14% govt school students in rural areas don’t have textbooks: Survey||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 29Over 14 per cent government school students in rural Haryana don’t have textbooks and close to 23 per cent don’t have smartphones at home. The Annual Survey of Education Report (ASER)-2020 findings have laid bare the problems faced by rural students in Haryana, who are forced to study through the online classes due to Covid pandemic.The survey, which was conducted in 627 villages and covered 2,442 students in the age group of 5-16 years, has pointed out that 14.1 per cent students of government schools don’t have textbooks of their respective classes, while the figure is 10.4 per cent for private school students. Close to 18 per cent students of Class IX and above in government schools don’t have books.Likewise in private schoolsMoreover, close to 23 per cent students enrolled in government schools don’t have smartphones at homes, while the figure is 12.6 per cent for those in private schools.Family members are helping children in their studies, but not all of them are well educated. While teaching younger children is easy but 31 per cent students studying in Classes IX and above revealed that they had no help from family members.Only 67.7 per cent government school students had received learning material in the week prior to the survey while the figure was 72.2 per cent for private schools.WhatsApp has been the most preferred method of imparting lessons though 3.1 per cent also reported personal visits.The survey has also delved into detail on the reasons among those students who are not getting learning material from schools or teachers. In rural areas, 42.4 per cent have blamed the schools, 11.5 per cent said they had no Internet, 40.6 per cent don’t have smartphones and 2.3 per cent have pointed out connectivity issues.The households were also asked about communication with teachers prior to the survey. Among government school students, 54.9 per cent revealed that either teacher visited or called a parent or child in the week prior the survey while 45.5 per cent said either the parent or child visited or called the teacher. Around 31.9 per cent revealed that they had no contact but had communication at least once.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-14-govt-school-students-in-rural-areas-dont-have-textbooks-survey-163261
30-10-2020||Our Correspondent
||NCW seeks report on Gurugram hospital rape||Gurugram, October 29 The National Commission for Women (NCW) has taken cognizance of a patient’s allegations of being raped while on a ventilator in a private hospital in Gurugram.  According to statement issued by the commission, it has come across a media report of alleged rape of a 21-year-old patient while she was on ventilator support in the ICU of a private hospital in Gurugram. The commission has also sought a detailed action taken report in the matter from the police. The hospital administration has also been directed to send an action taken report in the matter. Meanwhile, the police said the probe was on and they were waiting for the statement of the victim.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ncw-seeks-report-on-gurugram-hospital-rape-163262
30-10-2020||Hisar||Smoke engulfs Hisar as landfill site catches fire||A thick layer of pollution has engulfed Hisar and adjoining region as the solid waste in the dumping station located near Dhandur village, about 5 km from the town, has caught fire.Though the fire brigade had been trying to douse the flames for the past 10 days, the blaze and smoke is uncontrollable. Dhandur villagers now want the dumping site shifted.The air quality index touched 390 points today after smoke reached Hisar. Officials admitted that the solid waste being generated from the town was getting unmanageable in the absence of a solid waste management plant. Even after the CM’s assurances, the project to set up the plant has been hanging fire for five years now. Around 200 metric tonnes of garbage is collected from the town daily.The adjoining Dhandur village has been at the receiving end due to air and ground pollution. The MC has decided to shift the dumping site now.Surender Kumar of Fatehabad, who travels to Hisar daily, said the site had become a bane for the commuters. “The waste often catches fire and the smoke emerging from the site causes massive pollution on the stretch of the national highway,” he said.Dhandur village sarpanch Manoj Sharma said they had been demanding relocation of the dumping site for the past five years. “The site is a constant source of pollution in the village. It has resulted in respiratory and skin diseases.”An MC spokesperson said the fire brigade team hoped that the blaze would be doused by tonight. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/smoke-engulfs-hisar-as-landfill-site-catches-fire-163263
30-10-2020||Faridabad||Man held for minor’s rape||The police have nabbed a 32-year-old man and father of two daughters for allegedly raping an 11-year-old neighbour when she was alone at home. He was produced in a court and sent to judicial custody. As per the police, the accused has been identified as Ravi of Dabua colony area. He lives there with his family.  On October 26, Ravi barged into his neighbour’s house and committed the crime. On Wednesday, the victim told her mother about it. An FIR was registered under the POCSO Act at Dabua police station. On Thursday, the accused was arrested and he has confessed to the crime. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-minors-rape-163264
30-10-2020||---||Will quit politics if MSP abolished, says Haryana CM Khattar||Gohana, October 29Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced to quit politics if the minimum support price (MSP) in the state was abolished.He said neither the mandis would be closed nor the MSP be discontinued. The CM appealed to the voters to elect BJP-JJP coalition candidate Yogeshwar Dutt to have a pleasant stake in the state government. He started campaigning today and held meetings in five big villages — Kathura, Dhanana, Baroda, Butana and Jagasi — in Baroda constituency and sought votes for Dutt.In Kathura village, Khattar said he came here to add one more MLA to strengthen the state government. He said he had visited Baroda four month ago after the seat got vacated and had assured people he would work as the MLA of the constituency till a new one was elected. After his assurance, scores of works had been completed and many more were underway, the CM added.He said: “Rs 165 crore has been released in the accounts of sarpanches for development works, while Rs 100 crore were given for the development of the constituency.”Some works have been halted due to model code of conduct but would be started again after November 11, he claimed. “We had done all works related to canals, potable water, electricity and roads in the constituency in the past four months.”Attacking the Congress, the CM said the politics of the 134-year-old party was based on lies and it lured voters with false promises, which were never fulfilled. “The BJP is a pro-farmer party and has worked for their wellbeing regularly,” he said, adding that the party had given Rs 12,000 per acre relief to farmers.“We have launched Bhavantar scheme for farmers and the payment of produce has been transferred directly in the farmers’ bank accounts,” he said, adding: “The previous governments claimed that they had given jobs to youth but we are not saying that because the capable youth got jobs on their own capability, which was around 80,000 in the BJP government regime.”Taking a dig at Bhupinder Hooda and Deepender Hooda, he said the father-son duo was roaming in Baroda because they were thinking about themselves. “But all ministers, MLAs and leaders of the BJP-JJP coalition are seeking votes for the BJP candidate.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-quit-politics-if-msp-abolished-says-haryana-cm-khattar-163265
30-10-2020||---||Bypoll to trigger change: Hooda||Gohana, October 29Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda today said the Baroda bypoll was not an election to elect just an MLA for a vacant seat, but to bring change in the state. A big wave of change in power would arise from Baroda, he said.He visited Sikanderpur Majra, Bali Brahmnan, Katwal, Bhainswal Kalan villages of the constituency today and sought votes for Congress candidate Induraj Narwal.Taking a dig at the first electoral rally of Manohar Lal Khattar, Hooda said the CM had come to Baroda in the past just for the sake of formality. “In his Kathura rally, there were more outsiders than voters from Baroda and many of them had been lured in the name of liquor or money. “The Election Commission should probe this and keep a close watch on events that spoil the poll atmosphere.”Attacking Khattar’s statement over MSP, Hooda said he should visit mandis and talk to farmers. “They will themselves tell about the reality of the purchase that none of their crops are being sold on MSP in mandis,” he said, adding that the government had implemented three new agricultural laws only to ensure that farmers sold their crop to private agencies.Hooda said those sitting in power were just thugs of talks, who would neither give MSP to farmers nor quit politics. The intention of the present government is completely anti-farmer, he added.“The government is deliberately dismantling the farmer welfare policies and systems like mandis, MSPs, bonuses, subsidies, compensations started during our government,” he added.Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha member Deepender Singh Hooda said the Baroda bypoll was a unique election in which the Opposition was seeking votes by counting development works and the state government was misleading people.He was addressing people in Ahulana, Bhanderi, Madina, Chhihdana, Mirzapur Kheri and Kathura village during public meetings in support of Congress candidate Induraj Narwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bypoll-to-trigger-change-hooda-163266
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||RT-PCR test for Rs 900 in Haryana||Haryana has reduced the rate of the RT-PCR test by Rs 300 and that of rapid antigen test by Rs 150. The RT-PCR will cost Rs 900 instead of Rs 1,200 and rapid antigen test Rs 500 instead of Rs 650.With 1,594 fresh cases, the state’s Covid tally went up to 1,63,817. Eight deaths pushed the toll to 1,766. Three deaths were reported from Yamunanagar, two from Fatehabad, and one each from Kurukshetra, Hisar and Gurugram.The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (397), followed by Faridabad (246), Hisar (190), Rohtak (102), Rewari (93), Mahendragarh (87) and Sirsa and Sonepat (67 each).Meanwhile, Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal tested positive onThursday and was placed in home quarantine. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rt-pcr-test-for-rs-900-in-haryana-163267
30-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||3 weeks on, Rohtak farmers await payment for bajra||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, October 29Farmers in Rohtak district are yet to receive payment for the bajra procured from them by the government agencies around three weeks ago.“I sold five quintals of bajra at MSP of Rs 2,150 per quintal on October 1, but the payment has not been released so far,” said Rakesh Hooda from Khidwali village.Sunil of Madhodhi village, who sold 27 quintals of bajra on October 5 and 19, has also not received his payment. “I need money to buy seeds etc. for the next crop,” he said.Arhtiya Harsh Girdhar confirmed that the payment of a large number of farmers had not been released even after three weeks.All-India Kisan Sabha district president Preet Singh said the payment of over 60 per cent farmers had not been released so far. “We have submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner who assured us of resolving the issue,” he said.Haryana State Warehouse Corporation District Manager Parmod Gupta said they send cases to the head office for payment on the same day of procurement.“So, only the officers at the head office can tell why there has been a delay in the release of payment to farmers,” the Haryana State Warehouse Corporation District Manager said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-weeks-on-rohtak-farmers-await-payment-for-bajra-163220
30-10-2020||Panchkula||At 95.79%, Panchkula recovery rate fourth highest in Haryana||At 95.79 per cent, Panchkula is among top five districts in Haryana in terms of recovery rate. With 6,780 recoveries, the district stands at number 4 spot after Ambala (97.01 per cent), Karnal (96.38 per cent) and Nuh (95.84 per cent).Only 187 active casesThe district lost its 3rd position to Nuh today only. Its recovery rate was above 96 per cent yesterday.With 39 fresh Covid cases from the district today, the infection tally rose to 7,078. Only 187 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment at hospitals or in home isolation in the district.On October 1, the district’s recovery rate was 85.98 per cent. The district has witnessed a dip in the number of average Covid-19 cases per day this month, as per the analysis of daily bulletins.The first 14 days in October (1 to 14) saw an average of 49 cases per day, while the next 14 days (15 to 28) of this month saw average 25 cases per day.Deaths due to Covid-19 in the district also came down this month as compared with September. The district witnessed 66 deaths last month, while it saw 45 causalities this month so far. Heath officials said the declining trend was encouraging. The officials, however, said they won’t be letting their guard down as festive season could spoil hard-won gains.No death, 39 new cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported 39 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to 7,078. Ten cases were reported from Sector 20, four from Sector 7, three each from Sector 21 and 8, two each from the MDC, Sector 4, Sector 11, 12-A, 26 and 6 and one each from Devinagar, Garhi Kotaha, Haripur, Sector 17, 19, 2, 27, 28 and 4. For the second consecutive day, no death due to the virus was reported from the district. TNSDr Jasjeet Kaur, CMO, said they had a strategic plan in place to tackle the virus during and after the festive season.Over 11K samples tested since October 15The district sampled 10,103 persons for Covid-19 between October 1 and 14, while the number increased to 11,404 between October 15 and 28.On an average, the district conducted 770 Covid-19 tests daily this month. The number of samples collected was 1,400-1,500 per day when the pandemic was at its peak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/at-95-79-panchkula-recovery-rate-fourth-highest-in-haryana-163107
