31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ajay Singh Chautala becomes JJP national president||Former MP Ajay Singh Chautala was appointed the national president of the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) on Monday.The decision was taken at a national executive meeting of the party held in Panchkula. Chautala is serving a jail term in connection with a teachers’ recruitment scam in Haryana in 2000 and is currently on parole.“Dr Ajay Singh Chautala, ex-MP, is declared to be national president of Jannayak Janta Party in a national executive meeting at Panchkula,” the JJP tweeted.A party leader said the JJP’s national executive unanimously decided to entrust the responsibility to him.JJP sources said when the party was registered with the Election Commission last year, its youth leader and Ajay Chautala’s younger son, Digvijay Chautala, was named as the party president.However, Digvijay Chautala did not serve in that role, they said, adding it is only now that the party has formally announced a president.Ajay Chautala (59), grandson of former deputy prime minister late Devi Lal, is a co-founder of the JJP. The party was formed in December 2018.Ajay Chautala’s son and Deputy Chief Minister of Haryana Dushyant Chautala and the party’s state unit chief Nishan Singh were also present at the meeting.Singh proposed Ajay’s name after which the national executive was unanimous in announcing him as the national president.          “At the JJP’s national executive meeting, party’s co-founder and former MP honourable Dr Ajay Singh Chatuala was made the party’s national president. I extend best wishes to him from the party organisation and our workers,” Dushyant Chautala said in a tweet in Hindi.The JJP, which won 10 seats in the Haryana Assembly polls, extended support to the BJP after the saffron party could manage to win only 40 of the 90 seats in 2019 state assembly polls. They formed a coalition government in the state.Senior JJP leader Dushyant Chautala was made the deputy chief minister in the new government.The JJP was formed on December 9, 2018 after a split in the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) due to infighting in the Chautala family.Ajay Chautala, son of former Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala, became a Lok Sabha MP from Bhiwani in 1999 and a Rajya Sabha MP in 2004. He was elected as an MLA from the Dabwali constituency in Sirsa district in 2009.He entered active politics in the 1980s and won his first election in 1989 from the assembly seat of Dantaramgarh in Rajasthan. He also won from Rajasthan’s Nohar seat in 1998.Speaking to reporters in Panchkula after the party meeting, Chautala said, “I have been entrusted with a new responsibility and I will take every party worker along to further strengthen the party not just in Haryana but at national level too.”    He said many important suggestions came up during the meeting for better coordination between the party and the BJP “which we will discuss with our alliance partner so that in near future people get better facilities”.The party meeting also discussed the upcoming bypoll in the Baroda assembly constituency in Sonepat. The assembly seat fell vacant in April following the demise of sitting Congress legislator Sri Krishan Hooda.Ajay Chautala said the JJP and the BJP will contest the bypoll jointly.On August 22, the JJP announced its 12-member national executive and presidents for its units in three states.Dushyant Chautala, who is also one of the founding members of the JJP, and Dr KC Bangar were appointed senior vice-presidents of the party.Over a month ago, the JJP had dissolved all its units, including the national and the state executives, paving the way for a revamp of the one-and-half-year-old party’s organisational structure.Eyeing to expand its base, the JJP has also appointed presidents of its units in Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ajay-singh-chautala-becomes-jjp-national-president-134265
31-08-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  ||Haryana has highest number of convicts belonging to other states||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, August 31  Haryana has the highest number of convicts, who are natives of other states, reveals Prison Statistics India 2019 report.  The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) releases the report annually.  As per data up to December 31, 2019, Haryana has a total of 7,236 convicts in its 19 jails and out of them 1,353, which implies 18.7 per cent, belong to other states. It is followed by Delhi (855 convicts) and Maharashtra (800 convicts).  The neighbouring Punjab has 787 and Himachal Pradesh has 190 convicts from other states.   Even among 13,160 undertrials in Haryana jails, 2,627 (20 per cent) are from other states. The state is at fourth place in the country while Maharashtra (4,675), UP (3,470) and Delhi (3,453) are ahead of it in undertrials from other states.   It implies a substantial number of criminals have come from outside Haryana.  The state has a capacity of 19,306 in its jails but has a total inmate population of 20,423 which included 7,236 convicts (35.4%), 13,160 undertrials (64.4%) and 27 detenues (0.1%). The occupancy rate is 107.5 per cent.   Among the convicts, only 6.5 per cent are either graduates and above or holding technical degree diploma, while 20 per cent are illiterate, 39 per cent are below matric and 34.5 per cent are either matric or class 12th pass. Similar trend is in education profile of undertrials. Religion and caste profile Seven per cent of convicts in Haryana jails are Muslims while the population of the community in the state is 7.03 per cent, as per 2011 Census. However, Sikhs constitute 5.6 per cent of convicts though their share in population is 4.91 per cent. Among undertrials, the Sikhs constitute 6.3 per cent while Muslims are 10.1 per cent, which is more than their share in population. The Scheduled Castes (SC) among convicts are 21.2 per cent though their population in the state is 20.17 per cent. There is no Scheduled Tribe population in the state but in jails close to 2 per cent convicts are tribals. The OBCs in jails are 23.9 per cent while 53 per cent are upper castes.  At national level, the OBCs constitute maximum among convicts followed by General Category and SCs.  Among undertrials, 27.1 per cent are SCs and 1.3 per cent are tribals, which is again more than their share in population. The OBCs constitute 29.4 per cent while general category is 42.2 per cent.  All 27 detenues in Haryana jails till December 31, 2019 were Muslims, as per the report.  Offences  Haryana has reported the highest number of convicts (90) followed by Madhya Pradesh (54) and Tamil Nadu (53) lodged for rioting.  Uttar Pradesh has reported the highest number of convicts (1,655) followed by Haryana and Maharashtra (1,427 each) for offences against property, which includes theft, burglary, dacoity, robbery, preparation and assembly for dacoity, extortion, arson and criminal breach of trust.   Among 7,236 convicts in Haryana, 3,052 alone are convicted for murder (42.2 per cent), while 551 for rape (7.6 per cent), 365 for thefts (5 per cent), 290 for robbery (4 per cent) and 456 for drug peddling (6.3 per cent).   For dacoity, there are 282 convicts in Haryana jails, which is the second highest in the country after Madhya Pradesh (387).  There are 13 who are facing capital punishment and 3,302 life imprisonment.  There were nine cases of unnatural deaths in Haryana jails in 2019 with seven committed suicide and two were murdered by fellow inmates. Also, 68 inmates died natural death with 60 due to illness and eight due to ageing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-has-highest-number-of-convicts-belonging-to-other-states-134264
31-08-2020||
||Come Sept, pay more at Bastara toll plaza||Karnal, August 30 Commuters passing through the Bastara toll plaza on the NH-44 will have to shell out more from September 1 as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has increased the toll fee from Rs 5 to 20, depending on the category of vehicle.  However, there is no change in toll rates for monthly local discount passes of vehicles that belong to places 10-20 km from the toll plaza. “The increased toll fee will be applicable from September 1,” said Manish Kumar, in-charge, Bastara toll plaza. The single journey for car, jeep and van will remain the same at Rs 125, while the toll rate for the return journey has been increased by Rs 5. At present commuters pay Rs 185 for return journey for this category of vehicle, which will be increased to Rs 190. The toll fee for monthly journey pass of this category vehicle will be increased to Rs 3,760 from Rs 3,700 at present. Similarly, the toll rates of light commercial vehicles and minivan will be increased to Rs 220 from Rs 215 for single journey and Rs 330 from Rs 325 for return journey. The monthly journey will cost dearer as the NHAI has increased the toll rate to Rs 6,580 from Rs 6,425. The toll fee for bus and truck of two axles will be Rs 440 from Rs 430 for single journey, while for the return journey it will be Rs 660 from Rs 645. The monthly journey pass of this category of vehicle has been increased to Rs 13,165 from Rs 12,945. For multi-axle vehicles, commuters will have to pay Rs 705 for single journey, Rs 1,060 for return journey and Rs 21,155 monthly. Kumar said around 35,000 to 38,000 vehicles cross this toll plaza daily, adding that the number was 40,000 prior to the lockdown. Meanwhile, Congress leader Narinder Sangwan urged the NHAI not to increase the toll fee. He also demanded exemption for local vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/come-sept-pay-more-at-bastara-toll-plaza-133829
31-08-2020||---||Funds for SC scheme not utilised: MLA||Karnal, August 30Guhla JJP MLA Ishwar Singh said funds of component plan for Scheduled Castes (SCs) had not been utilised for the last several months and urged the government to utilise it for their welfare.“It is a serious issue as component funds are for development works in the areas of reserved categories. I have written to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to utilise the funds,” he said.A separate budget had been planned and funds were also issued, but these were not utilised, he said.The Union Government had made a tribal sub-plan for the development of reserved categories in 1975 and a special component plan for SC was constituted in 1979. Under this component, school, health, technical education, roads, nutrient food, water were provided in colonies and areas of people belonging to reserved categories.He claimed that it was unfortunate that by spending funds on roads, bridges and other projects, it was shown that the funds were utilised on reserved categories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/funds-for-sc-scheme-not-utilised-mla-133830
31-08-2020||---||Association wants HSVP chief administrator shifted||Hisar, August 30The All Haryana State Sectors Confederation on Sunday threatened to intensify their agitation on the issue of imposing enhancement on plot holders/residents of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) sectors in the state and accused the government of backtracking from its promises on the issue.Differences over Enhancement dues In a meeting held in Hisar on Sunday, the association members alleged that the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran chief administrator had taken the decision to update the enhancement amount in the accounts of the plot holders, which was wrong. Association president Yashvir Malik said they would stage a dharna at the district headquarters from September 24, if the chief administrator was not transferred by then.Malik said they would also visit Baroda during the byelection to make the voters aware of false promises made by the state government regarding enhancement charges from the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran plot holders. They will also gherao the chief administrator at his office, demanding that the enhancement charges being updated in the accounts of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran plot holders be removed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/association-wants-hsvp-chief-administrator-shifted-133831
31-08-2020||---||First fly ash rake dispatched by Ambala railway||Ambala, August 30To increase the share of freight loading, the first-ever rake containing 4,000 tonnes of fly ash was dispatched by the Ambala railway division on Sunday.Senior Divisional Commercial Manager/Freight Vivek Sharma said: “To increase the share of freight traffic through the Railways, a dedicated business development unit (BDU) has been set up at the division level. With the efforts made by the BDUs of Ambala division, the first rake of 58 open wagons containing approximately 4,000 tonnes of fly ash from Ambuja Cement siding, Bathinda, to Ambuja Cement siding, Rupnagar, has been dispatched on Sunday. Fly ash is used in the production of cement.”“As the Railways has offered many incentives to its customers, 40 per cent and 60 per cent flat discount on base freight is being granted in open and covered wagons, respectively, on the transportation of fly ash. Earlier, fly ash was transported through road and approximately 180 trucks used to carry the same amount. Thus transportation through the Railways has become pocket and eco-friendly as it amounts to less air and noise pollution as compared to road transport,” he added.Vivek said with the changing scenario arising due to the halt of passenger trains, Ambala division has shifted its focus to augment the share of freight loading and making all-out efforts to capture new freight traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/first-fly-ash-rake-dispatched-by-ambala-railway-133832
31-08-2020||Faridabad||Ganja worth Rs 6.4L seized||The crime branch team of the police here in Sector 30 has recovered about 64 kg of ganja (cannabis) from four persons on Sunday. The accused have been arrested.Revealing that the market value of the contraband is Rs 6.4 lakh, a police spokesperson said the recovery was made after a car was intercepted after a tip-off on the bypass road near Sector 62 here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ganja-worth-rs-6-4l-seized-133833
31-08-2020||Panipat||Truck driver found murdered||A truck driver was found murdered, while the owner was found injured in a plot along the Kharkhoda-Sonepat road on Sunday.  The deceased has been identified as Prakash Tiwari and transporter has been identified as Rajesh, who was living in a rented accommodation. As per information, his friends reached the plot after getting no response over his phone.  They found Rajesh and Prakash lying in a pool of blood and informed the police. Bijender Singh, SHO, said a case had been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/truck-driver-found-murdered-133834
31-08-2020||Nitish Sharma||Two recruitment scams surface in Ambala, 5 booked||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, August 30Two more job scams have surfaced in Ambala and this time several people have reportedly been duped in the name of government jobs for the post of clerks.Pawan Kumar, a resident of Badi Kohri village of Shahzadpur, said: “After my daughter took the exam for the post of a clerk in September last year, Gulshan Gupta, a resident of our village, told me that he had contacts and could arrange the job for my daughter. For this, he sought Rs 2 lakh of which Rs 50,000 I paid in advance and the remaining money was to be given after she got the job, which never happened.”He said Gulshan and his accomplice Gurjit Singh had duped several other people in similar way. The complainants claimed to have paid the duo Rs 5.50 lakh (Rs 50,000 each for jobs of 11 persons) till December 2019 for a clerk’s job.Other victims who had paid the duo include Harish Kumar (Rs 50,000), Shiv Kumar (Rs 2 lakh — Rs 50,000 each for himself, wife, brother-in-law and cousin), Kuldip Kumar (Rs 1 lakh — Rs 50,000 each for two sisters), Bhajan Lal (Rs 50,000 for sister-in-law) and Jasbir Singh (Rs 1 lakh).The complainants alleged that Gulshan used to inform Gurjit over Whatsapp call about the money received. The final result of the exam was announced in December but none of those who paid the duo got job. A case has been registered against the two accused under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC at the Shazadpur police station.Meanwhile, in the second case, Rajni, a resident of Bara village, alleged that Manoj, a roadways employee, Vikram and Shamsher, reportedly an MC in Barara, had duped Rajni and Manu of Rs 6 lakh on the pretext of getting them jobs for post of clerks advertised by the HSSC last year. Rajni and Manu had given Rs 3 lakh each to Vikram and Manoj but their names were not on the list of the selected candidates released in December last year. When they sought their money back, the accused gave them a cheque, which was bounced. A case has been registered under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC at the Ambala Sadar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-recruitment-scams-surface-in-ambala-5-booked-133835
31-08-2020||---||Won’t allow govt to enforce farm ordinances: Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Rohtak, August 30Terming the three recent agriculture-related ordinances as “anti-farmer”, Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today stated that they would not allow the BJP government to implement these in the state at any cost.Addressing a press conference, Hooda demanded a thorough probe into liquor, property registration, paddy procurement and km scheme scams.“The BJP government was initially in denial mode regarding these scams. Then it instituted different inquiries, which proved an eyewash as no concrete action was taken and only some junior officials were made scapegoats,” he said.He maintained that these were serious matters and should be probed by the CBI, a High Court Judge or a joint committee of the Legislative Assembly.The Congress leader opposed privatisation of state tourism resorts. “Haryana used to be on top in terms of infrastructural, industrial and institutional development till a few years ago. It now seems to be racing for the top position in unemployment and crime,” he remarked.In response to a query, Hooda asserted that the provision of ‘Right to Recall’ should be implemented for MPs and MLAs prior to being enforced for sarpanches and panchayat representatives.Questioned about the Baroda byelection, the Congress leader maintained that they were going to win it hands down. “It is going to be a contest between the government and the people and we will register a victory,” he asserted. Asked about the INLD being in the fight, Hooda quipped: “Which INLD?”He was flanked by Rohtak MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra, Kalanaur MLA Shakuntala Khatak, Meham MLA Anand Singh Dangi and former ministers Subhash Batra and Krishan Murti Hooda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-allow-govt-to-enforce-farm-ordinances-bhupinder-singh-hooda-133836
31-08-2020||---||32-year-old man murdered over old enmity in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, August 30A 32-year-old man was shot dead while his friend was injured after armed assailants attacked them in Kirti Nagar of Thanesar on Saturday night over an alleged old enmity.The deceased was identified as Vinod Kumar, while the injured as Vikas Kumar. The suspects have been identified as Shunty, Gaga, Mukesh, Jaipal and Deepu.As per information, the suspects and the deceased had a dispute over the sale of liquor. Deceased’s brother Anil, in his police complaint, said, “My brother, who was living with his family in Kirti Nagar, was involved in illegal liquor trade. Around 8.30 pm on Saturday, I went to meet him near Rajinder Singh’s chakki. Vinod came along with Vikas. All of a sudden, Shunty, Mukesh, Gaaga, Jaipal and two more youths reached there. Shunty opened fire on Vinod and he suffered a bullet injury in his head, while Gaaga stabbed Vikas with a knife on the back of his neck. After hearing the gunshot, people gathered and the accused fled.”Vinod was rushed to the Civil Hospital where he was declared brought dead.A case has been registered against the five suspects under Sections 302, 307, 148, 149 and 120B of the IPC and 25 of the Arms Act.Superintendent of Police Astha Modi said: “Vinod was involved in the illegal liquor trade and there were cases registered against him. The criminal record of Vikas is being verified. There was an enmity over the sale of liquor. Efforts are being made to nab the suspects.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/32-year-old-man-murdered-over-old-enmity-in-kurukshetra-133837
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Govt cautions farmers against whitefly attack||With a view to protecting cotton crop from whitefly attack during Kharif-2020, the Haryana Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department has advised farmers in the state to take precautionary measures, including using botanical remedies such as neem oil solution and monitoring the occurrence of the pests. Stating this here today, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister JP Dalal said officials of the department were monitoring the incidence of whitefly in Sirsa, Hisar, Fatehabad, Jind and Bhiwani, which constitute 80 per cent of the area under cotton in the state. Scientists from CCS Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, also visited fields to take stock of the situation. He said while occurrence of whitefly in Sirsa, Fatehabad and Jind was found to be below the Economic Threshold Level (ETL), a small patch in a few villages in Hisar was found to be above ETL. In Bhiwani, the infestation level of whitefly is about 50 per cent. To prevent further infestation, the department has issued an advisory comprising measures suggested by the Central Institute for Cotton Research, Sirsa, and Bayer Crop Science, which include installation of 40 to 50 low-cost yellow sticky traps per acre. Cotton is being cultivated on 7.36 lakh hectares in 14 districts. Sirsa, Hisar, Fatehabad, Jind and Bhiwani are leading in cotton cultivation this season with 2.10 lakh hectares, 1.47 lakh hectares, 0.72 lakh hectares, 0.70 lakh hectares and 0.88 lakh hectares, respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-cautions-farmers-against-whitefly-attack-133838
31-08-2020||Faridabad||Two arrested for blackmail||Two persons have been arrested in connection with the suicide of a businessman here recently. The body of the victim was fished out from a Gurugram canal yesterday.The accused have been arrested on charges of blackmailing the victim who had reportedly committed suicide on August 24. The deceased businessman, Sanjiv Kumar (50) from Sector 9, had left a suicide note, saying that he was blackmailed by three persons, including a woman, who had been working at his printing press, for the past one year on the basis of a video showing him in a compromising position with her.He alleged that the accused had taken Rs 15 lakh and had been demanding more for not sharing the video on social media or with his family. Though the video is claimed to have been made by one Vinod, who was also working in the same organisation in a secret manner, the plan involved a third person — Kripal Singh, who was known to the accused and the victim.“While Sanjiv committed suicide after being threatened with a rape complaint, a case under Section 376 (rape) IPC was lodged on August 28 by the woman, who perhaps wanted to escape the allegations of blackmailing,” said a cop. A case has been registered under Sections 346, 384, 506 and 34 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-arrested-for-blackmail-133839
31-08-2020||Deepender Deswal||Pests return to haunt cotton growers, 25% crop lost||Tribune News ServiceHisar, August 30The fear of whitefly attack, parawilt and leaf curl are back to haunt the cotton-growing farmers in the state.While the Agriculture Department has assessed a loss of up to 25 per cent in the region, farmers say the disease has already wiped out crops in large tracts and the losses have mounted to 60-70 per cent in Hisar and Bhiwani districts.‘Pesticides of no use’They say despite pesticide sprays they are unable to save their crops. “We have no option but to overturn the crops. It’s a major setback as many of us have not got the crop insured due to high premium of the cotton crops under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana,” said Umed Singh, a farmer from Kirtan village.“Even those who have got the crops insured have been told that they will get the compensation on the basis of the crop cutting experiments at the end of the kharif season, which is an assessment method to accurately estimate the average yield of a crop cultivation cycle. So, the farmers are unlikely to get compensation for the losses due to the disease,” said Satbir, another farmer.“The entire crop has perished due to whitefly and other diseases in last couple of days,” rued Dilbag, another farmer.However, an official of the Agriculture Department maintained that preliminary reports from the field indicated around 25 per cent crop loss on an average in the entire region in Hisar and Bhiwani.“Farmers are resorting to indiscriminate spray of pesticide and insecticide. Instead of saving the crop, it has done more damage. We have been urging them to spray in limited proportion and in a specific method but to no avail. It’s feared that the crop loss may go up further in next few weeks,” the official said.A cotton expert said the appearance of whitefly was clear and visible in the entire region. “Extreme humid conditions and uneven rainfall coupled with strong winds have damaged cotton. Humidity is ideal condition for the whitefly infestation. Farmers are resorting to sprays but not giving nutrients to the plant as a result of which wilting occurs. Fungus has developed in cotton plants now,” he said.The Agriculture Department and the Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University have also swung into action sensing seriousness of the situation.HAU Vice-Chancellor Prof Samar Singh said the university team that visited Bhiwani recently reported the presence of whitefly in cotton crop. “The university will deploy teams of experts in the fields who in tune with the Krishi Vigyan Kendras will contact farmers to recommend the sprays and other measures to save the crop,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pests-return-to-haunt-cotton-growers-25-crop-lost-133840
31-08-2020||Panipat||Youth shot at for opposing molesters||A youth was shot at in Kachha Camp area here late on Saturday night after he complained against two youths for passing lewd remarks and molesting his sister-in-law.The police have booked four persons, including a liquor contractor, for attempt to murder and also registered a case under the Arms Act.Ravi said he along with his wife and daughter were standing near the gate of his house around 10.30 pm when two neighbourers, Dhruv Sharma and Himanshu Sharma, passed lewd remarks.He said he along with his wife, brother Sachin and sister-in-law went to their house to complain, they assaulted them with hockey, rods and sword. Thereafter, their uncle Kala Shah, along with 10 youths, attacked them. He alleged that Kala Shah fired a bullet at Sachin and fled the spot. Sachin is in a hospital.SHO Sunil Kumar said a case was registered against Dhruv Sharma, Himanshu Sharma, Anju Sharma and Kala Shah and others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-shot-at-for-opposing-molesters-133841
31-08-2020||---||Road repair work begins at Uklana grain market||Hisar, August 30Minister of State for Archaeology and Museums and Labour and Employment Anoop Dhanak on Sunday inaugurated the renovation work of roads at new grain market in the Uklana block.In view of problems being faced by farmers and commission agents, Rs 2.50 crore has been sanctioned by the government to repair the roads of the new grain market. Now all roads inside the grain market will be repaired with the aforesaid amount. This will facilitate the farmers to bring their yield to the grain market.He said the work of installing the streetlights had been started on the Surewala-Uklana stretch, which would not only enhance the beauty of city but this four-lane road would facilitate the commuters as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/road-repair-work-begins-at-uklana-grain-market-133842
31-08-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat
||Faridabad society residents protest sewer water entering parking||Tribune News Service Faridabad, August 30 Hundreds of residents of a multi-storeyed residential society in Sector 86 here, having 12 towers and 1,100 families as occupants, staged a demonstration today over the issue of lack of proper maintenance and civic facilities. They burnt an effigy of the builder and demanded recovery of interest free maintenance fund and security fund. They demanded that maintenance be handed over to the resident welfare association (RWA). Vinod Chhawri, president of the RWA of Princess Park Society, pointed out that the life of residents in the housing society had been put at risk due to flooding of waste water and rain water in the two basement parking levels. He alleged that the builder had shut down the maintenance office without informing residents. He said the foundation of all residential towers, having up to 20 floors, had been weakened due to continuous accumulation of  sewage water in the two basement parking levels. He stated that the company responsible for maintenance had failed to address the problem despite several reminders and complaints. He said constant water leakage has posed a risk to the structure of the building. He pointed out  that a huge amount of money had been collected over the years in the name of maintenance, security and other charges. He said residents were still awaiting a proper sewage disposal system. “With four towers yet to get occupation certificate, sale and purchase have got stuck. The housing society was opened to residents about 10 years ago,” said Renu Gautam,  a resident of the society. She claimed that the security staff at the housing society had been halved over the past one year. She said lifts in the housing society often remained non-functional. She pointed out that maintenance charges for common area had been increased sharply over the years without any service or facility to residents. “While the authorities and the builder have been approached several times, the problem remains unresolved. This forced residents to stage the demonstration,” said Pinaki Ranjan, another flat owner. No member of the management of the housing society was available for comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-society-residents-protest-sewer-water-entering-parking-133843
31-08-2020||
||Audio clip defaming Mahendragarh administration ,  former SP goes viral||Mahendragarh, August 30  Former SP of Mahendragarh Sulochna Gajraj has filed a police complaint after an audio clip of a conversation between two men, wherein one of them claiming to be a minister is levelling serious allegations against the district police and her.  The audio clip went viral on social media hours after unidentified miscreant shot at Amit Yadav, son of a senior BJP leader Daya Ram Yadav, at his house in Narnaul on Friday night. The assailant also demanded an extortion of Rs 50 lakh from Amit. In the FIR, Sulochna said on August 29, the district police’s public relation officer received an audio clip through social media, which contained malignant and illegal provocation against the administration as well as against her.   “On listening to the audio clip, a man claiming to be a minister of the Haryana Government has made an imputation and defamatory statement calling the administration idle and corrupt. He specifically insulted the complainant and provoked the public in general by making the defamatory and scandalous statement against her,” reads the FIR.  The FIR further said: “He has called the complainant (SP) corrupt, untrustworthy, having collusion with criminals and offenders. He also said the complainant was getting illegal brokerage from miscreants. This irresponsible and provoking statement allegedly to be made by a minister cannot be in good faith and is made prejudicially and having a personal enmity.” “The intention of the person is clear that he wants to create pressure on the complainant to play into his hands while administrating justice. The act and conduct of this man is a punishable offence. Therefore, a case should be registered against the miscreant as he may be dealt in accordance with law,” the SP said in the FIR. Manoj Kumar, Narnaul City police station incharge, said the investigation had been started after booking a case under Sections 66A of IT Act and 153, 186, 500 and 504 of the IPC on the complaint of the SP. Notably, Sulochna was transferred to Manesar IRB in Gurugram on Saturday. Chander Mohan will now be Mahendragarh SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/audio-clip-defaming-mahendragarh-administration-former-sp-goes-viral-133844
31-08-2020||Chandigarh||Applications invited for disaster management award||The Central Government has invited applications for the Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar- 2021 by September 30.  It is held annually to recognise the outstanding work by individuals and institutions in the field of disaster management. The application can be submitted on the website dmawards.ndma.gov.in. An official spokesperson said, “Various disasters affect our lives, livelihoods and property. In the aftermath of the disaster, different sections of society come together and work towards alleviating the sufferings of those affected by the disaster. There is a need to recognise the efforts of individuals and organisations that work diligently to alleviate human suffering in disasters. The government has instituted an annual award known as the Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar to recognise the outstanding work of individuals and institutions in the field of disaster management.” He said under the award, winning institution would be given a cash prize of Rs 51 lakh with a certificate and the winning individual would be given Rs 5 lakh along with a certificate. For institutional awards, voluntary organisations, corporate institutions, educational / research institutes or any other institute can apply. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/applications-invited-for-disaster-management-award-133845
31-08-2020||---||12 more succumb, 1,295 fresh cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, August 30With 1,295 fresh Covid cases, the total number of cases in the state went up to 63,282 today. Twelve more deaths pushed the death toll to 682.Gurugram reported a maximum of 125 cases, followed by Karnal (131), Ambala (120), Faridabad (119) and Yamunagar (85). Panipat reported four deaths, followed by Ambala (3), Kurukshetra (2) and Faridabad, Rohtak and Sirsa (1 each).With three deaths the number of Covid deaths in Ambala increased to 34. Dr Kuldeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, said three deaths and 120 fresh cases had been reported.A 53-year-old man from Naya Baans, a 72-year-old man from Mathura Nagri and an 85-year-old man from Dera Salimpur died today.In Kurukshetra, with the death of two women, the numbers of Covid deaths increased to 32. Dr Sukhbir Singh, Civil Surgeon said a 55-year-old woman from Nand Colony, who was admitted to Adesh Medical College, and a 50-year-old woman from Pehowa, who was admitted to the LNJP Hospital, died today.Meanwhile, 57 cases were reported in Kurukshetra. In Faridabad, one more death was reported, taking the toll to 169. The total number of cases in the district moved to 12,581 with the addition of 119 new cases. A 65-year-old man of Taraori died of Covid at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College in Karnal, taking the toll to 31. Meanwhile, 121 new cases on Sunday took the number of positive cases to 2,734.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-more-succumb-1-295-fresh-cases-in-haryana-133846
31-08-2020||---||No hepatitis patient Covid positive: PGIMS survey||Rohtak, August 30A survey conducted by a team of Rohtak PGIMS has found that patients, who are taking medication for hepatitis C or B, have not contracted Covid.“The survey has covered more than 17,700 patients from different parts of Haryana. We have contacted 3,100 patients of hepatitis C and 600 patients of hepatitis B, who are currently on medication. None of the 3,700 patients have contracted Covid,” said Dr Parveen Malhotra, Senior Professor and Head of the Department of Medical Gastroenterology, Rohtak PGIMS.He said their team also checked around 14,000 Covid patients and found that eight of them were positive for hepatitis C or B. Among these eight patients, four had stopped taking the anti-hepatitis medicines more than a year ago, while the other four were yet to begin taking medicines. “In a nutshell, no patient of hepatitis C or B, who is at present on medication, has been found Covid-positive so far, which is an indirect evidence of the efficacy of the anti-hepatitis drugs in the treatment of the virus,” he said.Dr Malhotra said the surveyed hepatitis B patients were on Tenofovir, while the patients of hepatitis C were taking Sofosbuvir, Daclatasvir and/or Velpatasvir. A trial of anti-hepatitis drugs on Covid patients is about to commence at the PGIMS here soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-hepatitis-patient-covid-positive-pgims-survey-133847
31-08-2020||
||State revokes order on two-day weekly shutdown||Chandigarh, August 30 Withdrawing its order regarding closure of shops and malls on Monday and Tuesday in urban areas, the state government today issued orders to implement the guidelines of Unlock-4 issued by the Union Home Ministry. These orders will remain in force till September 30. An official spokesperson said as per guidelines for phased re-opening by the Centre, all activities would be permitted outside the containment zones except schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions, which will continue to remain closed for students and regular class activity up to September 30. However, online/distance learning will continue to be permitted. States and UTs may permit up to 50 per cent of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to schools at a time for online coaching/tele-counselling and related work in areas outside the containment zones only, with effect from September 21 for which, Standard Operating Procedure will be issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The spokesman said students of Classes 9-12 may be permitted to visit schools in areas outside the containment zones only on voluntary basis for taking guidance from teachers. This will be subject to consent of their parents/guardians and will be permitted with effect from September 21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-revokes-order-on-two-day-weekly-shutdown-133848
31-08-2020||Residents are a harried lot owing to stray cattle menace. Stray cattle menace continues to be a headache for residents. These animals can be seen roaming while going to Sector 53-56 crossing opposite Vatika Bazaar||No end to Stray cattle menace in Gurugram||Subhash C Taneja, GurugramOverflowing sewage a bane of Prem NagarResidents of Prem Nagar in Narwana have been facing many problems due to overflowing sewage. Apart from emitting foul smell, it has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes and thus the condition of people living nearby can be imagined. The Public Health Department should immediately look into this matter.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaTrees touching power lines pose threat to residents, commutersTrees on the Kaithal-Ambala road and a few other areas in Kaithal have become a major concern. Many of these trees touch high-voltage transmission lines and during strong winds and rain, they fall on power lines, thus not only disrupting power supply but also risking lives of passersby and UHBVN staff. Officials rue that if they trim branches, they are threatened by the Forest Department of action and if they do not trim those branches, the lines suffer damage and supply is disrupted.Satish Seth, KaithalGarbage dump a health hazardGarbage and bio-waste material that is being dumped in front of the mortuary adjoining my house in Model Town, Fatehabad, has become a health hazard. It is not being lifted for days together and foul smell emanating from them has made life hell for us as well as those having houses adjoining the hospital wall. This is not only a health hazard but also a blot on the city. The waste is frequently set on fire resulting in emission of poisonous gases.The situation has been like this for the last four years and nothing has been done in this regard till date. The authorities concerned should take the required measures against the wrong-doers.Naresh Bansal, Model Town, FatehabadWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-end-to-stray-cattle-menace-in-gurugram-134060
31-08-2020||Hisar||Virtual story telling event by Guru Jambheshwar University||Advocate General attends webinarKurukshetra: Advocate General Haryana Baldev Mahajan said, “Right to life is the basic fundamental right in the Constitution of India. It is from this fundamental right that all human rights emerge. All human rights, including right to food, right to health, right to freedom of expression and movement, right to work, profession and wages, etc are dependent on right to life.” While speaking at a webinar on “Protecting of Human Rights during Covid-19 Pandemic” organised by the Department of Law, Kurukshetra University, he said Covid came as a dangerous reality for which no government or human was ready throughout the world. The first important duty of the world's governments was to protect the right to live. Appreciating the role of social organisations, NGO’s, media, health professional, police and various government institutions, Mahajan said they played an important role in addressing and protecting basic human rights during the pandemic. Mahajan appreciated the Indian culture that advocates universal brotherhood and self-sacrifice, which he said was seen during Covid pandemic when people, society and NGO's came together to help the needy.National Sports Day observedKurukshetra: On the occasion of the birth anniversary of Major Dhyan Chand, the wizard of hockey, the National Sports Day-2020 was celebrated with great zeal and enthusiasm at Kendriya Vidyalaya Mathana through a webinar due to the Covid pandemic. Boxer Manoj Kumar was the chief guest. Dr Vibha Rani, motivated the students/ players by throwing light on the achievements of Manoj Kumar in boxing. She inspired the students to excel in sports and also maintain fitness for a healthy mind. Kumari Jiya Prashar, a Class IX student presented her ideas and thoughts on staying fit at home. Sports teacher Babita Rani and another teacher Tilak Raj expressed their ideas about the day and its importance. Manoj Kumar motivated the students for various sports activities and for staying fit during the pandemic. Various presentations on sports activities prepared by the students were shared in this webinar.IGU panel for execution of NEPRewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) here has constituted a five-member committee led by Prof Mamta Kamra to harness the benefits of the New Education Policy (NEP). “The committee will not only prepare a roadmap for implementing the New Education Policy after studying it thoroughly but also decide the academic session from which the policy should be implemented,” said Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar. He said the provisions about Higher Education and Examination reforms as well as the multi-disciplinary approach of teaching and learning suggested in the policy would be helpful to enhance the applicability of education and research in welfare of humanity and making the education system job oriented.Advance increments soughtMahendragarh: The Teachers’ Association of Central University of Haryana (TACUH) has demanded the authorities of the Central University of Haryana (CUH) to ensure the benefit of advance increments to all those assistant lecturers who were having MPhil and PhD degrees at the time of their joining. “As per the UGC regulations, non-compounded, advance increments shall be admissible for entry level Assistant Professor holding MPhil (two increments) and PhD (five increments) degree holders but a large number of such teachers who joined the CUH after January 1, 2016, have not yet been paid these benefits,” said TACUH secretary Rakesh Meena. He said the affected teacher had raised the issue many times but to no avail despite the fact that several other central universities had already paid the advance increments and arrears to the teachers concerned. “This continued apathy towards the concerned assistant professors is affecting their morale and the health of the institution as well,” Meena added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/virtual-story-telling-event-by-guru-jambheshwar-university-134061
31-08-2020||Karnal||Covid info website for Karnal residents||‘Aneurysms a major issue’Karnal: Dr Vivek Gupta, associate director and head, interventional neuroradiology, and Dr Anil Dhingra, associate director, neurosurgery, Paras Hospital, Panchkula, said haemorrhagic stroke and aneurysms were emerging as a major problem in India. They said between 1.5 lakh and 2 lakh cases of aneurysms were reported across the country every year, of which 40 per cent were life-threatening. They said less than 50 centres in the country offered treatment.2 drug addicts restart livesSirsa: Balwinder Singh, a youth addicted to drugs for years, finally mustered the will to get admitted to a de-addiction centre. He said he had managed to bail himself out and was trying to put his family life back on track. Menga Singh maintained that he had a harrowing experience of addiction for 15 years. He thanked the de-addiction centre for helping him get a second opportunity to live. Deputy Commissioner RC Bidhan said the district administration had been running two de-addiction centres in Sirsa and one in Kalanwali, which provided counselling and treatment to addicts.In line for excellence awardMahendragarh: The Centre has selected Mahendragarh for the second stage of ‘Prime Minister’s Award for Excellence’ in the category ‘Improving Service Delivery and Redressal of Public Grievances.’ Deputy Commissioner RK Singh delivered a presentation before the screening committee about the operation of SARAL kendras in the district. Mahendragarh is competing with 12 districts all over India, two of which will be selected for final nomination.Encouraging eye donationRohtak: The district health authorities, in collaboration with social outfit Ready to Help and Shrimad Shankar Swami Vishavdevanand Tirth Dharmarth Trust, are observing a fortnight to promote eye donation awareness. Dr Dinesh Sharma, eye specialist and convener of the programme, said they had been encouraging people to come forward for the noble social cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-info-website-for-karnal-residents-134062
