31-05-2020||Ravinder Saini||Rape accused being taken to jail ends life by jumping before a canter||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, May 31A rape accused reportedly committed suicide by jumping before a canter on Gurugram road when he was being taken to the district jail by the cops in Dulina village on Sunday.The deceased, identified as Baljeet of Bhiwani, was arrested in Bahadurgarh town on Sunday.“The incident took place in the afternoon when the police were taking Baljeet to the district jail after producing him at a local court. He got down from the vehicle on the pretext of urinating. Then, as of sudden, he jumped before a canter on the road and died on the spot,” said Ajaib Singh, DSP, Bahadurgarh.
31-05-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Over 3,200 outsourced security guards in Haryana Health Dept to be replaced by Home Guards||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31Come July 1, over 3,200 outsourced security guards in the Haryana Health Department are set to lose their jobs as they will be replaced by Home Guards volunteers.The Commandant-General and Director-General, Civil Defence, Haryana Government, in a communication to the Director-General Health Services (DGHS) on May 19, conveyed his acceptance of state government’s request to deploy Home Guard volunteers for the security of medical and paramedical staff in district hospitals, community health centres and primary health centres.On May 13, the DGHS, in a letter to the Commandant-General, had requested him to deploy Home Guards at government hospitals apparently for better security of the medical and paramedical staff in view of certain attacks on the medical fraternity.Meanwhile, Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), alleged that the decision was “unjustified and inhuman” at a time when the security personnel were fighting the war against the COVID-19 pandemic along with the frontline warriors.“It is another injustice with the working class by the Khattar government, which had failed to honour its commitment of protecting the livelihood of the poorer sections of society,” Lamba lamented.Earlier, the Health Department wanted Home Guards to be deployed at government hospitals by March 31. However, the proposal was kept pending in view of the COVID-19 crisis and strong opposition from the employees’ unions.
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Casteist remarks over phone, away from public view, not offence under SC/ST Act: HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the use of casteist words during a phone call, away from public view, does not constitute an offence under the SC/ST Act.Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill passed the order on May 14 on a plea challenging the framing of charges against two persons from Kurukshetra who allegedly made casteist remarks over mobile phone against their village head.“Merely uttering such wrong words in the absence of any public view does not show any intention or mens rea (the intention or knowledge of wrongdoing that constitutes part of a crime) to humiliate the complainant who besides being Sarpanch, belongs to Scheduled Caste community.“It would not thus, ipso-facto, constitute acts of commission of offence, which are capable of being taken cognizance under the SC and ST Act, 1989,” said the judge.The counsel for the petitioners had argued that the allegations made against the petitioners do not fall within the provisions of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 as the telephonic call is not in a public view.Justice Gill, while allowing the plea, observed, “To constitute the offence under the (SC/ST) Act, it must be alleged that the accused intentionally insulted or intimidated with an intention to humiliate a member of Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe in any public place within public view.“In the present case, it is alleged that the offence has been committed by the petitioners by using the caste-based remarks over a mobile phone call to the informant, or a member of Scheduled Castes, of which there are no records.“Once it is admitted that the alleged conversation over the mobile phone was not in a public gaze nor witnessed by any third party, the alleged use of caste words cannot be said to have been committed within the public view,” the Judge said.The penal provisions are to be given a “strict construction” and if any of the ingredients are found lacking, it would not constitute an offence under the SC/ST Act, Justice Gill said in his order.On the complaint of village head Rajinder Kumar, an FIR was registered in October 2017 under the provisions of the IPC and SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, in which the complainant alleged that Sandeep Kumar and Pardeep, the petitioners, allegedly used casteist slurs against him during a conversation on mobile phone.The complainant asked them not to use derogatory words and later handed over the phone to one Devi Dayal, who also told them to stop abusing, the FIR stated.The complainant also alleged that the duo also threatened to kill him. Later, a charge sheet against the two accused was submitted after which a court in Kurukshetra ordered framing of charges against them a year ago.The accused then moved the High Court here and submitted that as the telephone call was not in public view and therefore the allegations against them do not fall within the provisions of the SC/ST Act, which, however, was contested by the complainant.The counsel for the petitioners had also alleged that the case was a reprisal for the complaint filed by the father of one of the accused against the village head and Dayal, following which the panchayat had to return a grant of Rs 7 lakh for construction of a dharamshala.The judge said, “There is a lot of material on record to indicate that Jasmer Singh father of Pardeep Kumar (one of the accused) had raised finger towards the working of respondent No. 2 (village head) as Sarpanch and also against Devi Dayal and this cannot be ignored that on the application of said Jasmer Singh, grant of Rs 7 lakh had to be returned by the Gram Panchayat.”         The judge clarified, “It is a settled law that if two views are possible and one gives rise to suspicion only, as distinguished from grave suspicion, the trial judge will be empowered to discharge the accused, and at that stage it is not to be seen whether the trial will end in conviction or acquittal”. — PTI
31-05-2020||Yamunanagar (Haryana)||Peacock swallowed by python in Yamunanagar||A peacock fell prey to a giant python who swallowed it near a forest in Haryana’s Yamunanagar district, officials said on Sunday.People of Jhanda village in Sadhaura block saw that the peacock was caught by the python in the fields near the forest on Saturday and being dragged, the Forest Department officials said.The villagers called the people around, but by then, the python had swallowed the peacock and disappeared in the forest.The villagers immediately informed the police and the Forest Department officials, who later reached the spot.According to an official, the python was said to be around 15 feet in length. —PTI
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Haryana reports 168 new cases; tally rises to 2,091||In yet another major spike, 168 people test positive for coronavirus in Haryana on Sunday. The maximum 97 people tested positive in Gurugram followed by 28 in Faridabad and 20 in Bhiwani.Those infected include nine members of Bhiwani BJP MLA Ghanshyam Saraf’s family. Saraf’s PA had tested positive for Covid on Friday. Today’s cases include nine from Hisar, four each from Ambala and Kurukshetra, two each from Narnaul and Karnal and one each from Palwal and Panipat.With today’s cases, the total number of positive cases in the state has gone up to 2,091. Twenty persons have lost their lived to the disease so far. As many as 77 were discharged today taking the total number of those cured from the disease in the state to 1,048. There are 1,023 active cases of Covid in the state now.Karnal reported two new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the district to 52. Two women, one each of Gharaunda and Nissing, tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday, taking the total number of active cases to 29 in the district.Faridabad reports 26 new cases, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases rise to 371. Some 160 people have been released from hospitals. Some 68 patients are under home isolation.Panipat reported a new case of the coronavirus, taking the total in the district to 62. A 63-year-old man, a resident of Chulkana Road, Samalkha tested positive for COVID on Sunday. He had visited a private hospital in Panipat for hernia surgery, where he was advised a COVID test on May 28. He had a history of travel to Delhi before May 25. He has been referred to Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College, Khanpur Kalan.On Saturday, the state reported 202 cases in a matter of 24 hours. The bulk of cases were reported from Gurugram (157), contributing 77.7 per cent of the new cases. Fresh cases were also reported from Faridabad (32), Ambala and Fatehabad (3 each), Nuh and Karnal (2 each) and Panipat, Rohtak and Kaithal (1 each).
31-05-2020||---||Case count goes up by 202 in Haryana||Chandigarh, May 30With 202 cases in the last 24 hours, Haryana’s tally reached 1,923 today. The bulk of cases were reported from Gurugram (157), contributing 77.7 per cent of today’s count.Fresh cases were also reported from Faridabad (32), Ambala and Fatehabad (3 each), Nuh and Karnal (2 each) and Panipat, Rohtak and Kaithal (1 each).With today’s spike, Gurugram’s case count reached 677. It is followed by Faridabad (339), Sonepat (199) and Jhajjar (97). These four districts account for 68.2 per cent cases in the state.At present, no district is Covid-free. The doubling rate fell to 11 days today from 13 days on Friday. With 31 patients getting cured in the last 24 hours, the number of discharged patients reached 971, with a recovery rate of 50.49 per cent. The recovery rate slightly reduced from 54.62 per cent on Friday.The new cases in Faridabad included five women — a 24-year-old of Parvatiya Colony, a 48-year-old and a 34-year-old of Dabua Colony, a 43-year-old of an NIT colony and a 32-year-old of Sanjay Colony.Three members of a family in Sector 3 were also confirmed to have been infected. Two 18-year-old girls, a 39-year-old woman and a 45-year-old man from the locality were put under home isolation.Two persons in Karnal — a 40-year-old man of Dayalpura Gate and a 26-year-old woman of Mangal Colony — tested positive. Both had history of travel from Delhi.In Nuh, a 7-year-old boy of Ghasera village and a man of Mohammadpur Ahir village tested coronavirus positive. In Rohtak, a 60-year-old man of Old Housing Board Colony confirmed for the infection.A 35-year-old taxi driver of Songal village tested positive in Kaithal. As per reports, the taxi driver had brought some passengers from Delhi to Manas village. These persons had come from Mumbai and had tested positive.
31-05-2020||---||MC challans 10 shops in Yamunanagar, Jagadhri||Yamunanagar, May 30Two teams of the municipal corporation (MC) on Saturday issued challans to 10 shopkeepers and an owner of a showroom for violating norms in Yamunanagar and Jagadhri.MC Chief Sanitary Inspector Anil Nain said on the directions of MC Commissioner Dharamvir Singh, two teams were formed to inspect the shops in different areas.He said both the teams issued challans to shopkeepers on Radaur Road, Railway Road, Rampura Colony, Pathrowala Bazar, Chowk Bazar, Sharma tent house area and Khera Bazar.“The shopkeepers were found working without wearing masks, not practising social distancing and opening shops without following odd-even formula,” said Nain.He said a showroom of cars in Yamunanagar was open, violating the odd-even formula. “The workers were working without masks. It was closed and a challan was issued to its owner,” said Nain.
31-05-2020||Faridabad||Several turned away, pass holders allowed to cross Delhi border||The impact of the order of sealing the border with Delhi remained visible for the second day today as the police allowed the movement of pass holders only.Hundreds of persons who had no passes were turned away by the police posted at the border. This has also resulted in a rush for passes here.“I wanted to visit my ailing kin at Ambedkar Nagar in Delhi, but I was turned back by the police as I had no pass,” said Harish Kumar, a resident of Old Faridabad. He said he has applied for a pass which is issued online.Munish, an employee of a garment export unit located in Okhla in New Delhi, also got dejected when the police did not allow him to go to work this morning as he didn’t have a pass.He said he has also applied for pass as it made him miss two days of work. “I am looking for someone who could help me in getting the pass for crossing the border to Faridabad as my office is located in Sector 27,” said Harinder, a resident of Badarpur village located close to border . “Work at my manufacturing unit located at Faridabad has got stuck for the past two days as I am unable to reach Faridabad due to the restrictions imposed by the state government,” said an entrepreneur based in New Delhi on the condition of anonymity.Describing the move as hard hitting, Col S Kapoor, Executive Director of the Faridabad Industries Association (FIA), said that the association has written to the Chief Minister and Home Minister for immediate withdrawal of the order.He said this has impacted the revival of industrial production as hundreds of workers and entrepreneurs travel to Delhi or Faridabad daily. “There has been a rise of 60 per cent in the number of applicants seeking a pass since Friday,” said sources in the district administration.Naresh Yadav, SHO, Sector-37, who is manning the border, said only pass holders were being allowed to cross the border on either side.
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Testing capacity now 7,500/day in Haryana||From a position where all samples were being sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune at the start of the Covid pandemic, Haryana had now built the capacity of testing more than 7,500 samples in a day within the state.Days before the ICMR removed the cap of Rs 4,500 on Covid tests in private laboratories to make it competitive, Haryana had reduced rates for tests in these laboratories.With the number of Covid cases witnessing a spike, Haryana enhanced its testing. Till today, it had tested 1,14,683 samples by real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health Department, said the state had the facility for 5,000 tests in a day at 11 government laboratories and 6,900 tests at five private laboratories in Gurugram. Of the 6,900 tests per day capacity at private laboratories, capacity of 2,500 tests was reserved for the state as these laboratories also tested residents of Delhi, Noida and other areas in the NCR.Among government laboratories, the PGIMS in Rohtak has a capacity of 1,000 tests, BPS Medical College for Women in Khanpur Kalan and Kalpana Chawla Medical College in Karnal 900 tests each, ESIC Medical College in Faridabad 500 tests, the SHKM Medical College in Nalhar and the THSTI in Faridabad 400 tests each, the NRCE in Hisar and Civil Hospital in Panchkula 300 tests each, IIMTECH in Mohali 200 tests and Ambala polyclinic and PGI in Chandigarh 50 each.“This capacity is without pooling. With pooling of three to five samples, the capacity will increase further,” said Arora. Among private laboratories, Dr Lal Pathlab has a capacity of 3,000 tests, Core Diagnostics 1,500 tests and SRL Diagnostics, Pathkind Lab and Modern Diagnostics 800 tests each.Ever since Haryana initiated an inquiry against SRL Diagnostics after some samples which tested positive there came negative in government laboratories, the state government had stopped sending samples there. However, since the laboratory was approved by the ICMR, private persons were free to get their samples tested there, said Arora.On May 12, Haryana issued a circular, reducing the rate charged by private laboratories from Rs 4,500. “Private laboratories will charge Rs 2,500 if the sample is delivered at their Gurugram premises, Rs 3,200 if sample is to be collected by the civil hospital, with logistics, testing and reporting by laboratories, and Rs 3,950 if sample collection, logistics, testing and reporting are to be done by private laboratories,” he said.
31-05-2020||Hisar||Hisar man shoots sister’s spouse, honour killing suspected||In an apparent case of honour killing, a youth was allegedly shot dead by his wife’s brother and two accomplices at Barwala town of Hisar district today. The police have registered a case and started investigation.The victim, Narender (23), was residing with his wife Pooja in a rented accommodation on Hansi road in Barwala town. Narender and Pooja are residents of Chirod village of the district. They got married two years ago and started residing at Barwala as their families did not approve of their alliance as both belong to the same village.The police said that Narender ran a motorcycle repair shop on the ground floor of his accommodation. Narender’s wife Pooja told the police that he was working in the shop when three persons, including her brother Sachin, arrived on a motorcycle. They shot the victim in the head and fled from the spot.Barwala police station SHO Kuldeep Singh informed that the police have registered a case against three persons, including Sachin.
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt won’t procure wheat after June 6||With daily arrival of wheat in grain markets coming down by the day, the government has decided to close procurement operations on June 6 instead of the end of the month, as scheduled earlier.The Food, Civil Supplies and Consumers Affairs Department has decided to give one last chance to left-out farmers to bring wheat to grain markets from June 1 to 6, after which there will be no procurement.The department has written to the Chief Administrator of the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board, requesting him to issue directions to secretaries of market committees across the state in this regard.No procurement would be made after June 6, the department said.
31-05-2020||Chandigarh||Murder trial to resume against dera chief on June 6||The CBI Special Court, Haryana, which is located at Panchkula, today posted the trial proceedings against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in Ranjit Singh murder case for June 6.The trial is at the final stage but proceedings were held up due to the Covid lockdown.During a hearing today, CBI counsel HPS Verma told the court that prosecution arguments had already been concluded in the case and the defence side had to conclude its arguments.CBI Special Judge Jagdeep Singh today ordered that in view of the instructions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court as well as the instructions issued by the office of the District and Sessions Judge, the matter would resume on June 6. The concerned Superintendents, District Jail Sunaria (Rohtak) and Central Jail Ambala, were asked to ensure the presence of Ram Rahim and another accused Krishan Lal via video conference. — TNS
31-05-2020||---||2 Congress leaders join BJP in Haryana||Chandigarh, May 30Two prominent leaders of the Congress from Jhajjar, Mahila Congress state vice-president Nina Rathi and Haryana Kisan Congress vice-president Satpal Rathi joined the Bharatiya Janta Party here on Saturday.The two leaders were inducted into the BJP by the state BJP president Subhash Barala.
31-05-2020||Karnal||Man charred to death, kin suspect murder||A 26-year-old man was charred to death at his shop on Saturday at Jundla village in the district. The deceased has been identified as Rohit, alias Deepak, of Gagsina village, said SHO Sadar Baljeet Singh. He said the fire broke at 4 am, when the victim was sleeping inside the shop.Family members of the deceased suspect that Rohit had been murdered. — TNS
31-05-2020||Sanjay Yadav||COVID-19: 340 cases in 3 days, Gurugram all set to have 100 containment zones||Gurugram, May 30Having registered 340 cases over the last three days, Gurugram has become Haryana’s Covid hotbed, all set to have over 100 containment zones.The district had notified 63 containment zones on May 28 but owing to sudden surge of cases, it is in the process of having 40 more zones. While the entire city is headed to be converted into a mega-containment zone, implementing measures, including social distancing, to check the spread of the virus has become a challenge for the authorities.The health department has received complaints about non-restricted movement in containment zones, non-identification of houses where Covid patients had isolated themselves and even non-containment of areas where residents had made self-declaration of being corona-positive after getting tested in private labs.“We have two houses in our sector where Covid patients are home-isolated. Despite clear guidelines, their houses are not marked,” said Sanjiv Kumar, a resident of Sector 45.Sarhaul and Dundahera villages have reported 25 and 20 cases, but there is hardly any visible containment.Chief Medical Officer Dr JS Punia said they had asked the municipal authorities to label all houses where Covid patients had isolated themselves. Asked about the delay, he claimed it was due to “late feedback as data from private labs took time to reach them”.Commissioner of Police Mohammad Akil said they had deputed cops in every single containment zone and were revising duty plans fortnightly to maintain safety and efficiency.
