31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 4 more COVID-19 deaths; 711 fresh cases||Haryana on Friday reported four more deaths due to COVID-19, with 711 cases pushing the infection tally to 34,965, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin.According to the bulletin, one fatality each was reported from Gurgaon, Rohtak, Ambala, and Panipat.With this, COVID-19 deaths in Haryana rose to 421, out of which 131 and 123 fatalities are from the hardest-hit Faridabad and Gurgaon districts, respectively.Among the districts which reported fresh cases include Faridabad (176), Gurgaon (78), Rewari (74), Rohtak (62), Ambala (48), Panipat (44) and Panchkula (29), as per the bulletin.The number of active cases in the state currently is 6,317 while 28,227 have been discharged after recovery.The state’s recovery rate on Friday was 80.73 per cent while the rate of doubling of infections was 25 days. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-4-more-covid-19-deaths-711-fresh-cases-120431
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||SET probing alleged liquor scam in Haryana submits ‘voluminous’ report||The Special Enquiry Team (SET) probing the alleged liquor scam in Haryana on Friday submitted its report, with state Home Minister Anil Vij saying its contents will be made public in due course after studying the “voluminous” document.The team had been set up by the Haryana government to probe the alleged theft of liquor seized by the police and the excise department.“The SET, which had been formed in the liquor scam, under senior IAS officer TC Gupta’s chairmanship, submitted its report to Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Vijay Vardhan on Friday,” Vij told reporters in Ambala.He said, “now, we will go through the voluminous report, which weighs 15-20 kg, and study its contents. Whatever is in that report, we will make it public in due course of time, we will also tell what action we have to take in the matter”.The SET was to submit its report to the government by May 31, but later, it was extended by two months.On May 6, Vij had announced the formation of a Special Investigation Team following the alleged theft of seized liquor from two godowns in Sonepat district.However, the state government finally formed a SET.In an order, the Home Department had said the probe team will also check the actual availability of stock in all warehouses and godowns that were sealed by the excise department during the last two years for any violation.The SET was required to examine cases of seizure of illicit and non-excise duty paid liquor in Haryana for the period, April 1, 2019, to March 31, 2020, both by the police and the excise department separately, with special reference to the action taken and the fines imposed by the excise department pursuant to the recovery of the liquor.It was also asked to collect and collate the result of the investigation of the FIRs registered from March 15 till May 10 in different parts of the state for pilferage of liquor from the godowns and also from the Malkhanas (strong rooms) of police stations, as per the order.     Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda had rejected setting up of the SET in the alleged liquor scam, demanding that the matter should be probed by a central agency or a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala had claimed that the SET lacked powers and asked “whether the Khattar government is conducting an inquiry into the liquor scam or resorting to a cover-up”. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/set-probing-alleged-liquor-scam-in-haryana-submits-voluminous-report-120430
31-07-2020||Sumedha Sharma||After SOG, Anti-Corruption Bureau of Rajasthan police turned away from hotels allegedly housing Pilot’s supporters||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 31The Manesar resorts, reportedly housing Sachin Pilot’s supporters, continue to be the unconquered fort for Rajasthan police as a team of Rajasthan police’s Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) was allegedly stopped from entering the three resorts as they sought to serve notice to two Congress MLAs in a corruption case.The ACB team came looking for MLAs Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh and went from ITC Grand Bharat, Best Western Country Club and even Heritage, where they are currently housed, but none of the resorts reportedly allowed them entry.The team headed by DSP Saleh Mohammad were turned away saying the resorts were not housing any guests matching the names or the description shared by the ACB. The Best Western Country Club went on to insist that it was a COVID centre and had no guests for weeks.“We reached the hotels in search of the MLAs so that the notices issued by the investigating officer could be delivered. The authorities in two hotels gave us in writing that they were not staying there while the authorities at a third hotel said it was closed for being a COVID Care Centre. We had gone following strong intel inputs from the SOG,” Mohammad said.The ACB had registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act on a complaint by chief whip Mahesh Joshi on July 17 after three audio clips containing a conversation with regards to the alleged conspiracy to topple the Gehlot government had surfaced.The ACB had also issued the notices to the MLAs in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-sog-anti-corruption-bureau-of-rajasthan-police-turned-away-from-hotels-allegedly-housing-pilots-supporters-120380
31-07-2020||Hisar||Two poachers caught skinning Neelgai at Fatehabad village||Villagers caught two poachers poaching a Neelgai and trying to skin the endangered animal late Thursday night at Mohammad Pur, Rohi village, in Fatehabad district. The accused were detained on the spot. They had chopped off the legs of the Neelgai after shooting the animal. The wildlife department officials rushed to the spot, and started the process to register an FIR. The wildlife department inspector, Rajbir Singh, said that the dead animal is a Nilgai and not a black buck. They have taken it for post-mortem. "We have verified it's a Neelgai," said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-poachers-caught-skinning-neelgai-at-fatehabad-village-120342
31-07-2020||Mahendragarh||XEN, EO among municipal officials fined for not wearing mask at farewell party||Organising a farewell party for Executive Engineer (XEN) of Municipal Council Narnaul, Hemant Kumar, cost 10 officials of the council Rs 500 each after Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) slapped a penalty on them for not wearing the masks and not maintaining social distancing at the party.Those fined include XEN Hemant Kumar, Executive Officer (EO) Vijay Pal, Municipal Engineer (ME) Sohan Singh, Secretary Anil Kumar, Junior Engineers (JEs)- Vikas Garg, Rahul and Vikash Sharma, Accountants- Umesh Kumar and Parveen Kumar and Chief Sanitary inspector Vijay Kaushik.The action came on Wednesday evening after pictures of the party went viral on social media. Deputy Commissioner (DC), RK Singh, who was in Chandigarh at that time, saw the pictures and asked the ADC to penalise the officials not wearing masks at the party.XEN Hemant Kumar has been transferred to Gurugram from Municipal Council, Narnaul. The council staffers organised a party on Thursday to give him a farewell but many of them neither wore masks nor maintained social distancing during the party. The XEN was also not wearing the mask.“We all have deposited the penalty of Rs 500 that imposed upon us for violations of the guidelines issued under Rule 12.9 of Epidemic Act, 1897, for the prevention of COVID-19,” said Anil Kumar, Secretary, Municipal Council, Narnaul.DC RK Singh said it was the responsibility of the district officials to effectively enforce the guidelines/norms meant for preventing the spread of COVID pandemic.“What message will go among the masses if the officials themselves will start violating the norms! Since norms are the same for everyone hence all guilty officials have been fined for not wearing masks,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/xen-eo-among-municipal-officials-fined-for-not-wearing-mask-at-farewell-party-120330
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM, Khattar pay tributes to Shaheed Udham Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday paid tributes to Shaheed Udham Singh on his death anniversary.“I join the nation in paying my humble tributes to our great freedom fighter Shaheed-e-Azam Sardar Udham Singh ji,” Amarinder said tweeted.I join the nation in paying humble tributes to our great freedom fighter Shaheed-E-Azam Sardar Udham Singh Ji. His patriotism & sacrifice will continue to inspire generations of Indians. Work on his Memorial at Sunam is underway & will be completed within a year. Jai Hind! 🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/4nKRZGfs56  “His patriotism and sacrifice will continue to inspire generations of Indians. Work on his memorial at Sunam is underway and will be completed within a year,” he said."What greater honour could be bestowed on me than death for the sake of my motherland"मॉं भारती के वीर सपूत, महान क्रांतिकारी सरदार उधम सिंह जी के बलिदान दिवस पर उन्हें श्रद्धांजलि। यह देश उनके सर्वोच्च बलिदान को सदैव याद रखेगा। pic.twitter.com/jkCvwz2gk3  Khattar said quoting the revolutionary: “What greater honour could be bestowed on me than death for the sake of my motherland.”Udham Singh was a revolutionary belonging to the Ghadar Party. He shot dead Michael O’Dwyer, a former Lieutenant Governor of Punjab, in London on March 13, 1940 to avenge the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in Amritsar in 1919. Udham Singh was subsequently convicted of the murder and hanged on July 31, 1940. ­--IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-cm-khattar-pay-tributes-to-shaheed-udham-singh-120329
31-07-2020||Hisar||Non-existent Hisar firm showed supply of Rs 41.5 crore, claimed input tax credit worth Rs 5.68 crore||A nonexistent firm in Hisar showed a supply of Rs 41.50 crore and claimed input tax credit worth Rs 5.68 crore.Police have registered a case of fraud against the proprietor, Govinda, on the complaint of Sanjeeta Kochar, Excise and Taxation Officer Hisar and started an investigation.A police spokesperson said that the accused, the proprietor of 'Radhika Traders' had claimed that he had a shop in Namdev Dharamshala, Hisar and had a GSTIN.The excise and taxation department found M/s Radhika Traders was registered under the GST Act, 2017 on September 14, 2018. The firm is a proprietorship and details of the proprietor shown on the GST portal said that Govinda was a resident of Nihal Vihar, Nilothi, New Delhi.The complainant stated to the police that during verification, no firm was found at the stated address."Enquiry regarding the said firm was conducted in a shop in Namdev Dharamshala, Hisar which has been shown the business place of the firm but no such firm was found on the address”, the complainant added.The FIR revealed that the firm has indicated a total outward supply worth Rs. 41,52,08,300 and transferred bogus Input Tax Credit (ITC) of Rs. 5,68,39,837 to various firms. The accused has indulged in evasion of tax by way of getting registration under the GST Act, 2017 using a willful, wrong statement and suppression of Athe ct.The firm's owner wrongfully availed and utilized input tax credit for disposal of output tax liability without actual payment of tax, resulting in the loss of revenue to the state exchequer, the complaint mentioned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/non-existent-hisar-firm-showed-supply-of-rs-41-5-crore-claimed-input-tax-credit-worth-rs-5-68-crore-120323
31-07-2020||Hisar/Kurukshetra||New education policy hailed||Consistency required: Rtd PrincipalKarnal: Dr Ramji Lal, Principal (retd), Dyal Singh College, here, said there was uncertainty among students as to whether classes would be held in colleges or not. “Parents are also concerned about the break in the continuity of studies of their children. There is a need to maintain consistency in our education system and ensure that learning does not stop due to the the Covid pandemic and there is no impediment in the students’ learning. Students, parents as well as teachers are also facing psychological dilemma due to this. Therefore, online classes in colleges are the need of the hour,” he said in a press release. Though the government is aware of various issues but there is lack of action and motivation on the part of the government as no financial assistance is being given to colleges to build the necessary infrastructure to start their classes, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-education-policy-hailed-120117
31-07-2020||CHANDIGARH||Alok Mittal is ADGP (CID)||The government has appointed IPS officer Alok Mittal as the Additional Director General of Police, Criminal Investigation Department (CID), state’s intelligence wing. Mittal would take over as ADGP (CID) from Anil Kumar Rao after his superannuation on July 31. TNSAmbala1 arrested for gangrapeThe police have arrested Krishan Kumar on the charge of drugging and gangraping a woman. The accused was remanded in 14-day judicial custody. TNS17-year-old girl abductedA 17-year-old girl was reportedly abducted from her house in Barara on July 27. The police have registered a case. TNS1 nabbed in suicide caseA minor girl has reportedly committed suicide after being abducted. Ankush was arrested for abduction and abetment to suicide. He was remanded in one-day police custody. TNSProclaimed offender heldThe police have arrested proclaimed offender Ramesh Kumar Billa. He had been evading arrest since he was booked. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/alok-mittal-is-adgp-cid-120120
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ayush told to cancel disinfectant licences||The Haryana Government has ordered the state Ayush Department to cancel through a general order all licences it had issued for the manufacture of surface disinfectants as the product wasn’t ayurvedic in nature and outside its domain.Haryana Order post rowWith Covid outbreak, demand for sanitisers and disinfectants spiralledSeveral manufacturers obtained Ayush licences as approaching FDA would have meant stringent normsRow erupted over licensing between FDA and Ayush following a raid at a unit in GurugramThe government has also ordered prosecution against those who violated rules by manufacturing such disinfectants on a licence obtained for hand sanitisers. Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, has told the Director General, Ayush Department, that the disinfectants could not have been produced under an Ayush licence. The licensing authority (Ayush) has been told to issue a general order withdrawing all permissions for manufacturing surface disinfectants, floor cleaners or vegetable disinfectants. The orders have come almost a month after a row erupted between the FDA and the state Ayush Department over a raid conducted by the FDA at a disinfectant unit in Gurugram. FDA Commissioner Ashok Meena had claimed that the raided firm could not have manufactured such disinfectants without obtaining a licence from his department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ayush-told-to-cancel-disinfectant-licences-120087
31-07-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Protesters block National Highway-44 over police action, lathi-charged||Tribune News ServicePanipat, July 30Enraged at the police inaction in the murder case of three children, family members of the victims, along with hundreds of villagers, on Thursday staged a protest and blocked traffic on National Highway-44 near the mini secretariat here.The bodies of three children — Lakshya, Vansh and Arun of Binjhol village — were found in the minor canal flowing next to an illegal bleaching unit on July 8. The police had registered a case against 12 persons for murder.SP Manisha Chaudhary had constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the matter. The police have not arrested the accused so far. Today, as per their schedule, members of the Kashyap community and hundreds of villagers gathered at Binjhol village and moved towards the mini secretariat. Under the banner of Kashyap Samaj Sangharsh Samiti, they held a protest march against the police and raised slogans.Heavy police force was deputed near the mini secretariat and the gates were closed to stop the protesters. Enraged, the protesters sat on dharna at NH-44, blocking traffic on both sides for over 50 minutes.Meanwhile, SDM Swapnil Ravindera Patil; Tehsildar Dr Kuldeep Malik; DSP City Virender Saini; DSP Sandeep Kumar; DSP Women Pooja Dabla reached there and tried to pacify the protesters. But the protesters were adamant and demanded the arrest of the accused.So, the police used water cannons and lathi-charged the protesters to disperse them. The protesters pelted stones at the police after the lathi charge. They broke the window panes of two dozen private vehicles parked under the flyover.Superintendent of Police Manisha Chaudhary alleged, “The villagers have met us several times about the progress in their case. Every time, we gave them the details. But they are adamant on the arrest of the accused. Today, as per their call, they came here with sticks and stones in their hands. Some police personnel sustained injuries. We have detained some protesters who were leading the protest,” she said. “A case will be registered against the protesters,” the SP asserted.After the incident, a meeting of the Kashyap community was held near Assandh road. Ram Kumar Kashyap, BJP MLA from Indri in Karnal district, presided over the meeting. He condemned the police action and said action should be initiated against the policemen.Approximately 60 persons sustained injuries. The police have seized 4-5 tractors and 25 motorcycles. The CIA police detained eight persons. The police have even beaten the parents of a child who was murdered, he added. He said he would meet the Chief Minister soon over the issue.Denying the allegations of the police that protesters had taken sticks and stones in their hands, the MLA said there are so many videos of the incident. The videos could establish the truth. The police have attacked people, he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesters-block-national-highway-44-over-police-action-lathi-charged-120088
31-07-2020||Rohtak||MDU launches digital platform for teaching-learning process||Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) on Thursday launched a new digital platform LMS portal, to facilitate digital teaching-learning process. This portal, created jointly in collaboration with INFLIBNET (Information and Library Network Centre), an autonomous Inter-University Centre of University Grant Commission (UGC), was launched by MDU Vice-Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh and INFLIBNET Director Prof JP Singh Joorel.The VC said technology-enabled learning on digital platform was the need of present time. He said students had to be provided apt digital study material for their pursuit of education. He said digital teaching-learning eco-system was here to stay. The VC expressed the commitment of university to provide quality e-course contents to the students. He expressed the gratitude of INFLIBNET for this collaborative digital venture. Get access to e-content on websiteProf Joorel said INFLIBNET had been customising course-contents for more than 45 subjects for more than 300 papers related to various universities of India. These contents are available on INFLIBNET website. He expressed happiness on the collaborative venture with the MDU.Notably, under this INFLIBNET curated LMS (Learning Management System), e-content related to 337 courses, 46 subjects, of 29 departments of the university, will be available on MDU website. This will facilitate the knowledge acquisition pursuit of university students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mdu-launches-digital-platform-for-teaching-learning-process-120089
31-07-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Probe nails MC staff for property tax wrongdoing||Tribune News ServicePanipat, July 30Joint Commissioner Gaurav Kumar has submitted an inquiry report running into around 1,000 pages to the Municipal Commissioner on the alleged scam in correction of property tax by municipal corporation (MC) employees.As per the report, the employees reportedly caused a loss worth crores to the MC by giving huge rebate to building owners without approval of the appropriate authority.Mayor Avneet Kaur unearthed the scam in correction of property tax bills of residents on February 6. She had claimed that the employees, in connivance with agents, were involved in corrupt practices.According to sources, the MC Joint Commissioner had named around 525 properties for which tax bills had been corrected and tax reduced between April 1, 2019, and February 11, 2020.The tax was approximately Rs 5.85 crore, but property owners had deposited only Rs 2.48 crore. The Joint Commissioner summoned some property owners with tax record and recorded their statements.“The inquiry report has been submitted, but I will be able to comment only after going through it thoroughly,” said Sushil Kumar, Municipal Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/probe-nails-mc-staff-for-property-tax-wrongdoing-120090
31-07-2020||Panipat||Get two women accused examined: Court to Jail Superintendent||A Gohana court has disposed of an application filed by two women alleging gangrape by directing the Jail Superintendent to get them medically examined.The court has rejected their plea for recording statements under Section 164 of the CrPC, saying they have the option of filing an FIR through the Jail Superintendent.The women had been arrested in connection with the murder of two police personnel in the Baroda area of Sonepat district.They moved the application through their counsel in the court on July 25, claiming gangrape by between 10 and 12 policemen during custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/get-two-women-accused-examined-court-to-jail-superintendent-120092
31-07-2020||Pradeep Sharma||‘Dangal’ girl Babita, kabaddi player Kavita appointed sports dy directors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 30The BJP-JJP Government has appointed ‘Dangal’ girl and BJP leader Babita Phogat and professional kabaddi player Kavita Devi as deputy directors in the Sports and Youth Affairs Department.The sportswomen, who had applied to the state government for the post in late 2018, have been appointed under the Haryana Outstanding Sportspersons (Recruitment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 2018, an order issued by Principal Secretary, Sports and Youth Affairs stated.Sahitya Akademi gets new directorChandigarh: The government has given the charge of Haryana Sahitya Akademi director to Chander Trikha, Haryana Urdu Akademi vice-chairman, in addition to his present duties. TNSThe daughter of ‘Dangal’ fame wrestling coach Mahavir Phogat and two-time Commonwealth gold medallist, Babita worked as Sub-Inspector in the Haryana Police before putting in her papers to join the BJP to contest the 2019 Assembly polls from the Dadri constituency.However, her maiden entry into electoral politics came a cropper with the international wrestler finishing a miserable third in the contest, which was won by the BJP rebel Sombir Sangwan.Last year, Babita had dragged the Haryana Government to the Punjab and Haryana High Court claiming that she be promoted to the post of DSP like her sister Geeta Phogat, also a Commonwealth gold medallist. However, she later withdrew her petition and ultimately resigned from service to enter politics.Other appointee Kavita was a member of the Indian team that won gold medal in 2014 in the Incheon Asian Games.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dangal-girl-babita-kabaddi-player-kavita-appointed-sports-dy-directors-120093
31-07-2020||Karnal||Minor girl dies in roof collapse||A six-year-old girl died while four other members of her family sustained injuries when the roof of their house collapsed in Kairwali village on Thursday morning. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minor-girl-dies-in-roof-collapse-120094
31-07-2020||Parveen Arora||Administration hands over razed Karnal house to tenant||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 30In a new twist to the “wrongful” eviction of a widow from a rented house in Karnal, which invited the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s ire, the district authorities today went to restore possession to her, only to find that the landlord had already demolished the house.The authorities handed over possession of the demolished house to the tenant as there was debris, walls and a boundary wall with a gate. The tenant, Harjeet Kaur, locked the gate.The High Court had pulled up the Karnal DC for passing an order for eviction of the tenant while a tenancy dispute was sub judice and directed restoration of possession to the tenant by August 1. The SP had been directed to ensure smooth handing over of possession.In compliance with the order, DC Nishant Kumar Yadav deputed SDM Narender Pal Malik as duty magistrate, who reached the site with a heavy police posse and handed over possession to the tenant.“In compliance with the High Court order, possession for the structure at the site has been given to the tenant,” said Malik.Tenant’s counsel Vinay Bansal termed the demolition as contempt of court. He said he would file a complaint in court in this regard. He alleged that the administration was aware of the fact that the house was being demolished, but did not take any action.“The High Court directed the administration on July 21 to give possession to the petitioner on or before August 1. Even after receiving the order, the administration did not take the issue seriously and gave sufficient time for demolition of the house,” he stated.Terming the order as unjust, Bimla Devi, owner of the house, said she would approach court. She claimed that the house was in a dilapidated state and caved in on its own.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/administration-hands-over-razed-karnal-house-to-tenant-120095
31-07-2020||Ravinder Saini||PhD degree holders ‘approach’ political leaders to escape action||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 30The recent direction of the Department of Higher Education to principals of all government colleges to verify PhD degrees of extension lecturers has created a stir among them.A majority of them have acquired PhD degrees from private and deemed universities situated outside Haryana without adhering to norms of the University Grants Commission (UGC). They have reportedly started approaching politicians of their area to escape any possible action against them.These lecturers had refused to furnish details about their PhD degrees when social activists from Sirsa — Kartar Singh and Jagmit Singh — sought information under the Right to Information (RTI) Act from all government colleges across the state.‘Will stir up hornet’s nest’"The verification of PhD degrees will stir up a hornet’s nest for lecturers who acquired the degree from private universities situated outside Haryana. They neither attended the course work nor followed UGC norms. Like others, I am trying to contact a political leader to escape action." Extension lecturerThe activists alleged that PhD degrees of more than 500 extension lecturers were invalid as universities, which issued the degrees did not comply with the UGC guidelines. They demand that candidates who secured jobs on the basis of “invalid” degrees should be booked.More than 2,000 extension lectures are working in government colleges across the state. Of them, more than 800 hold PhD degrees.An extension lecturer, on the condition of anonymity, said: “The verification of PhD degrees will stir up a hornet’s nest for almost every extension lecturer who acquired the degree during the job from private universities situated outside Haryana. They neither attended the course work nor followed UGC norms. Like others, I am trying to contact a political leader to escape action.”Meanwhile, Rampal Badhwar, president, Haryana Contractual Teachers Association, has demanded that PhD degrees of all regular lecturers should also be verified. “Instead of asking college principals to verify degrees, the government should constitute an inquiry panel to look into the matter,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/phd-degree-holders-approach-political-leaders-to-escape-action-120096
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Take cue from Delhi, cut oil prices: Hooda||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has asked the state government to a cue from the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi, which has reduced VAT on diesel bringing down the price by Rs 8.36 a litre in the national capital. “The crude oil prices in the international market have reduced to the level prevalent in 2004, but the state and the Centre continue to tax petroleum products, adding to the misery of farmers and the middle class. The BJP government in Haryana must follow Delhi’s example and reduce VAT on fuel,” he said here on Thursday. The former Chief Minister also gave the example of his government to hit out at the BJP dispensation. “The VAT on diesel was around nine per cent during the Congress rule. It has almost doubled during the BJP government,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/take-cue-from-delhi-cut-oil-prices-hooda-120097
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Vets seek Covid warrior status||The Indian Veterinary Association has requested for the extension of Covid warrior status to veterinarians. In a communication to the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, New Delhi, Dr Chirantan Kadian, association chief, has submitted that veterinary services were also emergency services and require 24x7 intervention by the veterinarians in all conditions, whether it is law and order problem, extreme weather conditions, epidemics and natural disasters.  He said amid Covid, the veterinary services had been declared essential. He said during the delivery of services, veterinarians had the responsibility to safeguard their own health, their co-workers and animals.  Dr Kadian, who is also councillor, World Veterinary Association, said since Covid was still far from over, veterinarians were prone to infection and were always expected to be available for services under all circumstances, they need to be declared warriors by the Centre and a directive in this regard be issued to all state governments. He said all benefits be extended to veterinarians too. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vets-seek-covid-warrior-status-120098
31-07-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Plasma at Rs 8,500 per unit in Gurugram’s first bank||Gurugram, July 30In a major boost to the Covid treatment infrastructure, Gurugram started its own plasma bank on Thursday with the capacity of 1,000 units.As per the plan, plasma will be provided at Rs 8,500 per unit to patients while it will be free for BPL card-holders and pregnant women. The bank was inaugurated on Thursday at Rotary blood bank, Sector 10, by Divisional Commissioner Ashok Sangwan.“Gurugram has been the best in tracing and testing in the NCR and with the plasma bank, we will further streamline the treatment,” Sangwan said.Necessary arrangements for the Covid antibody test and the extraction of plasma have been made at the blood bank.Notably, like many parts of the NCR, Gurugram faced the major problem of plasma sale in the black market, where patients in need have reportedly paid as high as Rs 50,000 per unit. With the opening of the bank, the racket and agents will be neutralised and Covid patients can procure convalescent plasma units for the therapy at Rs 8,500 per unit.The bank will be open for blood donation from 9 am to 9 pm, while the plasma will be available 24x7.The plasma unit will be issued on a signed request of the authorised nodal officer of the hospital, where the patient is undergoing treatment and the medical superintendent of the district Health Department. Plasma units can be availed by patients admitted in both government and private hospitals.The administration has contacted 4,000 recovered patients and so far, over 60 have confirmed donation. “We have started the plasma bank on Thursday and people who want to donate can contact the Health Department,” said Chief Medical Officer Dr Virender Yadav.Karnal hospital gets nod for blood bankKarnal: The local Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) has got the nod to set up a plasma bank for Covid patients, which will be functional in a few days. This was confirmed by Dr Jagdish Dureja, KCGMC director. After establishing the bank, plasma therapy will be given to the Covid patients. He said around 200-250 ml of plasma would be collected from the recovered patients, aged between 18 and 50, weighing more than 55 kg and tested negative for the virus twice. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plasma-at-rs-8-500-per-unit-in-gurugrams-first-bank-120099
31-07-2020||Sushil Manav||Statewide sero survey in August||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 30The government has decided to conduct a sero survey across the state in August to assess the prevalence of Covid in various districts by detecting the presence of antibodies against the virus.As per the plan, the 10-day exercise will begin by August 7 and the results will be out by August 24, according to Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health.“We have already placed an order for 22,000 tests. We will collaborate with various medical colleges in the state and the PGI, Chandigarh. The distribution of tests among districts is yet to be worked out. This will be done on the basis of population. The results will give a fair idea about prevalence of the virus in the population and will help the government decide its future strategy,” Arora said.He said the government had earlier conducted these tests in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Ambala and Panchkula, but the sample size was too small to arrive at any conclusion.He said the aim of that survey, in which nearly 2,000 tests had been conducted, was to provide training to the field staff. Another reason for the small sample was to first ascertain specificity and sensitivity of the tests before using these on a larger population, Arora added.The tests had shown that 11 per cent respondents had developed antibodies against the virus with varying percentage, the maximum of 16.66 per cent in Sonepat and the minimum of 5 per cent in Panchkula.Under the survey, blood samples were taken after taking informed consent and tested for presence of specific immunoglobulin G antibodies by enzyme-linked immunobsorbent assay (ELISA) method.If the antibodies were found in the blood samples, it showed that the person concerned had been infected and cured without developing any symptom.“We have ordered the best kits developed at the National Institute of Virology, Pune, which were also used in sero surveys in Delhi,” he said.Sero surveys in Mumbai slums had revealed that 57 per cent developed antibodies while such surveys in Delhi between June 27 and July 10 had established that 23 per cent of the population had contracted the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/statewide-sero-survey-in-august-120100
31-07-2020||---||Gurugram tests over1 lakh||Chandigarh, July 30With 623 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state reached 34,254 today. Four deaths pushed the toll to 417. The number of tests so far crossed the 6 lakh mark today, with 23,704 tests per million.“Gurugram district has crossed more than 1 lakh Covid tests, which is one of the highest in the country. The district has done 71,460 tests per million population, as per the 2011 Census,” said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, in a tweet.Two deaths were reported from Faridabad and one each from Nuh and Ambala. A 68-year-old man from Dabua Colony and a 54-year-old man from Ballabgarh were the casualties in Faridabad.Fresh cases were reported from Faridabad (184), Gurugram (77), Ambala (48), Rohtak (43), Sonepat (36), Karnal and Panchkula (34 each), Rewari (32), Hisar (28), Panipat and Kurukshetra (16 each), Palwal (15), Mahendragarh (14), Jhajjar (12), Kaithal (10), Fatehabad, Nuh and Sirsa (7 each) and Yamunanagar (3).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-tests-over1-lakh-120101
31-07-2020||---||Dushyant: Haryana can have movable ration depot, if need be||Gurugram, July 30“Haryana will not lag behind in starting a movable ration depot if the need arises in the future. The ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme is a historic step towards bringing about a big change in the public distribution system,” said Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala today while chairing an awareness programme regarding this issue.Ensuring ESI, EPF benefits to workersThe state government has decided to link all registered sites and organisations having contract labour with the Haryana Udyam Memorandum in the next six months. This will ensure complete benefit of the ESI and EPF to the workers.He said this scheme would have three significant benefits for the poor who get ration from the depot through ration card. One, the ration card holder will be able to take his or her share of ration from the ration depot wherever it is available. Two, the ration card holder of any state can now get his share in any other state as well. Three, the ration card holder can get the ration from the depot of his choice after assessing the quality.“The problems faced while providing ration to migrant workers during the lockdown due to Covid led to the idea of ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’. With the implementation of this scheme, people coming from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Orissa and other states for work in Haryana will be able to buy ration in Haryana with their ration card issued in their respective home states,” added Dushyant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dushyant-haryana-can-have-movable-ration-depot-if-need-be-120102
