31-10-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Man booked for abducting, forcibly converting Dalit woman in Nuh village||A Muslim man has been booked in Haryana’s Nuh for allegedly having abducted and then forcibly converted a Dalit woman, police sources said.The woman’s father Om Prakash, a native of Mahendragarh, claimed Muhammad Iqbal from Neemka village had been stalking his daughter, who worked as a nurse at a primary health centre in Singar village, for the last six months. His complaint at Bicchor Police Station claimed that the suspect had been pressuring the woman into marrying him and had abducted her when she refused his advances.He claimed his daughter had appeared distressed and frightened when visited him 20 days ago. He also said he feared that she had been “raped and killed”."She told us that Iqbal had been stalking her and was threatening her to marry him. She had been refusing his advances for six months but he often stopped her on the streets and forced her to speak to him. He threatened to abduct and rape her,” the complaint said.The suspect had been booked for abduction (Section 363), compelling a woman to marry (366), criminal intimidation (506), as well as sections under Prevention of Atrocities against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act.  “They are conducted raids at suspected locations but both are still missing and their mobiles are switched off,” said Bicchor Police Station SHO Krishan Kumar said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-booked-for-abducting-forcibly-converting-dalit-woman-in-nuh-village-163955
31-10-2020|| ||Covid cases surge in Haryana||Chandigarh, October 31The Covid-19 caseload has begun to swell in Haryana with the week ending October 31 recording the highest number of patients when compared to previous four weeks of the month.The week from October 24 to October 31 reported 10,146 fresh cases. The previous week – October 17 to October 24 – had recorded 7,983 new patients. From October 10 to October 17, 7,991 fresh cases had been reported while from October 3 to October 10, there were 8,514 new patients. Director General, Health Services, Haryana, Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj said that in view of the upcoming festive season, it was directed to enhance the testing across the state to prevent the surge of cases.He said that the RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen sampling camps would be held over the next two weeks at pre-designated places in the districts, especially the slums, far flung and crowded areas, which are more vulnerable to the spread of disease.Elaborating further, he said that the camps must be organised in campaign mode.Furthermore, strict compliance to wearing face masks must be ensured, besides efforts should be made to spread awareness of the disease, he added. Meanwhile, with 1,743 fresh cases and 12 deaths, the Covid tally in the state touched 1.67 lakh on Saturday. Three deaths each were reported from Hisar and Bhiwani, two each from Gurugram and Sonipat, and one each from Faridabad and Ambala.The maximum of 498 fresh cases were reported from Gurugram, followed by 282 from Faridabad, 201 from Hisar, 114 from Rohtak and 102 from Sonipat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-cases-surge-in-haryana-163944
31-10-2020||---||Year after Haryana CM’s orders, FIRs yet to be registered in VAT scam||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, October 31  Despite Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar granting nod for registration of FIRs against Excise and Taxation officials and bogus firms in multi-crore VAT scam last year, cases have not been registered in Gurugram, Kaithal and Panipat.  Only in Sirsa, the FIRs have been lodged against four Excise and Taxation officials and bogus firms that too on October 28 this year, though orders were given on November 8, 2019.     In Gurugram, as per a letter from Excise and Taxation Commissioner to Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioners (DETCs) of Gurugram-East, West, North and South- dated November 22, 2019, it was mentioned that “Hon’ble CM, Haryana has approved registration of FIRs against 29 dealers of district Gurugram, unknown public servants and others”. It was also directed for registration of cases.  But nothing happened despite the fact that loss to the exchequer here was between Rs 500-Rs 1,000 crore, as per sources.  About 10 Excise and Taxation Officials could also be booked here.   “The vetting is going on. Soon, the FIRs will be lodged,” said DETC (East) SS Siwatch, when contacted.    Similarly, in Kaithal there are 23 cases of three firms. Here too, Excise and Taxation Commissioner has written to DETC Kaithal for registration of FIRs on November 8, 2019.  In Panipat, there are 23 cases of bogus firms.   The allegations pertain to issuance of registration certificate to bogus dealers, non-adherence to department’s guidelines for issuance of ‘C’ and ‘F’ forms and no checking of usage of previously issued forms. Haryana Lokayukta had constituted the SIT under Inspector General of Police (IGP) Shrikant Jadhav after receiving a complaint from Satbir Singh of Kaithal. After receiving similar complaints from other parts of the state, the scope of the SIT was widened and it carried out a fact-finding exercise in other parts of the state. The SIT report found out how big companies, traders and developers in connivance with department officials filed bogus VAT returns or evaded tax. It claimed fraud of Rs 10,000 crore across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/year-after-haryana-cms-orders-firs-yet-to-be-registered-in-vat-scam-163935
31-10-2020||Rohtak||In a first for Haryana, PGIMS doctor gets 're-infected' with coronavirus||This would be the first COVID-19 re-infection case in Haryana.A doctor, who works at Rohtak PGIMS, tested positive for the deadly disease for the second time—a rare occurrence around the world.According to official sources, the resident doctor—who is pursuing her postgraduation degree in Anaesthesia—was found COVID positive, for the first time, on July 11. During that period, she showed mild symptoms of diarrhoea, and tested negative within three days."However, the doctor again tested positive for COVID-19 after she got herself tested following the occurrence of moderate symptoms like fever, sore throat, and bodyache on October 29,” said the sources, adding that her husband—who is also a resident doctor at the PGIMS—also tested COVID positive.Reinfection or Reactivation?The State Nodal Office for COVID-19, Dr. Dhruva Chaudhry, said, that though the possibility of reinfection could not be ruled out, in the given instance, it would be presumptive, and not definitive to comment on the matter without scientific confirmation.“Only genome study can ascertain whether it is a case of reinfection or reactivation,” he said, adding, that the conduct of genome studies in Haryana had been approved by the Centre and the tendering process was underway.The resident doctor's husband, Dr Anik Chakraborty, said that he was concerned over his wife getting reinfected with COVID-19, though he appreciated the PGIMS administration for taking good care of his wife and himself—who have been admitted to an isolation ward at the institute."A person getting reinfected with COVID-19 a very rare instance not only in the country, but in the entire world. A genomic study will have to be conducted to ascertain the strains of coronavirus found in the samples of the resident doctor taken in July and October,” stated Prof (Dr) O.P.Kalra, the Vice-Chancellor of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak.He cautioned the people, including those who have recovered from Covid-19, to be careful and take the necessary precautions to keep the disease at bay.Dr Varun Arora, the in-charge of Covid Control Room at the PGIMS, said it was the first recorded case of Covid re-infection in the state of Haryana and indicated that the disease should not be taken lightly.“There is no room for complacence and the people should not let their guard down in their enthusiasm for shopping and socializing during the ongoing festive season,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-a-first-for-haryana-pgims-doctor-gets-re-infected-with-coronavirus-163923
31-10-2020||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut blames 'Bullywood for glorifying criminals' as Nikita Tomar's culprit claims inspiration from 'Mirzapur 2'||Actress Kangana Ranaut on Saturday reacted to a news piece claiming Tausif, the main accused in Nikita Tomar murder case, was inspired to shoot her after watching the web series Mirzapur Season 2.Tweeting on her verified account, actress criticised the web series saying it glorifies criminals."This is what happens when you glorify criminals, when negative and dark characters are played by good looking young men, and they are shown as anti-heroes not villlains then this is the result, shame on Bullywood for causing more damage than good always," tweeted the actress.This is what happens when you glorify criminals, when negative and dark characters are played by good looking young men and they are shown as anti heroes not villlains then this is the result, shame on Bullywood for causing more damage than good always... https://t.co/zlnPam1a8L  College student Nikita Tomar was recently shot dead in Ballabhgarh, Haryana.The main accused has been identified as Tausif, who is a resident of Sona Road in Gurugram and is currently pursuing a course in physiotherapy. The other accused has been identified as Rehan who is a resident of Nuh district in Haryana, the police said.The incident took place on Monday afternoon at around 4 pm when the deceased Nikita Tomar was returning from Aggarwal College after an exam. The two men tried to abduct the victim and when she resisted, one of the accused pulled out a revolver and fired at her, the police said.Kangana had earlier reacted to the incident with a couple of tweets."Whole world is shocked at what happened in France, still these Jihadis have no shame or any fear of law and order a Hindu girl student shot outside her college in broad daylight because she refused to convert to Islam. Immediate actions needed," she wrote."Nikita's bravery is no less than Rani LaxmiBai or Padmavati, jihadi murder was obsessed with her he kept asking her to come with her if she wanted to live she could have given in to his lust she chose to die instead, Devi Nikita rose for every Hindu woman's dignity and pride," Kangana posted in a separate tweet. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kangana-ranaut-blames-bullywood-for-glorifying-criminals-as-nikita-tomars-culprit-claims-inspiration-from-mirzapur-2-163909
31-10-2020||Sanjay Yadav||‘Victim’ denies rape in Gurugram hospital ICU||Gurugram, October 31After two days of hue and cry over her alleged rape in ICU of a renowned multispecialty hospital, the ‘victim’ after gaining consciousness has retracted the police complaint by her father.The victim’s father had two days ago moved to police along with reportedly a handwritten note from her daughter. She had, according to him, through this note and gestures had told her that she had been “violated” in the ICU. The girl had since been unconscious and police had been waiting for her statement. She gained consciousness today and refuted any such incident.“The girl has denied any such incident claiming she was not well and had some foggy thoughts which she may have related with something untoward in a semiconscious state. She has given statement retracting her father’s complaint saying no rape occurred,” CP KK Rao told The Tribune.On October 28, Gurugram police had registered an FIR against unidentified staff of a leading multispecialty private hospital of the city for allegedly raping a Tuberculosis (TB) patient admitted there since October 21. The victim is a college student and a resident of Mahendergarh district. She, in her semiconscious state, allegedly made gestures and wrote notes telling her father about rape and made reference to pregnancy as well.In this matter a committee was formed by health department led by civil surgeon Dr Virender Yadav who submitted report to police that “possibility of rape cannot be ruled out” and it needs proper investigation.The police who had been waiting for victim to become conscious got her recorded statements today where she said she had foggy thoughts and may have related same to her father. She refuted any sexual assault.Meanwhile, Haryana state women commission chairman Preeti Bhardwaj also met victim in hospital and directed hospital for her complete treatment. She told The Tribune that the doubt over the girl’s pregnancy was cleared yesterday after medical examination as she was not pregnant.It was in today afternoon when Usha Kundu, ACP, Crime Against Women, visited the hospital to record her statement. In her statement, the girl completely denied for any allegation of rape in ICU.It may be noted that she had written on a plain paper and hinted at some ‘Vikas’ as suspect. The police identified more than 12 staff by that name in the same hospital. All were questioned by the police.It may be noted that the NCW had also written to Commissioner of Police, Gurugram, seeking adherence to guidelines of Ministry of Home Affairs of completing probes in two months in cases of sexual assault. The Commission has also sought a detailed action taken report in the matter from the police.The Investigation in-charge, ACP Usha Kundu said the victim says she had heard something from X-ray team which left her confused. The investigation revealed that the team asked her was she pregnant and in semiconscious state she believed she was pregnant.“She claims she confused terms like intubation with intimation and exposure of chest area for X-ray. On basis of this we have called the X-ray team for investigation,” the ACP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/victim-denies-rape-in-gurugram-hospital-icu-163907
31-10-2020||Bhiwani||Congress organises ‘Satyagrah’ in Bhiwani against three farm laws||Congress on Saturday observed the death anniversary of former prime minister Indira Gandhi, and the birth anniversary of Iron Man, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel as "Kisan Adhikar Divas" by carrying out 'Satyagrah' (dharna) at HUDA park ground, here.The agitation comes in protest against the three farms bills recently enacted by the Central government.The Congress's state in-charge, Vivek Bansal, state president Kumari Selja, MLA Kiran Choudhry, her daughter and former MP Shruti Choudhary, former ministers—Subhash Batra and Krishanmurti Hooda—were present on the occasion.Bansal said, that the three farm laws would benefit the corporates while Kumar Selja, said that the laws would completely "ruin the farmers who were already struggling to earn their livelihood". Kiran Choudhry said, that the Congress party stands firmly with the farmers, and would fight their battle till the end.The former minister, Subhash Batra, informed that the Congress party had been resisting these three farm laws across Haryana, hence, today's dharna was also a part of this series.“The BJP government is trying to mislead the farmers by claiming, that the laws would help them to double their income, but the fact is that the laws will work to abolish the mandi and MSP system,” said Batra—who even criticised the state government for the deteriorating law and order situation while referring to the Nikita murder case.He added, that the rising incidents of crime against women in the state had exposed the poor law and order situation resulting in a sense of insecurity among the people.“The BJP-JJP alliance government has failed not only to maintain law and order, but also to protect the farmers’ interest. The farmers have been on war-path against three agricultural laws across the state, but the government is adamant on executing them against the farmers’ wish,” said Krishanmurti Hooda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-organises-satyagrah-in-bhiwani-against-three-farm-laws-163870
31-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||Hisar juvenile wanted in murder case arrested in Jhajjar after brief encounter||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, October 31A CIA police team on Friday evening arrested a juvenile, who had escaped from an observation home in Hisar a few days ago, from Birdhana village area following a brief encounter.The juvenile suffered bullet injuries on his leg during the exchange of fire and has been admitted to PGIMS, Rohtak.The police also recovered a pistol, two live cartridges and a motorcycle from him. The juvenile was allegedly involved in the Machharauli village bank robbery case in which five masked miscreants had looted Rs 7.11 lakh at gunpoint from a Punjab National Bank branch on October 21, said sources.“The juvenile opened fire when the police tried to intercept him for checking. The police too retaliated, leaving him injured. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Jhajjar and subsequently referred to PGIMS, Rohtak,” said the policeman.He maintained a case of attempt to murder had also been registered against the juvenile, who was lodged at the Hisar observation house in connection with a murder case.Seventeen inmates, eight of them facing murder charges, had escaped from the observation home on Barwala road after allegedly attacking security guards on October 12. A majority of them belong to Rohtak, Jhajjar and Hisar districts, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-juvenile-wanted-in-murder-case-arrested-in-jhajjar-after-brief-encounter-163835
31-10-2020||Ambala||Cane farmers await last season’s dues||The next crushing season of the Naraingarh sugar mill will begin in November, but the mill is yet to clear the farmers’ dues of around Rs 19 crore for the previous crushing season that ended in April.NORMS IGNOREDThe crushing season at the Naraingarh sugar mill started on November 12 last year and the mill had crushed around 55.33 lakh quintal sugarcane amounting over Rs 186 crore.The season ended on April 23 and the cane payment of Rs 167 crore, including post-dated cheques of Rs 38 crore, have been given.As per norms, payments were to be cleared within 14 days of purchase of sugarcane.Following delay in sugarcane payment by the Naraingarh sugar mill, sugarcane farmers on Friday held a meeting at Shahzadpur grain market.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) spokesman Rajiv Sharma said, “Payments of around Rs 19 crore for the previous crushing season are still pending. The mill has announced that it will start operations for the next season between November 20 and 25, but we demand that the operations should start from the second week. If the season is delayed, farmers will get very less time to sow wheat. A mahapanchayat has been called on November 8 to decide the future course of action.”Last year, following repeated agitations over delay in payments, the government had taken control of the ailing private sugar mill and appointed deputy commissioner Ambala as the chairman of the mill while SDM Naraingarh supervised the season.SDM Naraingarh Vaishali Sharma, who met the farmers on Friday, said, “We are trying to clear the dues on a regular basis. An amount of Rs 35.73 lakh was released on Thursday. The mill will start operations on November 20 and payment will also be cleared in due course. The mill is supposed to receive Rs 7.5 crore against power generation payment. We hope it will be done soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cane-farmers-await-last-seasons-dues-163589
31-10-2020||Karnal||All Karnal panchayats to have Wi-Fi ‘chaupals’||All gram panchayats in Karnal district are all set to have Wi-Fi chaupal facility to provide affordable internet access to village residents.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will dedicate the Wi-Fi chaupal facility to all gram panchayats on November 1 through video-conferencing.CM to inaugurate project tomorrowWith the inauguration, Karnal would become the first district of the state to have Wi-Fi chaupals in all panchayats, said the authorities.Out of total of 382 gram panchayats in the district, Wi-Fi chaupal facility has been started in 193 panchayats. The sites in 288 panchayats have been readied and Wi-Fi equipment are being installed there. The authorities claim that the facility would be started there by the end of this month.The Union Government had asked Bharat Broadband Network Limited to lay down the optical fibre network in the rural areas to develop Wi-Fi chaupals around two years back.The BSNL was appointed service provider, but later, the Common Service Centres (CSCs) were assigned as service provider.The deadline was earlier fixed as March 2020. It was later fixed for July 31 due to the Covid-induced lockdown. After two deadlines, now the project is all set to commence.“Road widening projects, connectivity issue and technical glitches were the main reasons behind the slow pace of implementing the Digital India project in rural areas,” said an official.“The CSC Wi-Fi chaupal programme will play a significant role in providing affordable internet access to the rural citizen,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.Five government offices, including government school, anganwari, CHC/PHC, veterinary hospital and gram sachivalya (village secretariat) or chaupal have been earmarked where internet connection will be provided free of cost for one year with 4MBPS internet speed and 30GB free internet data daily, the DC asserted.About the plan, Yadav said that initially, the project would start with 100 MBPS per block and it would be increased as per requirement of the block.Village level entrepreneurs have been involved in this project. They would provide all kinds of technical support and services to the villagers, the DC said. Any person can access the internet free of cost from the five government offices. At other places, they would have to pay, said the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/all-karnal-panchayats-to-have-wi-fi-chaupals-163591
31-10-2020||Faridabad||Workshop on analytical techniques||Student gets foreign placementHisar: Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, BTech Printing Technology pass-out Mary Shyam Sunder from Hyderabad has got foreign placement in The Print Store Limited in Kenya on annual salary package of Rs 20.9 lakh. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar and Registrar Dr Avnesh Verma congratulated the student for the achievement. Director Placement Partap Singh said the Ramco Group was a conglomerate of over 50 companies operating within East Africa with a focus in six sectors, including print, hardware, manufacturing, office supplies, services and property. He expressed special thanks to S Dayakar Reddy, IPMA President and GJUST BOS member for guiding and facilitating the students for overseas placement. Bijender Kaushik, training placement coordinator, said the selected student would join the company in November on the designation of technical sales executive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/workshop-on-analytical-techniques-163592
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||State-level Haryana Day event at Karnal||To mark the celebrations of Haryana Day on November 1, the state government has decided to organise a state-level function at Karnal.Sharing more details in this regard an official spokesman said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar would attend the function in Karnal. Similarly, Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Sandeep Singh will attend the function at Panchkula.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala will attend the function at Rohtak, Home and Health Minister Anil Vij at Ambala, Education Minister Kanwar Pal at Kurukshetra, Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma at Faridabad, Power and New and Renewable Energy Minister Ranjit Singh and Bhiwani MP Dharambir will attend the function at Bhiwani.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-level-haryana-day-event-at-karnal-163593
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Officers’ transfer stirs hornet’s nest||The ambiguity around cadre posts among Principal Secretaries in Haryana has led to an IAS versus other services contest. It is unlikely to go beyond simmering discontent, with IAS officers maintaining that there is little they can do if Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar decides to post officers from the other two all-India services to posts they claim to be theirs.IN PMO’S FOOTSTEPSSources said the authorised IAS cadre strength in the Haryana cadre was 205, including 13 Financial Commissioners or Principal Secretaries. The sources said IAS officers had been “selectively reading the rule book” and deliberately indulging in “casteism” along service lines.“There are 13 senior duty posts of Principal Secretary. Haryana has 13 Additional Chief Secretaries and 15 Principal Secretaries posted as administrative secretaries, much in excess of the permissible number. Additional officers are deemed as temporary additions, called ex-cadre posts. There is no clear mention of departments at the level of Principal Secretary,” said a senior functionary.“Using this to their advantage, IAS officers start crying foul each time an officer from other services is posted at the level of Principal Secretary. Let them specify the departments to be included in cadre posts and the government will easily leave those. This ambiguity seems deliberate to keep others from being posted against these positions,” explained the functionary.Another officer maintained that as per rules, there were 112 senior duty posts (cadre posts) of the IAS, in addition to central deputation reserve of 44 and state deputation reserve of 28. According to cadre rules, the number of ex-cadre posts could not exceed state deputation reserve, he pointed out. At present, IAS officers were on 115 ex-cadre posts, more than four times the permissible limit, he added.A senior IAS officer said the government was well within its right to post officers from other services to boards and corporations since these were non-cadre posts. “This cannot be allowed at the level of Principal Secretary endlessly since these are cadre posts. If the government does not find anybody suitable in the cadre, it has to mention this and seek approval of the Centre for posting any officer from another service beyond three months. The USPC is authorised to approve such posting for six months or more,” the officer explained.“The civil services board is binding since directions for such a board have come from a Supreme Court order. The Chief Minister has to act on its recommendations, but everything is being given a go-by,” the officer stated. If the state government decided not to seek approval, there was little that could be done since the IAS officers’ association chose to keep mum, the officer added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-officers-transfer-stirs-hornets-nest-163594
31-10-2020||Kurukshetra||Rs 1 cr narcotics seized in Kurukshetra||The Kurukshetra police have recovered 10 quintal ‘chura post’ and ‘doda post’ and 34 kg ganja. They have arrested three men in connection with the narcotics, worth around Rs 1 crore, which were seized from a house near Masana village on the Delhi-Amritsar national highway in Kurukshetra on Friday.The suspects have been identified as Roshan Lal Saini, a resident of Dhantauri village of Kurukshetra, Firoz Khan, a resident of Yamunanagar, and Sandeep, a resident of Shahabad.Roshan Lal runs the Shiv Gorakh dhaba on the national highway. He has been booked in NDPS cases in the past too and was presently out on bail in another NDPS case registered in Kurukshetra.Superintendent of Police Rajesh Duggal said, “There were reports of narcotics being sold on the national highway following which the CIA-1 and CIA-2 units were asked to keep a watch on such activities. The CIA-1 unit headed by inspector Jaspal Singh got a tip-off that Roshan Lal and his employees were involved in drug peddling. They have stocked the narcotics in a house near the dhaba and through their accomplices, they sell the narcotics to truck drivers at dhaba. For the past few days, CIA-1 was keeping a watch on them and today, the raid was conducted.”Nayab Tehsildar Jaivir Ranga was appointed duty magistrate for the raid. Along with the narcotics, the police have also seized two packing machines and empty polybags from their possession. They will be produced in court on Saturday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-1-cr-narcotics-seized-in-kurukshetra-163595
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||High Court: Trial court can summon person not named in FIR||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that a trial court, exercising power under Section 319 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), can summon a person not named in the FIR or “a person though named in the FIR, but has not been charge-sheeted.” Section 319 deals with the summoning of a person as an additional accused.The ruling by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came in a case where a co-ordinate Bench of the High Court had, vide order dated May 27, sought an explanation from the trial court as to how an application under Section 319 CrPC was entertained and allowed against an accused yet to be arrested to face the trial along with eight persons already facing trial.None of the accused summoned under Section 319 was declared innocent by the police. Rather, they were on run and the investigating agency was making efforts to arrest them.The trial court, in its explanation, submitted the police was acting hand in glove with the accused by not arresting them for more than a year. Actuated with an intention to ensure justice, the trial court allowed the application.Referring to Constitution Bench judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of “Hardeep Singh versus the State of Punjab and others”, Justice Sangwan added the accused in the present case, who could not be arrested by the police despite being named in the FIR and were not charge sheeted, could be summoned under Section 319 of the CrPC. As such, the trial court adopted a right approach in exercising the power under Section 319.Justice Sangwan was hearing a bunch of 13 petitions filed against the State of Haryana and other respondents. Some of the petitioners were seeking anticipatory bail in an FIR registered on October 14, 2018, for murder and other offences under Sections 147, 148, 149, 302, 307, 323 and 341 at Badhra police station in Charkhi Dadri district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-trial-court-can-summon-person-not-named-in-fir-163596
31-10-2020||STRAY cattle||No end to stray cattle menace||Sale of banned crackers on in NarwanaTHE Supreme Court had banned the burning of fire crackers in order to curb noise and air pollution during the festive season and only green fireworks are permitted. But, the shopkeepers in Narwana are supplying banned crackers from Rohtak and Delhi to nearby villages daily. On the event of Dasehra too, a lot of crackers were burnt in the region. The administration must keep a vigil on the movement of such illegal stocks, so that environmental pollution could be curbed. — Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaNewly laid road in bad shapeIT is a matter of grave concern that the main road leading to Tehsil Rania (Sirsa) at Rania Nathowala Mohlla Ward No. 1, which was constructed around seven to eight months ago, is in bad shape due to poor quality work. The road poses risk to the lives of commuters and is also causes inconvenience to the residents and thus should be repaired as soon as possible and the quality of the work should also be ensured by the concerned authorities. — Raj Rani, RaniaNeed to check sale of spurious liquorIT is shocking to learn that spurious liquor is being sold without any fear in Punjab and Haryana. The Punjab and Haryana High Court too had recently said spurious liquor is a health hazard and there was an urgent need to unearth racket. People who are involved in this racket must be exposed and the supply of spurious liquor must be stopped. There should be no compromise regarding this. — Subhash C Taneja, GurugramIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-end-to-stray-cattle-menace-163597
31-10-2020||Faridabad||SIT expected to file charges in 2 weeks in Nikita murder case||With the four-member SIT led by the ACP (Crime) expected to file the charge sheet against the accused in Nikita Tomar murder case within two weeks, family members of the victim are insisting on the demand of death penalty for the accused within a minimum period of time.3 in judicial custodyRehan, the second accused in the case, was sent to judicial custody after completion of police remand. Tausif, the main accused, and Ajru, who had reportedly supplied the weapon, had already been sent to judicial custody.The family members are sceptical about the fulfilment of other demands like government job to a member and compensation raised by their sympathisers.Claiming that the case has almost been solved as the SIT has collected all evidence and facts connected with the case, a senior police officer said the SIT was not expected to take more than 12 days to file the charge sheet.He said the main accused, including those who had conspired and murdered the girl, had been arrested. He said the team had recovered the car and weapon used in the crime and the supplier of the illicit gun had also been nabbed.According to sources, the probe had been going on at the required pace and more arrests could not be ruled out though active involvement of any other person in this case seemed remote.Adal Singh Rawat, maternal uncle of the victim, said the family members were hopeful of a positive response to the demands of government job to a kin and financial help raised by sympathisers. He said Rs 1 crore had been given earlier in similar cases elsewhere in the country.Nikita’s brother Navin Kumar, who had completed a B.Tech (mechanical) course in 2017, did not see much hope for a government job and financial help.“I am preparing for the civil services examination and do not expect any such empathy from the authorities concerned,” he said. He added that the only demand was death or encounter of the accused within a minimum period of time.Nikita’s father Mool Chand Tomar said he was hopeful of justice in a short span of time. He added that the demands of a government job and financial help had not been raised by the family.Local MP Krishan Pal Gurjar said he stood by the family and would take up the issues of a government job and compensation with the Chief Minister soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sit-expected-to-file-charges-in-2-weeks-in-nikita-murder-case-163598
31-10-2020||Faridabad||MC member booked for ‘misbehaving’ with Selja||The police have filed a case under Sections 341, 34, 506 of the IPC and SC/ST Act against Jaiveer Khatana, municipal councillor from Ward 3 here, and some unidentified persons in connection with alleged misbehaviour, wrongful restraint and criminal intimidation.The case has been filed in response to a complaint lodged by Ashok Rawal, a Congress activist here. He has alleged that the accused who was accompanied by several other persons not only stopped the vehicle of Kumar Selja, HPCC chief, and other Congress leaders but also hurled caste abuses while she had come to condole the death of Nikita, a college student, here on Thursday evening.According to the complaint, besides gross misbehaviour and physical assault on the vehicle of the HPCC chief, the accused also indulged in criminal intimidation at the spot at around 5.30 pm.Condemning the incident, Neeraj Sharma, Congress MLA from NIT Assembly segment here, demanded immediate arrest of all the accused and adequate security for the HPCC president. He alleged that the police had remained silent and that Congress workers had come to Selja’s aid.The police have launched a probe into the matter, said a police official.Meanwhile, Mool Chand Tomar, father of the victim, in a message released through a video has appealed to politicians visiting his house not to indulge in politics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mc-member-booked-for-misbehaving-with-selja-163599
31-10-2020||Sanjay YadavFaridabad||Nikita murder case accused inspired by Bollywood films||Inspired by Bollywood and web series that he had been watching during the entire lockdown, accused Tausif thought a filmy abduction, forceful marriage and honeymoon at a hill station could help him win over Nikita.According to highly placed sources, he believed that if she stayed with him for 15 days, she would fall for him.Films on mindAccused Tausif thought a filmy abduction, forceful marriage and honeymoon at a hill station could help him win over Nikita. “He had been following Bollywood formulas for love,” said a senior investigator.“He had been following Bollywood formulas for love. He tried dragging her inside the car and she screamed she would rather die. He claimed the defiant look in her eyes made him understand that it won’t work out. So, he shot her to ensure if she’s not his, she will not be of anybody else,” said a senior investigator.The police are also looking into the call details of Nikita as while the family claims that Tausif suddenly returned into her life this year, the accused has been insisting that he had been persuading her since last year but got no encouragement from her.“We have collected most of the evidence and started preparing the charge sheet. We are exploring the call details of the accused and victim and getting details of their bank accounts,” said Anil Yadav, ACP, Crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nikita-murder-case-accused-inspired-by-bollywood-films-163600
31-10-2020||Palwal||Palwal JJP activist gets Rs 50L ransom call, case registered||The police have registered a case in connection with the alleged ransom call made to a local political activist by an unknown person.In his police complaint, Jitender Rawat, alias Jeetu Dheegot, a local JJP leader, said he received a WhatsApp call at 8.30 pm on Wednesday from an unknown number. The person claimed that he was calling from Gadoli and asked him to pay Rs 50 lakh as ransom, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-jjp-activist-gets-rs-50l-ransom-call-case-registered-163601
31-10-2020||Ballabgarh||VHP demands Rs 1 cr for Nikita's family||Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) working president Alok Kumar has demanded Rs 1 crore as relief for the family and speedy trial in the case. He demanded completion of investigation and presentation of challan in 30 days. Bajrang Dal and other Hindu outfits protested against the murder in Fatehabad and Palwal on Thursday. They demanded exemplary punishment to the accused. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vhp-demands-rs-1-cr-for-nikitas-family-163602
31-10-2020||Haridwar||Ramdev wants public hanging of Nikita's murder accused||Yoga guru Ramdev has demanded public hanging of the killers, terming the murder as a case of “love jihad”. “Public hanging of the accused can prevent such crimes,” he said after a religious function. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ramdev-wants-public-hanging-of-nikitas-murder-accused-163603
31-10-2020||---||Bhiwani school raided||Bhiwani, October 30The Chief Minister’s flying squad on Friday raided a private school in Badesra village of Bhiwani and found that the institution was holding regular classes.Classes were being conducted for Classes I to XII in violation of the Covid guidelines issued by the Central Government. The squad called the District Education Officer on the spot and asked him to take action against the school owner.Sub-Inspector Sunil Kumar said the raid was conducted while acting on a complaint that all classes were being conducted there in violation of the government guidelines, which was later found to be true.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhiwani-school-raided-163604
31-10-2020||Panipat||Govt has nothing to show, claims Hooda||Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday said the Baroda byelection was a battle for Chandigarh. He said the hardworking, honest and self-respecting people of Baroda did not want a share in the government of plunder, crime and corruption, but wanted their own government.Holiday in Gohana on November 3Chandigarh: In view of the Baroda bypoll, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has declared a holiday in Gohana subdivision on November 3. Assistant Registrar (General) issued the notification in this regard on Friday. TNSHooda on Friday campaigned in Jasrana, Gumana, Aavli and Bilbilan villages of Baroda constituency in support of Congress candidate Induraj Narwal.Taking a dig at the BJP’s six years, Hooda said that Haryana had been running in reverse gear in the six years of the BJP government. The BJP-JJP led state government was busyin abandoning schemes launched by previous governments instead of making new schemes and planning in the public interest.Highlighting the welfare schemes launched during the Congress regime, former CM Hooda said that loans and interest worth crores of rupees of farmers, poor, backward and Dalits were waived; 3.82 lakh plots were given to poor families, Rs 91,000 to build houses, millions of water tanks and connections. But the current government has stopped this scheme for the poor.The Leader of Opposition said that the BJP-JJP coalition government has no schemes, plans or achievements to show to the people of the state. The ruling alliance only wants to mislead people and seek votes, he added.But the people are now aware of the reality and understand the intention of the government, Hooda said.“Every vote of Baroda voters will be a democratic blow to demolish the anti-people policies of this government,” he said.Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha member Deepender Singh Hooda raised a question over the new law for imposing a fine of Rs 1 crore and imprisonment of five years for burning stubble. He said that before torturing farmers, the government should provide the solution. The government should make a law on MSP.Deepender was addressing people in Riwara, Moi Hooda, Mahmoodpur, Siwanka and Nizampur in support of Congress candidate Induraj Narwal. Hooda said that the victory of Induraj Narwal would be the victory of Haryana and would form the basis of change in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-has-nothing-to-show-claims-hooda-163605
31-10-2020||Rohtak||Works worth Rs 165 cr in 4 months: Khattar||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the government had undertaken development works of Rs 165 crore in Baroda Assembly segment in the past four months so the BJP was seeking votes in the name of development in the upcoming byelection.Addressing mediapersons at Canal Rest House here on Friday, he said he had addressed five big poll meetings at various villages of Baroda segment yesterday and found great enthusiasm among people for BJP-JJP nominee Yogeshwar Dutt.“We got unprecedented support from people during the poll meetings. The youth have accepted Dutt as their favourite candidate, which is a clear indication that the BJP-JJP candidate is going to win comfortably,” he said, adding that the state government had worked to fulfil all demands of people of the Assembly segment.Besides, all promises made by the state government would be materialised after November 11, he said.Khattar rubbished the report of a protest against the BJP-JJP during a poll meeting in a village on Thursday. He said the poll meeting lasted 75 minutes and villagers listened to him peacefully.On the Nikita murder case, the Chief Minister said the police acted swiftly and arrested the criminals within two hours after the crime. The police had been asked to speed up the investigation and file the challan at the earliest to ensure punishment to the culprits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/works-worth-rs-165-cr-in-4-months-khattar-163606
31-10-2020||Gohana||Yogeshwar can raise segment’s issues with PM, Prez: Dushyant||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala today said BJP-JJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt had brought honour to the state at national and international level.“Due to his fame, Dutt can take your issues to the Prime Minister and the President, whereas the Congress candidate can’t go beyond Bhupinder Hooda,” he said.He entered Baroda today for the first time to campaign in support of Dutt. He launched a political attack on the Congress and ex-CM Bhupinder Hooda during his political meetings in Gangana, Bhavarh, Medina, Rukhi and Rabhda villages of the constituency and sought votes for the wrestler-turned-politician.Attacking Hooda and his son, he said how could those who looted the state for 10 years and helped outsiders like Robert Vadra could call themselves friends of the public. He further said Congress leaders were misleading farmers on the issue of MSP and mandi system. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yogeshwar-can-raise-segments-issues-with-pm-prez-dushyant-163607
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||11 succumb; 1,650 cases in Haryana||With 1,650 fresh cases, the Covid tally in the state went past 1.65 lakh on Friday. Eleven deaths took the toll to 1,777.Four deaths were reported from Hisar, three from Gurugram, two from Panchkula and one each from Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar.The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (399), followed by Gurugram (270), Hisar (195), Rohtak (106), Sirsa (92) and Rewari (84).A total of 1,179 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of recovered patients to 1.51 lakh, with a recovery rate of 91.76 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-succumb-1-650-cases-in-haryana-163608
31-10-2020||---||4 days on, no headway in Panipat acid attack case||Panipat, October 30The Panipat police have failed to make any headway in the acid attack case even after four days.The woman was admitted to the PGIMS, Rohtak, as she sustained serious injuries in her right eye and on her face. The Women and Child Welfare Department has provided help to the victim.Rajni Gupta, district women protection officer, visited the victim’s home and also collected the detailed report of the acid attack and sent it to the Women and Child Welfare Department headquarters.After the case came to the fore, a meeting of the task force was held under the chairmanship of Panipat Deputy Commissioner Dharmender Singh.After approval of the task force committee, the district protection officer on Thursday visited the PGIMS, Rohtak, to meet the victim and gave her a cheque of Rs 25,000 as immediate help.Satish Vats, DSP, Headquarters, said we have detained some suspects and interrogated them, but no clue has been found so far.Poonam, a 37-year-old woman of Rajiv Colony, was on her way home after work at a textile factory when she was attacked by two bike-borne youths.The Quilla police had registered a case against two unidentified persons under Sections 326A and 34 IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-days-on-no-headway-in-panipat-acid-attack-case-163609
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Four excise officials booked for Rs 52 crore fraud in Sirsa||An FIR has been registered in Sirsa against four excise and taxation officials along with two firms for causing a loss of Rs 52.19 crore to the exchequer.The FIR has named Excise and Taxation Officer (ETO) DP Beniwal, ETO Ashok Sukhija, Assistant Excise and Taxation Officer (AETO) OPS Ahlawat, ETO Mala Ram along with two firms — M/s Shree Trading Co. and M/s Vinay Trading Co., Sirsa.However, the names of ETO Anil Malik and Tax Inspector Hanuman Saini have not been mentioned in the FIR, though there was recommendation against them too. It was the CM who had approved the registration of the FIR.As per the FIR, the excise and taxation officials issued bogus input tax credit (ITC), C and F forms to firms without verification and checking the use of previously issued forms.It added that the firms seemed to have been floated with a malafide intention to cause a loss to the state exchequer in collusion with excise officials by evading tax.By claiming ITC and misuse of forms, the revenue loss was Rs 52.19 crore.The case has been registered for cheating, forgery and criminal breach of trust on October 28.Earlier on October 24, a case for cheating, forgery and criminal breach of trust was registered against Shabina Devi of Sirsa and proprietor of M/s Shree Balaji Trading Co. for evading the GST by making a fake firm, which caused a loss of Rs 1.20 crore to the exchequer. On similar grounds, Sanjay Kumar of Sirsa and proprietor of M/s Sanjay Sales Agencies was booked for using false and fabricated documents of sale and not following the GST rules. He caused a loss of Rs 18.75 lakh to the exchequer.Meanwhile, 15 more traders were booked on October 24 for fraudulently claiming the ITC. Leela Dhar, proprietor of M/s Ganga Ram Traders, fraudulently claimed a refund of Rs 1.58 crore and similarly, Raman Kumar of M/s Vijay Trading Co. claimed Rs 2.46 crore, Ashok Kumar of M/s Nanak Chand claimed Rs 1.27 crore, Shyam Sundar of M/s Hazari Lal Shyam Sundar claimed Rs 1.31 crore and Sushil Kumar of M/s Rajat Traders claimed Rs 2.80 crore.On the complaint of Excise and Taxation Department, Basant Singh of M/s Shree Tripuri Traders, Mangat Ram of M/s Shree Balaji Enterprises, Jitendar Malik of M/s Jitendar Trading Co., Shashi Garg of M/s Paras Trading Co., Kamal Bansal of M/s Jal Bhagwati Trading Co., Tara Chand of M/s Bhim Raj Tara Chand, Madan Lal of M/s JC Enterprises, Sunil Kumar of M/s RD Overseas Shop and Bhupinder Kumar of M/s Bhupinder Kumar Tushar Kumar were also booked for fraud in claiming refund.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-excise-officials-booked-for-rs-52-crore-fraud-in-sirsa-163610
31-10-2020||Karnal||‘Abducted’ Karnal girl rescued from Punjab; 1 held||The Karnal police recovered a 13-year-old girl, who was allegedly kidnapped from Model Town late on Thursday evening, from Moga in Punjab within six hours of the incident.The police have arrested a youth Narinder, alias Rocky, of Vikas Colony in the city. A local court sent him to one-day police remand on Friday. The police are ascertaining the involvement of any other person and the reason behind the kidnapping.The PCR received a distress call from a family saying that their daughter was ‘kidnapped’. They also shared the number of a car. The PCR sounded an alarm in Karnal and adjoining districts. SP Ganga Ram Punia along with DSPs monitored the operation till the girl was traced.Notably, the girl came in Rocky’s contact through a social networking site. He lured her and called for a meeting. When she went to meet him near a park, he kidnapped her. “The girl has blamed Rocky for kidnapping her,” the SP said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/abducted-karnal-girl-rescued-from-punjab-1-held-163615
31-10-2020||---||Faridabad cops to reopen 2018 case||Chandigarh, October 30The Faridabad police have decided to reopen the 2018 kidnapping case against Tausif, who allegedly shot 21-year-old Nikita outside her college in Ballabgarh on Monday. Nikita’s family claims to have been forced to withdraw the case then owing to “political and social pressure”.On the complaint of Mool Chand Tomar, Nikita’s father, Tausif was booked under Section 365 (kidnapping) on August 3, 2018. Nikita was traced the following day. Subsequently, the family withdrew the complaint, submitting an affidavit to the police mentioning it did not want to pursue the case any further.Nikita’s maternal uncle, advocate Adal Singh Rawat, said the family was under immense pressure as Tausif’s family wielded much influence in the area. His cousin was a Congress MLA and an uncle a BSP leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-cops-to-reopen-2018-case-163535
