31-12-2020||Mukesh Ranjan||BJP ropes in party veteran Saudan Singh to look after Punjab, Haryana affairs||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, December 31Feeling the political heat amid farmers’ protests, as it received a setback in the recent mayoral polls in Haryana, the BJP has brought in key party veteran Saudan Singh to shoulder organisational responsibilities in Punjab and its neighboring states, besides beefing up party’s Dalit outreach.The saffron party today appointed Singh as the vice president of the orgainsation with the responsibilities of giving “special attention” to Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh.The decision appeared to be in line with an assessment of the tough political challenges posed by the farmers’ protests. Singh, who will now have his base in Chandigarh, was the joint general secretary (organisation) earlier, and was mostly seen in action in Rajasthan.The BJP has also appointed the party veteran V Satish as a “Sangathak (organiser)”, with the responsibilities, including SC-ST Morcha coordination, as he will look after the Parliamentary office coordination. Additionally, the national joint general secretary of BJP Shiv Prakash, with base in Bhopal, will look after the party’s affairs in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and West Bengal.  Saudan Singh’s task has been cut out as the ripple effect of the farmers’ agitation is also showing impact in Haryana where the saffron outfit is in power in an alliance with the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) led by the deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala.In Himachal Pradesh, the BJP will be bracing up for the Assembly elections in 2022 amid the recent trends of the incumbent governments voted out by the people.   Hathras gangrape incident in western Uttar Pradesh had for a while shown the BJP’s weakness in lacking credible Dalit leadership. The western UP has also been seen emerging as a laboratory of young Dalit leadership, which is seen in the rise of Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan.The BJP leadership will be counting upon the veteran Satish, who has vast experience in the RSS and the party, to work on the strategy to consolidate support base among the Dalit, which is seen electorally formidable in the western UP, while the state will go to the Assembly elections in 2022.
31-12-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Centre orders reopening of dental colleges by Jan 4||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 31On the suggestion of the Dental Council of India (DCI), the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has asked the states and UT governments across the country to take the necessary steps to open the dental colleges by January 4, 2021.“Needless to say, all SOPs/guidelines with respect to social distancing and prevention of the spread of the pandemic, issued by the Centre/state/UT governments, will be followed scrupulously by all colleges,” maintains a letter issued by Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, to the Chief Secretaries and Administrators of all states and Union Territories.Simultaneously, the Central Government has asked the DCI to issue separate SOPs and guidelines for dental colleges and suggestive schedule of training of various classes.“Accordingly, the DCI has framed and uploaded its ‘Guidelines for re-opening of dental colleges post-lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic’, ‘Tentative/Suggestive schedule of the academic programme - (post-pandemic COVID-19 situation) and its duration including university exam’ and advisory on ‘Relaxation of three months period in the submission of post graduate dissertation/thesis’ on its website, which provide in detail the measures to be taken before the reopening of dental college. These guidelines advisories may be adopted by the dental colleges as per the local conditions and directives of the government authorities,” states a communique issued by ML Meena, officiating secretary, DCI, today.
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cong wants special session, but yet to get time from Governor to meet: Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday said the Congress wanted a special session of the state assembly so a no-confidence motion could be brought against the M L Khattar government, but despite multiple attempts to meet the governor over the issue they were yet to get time from him.Hooda, who is the leader of the opposition, said two of the seven Independent MLAs have already withdrawn support to the BJP-JJP government, while many JJP MLAs have openly come out in support of farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws.“We earlier wrote to the governor urging him to summon a special session, stating that the Congress wants to bring a no-confidence motion because this government has lost the trust of the people as well as some MLAs.“We did not get a response following which we again sought time to meet, but we were told that he could not meet due to COVID-19,” Hooda said.Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya had contracted COVID-19 in mid-November.“A couple of days ago we got a reply from the governor’s office that expressed regret regarding our fresh request for an appointment. I had even said that I would be the only person to meet him if COVID-19 restriction was an issue, but our request was again turned down,” Hooda said.“It is for the first time in my long political career that I am seeing the governor is not giving the time to meet without assigning any reasons. Now, we will again write to the governor to demand a special session of the Haryana Assembly,” he told a news conference here after a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party.Hooda said while they don’t expect the Khattar government to summon a special session, the governor must use constitutional powers to convene it.The CLP meeting passed a resolution in support of farmers protesting against the Centre’s three agricultural laws. The resolution said the demands of the farmers are completely valid and the movement is going on in a completely democratic and peaceful manner.Hooda said farmers have been agitating for 36 days now at border points of Delhi and other parts of the state in bitter cold.“In such a serious situation, it is important to discuss the issue of farmers. This can also be taken up in the special session,” he said.To a question, Hooda said the demands of agitating farmers are justified.He said he had earlier stated that the government should make a provision in law that if anyone procures below the minimum support price (MSP), it should be a punishable offence.Replying to a question, Hooda said in two months, the Khattar government has suffered two major setbacks.“After its loss in the Baroda by-election, the coalition has also suffered a crushing defeat in the local body elections. In the civic elections, whose results were declared on Wednesday, the BJP faced setback while its ally JJP suffered reverses,” he said.He claimed that it is clear from these results that after the rural voters in Baroda, the urban voters have also rejected the BJP-JJP alliance.The three mayoral seats of Panchkula, Ambala and Sonepat were won by the BJP, Haryana Jan Chetna Party and the Congress, respectively.When asked why he did not campaign for Congress candidates in the civic polls in Panchkula and Ambala, Hooda said he had not been invited by the contesting candidates.“Had I been invited, I would have gone, like I went to Rewari, where municipal council polls were held,” he said. To a query, he said the Congress should an analysis why it lost mayoral polls in Panchkula and Ambala.Earlier, Hooda chaired a meeting of the CLP which observed a two-minute silence as a mark of respect and paid tribute to “42 farmers who had lost their lives in the farmer’s agitation” due to various reasons, including dying due to a heart attack, road accidents etc.Hooda also said that CLP decided that on New Year’s Day, Congress MLAs will go to border points of Delhi to extend any kind of help or support which the farmers might require. PTI
31-12-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur  ||HC seeks report on illegal confinement of a 5-year-old special child in Panipat||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, December 31  The Punjab and Haryana High Court has sought a report from Haryana’s Women and Child Development  Department about the illegal confinement of a 5-year-old special child in Panipat.Taking cognisance of The Tribune story – 5-year-old special child found ‘illegally confined’ in Panipat, dated November 21 – the High Court called for action against the manager of the shelter home.In a letter to Director General, Women and Child Development Department on December 4, the High Court called for action on the recommendations of Chairperson, Haryana State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights, Jyoti Bainda, for closure of open shelter run by Hari Mahila Vikas Samiti, Panipat.The court also called for registering a case against the manager of the shelter home, Tejpal, and shifting of the 5-year-old girl child to a home for special children. The Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) had found the five-year-old being illegally confined at the open shelter home run by Hari Mahila Vikas Samiti during its visit on November 19.The girl was Covid positive too, but as per the Commission, no medical help was provided to her. For the past three to four days, the child was alone at the shelter home, the Commission had noted.    The Commission had also learnt that the girl was continuously crying and calling for help as she was locked inside the shelter home and neighbours were providing her food and medicines through a window. The Commission also stated that the child was routinely taken to Tejpal’s home, as admitted by the shelter home in-charge and staffer Pooja, which is “primarily illegal”.  “This is a matter of continuing inquiry to assess whether enough action was taken by the Child Welfare Committee and District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) in the case,” the Commission stated in its proceedings.    Later, it was Bainda who got the FIR registered against Tejpal.The girl had been shifted to a home for special children in Sirsa after she recovered from Covid.  “We have written to DC Panipat for action in the matter. We are awaiting report from him,” said Renu Phulia, Director General, Women and Child Development Department.On December 21, Women and Child Development Department wrote to the Panipat DC for inquiry against Child Welfare Committee and District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) in the case, rehabilitation of child as she was legally free for adoption and action against manager of the shelter home. DC Dharmender Singh, though, couldn’t be contacted for comments.
31-12-2020||Hisar||Hisar records coldest December day since 1973; crop yield expected to take a hit||The bone-chilling cold broke a 47-year-old record in Hisar as the city reported a minimum temperature of -1.2 degree Celsius, eight degrees below normal.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) stated that it was the coldest day of December in Hisar since 1973 when the mercury was recorded -1.5. Shimla was much warmer at 3 degree Celsius.Residents woke up to ice-cold weather coupled with dense fog which disturbed the normal life in the region. Hisar was the coldest place in Haryana and Punjab even though mercury also went down to the sub-zero point of -0.5 degree Celsius in Haryana's Narnaul and zero degree Celsius in Punjab's Bhatinda. Hisar’s maximum temperature too was 14.4 degree Celsius, five notches below normal.The sub-zero temperature is likely to damage the vegetables and rabi crops including mustard, gram except for wheat. Milch animals are also suffering due to the extreme cold as the milk yield has gone down due to the severe cold.Rajesh Beniwal, a horticulture farmer of Shahpur village, who has a guava orchard in the village, said that the frost and low temperature has damaged the flowers and is likely to cause losses in the fruit crop.Sant Lal, a small dairy owner of Sundawas, said that milk yield of buffalos has gone down due to the cold even though he made elaborate arrangements to protect the cattle.Dr Rajender Singh, an animal husbandry expert said that sub-zero temperature in winter season badly affects the dairy animals.“Consequently the animals often go off feed, feverish and pneumonitic. This affects the milk production, health and reproduction of the animal. The dairy animal should be fed balanced ration comprising of dry matter and water should be clean and available four times a day possibly lukewarm at their drinking time”, he said adding that proper shelter to protect from night cold and ensure sunlight during day time, sanitation and vaccination.
31-12-2020||Sonepat||Under trial inmate commits suicide at Sonepat district jail||An under trial inmate on Thursday reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself in a barrack in Sonepat district jail.The deceased was identified as Shiv Bharat of Arjun Puri colony in Ganaur.Puri was arrested allegedly for his wife's murder on October 12. He was posted as SDO in Panipat Refinery and was under suspension.His dead body was found hanging in the barrack in the morning. The police reached the spot, and sent the dead body to the mortuary at a general hospital.Police have initiated an investigation into the matter.
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||In pictures: Cold wave intensifies in Punjab, Haryana||The ongoing cold wave conditions in Haryana and Punjab intensified at many places on Thursday, with Hisar reeling at minus 1.2 degrees Celsius.A thick blanket of fog again enveloped most places in the two states early in the morning, reducing visibility levels, Meteorological Department officials here said.Also read: Hisar records coldest December day since 1973; crop yields expected to take hitThe minimum temperatures hovered well below normal limits as a few places experienced the season's coldest night so far.Hisar in Haryana recorded the season's coldest night so far and the mercury dropped eight notches below the normal.Among other places in the state, severe chill gripped Narnaul, which also recorded the season's coldest night so far at minus 0.5 degree Celsius, down six notches against normal limits.Sirsa, Ambala, Karnal, Rohtak and Bhiwani, too, experienced a cold night recording respective minimums of 1.5, 3.6, 4.1, 4.2 and 4.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also recorded the season's coldest night so far at 2.7 degrees Celsius, three notches below the normal limits.Cold wave conditions also persisted in many places in Punjab.Bathinda reeled under severe chill recording a minimum temperature of 0 degree Celsius, the season's lowest so far, while Amritsar and Faridkot, too, braved the chill at 1.6 degrees Celsius and 1.2 degrees Celsius, respectively.Pathankot, Halwara, Adampur, Ludhiana and Patiala also recorded below normal minimums at 2.2, 3.1, 4.8, 4.1 and 4.8 degrees Celsius, respectively. PTI
31-12-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Encroachment on Karnal roads||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Encroachment on Karnal roadsENCROACHMENT on main roads and streets by people in Karnal city causes a lot of inconvenience to commuters. The municipal authorities also ignore the issue and do not take any steps against the encroachers. A road leading from Jundla Gate to Anand Vihar Colony has been illegally occupied by people of Deha Basti by making illegal constructions on both sides of the road and no action has been taken against them by the authorities. All illegal constructions should be demolished immediately to make communication easier. Shakti Singh, KarnalNeed for underpass in PanchkulaAN underpass across the Chandigarh Railway Station needs to be constructed to directly connect industrial area side at the front and Panchkula areas at the rear as the new link will ease vehicular traffic via Housing Board Chowk. Lack of foresight on the part of local administration and the NHAI, when Sector 20 overbridge was executed 15 years ago as a part of four-laning of Zirakpur-Kalka national highway, can be seen as it has adversely isolated areas on either side. The overbridge must be extended to both ends with one bay to directly link Sector 20 with industrial area and the other to connect the road from Chandigarh (Housing Board Chowk via Sectors 7-18 to 12-12A) with Sectors 20-21 dividing road at the terminal end of the vital bypass emanating from Kharar via Banur. Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaSurvey of pipelines welcome stepTHE Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has started a survey of all drainage pipelines across the city to check if the lines are connected to the nearest sewage treatment plants or that needs to be upgraded to serve the purpose. The step is indeed very pleasing to note. The purpose of the survey is to help the municipal corporation to achieve the water plus certification for Gurugram. Subhash C Taneja, Gurugram
31-12-2020||Yamunanagar||Student wins essay writing contest||Asst Prof presents research paperRohtak: Anjali Duhan Gulia, assistant professor in the department of visual arts of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has virtually presented a research paper at the Oxford Symposium of Religious Studies organised by the University of Oxford (UK). Anjali presented a paper on the topic- “In quest of Jivanmukti- A Woman's Endeavour to Liberation”. This paper was based on the fascinating narrative from the Yogavasistha, an ancient text. Through this research paper, Anjali examined the rights and the means permissible to a Hindu woman for her liberation in the context of stree dharma. She specially highlighted the use of Hatha Yoga Kriyas in this pursuit.Nine BTech students placedHisar: Nine students of the computer science and engineering department of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST), Hisar, have been selected in the TCS through its TCS National Qualifier Test (NQT). Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice Chancellor, and Avnesh Verma, Registrar, congratulated the selected students and wished for their bright future in a brief online felicitation programme. Pratap Singh, director, placement, said TCS (NQT) hiring process took place in two steps. In the first round, online aptitude and coding test was conducted in October, which was cleared by 17 students of 117. The second round for TCS Ninja profile was of technical, management and HR interview, which was cleared by nine students of the university, including Amit Singh Rana, Dheeraj Kumar, Sachin Sharma, Devanshi Grover, Sumit Singh Mehra, Aman Kumar amd Komal Chariya from BTech (CSE) and Anuj Bansal and Raman Kicher from BTech (IT).6 MDU scientists on us varsity listYamunanagar: Six faculty members of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) have been included in the list of top scientists of the world curated by the experts of Stanford University (USA) and published in the reputed global journal PLOS Biology. Sarvajeet Singh Gill (Centre for Biotechnology), Prof Emeritus CS Pundir (department of bio-chemistry), Prof Pratyush Shukla (department of microbiology), Prof B Narsimhan (department of pharmaceutical science), Vikas (alumnus, department of genetics), and Dr Bijender Singh (MDU alumnus and former assistant professor, department of microbiology) have been included in the top scientist list. Notably, the list has been prepared on the basis of standardised citation indications. This world list has 1,59,683 scientists from across the world, including 1,492 Indians.Industry interaction show at GJUSTHisar: The Department of pharmaceutical sciences in association with the training and placement cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST) initiated a new programme 'Vicharshala', a monthly online industry interaction programme in which experts will be talking to the university students on various issues. First edition of this programme was held on topic "Pharma Industry Scenarios", which was aimed at making students aware of the industrial scenario and improvising their skills for the pharma industry. Kishan Singh, assistant manager of Unikem Laboratories, was the key speaker of the event. In all, 100 students of BPharma and MPharma participated in the talk show.Placement drive at instituteYamunanagar: In all, 32 students of BTech of Seth Jai Parkash Mukand Lal Institute of Engineering and Technology, Radaur, have been selected for Tata Consultancy Services (TCS). SK Garg, director of the institute, said 100 students had already been placed this year and the place drive was still under way. Two students Karmika Daryal and Bharat Kaushik of the computer science engineering department were selected in the digital profile of the TCS.
31-12-2020||New Delhi||Faridabad firm booked for duping bank of Rs 236 crore||The CBI yesterday said it has raided 14 locations across Haryana and registered a case against Faridabad-based Richa Industries Ltd and its directors for cheating Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) to the tune of Rs 236.7 crore.An official said after registering a case on the complaints of the bank, the agency sleuths carried out searches at 14 locations at the office and residential premises of the accused, including Richa Industries, and seized several incriminating documents.The CBI case is based on a complaint by the IOB against Richa Industries and others, including its directors, and unidentified public servants for causing an alleged loss of Rs 236.74 crore. — TNS
31-12-2020||Karnal||7 shelter homes set up in Karnal||In view of inclement weather, the Municipal Corporation has set up seven shelter homes, knows as “renbaseras”, for homeless people in the cityIt has made arrangements for beds, bed sheets, blankets and drinking water. Besides, adequate provisions have been made for electricity and sanitation. A caretaker has been deployed at each “renbasera”.MC Commissioner Vikram Singh reviewed arrangements at the shelter homes yesterday and interacted with people living there.He said there were two permanent “renbaseras” in Prem Nagar and the Red Cross building, which could house 80 and 50 persons, respectively.Besides, there were five temporary shelter homes — Sector 12 opposite the HSVP office, near the KCGMC, under the Kachwa railway bridge, behind the bus stand, and on the Meerut road chowk.“The inmates expressed satisfaction over the arrangements. We have deployed employees, who will zero in on those sleeping along roads, under flyovers, bus stand, railway station and other places and shift them to shelter homes,” the Commissioner added.He said a register was being maintained at each shelter home to keep the record of people staying there. — TNS
31-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||2 weeks on, attendance at govt schools dismal in Jhajjar||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 30The fear of Covid continues to affect the students’ attendance at government schools with merely 34 per cent students in Jhajjar, 39 per cent in Rohtak and 41 per cent in Mahendragarh districts attending the classes even after two weeks of reopening of the schools.Braham Prakash, DEO, JhajjarTeachers encourage parents to send their wardsAverage 34 per cent of students are attending the school in our district. Initially, the strength was 15 per cent but it is gradually improving as the teachers are encouraging the parents to send their wards to the school.Physical classes for Class X and XII students are being conducted from December 14 while that for Class IX and XI restarted from December 21 for three hours daily from 10 am to 1 pm. Medical check-up for Covid symptoms of students is made mandatory before joining the school. Even, the written consent of the parents is also needed.“Average 34 per cent of students are attending the school in our district. Number of students studying in Class X and XII is considerably higher than those of Class IX and XI. A total of 15,950 students are enrolled in all four classes and 5,423 students among them came to the school today,” said Braham Prakash, DEO, Jhajjar.He said initially, the strength was 15 per cent but it was now gradually improving as the teachers were encouraging the parents to send their wards to the school assuring them that the Covid guidelines such as social distancing, thermal scanning and hand sanitisation were being followed to protect them from infection in the school.“Since many persons have contracted infection from health centres hence we don’t want our children to be sent there for medical check-up. Moreover, many school students have also tested positive thus it is better to study at home,” said Rajesh, a parent from Jhajjar.Sources said 46 school students had tested positive in Jhajjar district in the past ten days. Majority of them were asymptomatic and had come to the health centres for medical check-up to attend school.Anil Kaushik, president, Progressive Private Schools Association, said less than 20 per cent students were coming to private schools across the state as parents were not interested in sending their wards to health centres for medical check-up.Sunil Dutt, DEO, Mahendragarh, said his district was on the top across the state last week in terms of student strength.
31-12-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Won’t prescribe implants, say Rohtak PGIMS surgeons||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, December 30The orthopaedic surgeons working at Rohtak PGIMS have refused to prescribe implants to the patients coming to them for treatment. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the department of orthopaedics held on Wednesday.“The department has taken a decision to this effect as the authorities concerned have refused to withdraw an undertaking submitted before the High Court,” said Dr RC Siwach, a senior professor at the department.The authorities of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, had submitted an undertaking before the Punjab and Haryana High Court, stating that there was a nexus between doctors serving at the Rohtak PGIMS and private medical stores, which supply surgical implants to the patients. The undertaking had been submitted in the CWP No. 22440 of 2018 titled Narwal Medicos and Surgicals versus Director, PGIMS, Rohtak and others.“In fact, there is a collusion between operating doctors and medical stores, which charge exorbitant prices for implants and that, too, of a particular company, in gross violation of the ethics of the doctors, who are under an obligation not to prescribe the name of any particular company of surgical goods or of any particular medical store to the patients,” it states.The undertaking further states that the said doctors were not following the guidelines issued by the authorities concerned to curb this practice, adding that “such doctors, in connivance with such unscrupulous medical stores, were making hay at the cost of the patients and their relatives”.Regarding the action taken by the UHS/PGIMS authorities, the undertaking says that “the respondents have written to the state government to take suitable disciplinary/criminal action against the erring doctors.”
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana wins award for e-governance excellence||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday conferred the platinum award under the category excellence in digital governance-state/UT, Digital India Awards-2020, for the Antyodaya Saral portal to the Haryana Government.Taking the lead in the country in rendering efficient public delivery for all Government to Citizen (G2C) services and schemes, the Haryana Government’s Antyodaya Saral portal has received the prestigious award by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY).Project director, Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associates Programme, Rakesh Gupta said in the era of digitisation, Antyodaya Saral portal, a one-stop digital platform for citizen services across the state, became a huge success and there was a visibility of over 3.4 crore applications for schemes/services across Haryana since its launch. Also, more than 5.5 lakh applications are received through the Antyodaya Saral portal on a monthly basis. In addition, citizens are sent more than 20 lakh proactive SMSes per month, informing them about the status of their applications.Gupta said the Antyodaya Saral platform was an in-house product of the NIC, Haryana, and the technical teams of the departments concerned. — TNS
31-12-2020||---||Covid-19: 7 more succumb, 282 fresh cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, December 30The Covid tally went up to 2,62,054 on Wednesday, with the state reporting 382 fresh cases. With seven deaths, the toll reached 2,899.Gurugram reported a maximum of 96 cases, followed by Faridabad (44), Ambala (31) and Rewari (30).Hisar, Rohtak, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Jhajjar, Palwal and Kaithal reported one death each.Meanwhile, Home Minister Anil Vij reached home on Wednesday after getting discharged from Medanta Hospital, where he had been undergoing treatment for Covid.He was received by members of his family and a few close associates at his house, where he would be on oxygen support.
31-12-2020||Jhajjar||Farmer dies in Tikri mishap||A farmer was killed in a road accident at the Tikri border on Tuesday. He had been staying at the border for the past several days.The deceased was identified as Jagsher Singh (31) of Dhadra village in Mansa. The incident took place when Jagsher was crossing the road.He was taken to the Civil Hospital in Bahadurgarh, where doctors declared him brought dead. — TNS
31-12-2020||Yamunanagar||Material dug out in national park in Yamunanagar district||Construction and mining material has allegedly been dug out from a seasonal rivulet inside the Kalesar National Park in Yamunanagar district.The matter came to the notice of wildlife officials through a video, showing violators using an earth-moving machine and a tractor-trailer, which went viral on social media. A case has been registered. — TNS
31-12-2020||---||Mahendragarh ex-MLA launches ‘Jal Adhikar Yatra’||Mahendragarh, December 30Former MLA and chief of the Haryana Yuva Kisan Sangharsh Samiti Naresh Yadav, along with his supporters, launched the ‘Jal Adhikar Yatra’ from Ateli town here on Wednesday.The yatra will culminate at Rashtrapati Bhawan in Delhi. He is demanding the construction of the SYL canal so that people of south Haryana could get its water.“I have been raising the issue of the SYL canal for the past three decades. I have also called on Union Ministers Gajendra Singh Sekhawat and Narendra Tomar, demanding the Centre’s intervention for ensuring Haryana the share of the SYL canal but nothing concrete has been done. So, I was forced to launch the yatra to highlight the issue again,” said Yadav while addressing a public meeting in Ateli town.He said Haryana needed water from the SYL canal as many parts of the state had turned into dark zones due to the scarcity of the water.
31-12-2020||---||Compensate kin of farmers who died during stir: Kumari Selja||New Delhi, December 30State Congress president Kumari Selja on Wednesday demanded compensation for the families of farmers who had died during the ongoing stir against the three farm laws.Addressing the press at AICC headquarters here, Selja said the Centre should repeal the farm laws and give a New Year gift to the protesters.“Ten farmers from Haryana have died during the ongoing stir in Delhi. The Centre must compensate this loss of life and give jobs to the next of kin of those who died. These issues should ideally have been flagged to the Prime Minister by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar,” Selja said.“People have lost faith in both the BJP-ruled Centre and the state. The Centre is far removed from the ground realities bothering farmers,” she said. Uttarakhand Congress chief Pritam Singh was present.
31-12-2020||Sushil Manav||Tumultuous year||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 30In the backdrop of the pandemic that has impacted countries all over the world, 2020 proved to be a tumultuous year for the state.The year saw farmers from neighbouring Punjab marching on its roads, clashing with the police on the way and finally camping at Delhi borders from Sonepat, Bahadurgarh and Palwal sides.Though farmers in Haryana didn’t show as much interest in the agitation initially, protests over the three farm laws kept politics on the boil in the state. Eventually, farmers from Haryana, too, are seen camping at the borders, forcing toll plazas to allow free passage to vehicles, boycotting ruling party leaders and arranging milk, vegetables, food items and other wherewithal for the protesters.The year also saw the ruling BJP — which made a clean sweep in the 2019 LS poll, managed to retain power in the Assembly elections albeit in alliance with the JJP, and won the lone Assembly bypoll in Jind close on the heels of the victory on five mayoral seats — lost the Baroda bypoll necessitated by the death of a Congress legislator. It also lost two of the three mayoral seats in December. The year also saw the state Assembly passing a Bill ensuring 75 per cent jobs in the private sector to Haryanavis and talks of legislation on “love jihad.”A Bill passed by the state Assembly proposed to empower rural voters the right to recall sarpanchs and other panchayat members if they don’t perform as per their aspirations. The new law would fix a 50 per cent quota for women in the panchayat bodies.Ironically, Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala — the man behind the law for 75 per cent jobs in the private sector to Haryana youths — had to face the heat of protests against the farm laws.Not only that about half of his 10 JJP MLAs have been openly flouting coalition discipline and supporting the farmers’ protests against the Modi government, the Deputy CM had to face the wrath of his own constituents, who dug up the makeshift helipad for the landing of his chopper in his Assembly constituency, Uchana Kalan.The protesters also stopped Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s cavalcade at Ambala, leading to the slapping of attempt to murder charges against 13 farmers.The murder of 21-year-old college student Nikita by a Muslim youth triggered talks within the BJP on the need for law on “love jihad” to check such incidents in the future.State Home Minister Anil Vij has set up a three-member committee to draft legislation against religious conversion through coercion or fraud.Earlier, in the beginning of the year, Vij was embroiled in a tussle with the Chief Minister over the state Crime Investigation Department (CID).On the other hand, Covid infected many powerful politicians of the ruling BJP-JJP combine in the state. Towards the end of 2020, Vij, who had volunteered for Bharat Biotech’s vaccine, Covaxin, also tested positive within 14 days of getting the shot. Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya also contracted the infection.A 29-year-old woman from Gurgaon was the first person in the state to test positive for the virus.Amid the lockdown, the year saw a large number of migrant workers walking on the state highways towards their native villages in Bihar and UP.Liquor scams continued to surface during the year – the biggest being the unearthing of a huge cache of illicit liquor from warehouses at Kharkhoda in Sonepat and Samalkha in Panipat. This led to the setting up of the Special Enquiry Team (SET) under senior IAS officer TC Gupta, which indicted an IAS officer and an IPS officer and found several discrepancies in the functioning of the police and the Excise Department while dealing with liquor smugglers.The Panipat police arrested Ashok Jain, chairman of NV Distilleries, which has units in Punjab, Haryana and several other states, in connection with one such case.The Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue also surfaced in 2020. BJP activists across the state sat on dharnas to highlight the issue, but farmer bodies termed this a tactic to divert attention from their protests. In August, Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat had discussed the matter with Khattar sitting by his side and Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh participating through videoconferencing.The discussion, however, yielded little, as the meeting remained inconclusive and no further talks were held.The good, bad and ugly
31-12-2020||Sushil Manav||BJP-JJP loses two of 3 mayoral seats||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 30A month after thousands of farmers started protests against the new farm laws, the ruling BJP-JJP alliance in Haryana suffered a setback as it lost two of the three mayoral seats and all the three municipal committee president’s posts in the elections held on Sunday.The BJP won in Panchkula where its mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal defeated Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia of the Congress by a slender margin of 2,057 votes.Former CM and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s confidant Nikhil Madaan became Sonepat Mayor, defeating Lalit Batra of the BJP by 13,817 votes.In Ambala, former Union minister Venod Sharma’s wife Shakti Rani Sharma (Haryana Jan Chetna Party) emerged victorious, defeating BJP’s Vandana Sharma by 8,084 votes. The Congress nominee finished a distant fourth.The BJP won the lone Rewari municipal council seat where its nominee Poonam Yadav was elected president.In the municipal committee elections in Sampla, Dharuhera and Uklana, Independents Pooja, Kanwar Singh and Sushil Sahu bagged the top post, beating Sonu (BJP), Maan Singh (JJP) and Mahendra Soni (JJP), respectively. The BJP-JJP won 11 of the 20 municipal councillor seats in Panchkula, 10 of the 20 in Sonepat and eight of the 20 in Ambala.As the civic polls are generally won by a party that rules the state, the results are being seen as a blow to the coalition government around a year after it assumed power. More so, the BJP had won all the five mayoral posts that went to the polls in December 2018 when only a year of its term was left.Refusing to accept that the farmers’ protests had any impact on the poll outcome, Haryana BJP president OP Dhankar said they had won more wards than the Congress. “Of the seven civic bodies where elections were held, we had our MLAs only in Panchkula and Ambala. Moreover, our candidate won in Rewari, which is represented by the Congress in the Assembly,” maintained Dhankar.Former CM Hooda claimed the mandate was “clearly against the BJP-JJP coalition”. State Congress president Kumari Selja said the party had contested the civic polls on its symbol for the first time, which would strengthen it at the grassroots. Venod Sharma too called it a “mandate against the ruling combine”.
31-12-2020||Chandigarh||On Twitter, Haryana CM Office redresses 85% complaints||As many as 85 per cent of the tickets raised on the official Twitter handle of CM Manohar Lal Khattar @cmohry in 2020 have been processed and subsequently closed.The CM’s IT consultant Dhruv Majumdar said 78,063 tickets were raised this year from 31 departments on @cmohry, of which 13,393 were related to government offices. Besides, there were 9,926 electricity-related tickets and 9,756 related to garbage.He said recently the Twitter handle received a ticket regarding garbage in Jind area, which was resolved within 24 hours. In another tweet, a man who had raised another garbage-related issue received a response from the state government within an hour. Another tweet by Hridaya, a student of Class 11 from Gurugram who was associated with Trshni Organisation, regarding garbage litter received a response from the state government within a day and it was cleaned.There were 5,940 tickets regarding Covid. In a tweet, a Covid patient stated that the local health team had not visited him and he had just received calls assuring a visit. He later expressed gratitude stating that the issue had been resolved. — TNS
31-12-2020||---||Rohtak youth, fiancee shot||Rohtak, December 30A local youth and his fiancee were gunned down in front of the Maharshi Dayanand University gate near the Delhi bypass on the outskirts of Rohtak on Wednesday afternoon.“Pooja of Kanheli village in Rohtak district had separated from Mohit of Jatkheri village in Jhajjar. She wanted to marry Rohit of Bakheta village in Rohtak. Pooja and Rohit were going to court for marriage when they were shot,” said a police spokesperson. Rohit’s brother also received bullet injuries.Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma constituted a special investigation team, which arrested Pooja’s paternal uncle Kuldeep, his wife Munni, son Manjit and brother-in-law’s son Vikas within a few hours.Preliminary investigation indicated that Kuldeep was suspected to be among the assailants and some property related family discord was stated to be the reason behind the double murder.
31-12-2020||---||Haryana CM Khattar’s aide dies by suicide||Rohtak, December 30The Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associate, Varun Sreedhar (25), posted in Rohtak, has allegedly hanged himself in a room at the Circuit House, where he had been putting up.“The fault is in me and no one else’s. I am only capable of self destructing. Sorry for letting all of you down,” read a suicide note scribbled on a whiteboard placed in the room.Varun was a resident of Hari Nagar in Delhi. His body was sent for postmortem examination. Dr Saroj Dahiya, forensic expert, said the suicide seemed to have taken place on Tuesday afternoon or evening.“Varun had talked on his mobile phone for the last time at 10.40 am on Tuesday. After that, he did not respond to several calls and messages from various friends and family members, due to which his parents got worried. They reached Rohtak around 7 am on Wednesday and went to his room, following which the matter came to light and the police were informed,” she added.
31-12-2020||Nitish Sharma||BJP-JJP suffers blow in Ambala MC poll amid farm protests||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, December 30In a major setback to the BJP-JJP alliance, Haryana Jan Chetna Party (V) mayoral candidate Shaktirani Sharma today defeated Dr Vandana Sharma by 8,084 votes.Shaktirani maintained the lead from the very first round and became the first woman Mayor of the Ambala MC.Shaktirani was polled 37,604 votes, Dr Vandana Sharma 29,520, while HDF’s Amisha Chawla 16,421 and Congress’ Meena Aggarwal 13,797. As many as 871 voters chose NOTA. Veena Dhall, who filed papers as an Independent and later extended support to Shaktirani, was polled 377 votes. Except the HJP (V) and BJP-JJP candidates, all lost their security deposit.Shaktirani, wife of HJP (V) chief Venod Sharma, said, “I thank people for their support. We will fulfill all promises. All councillors will work for the betterment of Ambala.” Dr Sanjay Sharma, BJP state spokesman, said, “We accept the mandate and will find out the reason for the defeat.”
31-12-2020||Ravinder Saini||Saffron party secures Rewari MC chief’s post||Tribune News ServiceRewari, December 30The BJP on Wednesday registered a victory on the post of chairperson of the Rewari Municipal Council, but it could win just seven of 31 seats of councillor.Poonam Yadav romped home victorious by defeating Independent candidate Upma Yadav by a margin of 2,084 votes. Congress nominee Vikram Yadav stood third.Upma was backed by former MLA Randhir Kaprivaas while Vikram belongs to the family of Rewari Congress MLA Chiranjeev Rao. The seat was reserved for woman and six candidates were in the fray.The prestige of the BJP was at stake in the election as its candidate from Rewari, Sunil Yadav, lost the Assembly poll held in October 2019 following the factions among local saffron party leaders.Earlier, a stiff contest was witnessed between Poonam and Upma from the beginning. Poonam took lead over Upma in the initial rounds but the latter covered it in the mid and gave the former a tough contest. Finally, Poonam maintained a lead in the last four rounds and romped home victorious.Poonam secured 25,965 votes and Upma got 23,878 and Vikram polled 15,271 votes. Meanwhile, BSP’s Manju Kumar got 4,114 votes and Independent candidates Nirmala Rao and Jyoti Rani got 3,262 and 1,086 votes, respectively. Also, 700 electors pressed the NOTA button.The seven BJP candidates who won the councillor’s post include Poonam Satija (Ward Number 8), Rekha Devi (12), Chandan Yadav (13), Nihal Singh (19), Rajendra Singhal (21), Bhupinder Gupta (23) and Kusum Lata (30).Hukum Yadav, BJP district president, said the party had fielded its candidates for the posts of councillor in 28 municipal wards. “Some candidates lost the election with a narrow margin,” he added.Meanwhile, former minister and senior Congress leader Capt Ajay Yadav has raised a question mark over the victory of the BJP candidate for the chairperson’s post, stating that how could the party win the top post when merely seven of its candidates were elected as councillors. He blamed the EVMs for the Congress’ defeat in the poll.CONG NOMINEE THIRD
31-12-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Defeat in Sonepat too||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, December 30After the Baroda bypoll, the Congress registered yet another victory in the district by winning the Municipal Corporation (MC) Mayoral poll on Wednesday with 31-year-old Nikhil Madaan becoming the first Mayor of the city.Madaan secured 72,118 of all the polled votes to defeat BJP-JJP candidate Lalit Batra by 13,817 votes. Batra won 58,301 votes, including one ballot vote.Of the 20 councillors’ posts, 10 were won by the BJP, nine by the Congress and one by an Independent.The MC polls were held in Sonepat for the first time after it was accorded the status of an MC.The counting of polls was started at 8 am at BITS Mohana in the presence of general election observer Ramesh Chander and police observer Arun Nehra, district electoral officer Shyam Lal Poonia and SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa.Only two ballot votes were received for mayoral poll, of which one in the favour of Batra was accepted. Besides, 1,007 persons used NOTA.
31-12-2020||---||With 3K votes, Independent wins Dharuhera||Rewari, December 30Independent candidate Kanwar Singh won the election for the chairman’s post of the Dharuhera Municipal Committee by defeating nearest rival Sandeep Bohra by a margin of as many as 632 votes.Interestingly, Jannayak Janata Party’s (JJP) Maan Singh finished at the sixth spot out of the 10 candidates in the fray.Kanwar was polled 3,048 votes, Sandeep 2,416, Babu Lal 2,280, Raj 2,160, Khemchand 2,061, Maan Singh 1,657, Shiv Deep 1,536, Dinesh Rao 793, Sudasan 100 and Mahesh Chander polled 83 votes in the election.No party fielded the candidates for the post of councillor.
