07-03-2022||As the Governor of Punjab and the Administrator of Chandigarh||Guv Roddy pulled no punches||My first encounter with him as the principal of the Chandigarh College of Architecture is unforgettable. I had been summoned to Raj Bhawan, and pointing towards the building, he said, ‘Do you think this looks like a Raj Bhawan?’ I mumbled that it was originally designed as a guesthouse.We proposed a mural on the entry porch, along with some other improvements. When we presented the modernist and simple design, he was furious and pulled no punches (he had been a top boxer in his military academy days). He found the design not representing anything typical of Punjab, and suggested a bhangra or Baisakhi scene instead! As I stood my ground, stating that the design ought to be in sync with the modernist, functional art and architecture of Chandigarh, he was livid.Next time, we worked out a modern abstraction of a peacock preening adorned with traditional folk art motifs of Punjab. He and his charming wife Jean were bowled over. The mural in ceramic tiles lights up the porch even today. I had earned my spurs, and the college then onwards, was always involved in the city’s renewal and architectural projects.‘Guv Roddy’, as many of us referred to him in private, had a tough outer crust but a gentle heart. He wanted us to beautify Sector 17 and asked for another mural. At the time of its inauguration, I introduced the student who had designed it, and whispered that he was under-privileged. The Governor not only gave him a huge pat but also ordered an on-the-spot fee waiver.General Rodrigues had a terrific sense of humour. Once while presenting a proposal for sprucing up of the Sukhna Lake promenade, I said the organic floor pattern was inspired by the waves in the lake waters. He quipped, ‘Thank God, you have not been inspired by the ducks!’ I retorted, ‘Sir, then I would have been a sitting duck in front of you!’Once after a trip to Goa, his home state, I had put up a photo exhibition of Goan architecture and invited Mrs Rodrigues to inaugurate it. That evening, I got a call from Raj Bhawan. The Guv thundered, ‘You hold an exhibition on my home state and don’t invite me!’ I mumbled that it was a modest effort. ‘Stop acting like a cat on a hot tin roof, and tell me when I can come.’ He duly came and wrote fulsome praise in the visitors’ book.Goodbye, ‘Guv Roddy’! Take the last salute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/guv-roddy-pulled-no-punches-375696
