16-03-2022||I WAS interrupted by a phone call from my bank service provider||Nothing short of a miracle||I mustered courage to hold my head and not let anyone see how deeply I was pained. Given my cautious nature and being meticulous in matters money, this slip-up was the last thing expected from me. A pregnant silence followed as my quivering lips declared my blunder. Seeing a blank expression on my face, my son quietly hugged me, providing some relief.Even though my family didn’t let guilt get the better of me, I slept fitfully that night haunted by the loss of my hard-earned money. How could I be so naive and share my Aadhaar card number and OTP with a stranger! I have lived an honest life, never snatching anybody’s share, then why had God been so inconsiderate? If at all, I had to give away this money, it could better have gone to charity. ‘A fool and money are soon parted,’ my English teacher’s oft-quoted words reverberated in my agitated mind, full of regret and anguish.Next morning, I lodged a complaint with the cyber crime police. I had no connections or influence to generate optimism, and as time passed, the little hope I had, gave way to despair. My psychologist wife tried to assuage the hurt, using best of her professional skills by rationalising that things could have been much worse; thankfully it was just money and not somebody’s life. I found myself coping by surrendering to the divine will to calm my nerves.A few days later, the bank official called up asking me to check my bank balance. There was a sparkle of tears in my eyes when I saw the entire amount credited back. The police officer pursuing the case too confirmed that the swindler had been tracked. In that moment of amazement, I had to reassure myself that I was in a real world and not dreaming. I had never believed in miracles till that moment.I am overwhelmed with gratitude for people like the bank official and the policemen. They deserve admiration for working with alacrity and a great sense of duty. Whatever happens, happens for the good; one wonders if this episode too happened with a divine purpose. It makes me feel that you are not alone; the universe has your back.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/nothing-short-of-a-miracle-378097
