01-01-2021||Editorials||The vaccine clearance brings hope to 2021||January 1, 2021, gave Indians reason for cheer. A committee of experts recommended to the country’s drug regulator on Friday that it approve the vaccine developed by University of Oxford and AstraZeneca, and made locally by Serum Institute of India, clearing the main hurdle before the country receives its first coronavirus vaccine. Once approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), which is expected to heed the committee’s advice, the vaccine will become India’s primary weapon to tackle the coronavirus. In coming months, India will carry out a long and painstaking process to give the country the immunocapital it needs, starting with 300 million identified as those who need it most urgently. A labyrinthine infrastructure has been rapidly readied by building on a decades-old one that at present reaches 27 million newborns a year for life-saving inoculations, but how well it copes with the pressure will only become clear when the first big volumes of vaccines arrive from the factories.In the 10 months since Covid-19 emerged in India , 10.2 million people have been infected. This is the second-largest number of infections in the world. In terms of deaths, the country has seen the third highest number of fatalities. But these grim statistics hide the fact there are also indicators in which India fares better than many others: It ranks 98 in terms of fatalities per million population, and in infections per capita, the country is not among the top 100. Helped by its younger population, the country’s case-fatality ratio of 1.48% compares well with the global average of 2.2% . In terms of tests in relation to epidemic size, India surpasses the 10-30 tests per confirmed case benchmark set by the World Health Organization as representative of adequate testing. While in absolute terms, these numbers could still be improved, they reflect an ability to scale-up crucial public health preparations. Over the last few weeks, central officials have drawn up detailed roadmaps for the factory-to-syringe process, while grassroots administrative workers are identifying those who need to be first in line. The country has erected a digital backbone for vaccine administration, and demarcated points for delivery and distribution. Local clinics are being turned into vaccination centres, and frontline health workers are being trained to administer doses and watch for any adverse reactions. Together, these preparations and gains achieved in testing and containment in the past year give reason for hope — hope that India will rise to the challenge of what will be the world’s largest vaccination drive. And at the start of any difficult mission, it is important to believe that we can make it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-vaccine-clearance-brings-hope-to-2021/story-g0XQtAFei6dhz8T75YWbQL.html
01-01-2021||Editorials||To deal with an aggressive China, its opponents must hang together||China’s year of wolf warrior diplomacy is ending with a spate of sanctions. Beijing informally suspended visas for all Indians in September. Australia has been publicly battered, with China imposing barriers/bans on billions of dollars of exports. The world should not be surprised. China imposed similar sanctions against Japan and South Korea in the form of a rare earths ban and the expulsion of a retail chain. Go further back, and the Dragon’s tactics include European countries, Mongolia, and The Philippines. Trade spats are a common across the world, but Beijing’s actions are imposed in retaliation to sovereign political or strategic decisions. China was not responding to someone else’s trade actions, it flexed economic muscle to force another country to kowtow on an aspect of foreign policy. China’s return on investment on these moves is mixed, but it is unlikely to change tack. Ultimately, Beijing carries out such policies because it faces no retaliation. If the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue is to develop some heft, it should consider how its members can assist each other in diversifying away from the Chinese market as well as softening the damage caused by Chinese trade sanctions. The Japan-led Supply Chain Resilience Initiative is a step in the right direction. That China’s blockade of Australian coal has led to hundreds of Indian sailors being stranded in China is a reminder that its opponents need to band together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/to-deal-with-an-aggressive-china-its-opponents-must-hang-together/story-G5j9kdVsuHLszzBX3vv6rN.html
01-01-2021||Editorials||The government and farmers’ dialogue is good news||The sixth round of talks between the Centre and protesting farm unions has resulted in substantial progress: The dialogue process has been restored, ending a month-long, politically challenging impasse; the government has acceded to two of the four main demands of farmers; and both sides have agreed to meet again on January 4. Moreover, the government was wise to convince the unions to discuss the easier issues first. The Centre promptly agreed to spare farmers heavy fines for pollution-causing crop-residue burning and also acceded to the demand that the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, should not impact farmers. The farmers had opposed a provision in the bill to switch them to direct-cash transfer instead of subsided power for agricultural use, which they argued would increase irrigation costs. The onus is on the government now to devise cash incentives so that farmers can dispose of crop remnants in an environment-friendly way. The trickiest two demands — a repeal of the new three farm laws, and a legislation guaranteeing minimum support prices (MSPs) for 23 farm commodities — have been deferred until January 4. The fate of the talks and their outcome hinges on these two issues. There are big hurdles still to be crossed. The government is unlikely to repeal the three laws that ease restrictions on farm trade by creating free markets. Farmers say these laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government rightly offered to have a committee examine the laws again, which was rejected. The other demand is for a law banning sale of any farm produce below federally- fixed MSPs even to private traders. In Wednesday’s talks, the government suggested a committee to examine this demand because of its larger economic consequences. The farmers rejected this proposal too. The challenge is that if MSPs is made compulsory for even private traders, then it is sure to upend the normal market mechanisms of demand and supply, the immutable factors that decide price of any commodity. It could push up inflation and make agri-exports non-competitive, necessitating even more subsidies. Moreover, if buying at MSPs isn’t profitable for traders, they will simply exit the market rather than face penal action. This demand, therefore, isn’t amenable to a simple yes or no answer. It is difficult to predict what will happen as the talks progress, but a start has finally been made. And one larger lesson is that if the government had adopted a more consultative approach since the inception of the laws, the big farm crisis may have been avoided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-government-and-farmers-dialogue-is-good-news/story-K1iewdi6P8FEjkKgs9Mr1I.html
