04-01-2021||Editorials||New virus variant a threat to the young||A new variant of the coronavirus that has taken hold in some parts of the United Kingdom (UK) has scientists scrambling to uncover its implications on the pandemic. Early signs indicate it may be capable of spreading faster by being better at how it infects people. A large epidemiological analysis by Imperial College London and others showed there was a significantly larger share of infections of the new strain among those found with the virus in people under the age of 20. While this is still an early assessment, and more studies are underway, it could potentially prolong Covid-19’s impact on children, who have not been the face of the crisis but have suffered in equal measure as among some of the worst-hit groups. The virus has arrested their educational as well as socio-emotional development as they are forced indoors to avoid a virus that can debilitate older member of their families, even if it doesn’t impact them directly.According to Unicef, over 460 million children have been unable to access remote learning tools last year. The harms extend to their health too. Disruptions in health services in lower- and middle-income countries could contribute an additional two million under-five deaths.These costs are rarely the most visible talking points. But these must be kept in mind as the new variant forces countries such as the UK to once again close schools. India must do everything it can to not be forced to take a similar step when it plans to finally reopen schools. We must make the best use of vaccines and containment efforts not just to save lives, but also stop the mounting costs to our younger generation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/new-virus-variant-a-threat-to-the-young/story-Gqq6g1vfhkoTjntMFckgNK.html
04-01-2021||Editorials||Vaccines bring greater hope||India formally approved the coronavirus vaccines developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca (and made by Serum Institute of India in India) and Bharat Biotech for emergency roll-out on Sunday. The decision comes at a time of growing urgency as a mutant new strain threatens to make the pandemic harder to control. While the two doses will in no doubt improve India’s vaccination drive, the approvals by the Drugs Controller General of India leave several unanswered questions. It has chosen to green-light Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, albeit with some riders, despite the fact that the candidate has not yet demonstrated how effective it is in preventing disease, and more importantly, its safety performance — according to latest company disclosures — has only been judged in limited numbers, that too over a short duration. The candidate uses a tried-and-tested technique for making vaccines. The premise is simple: an inactivated Sars-Cov-2 virion is used to teach the recipient’s immune system how to combat a live pathogen. Early stage trials showed the vaccine did not cause any serious side effects and, as most inactivated virus vaccines today are, was safe. It also triggered “a robust immune response”. While this is encouraging, there are important caveats: this data, released on December 23, is yet to undergo peer review, relates only to findings in 190 people, and did not include anyone above the age of 65. The finding that it led to volunteers developing antibodies also does not automatically translate into protection from disease. That test is in determining the efficacy rate, which is indeed why the world had to wait for so long for its first successful candidates. Vaccine makers give thousands of volunteers in phase III trials the dose or a placebo and wait to see who develops infections. If, for instance, infections are lower by 50% in the vaccinated group, the efficacy rate comes to 50% -- the globally accepted benchmark for success. Oxford-AstraZeneca took nearly six months to determine this; Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna almost four months. In contrast, Covaxin’s late-stage trials began only one-and-a-half month ago, its efficacy rate is unknown, and the period may be too short to map all possible side-effects. Authorities indicated that Covaxin will be used only if there is a shortage and if the new mutation takes hold. But Bharat Biotech and the regulators must now speed up the disclosures around the vaccine – people who receive it have the right to know how effective and safe it is.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/vaccines-bring-greater-hope/story-wTNvMPBWYu4kZW1XwX4CRN.html
