15-01-2021||Editorials||And the vaccine is here||When India begins its coronavirus vaccination drive on Saturday, it will start with some of the biggest numbers: 300,000 potential recipients, 3,006 centres, and over 16 million doses already at hand. If all goes to plan, it will carry out more inoculations than any country has done on its first day. In a matter of hours, it will reach tallies that only the United States (US) and China have managed in a single day, but only weeks after they began. Only these two countries have ever carried out more than 300,000 immunisations a day (on average). A trifecta of factors — scientific knowledge, institutional experience and manufacturing might — have been duly complemented by weeks of logistical preparations. In the past fortnight, an increasing number of vaccination sites have been erected or demarcated, storage facilities checked and readied, an electronic reporting platform coded into place, and long lists of potential recipients drawn up. Each of these aspects is meant to address the initial challenges that other countries seem to have struggled with — of ready stock, local-level delivery sites, coordination and records, and knowing whom to vaccinate first. But the start is also likely to be the easiest part of the mission. The country has 1.3 billion people and its first phase alone is meant to cover over 300 million people. Over the next few weeks, the central government will have to ensure that it continues to reach the people who need the vaccines the most, while also making sure that those who got their first shots get the second on time. Companies will need to keep production lines running so that there are no supply bottlenecks, and, as the first lots of recipients — health care workers and frontline essential government staff — are done, the country will move on to the biggest part of the challenge — protecting its more vulnerable citizens. The better part of the year will be consumed by this exercise and will test all the grassroots staff and the bureaucracy handling the programme. It will also, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, require the Jan Bhagidari, participation of every Indian. The vaccination drive must not just start with a bang, but keep up a marathoner’s pace until all of India arms itself with the protection needed to defeat the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/and-the-vaccine-is-here-101610717020431.html
15-01-2021||Editorials||Delhi’s balancing act with Nepal | HT Editorial||Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali is in Delhi for a bilateral meeting. External affairs minister, S Jaishankar, will be his counterpart as co-chair of the joint commission meeting. It is a sign that after troubles last year, triggered by Nepal’s decision to publish a new map including territory India considers its own, the bilateral relationship is broadly on track. The two sides will discuss the status of connectivity projects, and Mr Gyawali is expected to make a strong pitch for early delivery of Covid-19 vaccines — India has already committed to supplying it to its close neighbours. This is positive and will earn India goodwill among Nepali citizens at large and reflect Delhi’s capacity to be a provider of public goods.But even as the State-to-State relationship is on track, it is important for Delhi not to lose sight of the political churn in Nepal. Prime Minister KP Oli’s unconstitutional move to dissolve Parliament (the new Nepali Constitution does not give the PM the right to do so) has led to a de facto split in the Nepal Communist Party (NCP). Nepal’s Opposition parties are slowly building up a street movement against the current government. Four former chief justices have slammed Mr Oli’s move, even as the Supreme Court’s verdict on the constitutionality of the dissolution is awaited. Mr Oli is widely seen to have pushed the country into a period of instability in order to enjoy power without accountability. And there is a widespread belief that elections, announced for April-May, will not be held.This churn has led to three tactical gains for India — the unity in NCP, a product of China’s blatant interference, is shattered; China’s efforts to reunify the party haven’t borne fruit; and India is not being blamed, as is often the custom in Nepal, for its internal troubles. At the same time, India must be careful not to be seen as backing Mr Oli. This will put it at the risk of being on the wrong side of democratic principles — Mr Oli’s move undermines Nepal’s fragile constitutional democratic structure — and of power. After all, this may mark the beginning of the end of Mr Oli’s dominance in Nepali politics and an alternative configuration is likely to take power eventually. India must stand firmly on the side of the democratic aspirations of Nepali citizens. That is ethical, prudent and strategic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/delhis-balancing-act-with-nepal-hteditorial-101610632772683.html
15-01-2021||Editorials||Upholding the right to liberty and privacy | HT Editorial||The Allahabad High Court has upheld the fundamental right to liberty and privacy with its ruling that a 30-day notice is not mandatory for those seeking to get married under the Special Marriage Act (SMA), 1954. The court was hearing a habeas corpus petition, which stated that an adult woman was being forcibly detained for wanting to marry a man of another faith. She had converted to Hinduism but was prevented from proceeding with her marriage by her father. The petition sought her release. The ruling clears a significant obstacle for interfaith marriages and curtails State interference in personal relationships.Though this ruling has no direct link to the controversial Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, it comes in the backdrop of an ugly campaign by right-wing forces against what they term “love jihad” when referring to interfaith marriages. The ruling puts the provisions of SMA on a par with personal laws which require no notice period. The executive must follow up on the court ruling by cracking down on vigilante groups, which have harassed couples seeking to get married under SMA.The law is meant to resolve conflict, not create it — which is what the 30-day notice was doing in the case of many people wishing to marry under SMA. Until now, couples faced the prospect of social persecution, even violence, when seeking to marry outside their faith. The Supreme Court has repeatedly stressed the importance of the individual’s autonomy in personal relationships as per articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution. The high court ruling that the notice period for a marriage under SMA is voluntary and not mandatory is a firm reiteration of liberty as a fundamental right in personal matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/upholding-the-right-to-liberty-and-privacy-hteditorial-101610632771595.html
