20-01-2021||Editorials||The 46th President of the US | HT Editorial||Joe Biden’s elevation as the 46th President of the United States (US) marks a moment of victory for all those who believe in liberal democracy, civilised politics within the rules of the game, responsible leadership, and the inclusion of various social groups, including minorities, in the power structure. Mr Biden’s predecessor, Donald Trump, stood at the opposite end of all these values — he was illiberal and authoritarian; he was willing to use lies and deceit and undermine all constitutional institutions to win and then remain in power; and he encouraged xenophobic politics based on White supremacism.Mr Biden’s selection of Kamala Harris as Vice-President and appointment of the most racially diverse cabinet in US history shows that he understands the importance of inclusion. His focus on instituting tougher measures to battle Covid-19 and ramp up vaccination shows that he will have a different approach to the pandemic. And with a new economic stimulus — which Mr Biden will have to push through Congress — the task of domestic economic reconstruction will take priority. But his most challenging domestic political task will be to heal a divided nation — the fact that over 71 million people voted for Mr Trump is a grim reminder of the internal faultlines.But along with domestic priorities, the Biden presidency will have to deal with the most important strategic challenge of the times— the belligerence of China. The appointment of an Indo-Pacific coordinator signals the continued commitment of the new administration to managing China’s ambitions and investing in regional partnerships in Asia — including with India. But this will be accompanied by Washington’s need to keep up a working relationship with Beijing. Given the relatively bipartisan support for the relationship with India, New Delhi should not be overly concerned about the tactical ebbs and flows in Washington’s policy — for the strategic convergence between the two is unmistakable. Despite concerns that may be expressed about what has come to be seen as India’s democratic backsliding, Mr Biden is likely to invest in the India partnership across the realm of defence, economy, technology, and climate — and perhaps even make a trip to India in the first half of his term. For now, all democrats should celebrate Mr Biden’s win — and the return of the politics of sanity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-46th-president-of-the-us-hteditorial-101611151218299.html
20-01-2021||Editorials||The persistence of the pollution threat | HT Editorial||Delhi’s air quality slipped into the “severe” category on Tuesday, for the sixth time this month. The overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of the city was 404, deteriorating from Monday’s AQI of 372 (very poor). Scientists from the India Meteorological Department said this deterioration in air quality was caused by the dense fog that enveloped the city on Tuesday.While meteorological conditions and the geographical location of the city are responsible for the bad air, the inability of the authorities to contain and reduce local pollution sources in Delhi and the adjoining areas (vehicle exhaust, heavy industry such as power generation, illegal and small-scale industries such as brick kilns, suspended dust on the roads due to vehicular movement and construction activities, open waste burning, combustion of fuels for cooking, lighting, and heating) are also equally to blame for the crisis. In addition, state pollution boards and local urban bodies (which get funds from the Centre to fight air pollution) are severely understaffed to take immediate action against local sources of pollution on a real-time basis. This needs to be rectified. It will also be a good idea to work on a hi-resolution emission inventory, a sort of a crowd-sourcing platform, to document local sources of pollution, which often go unaddressed.As Parliament prepares to take up a full-fledged Bill for approval to back the newly formed Commission for Air Quality Management by law, it is time to re-evaluate the non-meteorological reasons that are responsible for bad air in the National Capital Region and the kind of coordinated effort needed by all states to tackle the threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-persistence-of-the-pollution-threat-hteditorial-101611150743132.html
20-01-2021||Editorials||A new team comes of age||There may be no greater test of character in sport than a Test match run chase. No matter what the score, no matter what the conditions, going for the target is always on before the first ball of the innings is bowled. And there is always a choice for the captain, the individual players, and the team — to either back itself or try to hold on for a draw. Make no mistake: There is great character in stodgily sharing honours, in forcing a stalemate, as India did in the third Test at Sydney. But a successful chase beyond 300 is that rare, fluorescent rainbow that cricketers live to chase. And on Tuesday morning, at the Gabba — the most impenetrable of all Australian fortresses — India resolved to venture into uncharted territory to dig up its pot of gold.Set 328 to win the final Test and the four-match series — one in which it had faced the ignominy of its lowest-ever Test score, where captain Virat Kohli was missing for the most part, and half the squad was lost to injury — the team astonishingly decided to go for it. It was visible in the glint in opener Shubman Gill’s steely eyes as he drove through the covers to keep the scoreboard moving; in how Cheteshwar Pujara took blows to his body as the Australian pacemen bowled with their tails up in the pivotal moments of the fifth morning. It was visible, but hard to believe.But this team has shown that it is made of sterner stuff. Down on its knees in Adelaide, it first roared back in Melbourne, and then held its own in Sydney. All the while it kept finding different sets of heroes — a bevy of fast bowlers who showcased the depth of India’s new assembly line, lower-order batsmen who dug in for match-turning partnerships, and debutants or near-debutants who displayed the confidence of pros. On Tuesday, the striking arm was Rishabh Pant. His unbeaten 89, perhaps a trifle inelegant as match-winning innings go, will now be brought up in conversations that centre around VVS Laxman’s 281 in Kolkata, Rahul Dravid’s 233 in Adelaide, and Sunil Gavaskar (102), Gundappa Vishwanath (112) and Mohinder Amarnath (85) in Trinidad. For this is the moment a new Indian team comes of age — one whose defining qualities are not necessarily perfection or precision, but resilience and fearlessness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-new-team-comes-of-age-101611057216576.html
20-01-2021||Editorials||Autopsy of a pandemic: Hold China, WHO accountable||An independent panel reviewing the global handling of the pandemic has criticised the responses by China and the World Health Organization, blaming them for not doing enough and ignoring crucial signs in the early days of the coronavirus outbreak. Headed by New Zealand’s former Prime Minister Helen Clark and Liberia’s former president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, the committee released an interim report on Monday, detailing several points of failure. China did not make adequate efforts to contain the outbreak, WHO dragged its feet till the end of January (and did not declare a pandemic until mid-March), and many countries ignored evidence that the virus spread between humans.The findings are an affirmation of what has long been regarded — but not acknowledged — as damaging negligence by Beijing and WHO. It was most starkly captured in China being reluctant to declare human-to-human transmission. Even as its scientists released the genetic code of the coronavirus on January 10, 2020, China withheld almost irrefutable information that the virus spread between humans. WHO virtually memorialised this transgression in a tweet sent out on January 14, when the UN agency deferred to China’s assessments that the virus did not transmit between humans. Thus began an ostrich-like reaction that the world would eventually be jolted out of only when it was too late and the virus began to rip through multiple countries.The world now needs to look back in detail on how it allowed an outbreak despite warnings from scientists, who for years said a pandemic was coming. The autopsy of the failed health emergency mechanism should form the bedrock of a global reset so that the next pandemic is identified for what it is before it debilitates us again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/autopsy-of-a-pandemic-hold-china-who-accountable-101611057156372.html
