22-01-2021||Editorials||Decoding the 50,000 mark||The occasion of Sensex, the benchmark index of BSE crossing 50,000 (it has since fallen below that level), has been used by analysts to don their cheerleader costumes and predict that it could touch 100,000 in the next five years. That’s entirely possible — the general direction of any sound equity index in the long-term is northward — but it must be acknowledged that at this point in time, three-quarters of the way through a year when the Indian economy will shrink by 7.7%, the index, and by extension, the market, do appear overheated. On Thursday, the day when the index crossed 50,000, India’s price-earnings multiple (a measure of whether a stock is overvalued or undervalued) was 34.36. The average PE multiple of the S&P 500 is around 13-15, and by any measure, and in any market, a multiple of 34.36 is definitely high. And only six of the constituents of the Sensex have a so-called PEG ratio (the Price Earnings Multiple compared to earnings growth) less than 1, an indication that they are undervalued. The rest, like many other stocks in the Indian market, are perhaps overvalued.Still, both the PE multiple and the PEG ratio are based on past (or trailing) earnings, and the market is booming today because people expect the future to be rosier. There is some merit in that. The economy is expected to grow in 2021-22 (by 8.8%, according to the International Monetary Fund), and in 2022-23 (when the services sector is really expected to revive after the pandemic). There is also a global surge in liquidity, facilitated by a loose monetary policy across the world, and at least some of that money is flowing into India. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) bought around $23 billion of Indian equities in 2020, the highest across emerging markets. That could continue through 2021. And companies (at least the good ones that happen to be in sectors that are reviving fast) are expected to do better too; according to a research note from UBS Global Wealth Management, earnings of companies in developing countries could increase 28% this year. That kind of growth could mean saner PE multiples and PEG ratios if future earnings are considered. The questions investors have to ask themselves, as always, have to do with their investment goals, risk appetite, and time frame. That is more important than being carried away by the euphoria brought about by big numbers — such as 50,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/decoding-the-50-000-mark-hteditorial-101611323865844.html
22-01-2021||Editorials||Farmers should shed rigidity||Fifty-six days after farmers — largely from Punjab and Haryana — blocked Delhi’s borders, demanding the repeal of farm laws, the government, on Wednesday, offered to suspend the farm laws for a period of 18 months and set up a committee with representatives from both sides to discuss all issues. The farm unions, on Thursday, rejected the proposal, reiterated their demand for a repeal of laws, and decided to continue protests. This is questionable, both in terms of principle and tactics.This newspaper has stressed that the farm laws will open up India’s agricultural markets, enable greater choice for farmers, and create a mechanism for closer agri-industry interface. The ideal scenario would have been sticking to reforms after winning over the protesting farmers and addressing their reservations. But the government’s decision to retreat was understandable. The political logic of continuing with the reforms, in the face of the mass movement, at a time when there are multiple other crises facing the nation, was becoming increasingly untenable. With its offer, the government was hoping to send a signal of reconciliation, defuse a potentially volatile situation, and buy time. The retreat holds a lesson — any structural economic change must involve wider democratic deliberation.But even as the government has stepped back, farm unions have stuck to a rigid position. This suggests disregard for the process of lawmaking. In a democracy, farm groups exercised their right to protest — but they should not take over the rights of a sovereign Parliament and an elected government, and dictate terms from the streets. It appears that farm groups are not willing to meet the government midway, when it has, for all practical purposes, backtracked. This derails the process of democracy, which necessarily involves a spirit of accommodation. Farm groups also run the risk of losing out on wider public support and solidarity. In the middle of an agitation, protesters can make the mistake of overestimating their strength — but then a law of diminishing returns sets in. This is a crucial moment for farm groups. They would be served well to treat the government’s new proposal as a victory, revise their position, and engage in consultations with the government to chart future reforms. India needs agri reforms — and it can only come through a process of dialogue. The government has stepped back. It is time for farm groups to reciprocate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-centre-retreats-101611239789549.html
22-01-2021||Editorials||The Congress must get its act together||On Friday, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) is set to meet to discuss the way forward for the party’s organisational makeover and elections. This is long due. There is an acute leadership crisis in the Congress — Sonia Gandhi is president but doesn’t want to be in charge; Rahul Gandhi doesn’t want to be president but is the key power centre; and other aspirants don’t quite know whether the Nehru-Gandhi family wants to be in or out.There is an acute organisational crisis — state units are ridden with factionalism, and even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) builds its election-winning machine on the ground, the Congress footprint is shrinking. And there is an acute ideological crisis — the party vacillates between being Centre-Right on identity issues, carefully staying away from minority-related concerns or questions of secularism and nationalism, while being pretty far to the Left on economic issues, as evidenced in Rahul Gandhi’s attack on farm laws and Indian capitalism.CWC is itself a part of the problem, for it is a body of nominated individuals, many with limited or non-existent mass base who have thrived on patronage politics. The room for dissent in the party is limited even as leaders can see that its electoral prospects — in both state polls and 2024 elections — remain dim. All of this calls not just for another routine working committee meeting which produces a statement about having faith in the current leadership. What is needed is a radical surgery and an overhaul at each level of the party. The Congress owes it to Indian democracy to get its act together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-congress-must-get-its-act-together-101611235169260.html
