26-01-2021||Editorials||Ensure justice for child sexual abuse survivors | HT Editorial||The Bombay High Court ruling that a man who molested a 12-year-old child could not be held guilty under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, on the grounds that there was no disrobing involved, sets a dangerous precedent in cases of child sexual abuse. Justice P Ganediwala held that since there was no skin-to-skin contact, this did not fall within the ambit of Pocso. The accused has been convicted only under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code for outraging the modesty of the girl, which carries a minimum sentence of one year as opposed to a minimum of three years under the Pocso Act.The ruling is disturbing. It is a literal interpretation of the law and overlooks the fact that Pocso does not mention clothing as a factor in the crime of molesting a child. This is a matter of violating the bodily integrity of the victim. The interpretation also does not recognise the long-term psychological damage that child sexual abuse victims suffer.This reading of the law will dilute cases of child abuse and make it difficult to ensure justice. The National Commission of Women has pointed out that the order will have a cascading impact on women safety and trivialised the legal architecture in place, and has decided, rightly so, to challenge the order. The National Commission of Protection of Child Rights has asked the Maharashtra government to appeal against the judgment too. This must be done promptly. The issue should also force a relook at the wording of the Act and other laws, which deal with child abuse. There can be no room for ambiguity in child abuse cases and any loophole which allows for this must be plugged at once.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/ensure-justice-for-child-sexual-abuse-survivors-hteditorial-101611583636633.html
26-01-2021||Editorials||Celebrating the Republic | HT Editorial||As India marks its 72nd Republic Day, it is instructive to go back to the scale of achievement of the founding moment of modern Indian constitutionalism. In 1950, after a deliberative process in the Constituent Assembly — its proceedings make for fascinating reading and continue to startle scholars and observers with the breadth and ambition of the vision at hand — India formally adopted its Constitution. This document took the best of constitutional schemes elsewhere, but it was also devised with India’s specific requirements in mind and represented a rupture.Bruised and battered by colonialism, India was to be sovereign. A modern democratic State was institutionalised. Universal adult franchise, in a society of stark social and economic inequality, enabled political equality. Parliament, popularly elected, would express the sovereign will of the people. India would be a Union of states — in recognition of its diversity and recognition that the Centre alone could not govern a country of India’s size and diversity. The word secular was added to the Preamble only later (in controversial circumstances during the Emergency). But there is little doubt that the spirit of secularism permeated through the Constitution — the State would not have a religion; it would not discriminate on the basis of religion; and Indian citizens, irrespective of their religious beliefs, would exercise equal rights. In recognition of the entrenched structural inequalities, the Constitution had provisions for affirmative action for marginalised groups. With fundamental rights, including the right to free speech, individual liberty was made a key pillar of India’s political design. And institutions, including an independent judiciary, were to keep a check on executive excesses.This liberal democratic design has served India well. But the Republic can only work well if all pillars of the Constitution function in letter and spirit. This has been a particularly difficult period — with Indian sovereignty challenged in eastern Ladakh; an increasing perception that the nature of the Indian State is transforming from a secular one to a majoritarian set-up; questions about the role of institutions and the erosion of civil liberties; and the federal structure coming under stress. It is time for India to return to the spirit — not just the letter — of the Constitution and reaffirm its commitment to safeguarding constitutional values on this Republic Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/celebrating-the-republic-hteditorial-101611583155152.html
