28-01-2021||Editorials||Security will be a key driver of India-US ties||On Wednesday, in its first official outreach with New Delhi, the Joe Biden-led administration reached out to India. The newly confirmed Secretary of Defence, Lloyd J Austin, spoke to his counterpart, Raksha Mantri Rajnath Singh while President Biden’s national security adviser, Jake Sullivan, spoke to his Indian counterpart, Ajit Doval. The fact that the first two calls from the United States (US) to India, under a new dispensation, revolved around issues of security is representative of both the enhanced strategic convergence between the US and India and the fact that the security-intelligence-defence matrix will remain a key driver of bilateral ties.The calls will help allay apprehensions that still permeate through segments of India’s strategic community about US intent with regard to China, under Mr Biden. The nature of US engagement may change with Beijing — and Washington will seek to find a common ground, especially on climate. But the statements of newly appointed officials in the administration indicate that Democrats will continue to treat China as the single most important strategic adversary and an increasing threat to the international order. The US emphasis on Indo-Pacific in both calls indicates that it will not dilute its position. This is good news for India.This does not mean that the relationship will not suffer from strains — indeed, whether US waives sanctions that will, under its law, apply to India’s acquisition of S-400 air defence systems from Russia will be an early test. India will also continue to take decisions in the spirit of “strategic autonomy” which will upset the US, just as the US may engage with Pakistan in a manner that upsets India. But initial conversations indicate that the story will be marked by greater agreement and a willingness to deal maturely with the disagreements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/security-will-be-a-key-driver-of-india-us-ties-101611843011201.html
28-01-2021||Editorials||The politics of protest | HT Editorial||With the farm protests turning anarchic and violent on Republic Day, the debate has moved from the substance of the farm laws — which was the original point of discord between protesters and the government — to the nature of Indian democracy, the authority of the Indian State, and the possibilities and limits of the politics of protest. The dark episode — for which farm unions bear responsibility — has lessons for all sides and will have a far-reaching impact.One, any group of citizens who plan protests needs to have a more viable framework in place. Yes, oppose the government and push demands. But if the protests get too prolonged, or if there is an internal tussle where some factions are engaged in the politics of competitive radicalism, or if the protest organisers can’t control their own support base, then they need to revise their methods. In this case, the farm unions had several opportunities to claim victory but refused to do so, swayed by radicalism, only to see the gains of the movement being possibly frittered away. What happened on Tuesday was not just a mere incident of violence — but the fraying of India’s social contract, for which citizens too need to take responsibility. And this can only be repaired with maturity and restraint.Two, the State will have to relook at its approach to protests. The freedom to dissent or protest against the government, of course, is a fundamental right — and despite Tuesday’s provocation, the government must respect this right as a matter of principle. But the frequency and intensity of protests in recent years must prompt a revision in approach. The first objective should be to engage with citizens unhappy with a set of policies and legislations, allay apprehensions, and win them over. This requires a more democratic approach than the government has displayed so far. But if it does not work, and protests do go ahead, the State needs to have better mechanisms in place, including stronger intelligence gathering, to anticipate the mood on the street and prevent trouble. This is the tricky balance in a democracy, where citizen rights and civil liberties must be respected, decision-making should be participative and representative, but the authority of the State and law and order must also be preserved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-politics-of-protest-hteditorial-101611756482940.html
28-01-2021||Editorials||Why Munawar Faruqui matters | HT Editorial||Munawar Faruqui, a stand-up comic, was arrested, along with four others, on January 1 in Indore — based on the complaint of a Hindutva activist and the son of the Bharatiya Janata Party legislator — for a joke he did not crack. The complainant claimed that he had seen videos of Mr Faruqui making jokes that offended religious sensitivities and didn’t want him to do so in Indore. The Madhya Pradesh (MP) Police showed unusual efficiency in arresting Mr Faruqui; the judiciary has not granted him bail, with a high court judge saying such people should not be “spared”. In a separate complaint about a past video, a case has also been registered against Mr Faruqui in Uttar Pradesh.Make no mistake — this is an emblematic case, which brings to question India’s commitment to free speech, rule of law, and judicial fairness. First, Mr Faruqui did not crack the joke he was accused of — and arresting someone in anticipation of what the person would say, and assuming that the statement would offend religious sensibilities, is a stretch by any yardstick. Two, even if Mr Faruqui had cracked a joke, unless it was an incitement to violence or fell under the framework of the reasonable restrictions within which free speech is allowed, MP has little basis to arrest him. Three, the principle of bail being the norm, and jail being the exception, is being increasingly overturned by segments of the judiciary.It was only recently that the Supreme Court took up the arrest of Arnab Goswami — and in a significant intervention, Justice DY Chandrachud said, “If we as a Constitutional Court do not lay down law and protect liberty, who will?” He was also scathing of high courts in general for their handling of such cases. And that may be why the SC should take up Mr Faruqui’s matter and apply the same principle of safeguarding his liberty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/why-munawar-faruqui-matters-hteditorial-101611756481264.html
