29-01-2021||Editorials||A productive budget session||On Friday, Parliament convened for its Budget Session. The pandemic shortened the Budget Session last year, and the winter session was not held at all. This makes the current session even more significant, for it is not just the Union Budget 2021-22 which needs to be tabled, discussed and passed, but a range of other issues which merit greater deliberation in the space which symbolises the expression of popular sovereignty. Unfortunately, the Budget Session has started off with a note of discord — with most Opposition parties boycotting the President’s address to register their resistance to the farm laws and the Centre’s handling of the protests. Instead of the government skirting a debate or the Opposition walking out, it is crucial to have a structured discussion on agriculture, reforms, protests and what happened on January 26 in both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. Remember, it was because the legislative process was fast-tracked that apprehensions about the laws deepened. An open discussion — with both supportive and critical points of views being expressed freely — will help send a signal that the appetite for debate is alive, and assure farmers that their concerns are being articulated in Parliament. India has faced a national security, public health and economic crisis over the past year. And each of these elements needs greater deliberation too. The standoff with China has persisted — and a lot has happened since raksha mantri Rajnath Singh last briefed Parliament. The government would do well to put out a detailed statement on the exact state of play both in the western and eastern sectors, and what it plans to do to oust China from Indian territory. The pandemic has abated — but there is no room for complacency. As the vaccination drive intensifies, Parliament should see a discussion on India’s record in handling the pandemic so far. And, of course, given that this is the Budget Session, there must be a comprehensive discussion on each element of India’s economic story, from the macro- economic indicators and revival in select sectors to the persistence of high unemployment and entrenchment of structural inequalities. All of this is possible only if both the Treasury and Opposition benches recognise that they differ, but the expression of these differences must happen on the floor of the House. The government must shed any unilateralism, and the Opposition must shed any plans of disruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-productive-budget-session-101611926662444.html
29-01-2021||Editorials||Rebooting the vaccine plan||Ten days into its large-scale campaign to equip citizens against Covid-19, India completed two million vaccinations. The government has hailed it as the fastest at the outset for any country, a feat that was almost inevitable due to India’s unique position — it has the world’s largest pharma-manufacturing capacities and experience of immunising people at scale. It is no surprise then that the country inoculated close to 200,000 people on average over the last week — a threshold few have surpassed. But it is also crucial to remember that except for China, no other country has as many people as India does. In fact, the number of people on India’s priority list for vaccinations — 300 million — is close to the population of the United States, where experts have called for three million vaccinations a day to cover the entire country by July.Within days of the launch, authorities across India encountered initial challenges. There were glitches in the digital platform to track the factory-to-injection process and there was an unexpectedly high level of hesitancy. The glitches were soon ironed out, and a massive awareness campaign to target vaccine sceptics was launched. But these have led to little improvement in daily vaccination rates. On average, across the country, roughly 55 people have turned up for every 100 invited for a vaccination session. Altogether, only 0.15 doses have been given per 100 people. And this challenge is going to become starker come February 13, when people who have received their first shots will need to be given their second doses.To accelerate the campaign, India needs to take urgent steps soon. This newspaper had called for a million Covid-19 tests to tackle the pandemic — it is now time to aim for a million vaccinations every day, which will help touch 100 million people by April. The first step can be kickstarting immunisation of frontline workers such as police and sanitation staff now — a group of 20 million who are next on the priority list. They can also be catered to at pop-up centres or close to their workplaces, which will help expand visibility and possibly even help address some of the hesitancy. The pandemic may have abated in India, but that is exactly why this is the time to go full steam ahead with an ambitious logistical drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/rebooting-the-vaccine-plan-101611843131404.html
