01-09-2020||Business||SC grants 10 years to telecoms to clear AGR-related dues||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted 10 years to telecom firms such as Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel and Tata Teleservices for paying the Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR)-related dues to the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) with certain conditions. The apex court asked telcos to pay 10 per cent of the AGR-related dues by March 31, 2021. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra held that the demand made by the DoT and the verdict delivered by the top court in the matter are final. The bench asked the Managing Directors (MDs) or Chief Executive Officer (CEOs) of the telcos concerned to furnish undertaking or personal guarantee within four weeks for payment of dues. Failure to pay the instalments of the dues would incur penalty, interest and contempt of court, the bench cautioned the telecom firms. The top court said that issue of sale of spectrum by telcos facing insolvency proceedings shall be decided by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The bench delivered its verdict on the issues, including the time line for staggered payment of AGR-related dues amounting to about Rs 1.6 lakh crore. While pronouncing the verdict, the bench said that till the last instalment is paid by the telcos, their bank guarantees furnished to the DoT would be kept alive. During an earlier hearing, the bench had also heard arguments on the point as to whether spectrum can be sold by telecom companies facing proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) and how the AGR-related dues can be recovered from them. The top court had in October 2019 delivered verdict on the AGR issue, primarily its definition for calculating government dues of telecom companies such as licence fee and spectrum usage charges. The DoT in March this year moved a plea seeking permission for allowing staggered payment of the dues by telcos over a period of 20 years. The bench reserved the verdict on July 20 on staggered payments, saying that it will not hear "even for a second" the arguments on reassessment or re-calculation of the AGR-related dues. Prior to this, it had asked the telecom companies to file their books of accounts for last ten year and give a reasonable time frame for clearing the dues. It had said that the period of 15-20 years sought by some of the telecom companies was not reasonable and had asked the Centre as to how it would secure the payment of dues by them. The DoT had earlier said that no demand has been raised against Reliance Jio and Airtel for part dues of Reliance Communications (RCom) and Videocon respectively. On August 21, the top court directed the DoT to apprise it of spectrum sharing done by telecom companies and how much is the liability of the sharers. It asked the DoT secretary to file a specific affidavit apprising it about who was using the spectrum from the date of grant of licence and from which date the respective sharing of spectrum has taken place. It had asked the DoT what was the amount paid by Reliance Jio for using 23 per cent of Reliance Communication (RCom's) spectrum. On August 20, the top court had expressed concern over non-payment of AGR-related dues by telecom companies which are under insolvency saying "without paying for the horse, telcos are taking a ride". On August 14, the top court had sought the details of spectrum sharing pact between RCom and Reliance Jio and said as to why the company using the spectrum of the other firm cannot be asked to pay the AGR related dues to the government. The Centre had earlier told the top court there was a difference of opinion between two of its ministers (DoT and the Ministry of Corporate Affairs) on the issue of sale of spectrum during insolvency proceedings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
01-09-2020||Business||Vedanta turns to SBI for syndicated loan||Vedanta on Monday said it has tied up with the State Bank of India for a long-term syndicated loan facility worth Rs 10,000 crore. A syndicated loan is offered by a group of lenders that work together to provide credit to a large borrower. “Vedanta Ltd has tied up a long-term syndicated loan facility for Rs 10,000 crore with the State Bank of India as facility agent and SBICAP Trustee Company as the security trustee with door to door tenor of seven years,” Hindustan Zinc, a subsidiary of Vedanta, said in a filing to the BSE. SBI has given a commitment of Rs 5,000 crore as a lender, it said. The facility end use stipulates refinancing of near-term debt maturities of Vedanta and for capital expenditure of the metals and mining giant, it said. “This extends the maturity profile, improves liquidity ratio and reinforces the commitment of lenders in the growth story of Vedanta Ltd,” it said. NTPC will seek shareholders’ nod to raise up to Rs 15,000 crore through issuance of bonds in the annual general meeting scheduled for  for September 24. The funds are proposed to be raised on a private placement basis in one or more tranches not exceeding 30. The special resolution for AGM proposes to make offers or invitations to subscribe to the secured/unsecured, redeemable, taxable/tax-free, cumulative/non-cumulative, non-convertible debentures up to Rs 15,000 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
01-09-2020||Business||Broadband from Jio for Rs 399||Reliance Jio on Monday announced new plans for JioFiber broadband starting at monthly price of Rs 399 with no limit on data usage. According to the new plans, entertainment app Netflix is added to the bouquet of bundled apps for customers subscribing mid-range plans. The plans will be rolled out from September 1 onwards, Reliance Jio said in a statement. “We want to take Fiber to each and every home and empower every member of the family. “After making India the largest and the fastest growing country in mobile connectivity with Jio, JioFiber will propel India into global broadband leadership, thereby providing broadband to over 1,600 cities and towns,” Jio director Akash Ambani said. The low-end plan of Rs 399 will offer download and upload speed of 30 megabit per second (mbps), according to the statement. “JioFiber Home tariff plans will now offer truly unlimited internet,” the statement said. The old plans of JioFiber have a limit of data usage per month at promised high speed after which the speed drops to 1 mbps. Jio has announced a free 30-day trial of 150 mbps plans with subscription to 10 over-the-top apps. The new plans announced for Rs 999 will offer access to 11 OTT apps including Amazon Prime Video, Disney Hotstar, Zee5, Sony Liv and the plan priced at Rs 1,499 will come bundled with Netflix. Jio said the subscription to the top paid 12 bundled apps will be made available to customers “at no extra cost”. “Plans of all existing JioFiber customers will be upgraded to match the benefits of the new tariff plans,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
01-09-2020||Business||States ready with GST counter offer||States may propose a counter offer to the Centre to meet the shortfall in collection of cess meant for paying GST compensation to the states. Under the broad contours of the offer, which was discussed on Monday during an informal meeting of several non-BJP state finance ministers, the Centre would have to borrow to make up the shortfall and the payment of the principal and interest of the loan could be met by the extension of the cess mechanism. The Centre has so far presented two options where the states will have to borrow from the Reserve Bank of India or the market. Under the first option, where the shortfall has been pegged at Rs 97,000 crore, both the principal and the interest will be borne by extending the collection of cess of certain items such as tobacco. Under the second option, where states will have to hit the bond market to borrow Rs 2,35,000 crore, only the principal part would come from the cess pool but the interest would have to be borne by the states. Several states, including Bengal, have rejected the options, calling it a move to crush federalism and reneging on constitutional commitment. “I had proposed, even during the last meeting of the GST council, that the Centre borrows the money to meet the shortfall but they do not have to bear the repayment cost. The Council can recommend extension of the cess collection period and the interest and principal would come from there,” Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said this evening. Mitra participated in the informal meeting attended by several state finance ministers from non-BJP states, a day before the Union revenue secretary formally meets finance secretaries of all the states via a video conference on Tuesday. “If the Centre agrees to the suggestion, there will be clarity in the financial world. The repayment mechanism will be transparent. The cess is collected by the states but it goes to the Consolidated Fund of India. So there is no issue accessing the fund, because it is with the Centre only,” Mitra said. However, the Centre did not agree to the suggestion, pointing out that it needed to keep a headroom to borrow for other measures such as national security. “We have discussed some options but it would not be prudent to talk about it right now,” Mitra said when asked to comment on the outcome of the informal session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
01-09-2020||Business||Foreign travel ban till September 30||The suspension of scheduled international commercial flights has been extended till September 30, sector regulator DGCA said. However, scheduled flights under the travel bubbles India has started with several countries such as the US, the UK, Germany and France will be allowed and people eligible under government norms can fly to and from India in these flights. “The competent authority has decided to extend (suspension of scheduled international passenger flights to/from India) till 11.59 pm of September 30, 2020. This restriction shall not apply to international all cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the directorate general of civil aviation,” the DGCA said in a statement. “However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis,” the regulator added. India has so far created air bubbles with the USA, UK, France, Germany, UAE, Qatar and Maldives. India is in talks with many more countries to create air bubbles like Australia, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Nigeria, Bahrain, Israel, Kenya, Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Nepal and Bhutan. The idea of these bubbles is to ensure continuity of travel between India and these countries by eligible categories of people till normal scheduled flights resumes. Scheduled international passenger services continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. The special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements with other countries since July. The regulator said the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the DGCA. Rating agency ICRA said in a research report that the domestic aviation industry operated at a passenger load factor of 55 percent in July as against 86.3 percent in the same month last year, when demand had remained poor. “ICRA maintains that H2 FY21 will witness some recovery, with Q4 FY21 witnessing year-on-year de-growth of just 3-14 percent in domestic passenger traffic with improved PLFs (passenger load factor), and overall FY21 witnessing 41-46 percent de-growth in domestic passenger traffic,” it said. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has said that 2020 is the worst year in aviation history, and airlines in the Asia-Pacific region alone are expected to report losses to the tune of $29 billion. Indian carriers are estimated to lose revenues of $11.61 billion during 2020 compared with 2019, and this is expected to impact 3.06 million jobs. “On average, every day of this year will add $230 million to industry losses. In total that’s a loss of $84.3 billion,” Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s director general and CEO, said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
01-09-2020||Business||Vijay Mallya told to appear before Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday directed fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya to appear before it on October 5 while dismissing his plea seeking a review of the 2017 verdict which held him guilty of contempt for transferring $40 million to his children in violation of court orders. The top court also directed the ministry of home affairs to facilitate and ensure the presence of Mallya before it in October. Mallya, an accused in a bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the United Kingdom. A bench of Justices U. U. Lalit and Ashok Bhushan, while dismissing his review petitions against the May 9, 2017 verdict, said: “The attempt on the part of the respondent (Mallya) to have re- hearing in the matter cannot be permitted nor do the submissions make out any ‘error apparent on record’ to justify interference in review jurisdiction”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
01-09-2020||Business||Adanis acquire GVK’s stake in Mumbai airport||The Adani group is acquiring GVK’s stake in Mumbai airport in a deal that will make it the country’s largest private airport operator. Adani Airport Holdings Ltd (AAHL), the flagship holding company of the Adani group for its airports business, has entered into an agreement to acquire the debt of GVK Airport Developers Ltd (GVK ADL). GVK ADL is the holding company through which GVK Group holds a 50.50 per cent equity stake in Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL), which in turn holds a 74 per cent equity stake in Navi Mumbai International Airport Ltd (NMIAL). While Adani Airport Holdings will acquire the debt of GVK ADL from its airport lenders and convert it into equity, the Adani group will also take steps to acquire a 23.5 per cent equity stake from the minority partners in MIAL — Airports Company South Africa (ACSA, which holds 10 per cent), and Bidvest (13.5 per cent) for which it has obtained the CCI’s approval. It remains to be seen if the two foreign investors will also choose to part with their holding. If they do, Gautam Adani will have a 74 per cent stake in MIAL with the rest being held by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). With the six non-metro airports and MIAL, Adani Group will become the largest operator of airports other than state-run AAI, which runs most of the airports. The Central Bureau of Investigation had in June charged the GVK Group with siphoning off funds totaling Rs 705 crore. It is charged with causing a loss of Rs 310 crore to the exchequer by entering into fake work contracts on the land given by the government to MIAL. In July, the agency had conducted raids at the premises of the GVK group. In July, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had filed a money laundering case against the GVK group, MIAL and others to probe the alleged irregularities in the operations of the Mumbai airport, Adani Group had in March 2019 agreed to acquire a 13.5 per cent stake of South African company Bidvest for Rs 1,248 crore. However, GVK Group blocked the deal claiming the first right of refusal. GVK, however, could not bring the money to the table to buy Bidvest’s stake and the matter went to court. The aviation sector has been one of the worst hit because of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to a Crisil note on August 19, MIAL had rupee term loans of Rs 8,646.74 crore. Cash balance at MIAL had reduced from Rs 1,270 crore as on March 31, 2018, to Rs 260 crore, as on September 30, 2019. This reduction was on account of higher upfront investments in the Navi Mumbai airport of Rs 905 crore in 2018-19, higher capex, delay in real estate monetisation from earlier committed timelines, and delay in refinancing. The Adani Enterprises stock fell 3.33 per cent to close at Rs 278.65 against Friday’s close of Rs 288.25. The rating agency added that liquidity at MIAL has also been stretched as it has cash balance of around Rs 150 crore and unutilised working capital of Rs 110 crore as of August 1, 2020. Further, given the current state of operations, the ability to generate accruals over near term is curtailed. Additionally, MIAL is not able to draw cash balance in escrow account because of pending judgment of the Delhi high court regarding payment of annual fee to AAI. The GVK group said in a statement that the Adani group will acquire debt from various GVK lenders, including a Goldman Sachs led consortium and HDFC. It will release GVK of various obligations, securities and corporate guarantees given in respect of debt that will be acquired by the Adani group. The Adani group will then infuse funds into MIAL and also achieve financial closure of the Navi Mumbai International Airport project at the earliest in order to commence construction. In October last year, the GVK group entered into an agreement to sell 79 per cent of its stake in GVK Airport Holdings for Rs 7,614 crore to the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA), Canada's Public Sector Pension (PSP) Investments, and state-owned National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF). The group today said taht it has notified these investors that the transaction documents stand terminated. Proceeds from this transaction were to be used by GVK to primarily retire the debt obligations of its holding companies. ``The aviation industry has been severely impacted by COVID-19, setting it back by many years and has impacted the financials of MIAL. It was therefore important, that we bring in a financially strong investor in the shortest possible time to improve the financial position of MIAL, as well as to help achieve financial closure of the Navi Mumbai International Airport project It is under these circumstances that we agreed to cooperate with Adani so as to achieve these twin objectives’’, Dr. GVK Reddy, Founder & Chairman, GVK said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
01-09-2020||Business||RBI terminates loan moratorium scheme ||The EMI clock will start ticking from Tuesday — as the loan moratorium has officially ended amid a lack of clarity on the new debt recast scheme. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is due to hold talks with bankers on Thursday and the RBI is scheduled to come out with a notification on September 6. But before that the K.V. Kamath committee will have to submit its report to enable the RBI to finalise its views before coming out with its notifications for corporate borrowers. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said the banks could kick start the process of picking the borrowers who would qualify for the debt recast without waiting for the RBI notification. However, they will have to pass board-level resolutions on their debt recast scheme before they do so. No one has called for such a board meeting and the PSU banks presumably will do so after the interaction with Sitharaman. The six month loan moratorium had expired on Monday with no statement coming from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on whether it will be extended further at the time of going to press. While this would indicate that the central bank has not extended the scheme, it is also in line with statements made by the RBI governor recently that the moratorium was only a temporary measure and that the debt restructuring scheme will provide more durable relief to borrowers affected by the pandemic. The RBI had in March announced a three month EMI holiday (from March 1 till May 31) which was later extended by another three months to August 31. Ahead of the deadline, there have been calls for the moratorium to be extended. Last Friday, the Supreme Court  decided to hear a fresh plea seeking extension till December last the scheme to provide the facility of deferred payments of installments of term loans. The lawyer told the bench that the adverse impact of the pandemic was still there and the scheme needed to be extended till the year end. While there are concerns that banks could start to see a rise in their bad loans once the moratorium ends and asset recognition starts, a comforting factor is that various lenders have reported lower number of customers opting for the loan holiday after May. According to rating agency Crisil, most companies that availed loan moratoriums have sub-investment grade ratings and were facing challenges before the onset of the pandemic itself due to slowing economic growth. The agency which analysed 2,300 non-financial sector companies which have taken recourse to non-payment of loans, found that three-fourths of entities are sub-investment grade. It added that the moratorium has provided much-needed liquidity support to mid-sized sub-investment grade companies rated 'BB+' or lower and has also prevented a sharp weakening in their credit profiles. Only one out of four companies that availed the moratorium is rated in the investment grade, the agency said, adding that they took recourse to the dispensation to build a liquidity cushion for exigencies in the near term. The central bank had also announced the constitution of a committee under the chairmanship of K V Kamath to make recommendations on the required financial parameters to be factored in the resolution plans, with sector specific benchmark ranges for such parameters. This is expected to be implemented by September 6. Incidentally one member of the panel-Diwakar Gupta will join only on September 1 after completion of his term at Asian Development Bank. However, the RBI Governor has clarified that the panel’s recommendations will only apply to corporate loans and that it will decide on financial parameters like the acceptable debt-equity ratio relating to a resolution. He had also said that banks can being to restructure stressed accounts (due to the pandemic) while disclosing that various bank boards will decide by the August end their eligibility criteria to decide which borrowers — retail and business —  will qualify for resolution. However, so far no bank has formally announced such a criteria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
01-09-2020||Business||Core factory output shrinks 9.6%||The core factory output contracted 9.6 per cent in July, for the fifth consecutive month, because of a decline in the production of steel, cement and refinery products. The production of eight core sectors had expanded 2.6 per cent in July 2019, data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Monday showed. Barring fertiliser, all seven sectors — coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, steel, cement and electricity — recorded a decline in growth in July. “The core sector growth is showing a V-shaped recovery since the unlocking of the economy as the contraction has reduced from 38 per cent in April to 9.6 per cent July,” said chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian. “The mild improvement in the pace of contraction in the eight core sectors in July 2020 trailed our expectations, adding to the view that the momentum of the recovery stalled in that month, partly on account of the localised lockdowns,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist at Icra, said. “The performance of refinery products and cement worsened in July 2020 compared with the previous month, highlighting the unevenness in the sectoral recovery patterns,” she added. The output of steel declined 16.5 per cent, while that of refinery products was down 13.9 per cent over the year-ago period. Production of cement fell 13.5 per cent and natural gas by 10.2 per cent. Coal output declined 5.7 per cent. Production of crude oil and electricity fell 4.9 per cent and 2.3 per cent, respectively. Fertiliser output grew 6.9 per cent during the month under review as against 1.5 per cent in July 2019. During April-July 2020-21, the sector's output dipped by 20.5 per cent as compared to a growth of 3.2 per cent in the same period previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
01-09-2020||Business||Stocks succumb to India-China border tensions||The six-session rally of equity benchmarks came to a juddering halt on Monday as a flare-up in India-China border tensions hammered investor sentiment. Profit-booking after the recent rally and a depreciating rupee further weighed on the bourses, traders said. The BSE Sensex, which made a strong start and touched the 40000-mark in the morning session, surrendered all gains and plummeted over 1600 points from the day’s high. It ended at 38628.29, down 839.02 points, or 2.13 per cent. The NSE Nifty tanked 260.10 points, or 2.23 per cent, to end at 11387.50. Sun Pharma was the top loser in the Sensex pack, plunging 7.34 per cent, followed by SBI, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance, NTPC, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, M&M and Maruti. RIL closed 1.75 per cent lower following its deal to acquire Future Group’s retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing businesses for Rs 24,713 crore. Investors were also cautious ahead of the release of GDP data, traders said. Only ONGC and TCS ended in the green, rising up to 1.74 per cent. Indian markets opened on a positive note, but the sentiment failed to sustain in the afternoon session following reports of the border tensions with China, said Narendra Solanki, head-equity research (fundamental), Anand Rathi. “Also the Sebi’s new margining system starts from Tuesday which also likely impacted mid- and small-cap stocks where aggressive profit booking was seen,” he added. All sectoral indices ended in the red with BSE realty, healthcare, basic materials, utilities, power, capital goods, industrials, metal and auto skidding up to 4.70 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
01-09-2020||Business||Fiscal deficit overshoots budgeted target due to impact of lockdown||The country’s fiscal deficit overshot the budgeted target for the current financial year within four months (April-July), mainly on account of the impact of lockdown on revenue collections. According to the data released by the Controller General of Accounts, fiscal deficit during April-July was at Rs 8,21,349 crore, or 103.1 per cent of the annual target. It stood at 77.8 per cent of the annual target during the corresponding period of the last fiscal. Fiscal deficit, which refers to the difference between expenditure and revenue, had overshot the annual target in October last year. “The shortfall of 30 per cent in collections will be hard to recover and could increase as it will take long for the economy to come back on the rails. Of the targeted Rs 16.35 lakh crore of tax revenue, there could be a shortfall of around Rs 2.9-3 lakh crore this year which will pressurise the deficit,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings. The government had pegged the fiscal deficit for 2020-21 at Rs 7.96 lakh crore or 3.5 per cent of the GDP in the budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in February. These figures, however, have to be revised significantly in view of the economic disruptions created by the outbreak of coronavirus. The government had imposed a nationwide lockdown from March 25 to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The economy was opened up gradually after the lockdown. Fiscal deficit had soared to a seven-year high of 4.6 per cent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2019-20, mainly on account of poor revenue realisation, which dipped further towards the end of March because of lockdown. As per the CGA data, government''s revenue receipts stood at Rs 2,27,402 crore or 11.3 per cent of the Budget Estimates (BE). During the same period of last fiscal, the realisation was at 19.5 per cent of the BE. Tax revenue stood at Rs 2,02,788 crore or 12.4 per cent of BE during the first four months of the fiscal. During the corresponding period of the last fiscal, the tax revenue was at 20.5 per cent of BE. The government's total receipts were at 10.4 per cent of BE or Rs 2,32,860 crore. In the Budget, the government had estimated the total receipts for the fiscal at Rs 22.45 lakh crore. The government's total expenditure stood at Rs 10,54,209 crore or 34.7 per cent of BE at the end of July. During the same period of last fiscal, the total expenditure was at 34 per cent of BE. Aditi Nayar, principal economist, ICRA said “we expect the net tax revenues of the Centre, non-tax revenues and disinvestment proceeds to together trail the budgeted level by a sharp Rs. 6.0 trillion in FY2021. Taking into account the fiscal support announced by the GoI under the “Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan”, and assuming moderate savings from the expenditure management measures that have been put in place, our baseline estimate is that the GoI's fiscal deficit will surge to Rs. 13.5 trillion in FY2021 (6.8% of GDP based on a nominal GDP contraction of 7.5%) from the budgeted level of Rs. 8.0 trillion, and the Rs. 9.4 trillion recorded in FY2020 (Prov.).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
01-09-2020||Business||RBI's new measures to 'foster orderly market conditions'||The RBI on Monday announced a bunch of measures that will loosen the liquidity tap and tamp down on interest rates amid concerns over inflation and higher government borrowing. The apex bank, thus, is left to carry the can as the economy shrank by  23.9 per cent in the first half with no sign of an additional stimulus. The central bank raised the held to maturity (HTM) limit by 2.5 per cent, announced another simultaneous purchase and sale of government bonds (Operation Twist) of Rs 20,000 crore and term repo operations of Rs 1 lakh crore. Simultaneously, the RBI  comforted market fears over rising inflation and prospects of an extended rate pause with indications of food and fuel prices stabilising and the moderations in the prices of inputs. The measures to “foster orderly market conditions” come after yields on the benchmark 10-year security breached the 6 per cent mark. Last week, the central bank had announced a special open market operation involving the simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities to the tune of Rs 20,000 crore. The second tranche of this auction will be conducted on September 3. Among the measures, the most “potent” related to HTM investments of banks. These are investments held till maturity. Since they are not marked to market (MTM), banks are not exposed to the possibility of treasury losses on these investments if bond yields move. Banks are required to maintain 18 per cent of their deposits in SLR securities or government bonds with the investment in the HTM category limited to 25 per cent of the 18-per-cent limit. Banks can exceed this limit provided the extra sum is parked  in SLR securities within an overall limit of 19.5 per cent of NDTL (net demand and time liabilities). “It has been decided to allow banks to hold fresh acquisitions of SLR securities acquired from September 1, 2020 under HTM up to an overall limit of 22 per cent of NDTL up to March 31, 2021 which shall be reviewed thereafter,” the RBI said. Suyash Choudhary, head fixed income, of IDFC AMC, said this would give banks room to invest another Rs 3.6 lakh crore in the concerned SLR securities. The RBI further said it will conduct term repo operations of Rs 100,000 crore at floating rates in mid-September to mitigate pressures on the market on account of advance tax outflows. Besides banks may refinance their borrowings they had availed under long-term repo operations (LTROs). Choudhary said banks can reduce cost of their earlier long term repos taken at 5.15 per cent with the current rate of 4 per cent. The RBI will also conduct  special open market operations involving the simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities (Opeartion Twist) worth Rs 20,000 crore in two tranches of Rs 10,000 crore each. The auctions would be conducted on September 10 and September 17. The RBI further reiterated that it remains committed to use all instruments at its command to revive the economy by maintaining congenial financial conditions, mitigate the impact of COVID-19 and restore the economy to a path of sustainable growth while preserving macroeconomic and financial stability. Its measures to `foster orderly market conditions’ comes after yields on the benchmark 10 year security breached the 6 per cent mark. Last week, the central bank had announced a special open market operation involving the simultaneous purchase and sale of Government securities to the tune of Rs 20,000 crore. The second tranche of this auction will be conducted on September 3. The central bank today admitted that market sentiment has recently been impacted by concerns relating to the inflation outlook and the fiscal situation amid global developments that have firmed up yields abroad. Among the three measures that it announced today, the most 'potent’ related to HTM investments of banks. These are investments that are held till maturity. Since they are not marked to market (MTM), banks are not exposed to the possibility of treasury losses on these investments if bond yields move. Currently, banks are required to maintain 18 per cent of their deposits in SLR securities or Government bonds. The present limit for investments that can be held in HTM category is 25 per cent of this total investment. Banks are however, allowed to exceed this limit provided the excess is invested in SLR securities within an overall limit of 19.5 per cent of NDTL. "It has been decided to allow banks to hold fresh acquisitions of SLR securities acquired from September 1, 2020 under HTM up to an overall limit of 22 per cent of NDTL up to March 31, 2021 which shall be reviewed thereafter’’, the RBI said today. According to Suyash Choudhary, Head – Fixed Income, IDFC AMC, with the RBI allowing an additional 2.5 per cent of deposits for banks as HTM for the second half of the current financial year, allows an additional purchase capacity of approximately Rs 3.6 lakh crore for banks without worrying about fluctuation risks over this period. RBI further said that it will conduct term repo operations of Rs 100,000 crore at floating rates in the mid-September to assuage pressures on the market on account of advance tax outflows. More importantly, it said that in order to reduce the cost of funds, banks may exercise this option to re-finance the funds that they had availed under long-term repo operations (LTROs). Choudhary here added that banks have thus been allowed to reduce cost of their earlier long term repos (taken at 5.15 per cent) with the current rate (four per cent) through these operations. The central bank added that it will conduct additional special open market operation involving the simultaneous purchase and sale of Government securities for an aggregate amount of Rs 20,000 crore in two tranches of Rs 10,000 crore each. These auctions would be conducted on September 10 and September 17. To soothe the market concerns about elevated inflation, the RBI said that while the monetary policy committee (MPC) had earlier this month decided to pause and remain watchful and use the available space judiciously to support the revival of the economy, there are indications that food and fuel prices are stabilising and cost push factors are moderating. "In addition, the recent appreciation of the rupee is working towards containing imported inflationary pressures. The RBI remains vigilant about these developments. In support of the accommodative stance of monetary policy, the RBI is committed to ensuring comfortable liquidity and financing conditions in the economy," it noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
