02-09-2020||Business||Supreme Court gives partial relief on AGR||The Supreme Court has given telecom players 10 years to pay their balance adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues in a staggered manner, instead of in one go. The apex court also directed the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to decide within two months whether operators such as Reliance Communications (R-Com) and Aircel can resort to insolvency proceedings to avoid the payment of their dues and whether their financial creditors can lay claim over the dues to the government. The top court, which held that the demand raised by the Department of Telecom (DoT) in respect of the AGR dues will be final, said there shall be no dispute raised by the operators and that there shall not be any re-assessment. It said the operators shall make the payment of 10 per cent of the total dues as demanded by the DoT by March 31, 2021 and the rest amount to be paid in yearly instalments commencing from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2031. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said that in the event of any default in making the payment of annual instalments, interest would become payable according to the licence agreement along with penalty and interest on  penalty automatically without reference to the court. Besides, it would be punishable for contempt of court, it said. The bench, also comprising Justices S. Abdul Nazeer and M. R. Shah said that various companies through managing director/chairman or other authorised officer, will furnish an undertaking within four weeks, to make payment of arrears as per the order. The apex court had earlier raised scepticism over the insolvency proceedings raised in the NCLT by some of the operators as a “subterfuge” to avoid the payment of AGR and spectrum dues to the government. Dealing with the spectrum sharing done by various operators and to the liability of the sharing operator, the bench said that spectrum sharing is permitted and approved by the Sharing Guidelines dated September 24, 2015 and Parliament has approved spectrum sharing as part of “National Telecom Policy, 2012”. The bench, also gave a breather to Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Jio, which has been sharing spectrum of  R-Com on the payment of AGR dues saying such operators sharing the spectrum cannot be saddled with the liability of the payment of the past dues of the licensee. The apex court considered the plea of the operators to pay over 20 years as too long. “The arrears have accumulated for the last 20 years. It is also to be noted that some of the companies are under insolvency proceedings, validity of which is to be examined, and they were having huge arrears of AGR dues against them.  For protecting the telecom sector, a decision has been taken on various considerations mentioned above, which cannot be objected to,” the Supreme Court said. “However, we consider that the period of 20 years fixed for payment is excessive. We feel that it is a revenue sharing regime, and it is grant of sovereign right to the TSPs (operators). under the Telecom Policy. “We feel that some reasonable time is to be granted, considering   the financial stress and the banking sector's involvement. We deem it appropriate to grant facility of time to make payment of dues in equal yearly instalments.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
02-09-2020||Business||Bharti Infratel clears Indus deal||The long delayed merger of Bharti Infratel and Indus Towers is finally going ahead with the board of the Bharti Airtel arm clearing the amalgamation. The deal will see Vodafone Idea selling its entire 11.15 per cent shareholding in Indus Towers for Rs 4,000 crore. Separately Vodafone Group Plc (Vodafone) also announced that it has agreed with Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea Ltd (Vodafone Idea) to proceed with the merger. The timely completion of the transaction is crucial for Vodafone Idea as it would allow the telco to offload stake and raise funds, which could be used to pay a portion of its adjusted gross revenue dues. In a regulatory filing to the bourses, Bharti Infratel said that at a meeting on August 31, its board took note of the scheme of arrangement between the two tower companies and the related agreements. Incorporated in November 2007, Indus Towers is a joint venture among the entities of Bharti Group, Vodafone Group and Vodafone Idea. The private equity firm Providence Equity Partners (Providence) also holds less than 5 per cent in the company. Bharti Airtel holds 33.57 per cent in Bharti Infratel, while its subsidiary Nettle Infrastructure has a stake of 19.94 per cent with the rest being held by the public. “After deliberations the board has decided to authorise the chairman to proceed with the scheme and to comply with other procedural requirements for completion of the merger, including approaching National Company Law Tribunal to make the scheme effective,’’ Bharti Infratel said. A statement from Vodafone Plc said it is likely to be issued 76 crore new shares in the combined company in exchange for its 42 per cent shareholding in Indus Towers. Providence has also elected to receive shares in the combined company in respect of its 4.85 per cent shareholding in Indus Towers, while Vodafone Idea has decided to sell its entire 11.15 per cent shareholding in Indus Towers for cash. Vodafone said it will hold close to 28.2 per cent in the combined entity while Bharti Airtel’s shareholding in Bharti Infratel would be diluted from 53.5 per cent to 36.7 per cent. “Bharti Airtel and Vodafone will jointly control the combined company. At the current market valuation of Bharti Infratel, Vodafone's stake in the combined company would have a value of approximately Rs 15,100 crore (euro 1.7 billion) and Vodafone Idea would receive approximately Rs 4,000 crore (euro 464 million) in cash upon completion,’’ it added. Vodafone said the final number of shares issued to it and Providence, and the cash paid to Vodafone Idea, will be based on agreed closing adjustments. It further said that the parties have agreed to a security package for the benefit of the combined company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
02-09-2020||Business||Seal on RIL tower plan||A bunch of investors, including GIC — the sovereign wealth fund of Singapore —  and Brookfield Infrastructure Partners, have acquired a 100 per cent stake in a telecom tower company from a subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd for $3.4 billion (around Rs 25,000 crore). Announcing the deal, GIC said the investment comprises a portfolio of around 135,000 communication towers which forms Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd’s (Jio) telecommunication network. GIC said the investors planned to buy more towers, increasing the number of towers in the transaction to around 175,000. GIC further disclosed that Jio is the anchor tenant of the tower portfolio under a 30-year master services agreement, which will provide the tower company with a secure, long-term source of revenue. The investors bought the stake from Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Ltd (RIIHL), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries Limited (RIL).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
02-09-2020||Business||Concern over Vodafone future||The telecom sector is set to witness a significant churn, with mobile tariffs going up while the impact on cash flows could result in the “collapse of Vodafone Idea” and the market could move towards a “duopoly,” analysts said. Bharti Airtel will have to cough up some Rs 2,600 crore and Vodafone Idea Rs 5,000 crore by March which, in turn, require average revenue per user (ARPU) of Bharti to increase 10 per cent and Vodafone Idea 27 per cent, according to estimates by brokerage firm Jefferies. According to an assessment by Motilal Oswal Financial Services, assuming an 8 per cent interest rate, Vodafone Idea will have to pay annually Rs 7,500 crore compared with Rs 3,900 crore by Bharti Airtel. Nitin Soni of Fitch Ratings told a television channel that the verdict will gradually lead to the “collapse of Vodafone Idea” and hasten the telecom market’s move towards a “duopoly”. “For 10 years, they will have to make a payment of $700-800 million a year. Vodafone Idea needs to invest in its infrastructure and renew its expiring spectrum in the upcoming auction, Soni said, adding, “It can forget about 5G.” “Either the promoters (of Vodafone Idea) must invest more funds in the company or there has to be another round of tariff hikes to ease out their liquidity position as they still owe a substantial part of their AGR dues," said Vipula Sharma, director, ratings, Brickwork Ratings. Meanwhile, counsel for Airtel Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the company may  file a curative petition. Singhvi said there was no doubt that there would be a review and curative petition as the spectrum usage charge (SUC) did not constitute AGR and this was a jurisdictional question to be addressed. The elimination of SUC in the liability could reduce the liability by one third, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
02-09-2020||Business||GST kitty down||The gross GST collection in August stood at Rs 86,449 crore, down from Rs 87,422 crore collected in July, the finance ministry said on Tuesday. The revenues for August are 88 per cent of the GST collected in the same month last year. In August 2019, Rs 98,202 crore was mopped up as Goods and Services Tax (GST). Rajat Bose, partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said: “The collections in August, though at 88 per cent of collections in August 2019, are still pretty decent, especially when you compare the dip in collections from July to August in 2019. The numbers seem to be stabilising and are expected to be in this range at an average for the next six months atleast.” Of the gross collection, Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) is at Rs 15,906 crore, State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) Rs 21,064 crore, Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) Rs 42,264 crore (including Rs 19,179 crore collected on import of goods) and cess Rs 7,215 crore, the finance ministry said. M.S. Mani, partner, Deloitte India, said: “These figures indicate that the collections are on the recovery path. It is expected that the collections trajectory in the coming months would enable it to reach the earlier year’s levels in a month or two.” The income tax authorities can share information with scheduled commercial banks, a move that would ease the lenders’ hassle of deciding TDS deductibility on various payments to their customers. In a notification dated August 31, the CBDT included “scheduled commercial banks” under Section 138 of Income Tax Act for sharing of information.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
02-09-2020||Business||Govt against waivers||The Centre on Tuesday virtually ruled out in the Supreme Court any waiver of interests on various loans. At the last hearing on August 26, the apex court had pulled up the Centre for its intransigence to clear its position on the waiver of interests on loans during the present pandemic crisis saying it was “interested only “in business” and “hiding behind the RBI” by ignoring the interests of common citizens. The matter which came up for brief hearing on Tuesday was adjourned till Wednesday by the bench. The court was dealing with a PIL filed by a UP-based businessman Gajendra Sharma which questioned the decision of banks to collected interest on the loans after the moratorium. In the affidavit while opposing any waiver of interest, the Centre has now pleaded: “A waiver of the interest on interest during moratorium would also be against the basic canons of finance..” “Any moratorium is transient by its very nature and has to end one day. Thus, the best interest of the economic health of the country, as well as that of the respective borrowers would be best served by paving the way for a more durable long-term solution of debt restructuring,” the affidavit said. The revival of the stressed borrowers is contingent upon debt restructuring of their loans and dues rather than on moratorium. It has referred to the RBI’s two circulars dated August 6, 2020, facilitating the revival of real sector activities and mitigating the impact on the ultimate borrowers by enabling lenders to grant concessions to borrowers for Covid-19- related stress. “This would enable lenders to implement individual resolution plans in respect of the loans having stress on account of the pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
02-09-2020||Business||TikTok caught in tit-for-tat||On most days, companies such as ByteDance, Microsoft, Walmart and Oracle are considered kings within their fields. But over the weekend, it became increasingly clear that they can also be something else: a set of pawns. The industry titans have been caught in an escalating tit-for-tat between the United States and China over the sale of the US operations of TikTok, the viral social media app owned by the Chinese internet company ByteDance. The sale was ordered in early August by President Trump, who said TikTok posed a national security threat because of its Chinese ties. For weeks, China was critical of Trump’s order but stayed quiet on what it would do about it. That allowed ByteDance and TikTok to pursue sale talks with potential bidders like Microsoft, Walmart, Oracle and others. Then over the weekend, Beijing threw the whole process for a loop when it updated its export control rules to include some of TikTok’s key technologies — a sign that the Chinese government could exert its authority to delay or scuttle any deal at the last minute. Now a blockbuster deal that had been set to be completed soon has become far more complicated, according to three people close to the talks. The two groups vying to buy TikTok’s US business — one is an alliance between Microsoft and Walmart, and the other is an offer led by Oracle — are discussing how to interpret China’s new rules and how to move forward, said the people, who were not authorised to speak publicly. At the same time, the bidders are honing drafts of their offers and tweaking them as part of the negotiation process, the people said. “Certainly this deal and high tech in general is now inherently politicised, and there’s no escaping it,” said Scott Kennedy, a China expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “As long as the US and China have such low trust of each other, the way TikTok is being treated, and the way American companies may be treated in China, may become the new normal.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
02-09-2020||Business||Big fall in GDP feared||Real GDP in the current fiscal is likely to shrink 10.9 per cent, State Bank of India’s research report – Ecowrap — has calculated after the country’s economy contracted a record 23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter. It estimates second quarter real GDP will decline in the range of (-)12 per cent to (-)15 per cent, while third quarter GDP is seen between (-) 5 per cent and (-) 10 per cent. The fourth quarter is expected to be in (-) 2 per cent to (-) 5 per cent range. The report said the country’s GDP growth plunged to 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21 because of the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25, 2020, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and is much worse than market and its estimates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
02-09-2020||Business||August factory activity up||The manufacturing sector expanded in August after four months of contraction as Covid restrictions were relaxed even though firms continued to cut jobs, a monthly survey indicated. The headline seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) rose from 46 in July to 52 in August, signalling an improvement in operating conditions across the manufacturing sector. In April, the index had slipped into contraction mode after remaining in the growth territory for 32 consecutive months. In PMI parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below that denotes contraction. “The rise in August’s manufacturing PMI is cold comfort when set against the extremely weak GDP data released on Monday. And with new coronavirus cases showing no signs of abating, we think the post-lockdown recovery will run out of steam,” Shilan Shah, senior India economist, Capital Economics, said. “August data highlighted positive developments in the health of the Indian manufacturing sector, signalling moves towards a recovery from the second quarter downturn,” Shreeya Patel, an economist at IHS Markit, said. “However, not all was positive in August, delivery times lengthened amid ongoing Covid-19 disruptions,” Patel said. Despite an expansion in new orders, job cuts  continued in the manufacturing sector. The relocation of employees following Covid-19 pandemic was often linked to the reduction in staff numbers. “Employment continued to fall despite  as firms struggled to find suitable workers," Patel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
02-09-2020||Business||RBI steps pull down bond yields||Bond yields fell sharply and the rupee rallied 73 paise to breach the 73-mark against the dollar on Tuesday after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced liquidity-boosting measures. Yields on the benchmark 10-year security fell below the 6 per cent level to end at 5.94 per cent — a rise of around 18 basis points over the previous close. Bond yields are inversely related to prices. At the inter-bank forex market, the domestic currency opened at 73.18 against the dollar and moved between 72.75 and 73.19. It finally finished at 72.87, up 73 paise from its previous close of 73.60. A weak greenback overseas and a positive trend in the equity markets supported the local currency, forex traders said. The dollar index, which gauges the greenback’s strength against a basket of six currencies, was trading 0.25 per cent lower at 91.91. The BSE Sensex closed 272.51 points, or 0.71 per cent, higher at 38900.80. The NSE Nifty advanced 0.73 per cent to settle at 11470.25. Foreign portfolio investors made net investments of Rs 486 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
