03-09-2020||Business||Tata Motors launches new Nexon variant||Tata Motors on Wednesday rolled a new variant of its compact SUV Nexon, with premium features, at a starting price of Rs 8.36 lakh (ex-showroom Delhi). The new variant XM(S) of Nexon is available in both petrol and diesel and with two transmission options — manual and automated manual transmission (AMT), Tata Motors said in a release. “The Nexon XM(S) will  allow our customers to enjoy superior features such as the electric sunroof at a compelling price,” said Vivek Srivatsa, head of marketing, passenger business vehicle unit, Tata Motors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
03-09-2020||Business||Economy looks to break stupor as manufacturing activities resume||The SBI Composite Index, a leading indicator of manufacturing activities in the economy, improved to 50 in August, while the monthly index crossed 60, indicating the rate of decline is easing with the economy opening up slowly. The yearly SBI Composite Index for August has touched the benchmark 50 and is at 50.4 (low growth) in August compared with 46  (low decline) in July 2020, a release said. The monthly index increased sharply to 63 (high growth) in August compared with 40.5 (large decline) in July 2020, it added. “Based on the SBI index, we believe IIP and IIP manufacturing could still contract  5-6 per cent in July and around 1 per cent in August 2020,” Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, State Bank of India, said. The index data seem to be in line with the PMI survey released on Tuesday, which indicated that after five months of contraction, the manufacturing sector expanded in August. The headline seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) rose from 46 in July to 52 in August. Analysts said these data do not indicate turnaround in the economy. “The rise in August’s manufacturing PMI is cold comfort when set against the extremely weak GDP data,” Shilan Shah, senior India economist, Capital Economics, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
03-09-2020||Business||Edu-tech startup Unacademy joins the unicorn club||Online learning platform Unacademy on Wednesday said it has raised $150 million in a round of funding led by SoftBank Group with existing investors General Atlantic, Sequoia Capital, Nexus Venture Partners, Facebook and Blume Ventures chipping in. The latest round values the Bangalore based edu-tech startup at $1.45 billion, putting it in the list of homegrown unicorns (startups with valuations of more than $1 billion). SoftBank’s investment is through its Vision Fund 2. The firm has so far raised around $348.5 million in over eight rounds according to market estimates. Unacademy began as a YouTube channel of co-founder and CEO Gaurav Munjal back in 2010 and since then the firm has grown both organically and inorganically. Hemesh Singh and Roman Saini, are the other two co-founders of Unacademy. Earlier in February, the firm had raised $110 million from its investors and in July it had announced the acquisition of PrepLadder and Mastree, having taken over platforms such as Kreatryx, Wifistudy and Codechef. “Learning from the best experts to achieve a life goal has mostly been a privilege, available only to those living in the top few cities of the country. At Unacademy, we are breaking that barrier…We’re delighted to welcome SoftBank as a partner to that vision. We started with test preparation and with this partnership, we will launch other goals on our platform,” said Munjal. Unacademy has over 18,000 educators and over 350,000 subscribers. The company prepares students for more than 35 competitive exams. The company said the documents related to the investment have been signed and the deal is expected to be closed in the next few weeks. The funding will help in the launch of products and the expansion of the team. The platform has seen a spike in its paid subscribers and watch time minutes during the lockdown period. “We have been closely tracking Unacademy for the last 18 months and have been impressed by their growth, quality of products and consumer engagement. They are truly democratising education in India and we look forward to helping them scale up even further,” said Sumer Juneja, partner for SoftBank Investment Advisers. Japan-based SoftBank group is among the major global investors in most Indian unicorns such as Paytm, Oyo Rooms, Ola Cabs, Delhivery, FirstCry, Lenskart and PolicyBazaar. Sequoia Capital India, Unacademy’s another major investor, leads the list of investors in Indian unicorns as of August end with interests in eight firms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
03-09-2020||Business||Compact cars, SUVs drive sales in August||Compact cars and SUVs turned the tide in August as Maruti Suzuki and Hyundai led the recovery in the auto market with double digit rise in sales. While Maruti Suzuki witnessed a 17 per cent growth riding on the sales of its compact cars, Hyundai India posted a 19 per cent surge on the back of record sales for the Creta and the Venue. Maruti Suzuki India recorded total sales of 1,24,624 units in August 2020, a growth of 15.3 per cent over July 2020 and a 17.1 per cent rise over August 2019. Total sales include domestic sales of 1,15,325 units and 1,379 units for other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Maruti’s offerings in the mini and compact segments — that include the Alto, S-Presso, WagonR, Swift, Celerio, Ignis, Baleno, Tour-S and Dzire — together sold 81,665 units. The Alto and S-Presso sold 19,709 units compared with 10,123 units in August 2019, up 94.7 per cent. This surely marks the comeback of the entry-level vehicle as people opt for individual mobility as opposed to mass transport. Hyundai Motor India Ltd registered cumulative sales of 52,609 units, of which 45,809 units are domestic and 6,800 units are exports. The Creta contributed with sales of 11,756 units while the Venue sold 8,267 units, showing that SUVs continue to be a popular choice. Tarun Garg, director (sales, marketing and service), Hyundai Motor India Ltd,  said, “HMIL posted a growth of 19.9 per cent on a comparative low base of last year. There has been a good response to Creta, Verna, Tucson, Nios, Aura and Venue. We would like to carry on with cautious optimism as uncertainty still surrounds the pandemic.” Kia Motors is another instance of the popularity of SUVs. Kia completed a year of operations in India last month, and the Korean auto maker occupied the fifth position in the sales chart for August, selling 10,853 units (up 74 per cent year-on-year). Mahindra & Mahindra saw its domestic passenger vehicle sales grow 1 per cent last month. Toyota Kirloskar Motor witnessed a decline in its passenger vehicle sales although there was an improvement over the preceding months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
03-09-2020||Business||Amazon Pay widens ambit of financial services||Amazon has widened its financial services offering in Amazon Pay to include motor insurance and digital gold as it takes on rivals such as Paytm, Google Pay, PhonePe and Freecharge. In 2017, Amazon India had secured the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) approval to operate pre-paid payment instruments (PPI) or a mobile wallet in the country. Earlier in December 2016, Amazon had launched its Pay Balance service. Similar to other mobile wallet services, the payment mechanism, however, was restricted to transactions made on its platform. Since then it has enlarged its offering to not only enable individuals to add money to their account, recharge their mobile & DTH services, pay utility bills, make LPG cylinder payments, insurance premium and municipal tax among others. Customers can also book flight tickets, check EMI options on their debit and credit cards before making a purchase. The e-commerce giant has now gone a step further by including motor insurance and digital gold as well. The digital gold facility launched last month helps people buy and gold in a ‘hassle free, convenient manner’. People can buy gold starting from Rs 5 and without any KYC, they can buy up to 2 gram. Amazon has partnered SafeGold (Digitial Gold India Pvt Ltd) to enable the digital gold platform. It would allow individuals to buy, sell and take delivery of 24 carat physical gold, at low ticket sizes, with the click of a button. Digital Gold India is an institutionally backed company, primarily owned by Invent Advisors. Customers can buy auto insurance on the Amazon Pay page, Amazon app or mobile website and they can get a quote for their car or bike’s insurance by providing basic details. In this paperless insurance plan, customers can get claims with zero paperwork, one-hour pick-up, and three-day assured claim servicing and one-year repair warranty in select cities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
03-09-2020||Business||Coal India profit falls 55% in first quarter of 2020-21||Coal India’s net profit has come down 55.12 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21 as the public sector miner’s sales took a hit during the period marked by the lockdown on account of Covid-19. The consolidated profit for the quarter from continuing operations was Rs 2,077.51 crore against Rs 4,629.87 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year. Revenue from operations during the quarter was Rs 18,486.77 crore against Rs 24,938.99 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. Coal India had produced 121.04 million tonnes (mt) during the April-June quarter against 136.94mt in the corresponding period a year ago. Offtake during the quarter was 120.42mt against 153.49mt in the year ago period. The average realisation from the sale of coal through the fuel supply agreement route was Rs 1,359.50 per tonne, while 15.87mt of coal sold through e-auction was at an average realisation of Rs 1,598.14 per tonne. Realisation from both FSA and e-auction sales was down compared with the year-ago period. The miner said that the Covid-19 pandemic has impacted its business adversely. There was less demand from the power sector as well as closure of many industries during the period in the non-regulated sector even though the company had a stock of 74.63mt at the start of the quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
03-09-2020||Business||Vodafone Idea starts funds search for paying AGR dues||Vodafone Idea, which faces an uphill task of meeting the Supreme Court verdict on adjusted gross revenues (AGR), will consider various fund raising options at a board meet on September 4. In a late evening filing with the stock exchanges on Tuesday, the telco said the board at the meeting will “consider and evaluate proposals to raise funds in one or more tranches by way of a public issue, preferential allotment, private placement, including a qualified institutions placement, or through any other permissible mode and/or combination thereof...by way of issue of equity shares or by way of issue of any instruments’’. The board will also consider raising funds through securities, including securities convertible into equity shares, global depository receipts, American depository receipts, or bonds, including foreign currency convertible bonds, convertible debentures, warrants. Non-convertible debentures, including non-convertible debentures, along with warrants, which may or may not be listed are the other options. On Tuesday, a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra gave telecom players 10 years to pay their balance AGR dues. The apex court said that the operators shall make the payment of 10 per cent of the total dues by March 31, 2021, and the rest has to be paid in yearly instalments starting April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2031. Vodafone Idea has dues of around Rs 58,254 crore of which it has paid Rs 3,500 crore. The company is selling its entire stake in Indus Towers for Rs 4,000 crore. However, it will have to make a pre-payment of Rs 2,400 crore to the Indus Tower-Bharti Infratel merged entity. The company will thus get around Rs 1,600 crore from the stake sale in the tower firm. On Wednesday, shares of Vodafone Idea spurted 11.47 per cent on the proposed fund raising announcement. “If at all its chances of surviving have increased,” tweeted investment adviser Sandip Sabharwal. “We await clarity from the companies on whether the 10 per cent upfront payment can be adjusted against amounts already paid or if an additional 10 per cent needs to be paid by March 2021. If it is the former, then neither company may need to make any additional payment till March 2022,” analysts at Citi said in a note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
03-09-2020||Business||Debt recast terms set to get clarity||The KV Kamath panel report on the nitty-gritty of business loan recast is expected to be out anytime this week even as finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will meet the top bankers of the country on Thursday to discuss restructuring. The RBI has already permitted a one-time recast of both corporate and retail loans without getting classified as a bad asset. The panel has been asked to decide on the financial parameters that banks must keep in mind while picking borrowers who will become eligible for the new debt recast scheme. The RBI will issue a notification — after vetting the Kamath panel report — on September 6. The expert panel will also undertake the process validation for the plans to be implemented under this framework, without going into the commercial aspects, for all accounts with an aggregate exposure of Rs 1,500 crore and above at the time of invocation. Sitharaman will hold a review meeting with the heads of banks and NBFCs on Thursday for a smooth and speedy implementation of the one-time debt recast for the resolution of Covid-19 related stress in bank loans. Banks are in the process of getting a board-approved restructuring framework in line with the RBI’s framework and eligibility defined by the central bank in its notification on August 6. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said the Kamath panel’s suggestions would only be applicable to business loans and that banks can even commence the resolution process on stressed accounts because of the pandemic without waiting for its recommendations. He had also said that the committee will decide the acceptable debt-equity ratio of a resolution. While the six-month loan moratorium ended on August 31, the RBI has said that under the new mechanism, banks can reschedule repayments by a maximum of two years which may include a payment moratorium. They can also convert a portion of the loan into equity instruments. The restructuring plan should be invoked before December 31, 2020 and it  must be implemented within 180 days. The lenders must also enter into an inter-creditor agreement. At least 60 per cent of them by number and 75 per cent by value should sign this agreement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
03-09-2020||Business||RBI moratorium principle under fire||A gaggle of big and small businessmen launched an attack on the government and the banking regulator on Wednesday for allowing banks to rip them off by charging interest and a penal levy on the loans that were covered by a six-month moratorium that ended two days ago. Power producers, realtors, retailers, small shopkeepers and jewellery makers joined forces to challenge the warped principle under which banks were permitted to tack on interest on loans covered by a moratorium that was designed to help them cope with the pangs of the pandemic that had ravaged their businesses over the past few months. The government and the regulator have refused to grant a waiver on interest and the penal interest levy while allowing the borrowers to defer their repayments, prompting outrage over the fact that banks were fattening themselves on a stream of income that defeated the very purpose for which the moratorium had been granted in the first place. The petitioners appeared before the Supreme Court to buttress the argument of a UP-based shopkeeper Gajendra Sharma who has filed a public interest litigation seeking a blanket waiver on the levy of interest during the moratorium period that extended from March 1 to August 31. Most of them have also challenged the move of the banks to charge interest on accumulated principal and interest during the moratorium period. At the inconclusive arguments, the counsel appearing for different sectors told a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan that in view of the unprecedented pandemic and lockdown announced by the government in March many of the industries and business houses have virtually no income and it was the duty of the government to give necessary reliefs in the form of interest waiver and loan rescheduling to mitigate their hardships. Senior counsel K.V. Viswanathan appearing for real estate lobby group Credai said the Centre having declared a Janata curfew since March this year ought to be directed to give the necessary relief to the real estate sector, one of the worst affected during the present crisis. Quoting Section 13 of the Disaster Management Act, Vishwanathan said the Union government had a duty to provide the necessary succour to different sectors in times of national disaster such as the present pandemic. The provisions contained in the 2005 Act is “…is not merely giving discretionary power but it is a power coupled with duty…Your Lordships may direct them to discharge their duty under the DM Act.” The senior counsel was also representing the Association of Power Producers along with the Credai Maharashtra branch. He said the power and real estate sector represented by him “form the nerve centre of the economy”. Senior  advocate Ranjit Kumar representing the Shopping Centres Association of India submitted that shopping centres across the country were one of the worst affected during the present crisis. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde on behalf of Coimbatore Jewellery Manufacturers Association (CJMA) sought extension of the moratorium period which ended on August 31 for a further “reasonable time and the effects of which can be used as a relief by borrowers. I am obliged to repay my debts, time granted is on the basis of an overwhelming disaster,” Hegde said. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for some construction companies said the power under the DM Act has to be exercised by the National Disaster Management Authority which is assisted by an advisory council and headed by the PM to provide the necessary loan and interest reliefs to the different sectors. “It’s not one person but an entire body that has to act for disaster management when a disaster occurs,” he said. Advocate Ashish Virmani appearing for some textile mills association said there is no reason why MSMEs should be excluded. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for Centre said there were some options available to revive the economy. One was to write off interest. Second was a more holistic option in which the first step would be to ease the burden of repayment of loans The hearing will continue on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
