04-09-2020||Business||GM, Honda team up||General Motors and Honda have signed a deal to explore sharing vehicle underpinnings and propulsion systems in North America. The companies said discussions on jointly-designed vehicles will start immediately and include vehicles powered by both electricity and internal combustion engines. Engineering work would begin early next year. Honda and GM said in a statement on Thursday that they would also cooperate on purchasing, research and connected services. The memorandum of understanding between the companies is not binding. But the move is another sign of increasing consolidation in the automotive business as companies face huge capital outlays to develop current products as well as new electric and autonomous vehicles. Crosstown rival Ford finalised a similar deal with Germany’s Volkswagen earlier this year, while Italian-American auto maker Fiat Chrysler is finalising a merger with Frances PSA Peugeot. In the GM-Honda deal, the companies say they’ll collaborate on a “range of vehicles sold under each company’s distinct brands” . The announcement builds on the work the companies have been doing jointly on electric and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles, as well as pn an autonomous vehicle. “The alliance will help both companies accelerate investment in future mobility innovation by freeing up additional resources,” GM president Mark Reuss said. He said the companies would get “significant synergies” in developing vehicles. “We can achieve substantial cost efficiencies in North America that will enable us to invest in future mobility technology, while maintaining our own distinct and competitive product offerings,” Honda executive vice-president Seiji Kuraishi said in the statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
04-09-2020||Business||Tagore on lips, China flays app ban||China on Thursday slammed the Modi government for overplaying its national security concerns while imposing a ban on another 118 mobile apps backed by Chinese investors — and contrasted its own openness in accepting Tagore and yoga with the xenophobic attitude of the Indian regime while terming the latter’s action as a violation of WTO rules. Gao Feng, a spokesperson of China’s commerce ministry, said at a press briefing on Thursday that India has abused the concept of “national security” by imposing discriminatory restrictions on Chinese companies. “India’s action not only harms the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese investors and services providers but also harms the interests of Indian consumers while doing damage to India’s investment climate,” Global Times quoted Gao as saying. The Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson said Beijing’s acceptance of Tagore and yoga was a sign of the nation’s confidence in itself. Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said the popularity of Tagore’s poems or the wide approval of yoga among Chinese citizens did not mean that China views them as an “infiltration” or a “threat” the way India is looking at apps owned by Chinese companies. She had also come armed with an appropriate quote from Tagore: “We read the world wrong, and say that it deceives us.’’ Further, bringing in a personal touch while drawing attention to yoga gaining currency in China, Hua said: “Yoga is becoming more and more popular in China; including myself, I am very fond of Indian culture. But we do not think that Indian culture or the poems or other things are infiltrating here or are posing any threat to Chinese culture.” India has banned another 118 mostly Chinese mobile apps including Tencent Holdings Ltd’s popular video game PUBG, citing data security concerns. The list of 118 mostly Chinese apps also includes applications from Baidu and Xiaomi's ShareSave. The Global Times quoting an executive of a Beijing-based Chinese tech company which has business in India said “we have halted hiring new employees in India as part of our risk-aversion strategy. Most Chinese investors have frozen expansion plans and are even shrinking business scale in preparation for further assault on Chinese firms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
04-09-2020||Business||Services continue to languish||The crippled services industry fell for the sixth straight month in August as Covid-19 restrictions continued to hurt business operations and demand, causing the longest streak of job losses on record, an industry survey has showed. The IHS Markit Services Purchasing Managers’ Index increased to 41.8 in August from July’s 34.2 but remained well below the 50-mark separating growth from contraction. “August highlights another month of challenging operating conditions in the Indian services sector. Sustained periods of closure and ongoing lockdown restrictions in both domestic and foreign markets have weighed heavily on the health of the industry,” said Shreeya Patel, economist at IHS Markit. Shilan Shah, senior India economist at Capital Economics, said, “The rise in  August PMI pales in comparison with the decline during the lockdown and it is highly likely that output is still a very long way from pre-pandemic levels. Given the bleak economic outlook, we think the RBI will loosen policy further over the coming months.” The Composite PMI Output Index, which measures the combined services and manufacturing output, rose from 37.2 in July to 46 in August, and remained below the neutral 50 level, thereby signaling a fifth consecutive decline in private sector business activity. New business and output continued to contract at marked rates, albeit slower than April and May, the survey said, adding that restrictions also contributed to a record increase in outstanding business. “Output and new work continue to fall at solid rates, while restrictions meant that firms were often unable to complete projects. Backlogs of work accumulated to the greatest extent in almost 15 years of data collection,” Patel said. On the employment front, reduced business activity saw the Indian services sector operating below capacity. As a result, firms reported job losses for a sixth consecutive month. On the price front, sustained revenue losses through the second quarter and increasing cost burdens led companies to raise charges for the first time since March. Looking ahead, the sentiment was neutral in August. Two-thirds of the respondents expected output in the year ahead to remain unchanged from current levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
04-09-2020||Business||Vodafone stock soars on Amazon, Verizon buzz||Shares of Vodafone Idea (VIL) on Thursday spurted almost 30 per cent on reports of Amazon and US wireless carrier Verizon picking up a stake in the operator. The rally in the counter also came on the eve of a board meeting that will consider various fund-raising options. On the BSE, the stock zoomed 26.74 per cent or Rs 2.65 to close at Rs 12.56 . Intra-day, it had risen 29.96 per cent  to Rs 12.88 — its 52-week high. On the NSE, it gained 29.79 per cent to close at Rs 12.85. In a late evening filing with the bourses, Vodafone Idea said it was constantly evaluates various opportunities as part of its corporate strategy but “there is no proposal as reported by the media that is being considered at the board”. The filing came after the BSE sought clarification from the company on Thursday over reports suggesting investments by Verizon and Amazon. Thursday’s sharp rally came amid reports that the telecom joint venture between Vodafone and the AV Birla group may see e-commerce giant Amazon and Verizon investing around $4 billion. Vodafone Idea had earlier said that a meeting of the board of directors of the company was scheduled for September 4. Vodafone said the board would consider multiple options to raise funds such as a public issue, preferential allotment, private placement, including a qualified institutions placement.. While there were fears that Vodafone Idea may slip into bankruptcy, analysts said after the Supreme Court judgment, its chances of survival have increased. “The Supreme Court’s order gives Vodafone Idea just enough breathing space to limp to 2021-22 — the Indus-Infratel merger announced on Tuesday came just in time — but thereafter, major tariff increases will be the absolute minimum to salvage VIL,” analysts at IIFL said in a note. “From 2022-23, VIL will need to resume Rs 15,500 crore auctioned spectrum deferred instalments. This plus annual AGR payment of Rs 8,000 crore plus capex of over Rs 5,000 crore plus bank interest would total to over Rs 30,000 crore, significantly higher than operating cash flows at current average revenue per user (ARPU),” the note said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
04-09-2020||Business||Vedanta lowers book value price||Vedanta Resources, in a bid to temper floor price expectations, has said that the book value of the equity shares of its Indian arm is Rs 89.38 per share. According to brokerages, this is at a discount of around 40 per cent to the calculated book value of Vedanta Ltd of Rs 147 per share. Book value is calculated as net worth of the company divided by the total number of outstanding equity shares. In May, Anil Agarwal-led Vedanta Resources had announced its plans to voluntary delist the equity shares of Vedanta Ltd. “We would like to inform that the book value of Vedanta Ltd’s equity shares, according to delisting regulations (book value) for the year ended March 31, 2020, is Rs 89.38 per share, as extracted from the audited consolidated financial statements of Vedanta Ltd,” Vedanta Resources said in a statement on Wednesday. Book value signifies the intrinsic value of the company’s shares as on a particular date. It, therefore, sets an indicative floor price for the reverse book building process. Book building is a mechanism where companies which are looking at de-listing collect offers from the shareholders at various prices, which are above or equal to the floor price. The price at which equity shares through eligible bids take promoter holdings to 90 per cent is determined as the final exit price. The promoter has the option to accept or reject the offer or even make a counter offer after discovery of the final exit offer price. A counter offer has to be done within two working days from the discovery of the final exit offer price. If the delisting offer is accepted, the promoter will have to pay the requisite consideration to shareholders within ten working days of the closure of the bidding period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
04-09-2020||Business||FM for loan recast start in 15 days||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday asked banks and NBFCs to roll out their loan restructuring schemes for Covid-19 related stress by September 15. “During her interaction, the finance minister focused on lenders immediately putting in place a board-approved policy for resolution, identifying eligible borrowers, and reaching out to them. Quick implementation of a sustained resolution plan by lenders for the revival of every viable business,” the finance ministry said in a statement. During the meeting, the minister impressed upon the lenders that borrowers must be given support and Covid-19 related distress must not impact the lenders’ assessment of their creditworthiness, an official statement said. The six-month moratorium on payment of EMIs ended on August 31. Last month, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said a resolution framework for a loan restructuring scheme for all types of borrowers — corporate, MSME and personal loan segments — will be finalised by September 6. Restructuring some loans will support economic recovery and help businesses tide themselves over the crisis. During the three-hour meeting, the statement said, the finance minister asked lenders to identify eligible borrowers and reaching out to them. She stressed quick implementation of a sustained resolution plan for the revival of every viable business. Banks are in the process of getting a board-approved restructuring framework in line with the RBI’s framework and eligibility defined by the central bank in its notification on August 6. The finance minister also emphasised that resolution schemes must be rolled out by lenders by September 15, 2020, and a sustained media campaign to create awareness be carried out thereafter, the statement said. She advised lenders to ensure that regularly updated information on the resolution framework is uploaded on their websites in Hindi, English and regional languages, and also circulated to their offices and branches. The bankers assured the finance minister that they were ready with their resolution policies and had started identifying and reaching out to eligible borrowers. They promised to comply with the timelines stipulated by the RBI. The ministry of finance is also in touch with the RBI to ensure that the lenders are guided in the resolution process. The restructuring benefit can be availed by those whose account was standard on March 1 and defaults should not be over 30 days. The K V Kamath committee is working on the recommendations on the financial parameters of the schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
04-09-2020||Business||Finance panel meet today||The 15th Finance Commission will hold a meeting with its economic advisory panel on Friday to discuss the issues of GDP growth, GST compensation and fiscal consolidation. Chairman N.K. Singh and the members of 15th Finance Commission will hold a day-long meeting with the economic advisory council of the commission on Friday, an official statement said. The topic of the meeting is “Final discussion on GDP growth, tax buoyancy of the Centre and the states, GST compensation, revenue deficit grant and fiscal consolidation”. The meeting comes in the backdrop of India’s GDP growth contacting 23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter. Besides, fiscal deficit has already crossed the budget estimates at the end of July. The Centre’s fiscal deficit during April-July stood at Rs 8.21 lakh crore, or 103 per cent of the 2020-21 budget estimates of Rs 7.96 lakh crore. The issue of GST compensation payable to the states would also be discussed in the meeting. The compensation due to the states in the April-July period stood at Rs 1.5 lakh crore. The commission in its interim report for 2020-21 in December had reduced the share of states in the divisible pool of central taxes by one percentage point to 41 per cent, factoring in the conversion of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union territories. It will be interesting to see if the commission would recommend increasing the share of taxes considering stretched state finances and a different option for GST compensation, giving ammunition to the state coffers. The term of the commission was extended by a year in November and the panel is expected to present the final report covering financial years 2021-22 to 2025-26 by October 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
04-09-2020||Business||Clarity on insolvency||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has said insolvency proceedings cannot be triggered on the basis of debt that has been converted into capital such as equity of a company. The appellate tribunal also said any investment cannot be “financial debt” and the provisions of Section 7 of the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code provides for the initiation of CIRP by a financial creditor only and that too, if there is “debt” and “default”. CIRP is corporate insolvency resolution process. The observations from a two-member NCLAT bench came as it upheld an order of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), which on November 26, 2019, had dismissed the plea by an individual Rita Kapur seeking initiation of insolvency proceedings against Invest Care Real Estate LLP. Kapur had claimed that she was a financial creditor of the company on the basis of the investment in the firm, which had allegedly defaulted her repayment and converted loans into equity. Citing Section 7 of the Code, the appellate tribunal said it is clear that once the debt is converted into capital, it cannot be termed as financial debt and the appellant cannot be described as financial creditor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
04-09-2020||Business||Temporary relief for defaulters||The Supreme Court on Thursday said accounts which were not declared as non-performing assets (NPA) till August 31 this year shall not be declared NPA till further orders, offering a temporary relief to stressed borrowers facing hardships because of the pandemic. While passing its order, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan posted the matter for further hearing on September 10. The apex court will examine whether banks and financial institutions can impose a penal interest on interest dues during the moratorium period. “At the request of Tushar Mehta, learned solicitor general, the matter is adjourned for September 10. Harish Salve, learned senior advocate, submitted that no account shall become NPA at least for a period of two months. In view of the above, the accounts which were not declared NPA till August 31 shall not be declared NPA till further orders,” the bench also comprising Justices R. Subhash Reddy and M.R.Shah said. The court was dealing with a PIL filed by a businessman Gajendra Sharma challenging the decisions of banks to charge interests and also interest on the accumulated interest during the moratorium period. A number of associations representing different sectors such as real estate, power, tourism, shopping malls have also intervened in the matter, seeking extension of the moratorium period and also the waiver of interest or at least reducing the percentage to a bare minimum. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta appearing for the Centre said the government and the RBI were working out various measures to mitigate the hardships faced by different sectors, including the restructuring of stressed assets. “The impact of Covid-19 is faced by everyone but the impact is different for every sector. The impact is good also on some sectors such as pharma and IT,” Mehta said. He said the idea of moratorium was to defer repayment to ease the burden caused by the pandemic and lockdown so that businesses can manage working capital. The idea was not to waive off interest. The effort is that those who are affected by Covid-19 and facing distress get the benefit and those who are defaulters are not able to take benefit, Mehta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
