05-09-2020||Business||Marital discord over Nirmala's Act of God comment||Wife terms Covid-19 an Act of God; economist husband says for God’s sake do something — a domestic discord over the perilous state of the economy is building up in finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman's household even as her ministry orders spending cuts on payouts to consultants and sundry expenses, while asserting the economy is on its way to a V-shaped recovery. Sitharaman had last week refused to pay states their rightful GST dues, blaming it on the pandemic and followed it by her callous Act of God comment. Not so, thundered husband Parakala Prabhakar, like Sitharaman a JNU alumni. They had married in 1986 and have a daughter, Vangmayi. “Real ‘Act of God” is lack of coherent set of ideas in the govt to respond to macro-economic challenges. Covid is a late comer,” tweeted Prabhakar on Thursday. “What I said in Oct’ 19 on govt’s denial mode is vindicated by the 23.9% contraction. Do something at least now, for God’s sake,” railed Prabhakar in the tweet, which appeared to allude to the finance minister's views on the economy and the shortcomings of the Modi government. Prabhakar had also studied at the LSE. He is the managing director of RightFolio, a Hyderabad-based data analytics outfit. Prabhakar, previously the communications adviser to former Andhra CM N. Chandrababu Naidu, had last year written a trenchant article against the BJP government's economic policies in a opinion piece in the Hindu. The article had blasted the Modi government's inability to build a strategic vision for the economy. The government, meanwhile, on Friday asked all ministries to review the appointments of consultants, curtail functions and ban the use of imported paper for printing to rationalise non-priority expenditure. The finance ministry has issued the instructions on expenditure management to improve the quality of public expenditure, ensuring availability of adequate resources for critical priority schemes, the department of expenditure said. The finance ministry on Friday said the country is witnessing a V-shaped economic recovery and attributed the steep 23.9 per cent contraction of in the June quarter to the “stringent lockdown” — or the FM’s Act of God. Further, the report said the country was witnessing a V-shaped pattern of recovery as is seen in various high-frequency indicators such as auto sales, e-way bills and GST revenue and manufacturing PMI.
“India enforced the most stringent lockdown as reflected in the Government Response Stringency Index developed by Oxford,” the ministry said in its monthly economic review for August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
05-09-2020||Business||HDFC to raise up to Rs 5000cr by selling bonds||Mortgage lender HDFC Ltd on Friday said it will raise up to Rs 5,000 crore by issuing bonds on private placement basis. The issue size is of Rs 2,000 crore, with an option to retain oversubscription of Rs 3,000 crore, HDFC said in a regulatory filing. The secured redeemable non-convertible debentures will be open for bidding on September 8, 2020, and will close on the same day. The redemption date of the bonds, carrying a coupon of 4.95 per cent to be paid annually, is September 9, 2022. KfW IPEX-Bank, part of German development finance bank KfW, has offered a loan of 10 million euros to Srei Equipment Finance, a wholly owned subsidiary of Srei Infrastructure Finance. The financing is backed by global credit insurer Euler Hermes. The fund will be utilised to finance machinery from German construction manufacturers, including asphalt machines, road pavers and rollers, for use in Indian infrastructure projects. With banks turning cautious on the NBFC sector, several players are facing liquidity constraints for project and equipment finance. “This financing is successful because we are able to rely on a framework cover agreement with Euler Hermes. This enables us to finance technical equipment of a lower value under an international export financing agreement,”" said Andreas Ulfer, member of the management board of KfW IPEX-Bank. “This initiative will help our German and European manufacturing partners to benefit from our strong customer connect in addition to our agile risk understanding in credit buying. We look forward to more such programmes in the future,” said Devendra Kumar Vyas, managing director, Srei Equipment Finance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
05-09-2020||Business||Finance panel mulls fiscal deficit range||The economic advisory panel of the 15th Finance Commission on Friday suggested providing a range rather than a number as fiscal deficit targets for both the Centre and states in a report, the commission’s chairman N. K. Singh said on Friday. Singh said as the pandemic has created a more uncertain world, the commission did not brush aside the suggestion. However, a final decision on setting a range for the fiscal deficit target has yet to be taken. “Looking at the uncertainties, I felt that, there was merit at looking at a range than a number... Having a range will be in congruity with what you have in monetary policy with +/- 2 per cent (inflation target) and that we could, no doubt, while giving fiscal number say that the central number is this, and it will be more realistic,” Singh told reporters here. Singh, however, said that providing a range of fiscal deficit would require amendments in the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act. “It (providing a range) would mean revisiting the FRBM law which provides for giving a fixed point of fiscal deficit,” Singh said. In the 2020-21 Union Budget, the government had used the escape clause of 0.5 per cent relaxation provided in the FRBM Act for the last year as well as the current financial year, changing the targets for fiscal deficit to 3.8 per cent and 3.5 per cent of GDP, respectively. However, with the Centre borrowing a record Rs 12 lakh crore from the market this fiscal, and states’ borrowing ceiling increased to 5 per cent of their GDP from 3 per cent, the general government deficit is expected to be higher than what was projected in budget before the pandemic. Under the monetary policy framework, the RBI has been mandated to contain inflation at 4 per cent, with a band of +/-2 per cent. Singh said the issue of fiscal consolidation road map, particularly the general government debt-to-GDP target, needs to be revisited and it will be daunting challenge to bring it to the level the FRBM committee had projected. Singh said the 15th Finance Commission will submit its four volume final report by October-end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
05-09-2020||Business||IndiGo may shelve QIP as it hopes to increase capacity in festive season||IndiGo may shelve its plans to raise Rs 4,000 crore from the market as it expects to see an improvement in its financial situation, driven by increased sales during the upcoming festive season. “The plan to raise money through qualified institutional placement (QIP) has a 50-50 chance and the preferred path is to increase sales revenue,” IndiGo’s chief executive Ronojoy Dutta told shareholders at the 17th annual general meeting on Friday. In August, the country’s largest airline operated by InterGlobe Aviation, had announced plans to raise up to Rs 4,000 crore through an issue of equity shares by way of a qualified institutional placement. The announcement was made as the airline needed money to fund its losses, which were mainly because of the two-month long lockdown. He added that the cash burn is down to Rs 30 crore from Rs 40 crore a day when the lockdown started. He said that the airline was at present utilising about 35 per cent of its total fleet because of the various travel restrictions imposed by states that prevented the airline from adding capacity. “We are aggressively adding capacity and hope to take that utilisation number up as fast as we can,” he added. The airline hopes to operate 60 per cent of its existing capacity by Diwali. Unlike last year, both the promoters of the company — Rahul Bhatia and Rakesh Gangwal — were present at the AGM held virtually. Both promoters are involved in a feud which is at present under arbitration before the London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA). IndiGo reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 870.81 crore in the March quarter compared with a profit of Rs 596 crore a year ago. It reported its highest quarterly loss of Rs 2,844 crore in the first quarter of this financial year. Dutta also said there was no plan to hire wide-bodied aircraft and the airline would wait for the XLR delivery, which is scheduled to arrive during the first quarter of 2024. IndiGo, however, was looking to wet lease long-haul aircraft and launch international charter flights but the airline did not go ahead with the plan. Airline companies, which are the worst hit due to COVID19 and the lockdown, are seeing some signs of returning to normalcy after states started relaxing quarantine and entry norms. Rating agency ICRA said in a research report that the domestic aviation industry operated at a passenger load factor of 55 percent in July as against 86.3 percent in the same month last year, when demand had remained poor. “ICRA maintains that H2 FY21 will witness some recovery, with Q4 FY21 witnessing year-on-year de-growth of just 3-14 percent in domestic passenger traffic with improved PLFs (passenger load factor), and overall FY21 witnessing 41-46 percent de-growth in domestic passenger traffic,” it said. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has said that 2020 is the worst year in aviation history, and airlines in the Asia-Pacific region alone are expected to report losses to the tune of $29 billion. Indian carriers are estimated to lose revenues of $11.61 billion during 2020 compared with 2019, and this is expected to impact 3.06 million jobs. “On average, every day of this year will add $230 million to industry losses. In total that’s a loss of $84.3 billion,” Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s director general and CEO, said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
05-09-2020||Business||RBI tweaks priority lending for better credit penetration||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday made key changes in priority sector lending (PSL) guidelines to enable “better credit penetration in the credit deficient sectors”. Under the revised norms, higher weightage has been assigned to incremental priority sector credit in identified districts where credit flow is comparatively low. Expanding the scope of priority sector lending, the central bank allowed funding of up to Rs 50 crore to start-ups, and increased the targets prescribed for “small and marginal farmers” and “weaker sections”. Last month, the central bank had said that it will revise the PSL norms and the focus will be to enable better credit penetration to the loan-deficient sectors even as it also brought start-ups within the PSL ambit. In line with its objective to build an incentive framework for districts with comparatively lower flow of credit, the RBI said that from 2021-22 onwards, a higher weight (125 per cent) would be assigned to the incremental priority sector credit in the identified districts where the credit flow is comparatively lower (per capita PSL less than Rs 6,000). A lower weight (90 per cent) would be assigned to incremental priority sector credit in the identified districts where the credit flow is comparatively higher (per capita PSL greater than Rs 25,000). The RBI has identified 184 districts which have comparatively low PSL credit. There are three such districts in Bengal — Bankura, Jhargram and Purulia. According to Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, SBII, the performance of banks in achieving PSL targets has significantly improved. In 2019-20, all the bank-groups (public, private and foreign banks) have been able to achieve the overall target of 40 per cent lending. At present, 18 per cent of the adjusted net bank credit must go towards agriculture. Of this, 10 per cent has been prescribed for SMF. Banks will have to achieve this target by 2023-24 in a gradual manner-8 per cent in this fiscal to 9.5 per cent in 2022-23 and 10 per cent in 2023-24. The central bank also doubled the loan limits for renewable energy to Rs 30 crore which can be provided to borrowers for purposes such as solar based power generators, biomass-based power generators, wind mills, micro-hydel plants and for non-conventional energy based public utilities like street lighting systems and remote village electrification. Further, loans up to a limit of Rs 10 crore per borrower will also come under PSL for building health care facilities including under the Ayushman Bharat in Tier II to Tier VI centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
05-09-2020||Business||ITC stock undervalued||The growing global trend of investing in a stock by measuring sustainability and the social impact of the investment is hurting the stock performance of ITC Ltd despite a stellar show by its businesses, the management of the company acknowledged on Friday. The theme of ESG (environment, social and governance) investment is weighing down tobacco stocks globally and also impacted ITC, despite the company having a “pretty good” rating, Sanjiv Puri, chairman and managing director of ITC, noted. Responding to shareholders’ questions and suggestions on the  ITC stock, Puri pointed out that the earning per share — a measure of profitability and cue to stock price — has gone up by 40 per cent in the last three years. “However, that (EPS growth) is not reflected in the share price. It is concerning to all of you (shareholders) and the employees because there is performance behind it which is not getting recognised,” Puri told shareholders at the AGM. He went on to explain, “The focus on ESG investing, which has created headwinds for tobacco stocks globally, has also impacted us. This is despite the fact that we have a pretty good ESG rating, which is the highest among global tobacco (companies) and compare favourably (among) many consumer goods companies domestically and globally,” Puri said. While all shareholders lauded the performance of ITC and the decision to pay a hefty dividend, some complained that stock prices are languishing. They suggested that ITC use its cash pile for share buyback or list some of its profitable subsidiaries/segments to unlock value for shareholders. The stock has underperformed over the last three years, going down 34 per cent in that period. It closed at Rs 186.70 on Friday. ITC has been ranked No. 1 globally among its peers and No. 3 overall on ESG performance in the food products industry by Sustainalytics, a global ESG rating company. It has also been rated “AA” by MSCI-ESG — the highest among global tobacco companies. “We have the right positioning there and, therefore, it is painful that particular factor is not being recognised,” Puri added. The CMD pointed out that ITC in the past had apprehended headwinds before tobacco companies and consequently pursued to create multiple drivers of growth such as FMCG, which commands impressive price earning multiples. The non-tobacco segment contributes 60 per cent of the segment revenue in 2019-20 but 77 per cent of segment profit. The management said it would examine the “optimal way” to structure ITC to ensure maximum value for shareholders. It did not explain if such ways would include spinning out matured businesses and listing them separately on the bourses. Referring to shareholders queries on what creates more value — separateness or integration — Puri explained how institutional strength and financial resources of traditional business is leveraged to diversify a company. During the chairman’s address, Puri said the current spate of localised lockdowns was impacting the recovery momentum and the near-term outlook remains uncertain in the backdrop of the unfolding impact of the pandemic and the shape of the economic recovery. The company saw progressive normalisation in most of the segments it operates by the end of the first quarter, except hotel, education and stationery products. Food and personal care delivered robust growth during the lockdown period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
05-09-2020||Business||Reliance Industries eyes $1bn for retail arm||Silver Lake Partners is likely to invest $1 billion in Reliance Retail, valuing the retail venture at $57 billion (Rs 4.2 lakh crore). Reliance has recently acquired the retail and wholesale business and the logistics and warehousing division of Future Group for Rs 24,713 crore. Reliance’s latest fund raising — this time in organised retail — would indicate that promoter Mukesh Ambani is preparing for a major onslaught on this industry. This comes after its digital services arm, Jio Platforms, raised over Rs 1.50 lakh crore from 13 investors. Silver Lake was an investor, pumping Rs 10,202.55 crore (along with co-investors) into Jio Platforms for their 2.08 per cent stake in the company. A report in the  Financial Times said that Reliance is in discussions with Silver Lake for a $1-billion stake sale in Reliance Retail  at a valuation of $57 billion and that it  is looking to raise $5.7 billion by selling a total of 10 per cent in the retail business. Shares of Reliance Industries on Friday closed lower 1.65 per cent, or Rs 34.75, at Rs 2,077.40 on the Bombay Stock Exchange. However, certain brokerages were not impressed by the valuation. “Using the current rupee dollar exchange rate, the deal value of Rs 4.2 lakh crore is 15 per cent lower than the Rs 4.8 lakh crore enterprise value we assign to Reliance Retail in our September 21 target price,’’ analysts at CLSA said in a note. “As this possible stake sale would also include the recently acquired retail business of Future Group for Rs 24,000 crore, this valuation is 18 per cent lower than our expectations. “Interestingly, this is also a massive 30 per cent lower than the rumoured private market valuation of retail,’’ the note added. The brokerage added that unlike the Jio Platform deals, this deal valuation “may be a bit underwhelming” as it does not bring in a new marquee strategic player. Debt is no more seen as a concern, they observed. “Moreover, RIL may now have exhausted its large near-term inorganic triggers even as organic earnings may struggle to deliver big surprises in the current environment. Notwithstanding the long-term opportunity offered by Reliance, large stock upsides may be limited in the near term,’’ the note said. The brokerage has a outperform rating on Reliance Industries with a 12-month target price of Rs 2,250. At its annual general meeting in July, Ambani had disclosed that Reliance will induct global partners into Reliance Retail over the next few quarters. The impact of Covid-19 on the organised retail topline in the June quarter was less severe compared with other segments even though it fell 17 per cent to Rs 31,633 crore from Rs 38,216 crore in the year-ago period. The segment EBITDA showed a drop of 47 per cent to Rs 1,083 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
05-09-2020||Business||Vodafone Idea to raise Rs 25,000cr to pay AGR dues||Vodafone Idea said on Friday that it would raise up to Rs 25,000 crore in fresh capital as the telecom operator tries to pay off its hefty dues to the government. The loss-making carrier has been ordered by the Supreme Court to pay roughly Rs 58,000 crore ($6.81 billion) in dues to the government over a 10-year period and it has so far paid Rs 7,900 crore. Vodafone said it would raise up to Rs 15,000 crore through debentures and an equal amount in shares and warrants, but together they will not exceed Rs 25,000 crore. The plan to raise fresh capital also comes as the third largest telecom player in India grapples with an erosion in its subscriber base because of a price war triggered by Reliance Jio. Vodafone lost 4.7 million subscribers in May alone, data from the telecom regulator showed, while its gross debt stood at Rs 1.19 lakh crore as of June end. The joint venture between Britain’s Vodafone Plc and India’s Idea Cellular had last month reported its eight straight quarterly loss and unveiled a plan to reduce costs by Rs 4,000 crore a year over 18 months.
The funding plan will be considered at the annual general meeting of the shareholders on September 30, the company said. Friday’s board meeting was keenly watched particularly after the Supreme Court judgment which gave operators 10 years to clear their AGR (adjusted gross revenue) dues with 10 per cent to be paid in this fiscal. Moreover, there have been reports that Amazon along with Verizon may invest up to $4 billion in the company. Analysts are optimistic that Vodafone Idea will stay in the game though they feel it will have to raise huge funds, sell non-core assets and opt for tariff hikes. Vodafone Idea is selling its entire 11.15 per cent in Indus Towers ahead of a merger with Bharti Infratel for Rs 4,000 crore. However, it will have to make a pre-payment in cash of Rs 2,400 crore as part of some payment obligations to the merged tower firm. Only Rs 1,600 crore will be added to its books from the sale. “To meet its enhanced cash flow requirements in 2020-23 (when the moratorium on deferred spectrum ends), we estimate its average revenue per user would need to rise to Rs 170-200,’’ analysts at Citi had said in a recent note. Ahead of the announcement, the Vodafone Idea stock witnessed volatility on the BSE. After gaining more than 7 per cent to hit an intra-day high of Rs 13.45, the stock gave up its gains to end at Rs 12.01— a fall of 4.38 per cent over the last close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
