06-09-2020||Business||Vinkesh Gulati is new FADA president||The Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) on Saturday announced the appointment of Vinkesh Gulati as its new president. Gulati, director of United Automobiles, based out of Allahabad and Faridabad, takes over from Ashish Harsharaj Kale and his tenure will be from 2020 to 2022, FADA said in a statement. Gulati’s appointment was approved at the 298th governing council meeting of FADA, which was held immediately after its 56th annual general meeting, it added. FADA said the council also elevated Manish Raj Singhania as vice-president of FADA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
06-09-2020||Business||Looking for opportunity in adversity||Many companies in China are relocating or setting up plants in other countries to cover geopolitical risks and the auto and components sector must bring those investments or tie up with them to produce in India, Kenichi Ayukawa, newly elected president of the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam), said on Saturday. Speaking at the annual Acma convention, Ayukawa, who is the managing director and CEO of Maruti Suzuki India, said he would make efforts to organise some business exploration meetings with firms in Japan to push manufacturing in India. Similar steps could also be taken up with South Korea, the US and European countries, while asking components makers to go for “maximum localisation of inner parts and raw material. “There is opportunity in adversity. Many companies in China are setting up plants in other countries... We should bring those investments to India or tie up with them to produce in India,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
06-09-2020||Business||Taxman prefers direct link||Officials of the Central Board of Direct Taxes are in favour of taxpayers sharing their own email addresses instead of their tax consultants’ with the income tax authorities. The CBDT anticipates more frequent communication with the taxpayers using digital means, following the widening of the scope of form 26AS and the introduction of faceless assessment. The income tax department has revised the form 26AS, which besides offering information to the taxpayer on TDS and TCS will now also show specified financial transactions, including information pertaining to property and share transactions. According to income tax officials there could be a potential mismatch between what the tax assessee files in his return and what the department has collected in 26AS, which subsequently requires the assessee to file a revised return. S.K. Gupta, member, taxpayers services and systems at CBDT, said it is in this context, taxpayers need to be aware of any communication from the department. “Many times the taxpayers do not give their own email and instead the id of the tax practitioners are given. The notices and alerts go there. Taxpayers must realise that they should give their own email so that they can see and respond faster or at least alert the tax practitioner who may miss it because he has so many clients,” said Gupta at a seminar organised by Assocham. “If the taxpayers get a reply (from the department) they should not ignore. They should respond because any non compliance is likely to escalate the issue which could be resolved right at the beginning,” said Gupta. Taxpayers should a precise reply to the department along with supporting evidence in case of any mismatch. Gupta said the move to widen the scope of 26AS has been introduced to encourage voluntary compliance. “There could be some mismatch between what the assessee shows in the return and what is there in 26AS. This information would be sent to the taxpayer. In case he has missed it, the revised return can be filed,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
06-09-2020||Business||Vehicle scrappage  policy to be announced in a month||The government on Saturday said it will announce an incentive-linked scrappage policy for the automobile industry within a month. The auto industry has been demanding the scrappage policy along with a GST reduction to 18 per cent from 28 per cent to kick start demand ahead of the festive season. Speaking at 60th annual convention of the Association of Auto Component Manufacturers’ Association (Acma), Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said the scrappage policy was at a “very very advanced stage” of inter-ministerial discussions. Union minister of road, transport and highways Nitin Gadkari stressed on the importance of developing infrastructure such as roads,  which would have a direct spinoff on the auto industry. Railway minister Piyush Goyal said to help the auto industry with affordable logistics options, Indian Railways is ready to reduce its freight rate. “This will also save diesel and trucking cost for the industry,” he said. Suzuki Motor Corporation chairman Osamu Suzuki said its group companies in India will make best efforts to recover production and sales to reach pre-Covid -19 levels. “I am confident that your country will surely revive and grow furthermore,” Suzuki said. Mahindra & Mahindra managing director Pawan  Goenka said auto makers were committed to reducing imports by half in the next four to five years. According to him,“Unfavourable FTA is playing havoc on the competitiveness of the auto industry. Power tariff and logistic costs also add to the industry’s burden.” Tata Motors MD and CEO Guenter Butschek called for a collaborative approach among suppliers, strategic partners and original equipment manufacturers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
06-09-2020||Business||Andhra Pradesh aces business reforms||Andhra Pradesh retained the top spot in the ranking of states and Union Territories based on the implementation of the Business Reform Action Plan, according to a report released by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday.The new methodology of user feedback system dragged down the performance of several states as their claims did not align with feedback from users. The ranking of Uttar Pradesh vaulted to the second position from 12th in the previous round under the new methodology, while Telangana dropped to third in the rankings from the second position a year ago in ease of doing business for 2019, according to the report prepared by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT). Bengal ranked ninth in the report, up one rank from last year. Several states such as Haryana (16th from 3rd), Karnataka (17th from 8th) and Odisha (29th from 24th) saw their ranks dip significantly as the latest Business Reform Action Plan is based on user feedback, ignoring the reform claims by state governments. The ranking, which was introduced in 2015 with 285 action points, expanded to 372 measures in 2017-18 spread across 12 areas, including registering property, paying taxes and labour regulation enablers. Sitharaman said the ranking makes states and Union Territories a better place to do business. The parameters include areas such as construction permit, labour regulation, environmental registration, access to information, land availability and a single-window system. The DPIIT conducts the exercise for all states/Union Territories under the Business Reform Action Plan. The ranking is based on the implementation of this plan. Sitharaman said the fact that the rankings were linked 100 per cent to user feedback indicated that the government was committed to take the benefits down to the grassroots. “The competition will get healthier and more reforms will come rolling out in the years to come,” she said. “The ranking per se does not reflect that one is superior to the other. It captures the effort that states are making to better their ranking,” pointed out commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal. It is a competitive ranking and if a state has done good work and another does better, it can jump up the ranks, added Goyal. “With a unique model of competitive and cooperative federalism and diligent work by all states, India is succeeding in emerging as an attractive investment destination as is seen in the recent surge in FDI,” said Chandrajit Banerjee, director-general of the Confederation of Indian Industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
