07-09-2020||Business||GDP situation alarming, time for govt to act: Raghuram Rajan||Terming the 23.9 per cent fall in economic growth in June quarter alarming, former Reserve Bank Governor Raghuram Rajan has said bureaucracy should come out of complacency and take meaningful action. The current crisis requires a more thoughtful and active government, he said, adding unfortunately, after an initial burst of activity, it seems to have retreated into a shell. "The sharp decline in economic growth should alarm us all. The 23.9 per cent contraction in India (and the numbers will probably be worse when we get estimates of the damage in the informal sector) compares with a drop of 12.4 per cent in Italy and 9.5 per cent in the United States, two of the most Covid-19-affected advanced countries," Rajan wrote in a post on his LinkedIn page. He further said the bureaucracy needs to be frightened out of their complacency and into meaningful activity. "If there is a silver lining in the awful GDP numbers, hopefully it is that''. Rajan, currently a professor at the University of Chicago, said the Covid-19 pandemic is still raging in India, so discretionary spending, especially on high-contact services like restaurants, and the associated employment, will stay low until the virus is contained. The eminent economist pointed out that the government's reluctance to do more today seems partly because it wants to conserve resources for a possible future stimulus. "This strategy is self-defeating," he opined. Citing an example, Rajan said if one thinks of the economy as a patient, relief is the sustenance the patient needs while on the sickbed and fighting the disease. "Without relief, households skip meals, pull their children out of school and send them to work or beg, pledge their gold to borrow, let EMIs and rent arrears pile up, Essentially the patient atrophies, so by the time the disease is contained, the patient has become a shell of herself," he noted. Rajan stressed that the recent pick-up in sectors like auto is not an evidence of the much awaited V-shaped recovery. "It reflects pent-up demand, which will fade as we go down to the true level of demand in the damaged, partially-functioning, economy," he noted. Rajan pointed out that because of the pre-pandemic growth slowdown and the government's strained fiscal condition, officials believe it cannot spend on both relief and stimulus. "This mindset is too pessimistic, but the government will have to expand the resource envelope in every way possible, and spend as cleverly as possible," he said adding it also has to take every action that can move the economy forward without additional spending. "All this requires a more thoughtful and active government. Unfortunately, after an initial burst of activity, it seems to have retreated into a shell," the former RBI Governor added. Noting that India needs strong growth, not just to satisfy the aspirations of country's youth but to keep its unfriendly neighbours at bay, Rajan said temporary half-baked reforms , such as the recent suspension of labour protection laws in a number of states, will do little to enthuse industry or workers, and give reforms a bad name. He also suggested that reforms can be a form of stimulus, and even if not carried out immediately, a timeline to undertake them can boost current investor sentiment. "The world will recover earlier than India, so exports can be a way for India to grow," he opined. The government in May announced nearly Rs 21 lakh crore stimulus package to help the nation tide over the economic crisis induced by the coronavirus and subsequent lockdown. India's economy suffered its worst slump on record in April-June, with the gross domestic product (GDP) contracting by 23.9 per cent as the coronavirus-related lockdowns weighed on the already-declining consumer demand and investment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||Profitability eludes Indian unicorns||The profitability of Indian unicorns — start-ups with a valuation of more than a billion dollar — remains a distant dream even as their numbers are on the rise. A study by Hurun Report India shows that the top 10 unicorns of the country make up 78 per cent of the total value of Indian unicorns. Although behind the US, China and the UK, the number of unicorns is also on the rise with around six firms crossing the $1-billion threshold between March and August this year. However, the majority are yet to turn profitable. A study by Inc42 shows that from a sample set of 30 Indian unicorns, around 70 per cent of them have negative EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) which means that they are losing money on a unit economic basis. According to industry observers, factors both deliberate and external are behind the dichotomy between high valuation and low profits. “Most companies don’t choose to be profitable as for them deploying capital to gain more market share and expand is a better use of the capital as in the longer term it helps them to achieve better unit economics of operations. The high valuation factors in the future potential of the business in terms of both profitability and scalability,” said Parthiv Neotia, director of Ambuja Neotia. Anas Rahman Junaid, MD of Hurun Report India, said that most of the established start-ups in the country are focussed on increasing the revenue per customer even if it means burning existing capital. This is being achieved through a combination of new customer acquisition, adding more services to expand the offerings and managing pricing. Despite losses, these firms are able to attract private equity and venture capital investors. “Private equity investments in start-ups are mostly based on higher valuations. However, actual profitability depends on ground realities and the execution of the projections and plans,” said Arindam Sarkar, partner, Khaitan and Co.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||Airtel, Jio in broadband tariff war||Telecom operator Bharti Airtel on Sunday launched “unlimited” category broadband plans starting at Rs 499 per month which will come bundled with subscription to video entertainment apps and high definition set-top box (STB) against refundable deposit. Airtel has enhanced high speed data usage limit (fair usage policy) by up to 23 times in the revised plans to 3,500 gigabytes. The move from Airtel comes within a week of its competitor Reliance Jio revising broadband plans with unlimited data usage and bundling subscription fee of video entertainment apps in them. The new and revised plans will be rolled out September 7 onwards across 125 cities where the company has operations, and in new cities where it will gradually expand its footprint, Airtel said in a statement. The new plans will comprise an entry level plan of Rs 499 with promised speed of 40 megabits per second and revised Rs 799, Rs 999 and Rs 1,499 plans with data limit of up to 3,500GB at promised speed in those plans, it said. The JioFiber entry level plan comes at Rs 399 with unlimited data and download and upload speed of 30 megabits per second. The offer comes with the Netflix subscription and is valid from September 1. Telecom regulator Trai has granted additional time, till September 8, to Vodafone Idea to reply to its show-cause notice on priority plan, after the company sought more time to respond. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) last month slapped a show-cause notice on Vodafone Idea Ltd  over its pay-more-for-priority  mobile plan, saying the tariff offer “lacks transparency” and is “misleading” and not in compliance with the regulatory framework.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||Queries on BPCL staff retention ||The government will provide guidance on employee protection, asset stripping and business continuity in Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) to potential acquirers of the company only at a later stage of bidding, according to privatisation rules issued by the disinvestment department. The government is selling its entire 52.98 per cent stake in the country’s second-largest fuel retailer and third-biggest oil refiner. Preliminary expressions of interest (EoIs) are due on September 30, which will be followed by qualified bidders being asked to submit financial or price bids. The department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) has issued clarifications on queries raised by potential bidders for the government stake in BPCL. On a query on restrictions relating to employee protection, asset stripping, business continuity and lock-in of shares, Dipam said, “This information shall be provided to the qualified interested parties (QIPs) in the RFP/ SPA (request for proposal/share purchase agreement).” Labour laws are said to be one of the many considerations that will guide bids, particularly those from foreign firms. A potential acquirer of BPCL may want to shed excess workforce as well as strip some of the non-essential assets such as land and buildings. BPCL will give the acquirer access to 15.33 per cent of India’s oil refining limit and a 22 per cent market share in the world’s fastest-growing fuel market. While the acquirer of government stake will have to make the mandatory open offer to buy 26 per cent from minority shareholders of BPCL on the same terms, the government advised the bidders to consult their legal counsels on the issue of such offers becoming mandatory for listed entities where BPCL may hold a stake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||Fitness points in health cover||Health insurance holders can now win reward points for keeping to a pre-specified “wellness regime” that will enable them to win discounts on premium and in availing themselves health-specific services. The Insuance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has come out with the guidelines on wellness and preventive measures, a step that formalises a long pending request from the insurers in a competitive market. “As part of promoting a wellness and preventive regime, insurers may offer reward points to those policyholders who comply with or meet a set of criteria of wellness and preventive measures,” the regulator said. Health specific services to get discounts include outpatient consultations or treatment, check-ups and diagnostics, and pharmaceuticals. Insurers can offer  redeemable vouchers to obtain health supplements and membership in yoga centres, gymnasiums, sports clubs and fitness centres. The can also offer discounts on premiums and/or increase the sum assured at the time of renewals based on the wellness regime followed by policyholders in the preceding policy period,  provided the increase is not linked to any cumulative bonus. In the case of more than one reward, the policyholder has to choose one. Insurers, however, will have to meet certain criteria. They will have have to file the methodology and criteria used to calculate the reward points. The pricing impact of wellness and preventive measures have to be disclosed upfront. Insurers cannot promote products or services of any third-party service providers. Other than the monetised value of the reward points redeemed by the policyholders, no payment shall be made by the insurers to the third party merchants. Insurers in turn shall not also receive any consideration amount from the third-party merchants. The reward points cannot be linked to any dynamic factor such as interest rates and have to specify in the policy contract whether the accrued points can be carried forward or not.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||HDFC offers rate subsidy||HDFC on Sunday said it has approved home loans of over Rs 47,000 crore to more than 2 lakh buyers belonging to the economically weaker groups under the government’s credit-linked subsidy scheme (CLSS). HDFC said it has passed on interest subsidy of more than Rs 4,700 crore to these beneficiaries under this Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) programme. Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana is the flagship housing scheme of the government. CLSS was introduced in June 2015 under PMAY for home loans to customers from the economically weaker section (EWS), low-income group (LIG) and middle-income groups (MIG) from January 2017. According to the scheme, borrowers are eligible for interest subsidy of 6.5 per cent per annum for loans up to Rs 6 lakh for EWS and LIG category (annual household income up to Rs 6 lakh). Borrowers in the MIG 1 category (annual household income between Rs 6-12 lakh) will get an interest subsidy of 4 per cent for loans up to Rs 9 lakh. The MIG 2 category (annual household income between Rs 12-18lakh) will get interest subsidy of 3 per cent for loans up to Rs 12 lakh. The benefit are for a maximum tenure of 20 years. The effective subsidy to customer is in the range of Rs 2.30-2.67 lakh on a 20-year term, receivable upfront. The schemes for MIG categories have been extended till March 31, 2021 and those for EWS/LIG are valid up to March 31, 2022. Renu Sud Karnad, managing director of HDFC Ltd, said, demand for housing will pick up gradually as the economy emerges out of the current difficult period and confidence in the economy is restored. “One must not forget that structural demand for housing for India will always be strong due to factors such as improved affordability, government’s thrust on affordable housing, favourable demographics, increasing urbanisation and rising aspirations,” Karnad said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||Tax caveat on PUBG clones ||Gaming companies looking to profit from the ban on PUBG with their alternative offerings need to be aware whether their product comes under the ambit of gambling  that will make them taxable. Games such as HitWicket, World Cricket Championship (WCC) or mythology-based games such as Raji are expected to take advantage of this opportunity and there’s a need for the government to recognise and promote such segments in India, said Lokesh Suji, director, Esports Federation of India. India is among the top five mobile gaming markets in the world and with Covid-19 this trend of more users and more time being spent on games is only multiplying. The three key segments of online gaming are — real money games (RMG), mobile-centric/casual games and e-sports. Within the RMG genre, the further sub classifications include rummy, poker, daily fantasy sports and quizzing. However, developers have to be wary of  the Public Gambling Act, 1867, adopted by several states. Though skill-based games do not come under gambling but analysts said they are open to wide interpretations under the rules. “Gaming companies should be careful regarding whether their model could be considered gambling or not. The rate of GST could change from 18 per cent to 28 per cent if it is gambling,” Meyyappan Nagappan, leader, digital tax, Nishith Desai Associate, said. “Other tax issues that can come up in real cash games is that tax authorities typically claim that GST has to be paid on the whole cash amount and not just the service fee part. Some of these aspects are pending before courts and considering the huge impact on revenues this could have, companies should tread carefully and seek proper legal advice,” Meyyappan added. “E-sports and other forms of real money skill gaming are different genres and one should not be confused with the other. Developers looking at innovating to bridge the void that PubG has left, should keep in mind compliance with content laws as well as intellectual property laws,” Ranjana Adhikari, co-head, Gaming, Nishith Desai Associates said. The ban on PUBG Mobile presents a great opportunity for indigenous home grown game development studios to showcase their talent and create exciting game formats, said Roland Landers, the CEO of All India Gaming Federation. “We are confident that games like Rogue Heist, a multi-player online shooter game, designed and developed in India, will fill the need gap,” Landers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||Centre wants air fare refund||The Centre has informed the Supreme Court that all domestic and international airlines were bound to refund money to passengers who had cancelled their domestic and international travel plans during the lockdown period from March 25 to May 3 because of the unprecedented pandemic situation — a move which is likely to bring cheers to lakhs of air passengers across the country. Though the airlines shall “immediately” refund the amount under the existing rules, however, in view of the financial crunch faced by the airlines, the Centre has suggested that it has agreed to give the option of “credit shell” to such passengers till March 31, 2021. If not utilised by that time, the airlines shall refund immediately thereafter. In an affidavit filed before the apex court, the ministry of civil aviation has said the refusal of the airlines to refund the amount would involve various punitive measures against such errant operators and has accordingly formulated a refund schedule by the airlines for the approval of the Supreme Court which is expected to take up the matter on September 9. The airlines shall refund all statutory taxes and user development fees, airport development fees, passenger service fee (PSF) in the case of cancellation or non-utilisation of tickets or a no show. This provision shall also be applicable to all 10 types of fares offered, including promos/special fares and where the basic fare is non-refundable. The affidavit has been filed by O.K. Gupta, director of the directorate general of civil aviation, in compliance with a directive issued by the court on June 6 to explain the stance on the refund of cancelled air tickets, in a PIL complaining about the refusal of the airlines both domestic and international to refund the cancelled tickets during the lockdown period. “The existing legal regime which is governed by Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR) recognises the rights of air passengers to seek refund of their air tickets. The said CARs are to protect the interest of air passengers so that in case of any violation of the provisions of the applicable CARs, appropriate enforcement action can be taken against the violator and the violation can be treated as deficiency of service and the passenger may also approach appropriate legal forum for availing legal remedy and redressing his/her grievances. “The policy of the central government is that every individual passenger has a right to seek refund of those tickets, the flight for which was cancelled without any fault of his/her. It is stated that non-refund of such fares amount to violation of provisions of the CAR. The said CAR is necessary to protect the interest of air passengers,”the affidavit filed through advocate V. Balram Das stated. Accordingly, the Centre has suggested the following formulations for approval by the apex court: If the domestic tickets have been booked during the first lockdown period, that is 25th of March, 2020 to 14th of April, 2020 for the journeys to be undertaken in both the first and second lockdown period, that is from 25th of March, 2020 to 3rd of May, 2020, in all such cases, full refund shall be given by the airlines immediately. For all other cases, the airlines shall make all endeavours to refund the collected amount to the passenger within 15 days. If on account of financial distress, if the airlines are not able to do so they shall provide a credit shell equal to the amount of fare collected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||Marginal growth on the horizon||A small positive economic growth in 2020-21 may not be ruled out as sectors such as agriculture and essential goods and services were fully operational in the first quarter despite the coronavirus-induced lockdown, according to a paper co-authored by former RBI governor C. Rangarajan. Rangarajan and India EY India chief policy advisor D. K. Srivastava in a paper titled “India’s Growth Prospects and Policy Options: Emerging from the Pandemic’s Shadow” stated that the story of the Indian economy as it unfolds under the impact of Covid-19 is disquieting. The paper noted that although many national and international agencies have projected a sharp contraction in the GDP in 2020-21, ranging from the World Bank’s projection of 3.2 per cent to SBI’s 6.8 per cent, there are reasons to believe that the outcome may be better than these strong contractionary prospects. “We may note that some key sectors such as agriculture and related sectors, public administration, defence services and other services may perform normally or better than normal given the demand for health services,” the paper said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||ITC gets a new CFO||ITC Ltd is going to have a new helmsman to steer its finances. Supratim Dutta, a lifer at the company, has been elevated as the chief financial officer (CFO) of the company. Following Dutta’s appointment from September 5, Rajiv Tandon will relinquish the role of CFO he held for close to a decade. Tandon will, however, continue to remain on the board of ITC as a wholetime director. Dutta will report to him. In the annual general meeting of the company on Friday, shareholders approved Tandon’s reappointment on the board of directors for one year with effect from July 22, 2021. Before joining the ITC board on January 22, 2016, Tandon, 66, was the CFO of the company. He continued to hold the post till the elevation of Dutta, who was designated as the corporate finance controller of ITC before the management shake-up. Dutta, 53, joined ITC on November 1, 1990, soon after qualifying as a chartered accountant and cost accountant. “He has wide ranging experience in the company for nearly 30 years, covering various aspects of finance, including planning, treasury, M&A, accounting, taxation, IT, investor relations and business strategy,” ITC said in a filing to the bourses. He was also the chairperson of the finance and banking committee of the Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry. Abneesh Roy, executive vice-president of Edelweiss Securities, termed the organisational restructuring as positive for ITC. “The average age of the top management continues to reduce, started earlier by the appointment of Sanjiv Puri as the chairman. He is quite accessible to the investors,” Roy said. In March this year, Vikas Gupta became the divisional chief executive of education and stationery business, while Rajnikant Rai was made the divisional chief executive of the agri business in July 2020. During the AGM, at least one shareholder had commented on the age of the board of directors. However, chairman and managing director Sanjiv Puri, who is 58, said age was not a factor to look at. “You should judge the effectiveness of a board and quality of governance, result and stakeholder management. And you will agree in all these respects, it has been exemplary,” Puri had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
07-09-2020||Business||Some number crunching on which tax regime should work best for those with home loans||From 2020-21, you have the option of planning your taxes based on one of the two tax regimes. The new tax regime, for which you will file your returns in AY2021-22, allows you to pay a lower rate of tax. But to avail it, you must forgo your tax deductions such as those under Sections 80C, 80D, and 24B. You could, of course, claim those deductions by remaining in the old regime but you’ll have to pay a higher tax rate there. At lower levels of income, the choice may be straightforward. You don’t need to pay any income tax if your taxable income is Rs 5 lakh or less. Even at a slightly higher income, if you don’t want the hassle of tax savings and want to enjoy a higher disposable income, the new regime may be the one for you. However, if you have committed to tax-saving measures, such as a home loan, life and health insurance, provident fund, NPS and others, the choice is more complicated. Some of these instruments are critical to your finances because they serve a larger function than just tax deductions. Giving them up isn’t an option. At the same time, is remaining in the old regime in your best interest? After all, your tax outgo may be simply lower in the new regime. How do you decide? The old regime with its higher tax rates is for those committed to various tax-saving measures. A home loan is one of the easiest ways to get sizeable tax deductions. All taxpayers are eligible for deductions up to Rs 1.5 lakh under Section 80C and up to Rs 2 lakh under Section 24B for principal and interest paid, respectively. Eligible borrowers can get further deductions for their home loans under Sections 80EE or 80EEA. Given that your home loan may be providing you deductions of more than Rs 2 lakh a year in many cases, and upwards of Rs 4 lakh in some rare cases, there may be a case for you to remain in the old regime. To make the case, you must do the math. To simplify the decision making process of the old versus new regime, you can apply the 20 per cent formula. Check if all your tax deductions combined are 20 per cent of your income. So, for example, if your income is Rs 10 lakh, your various deductions combined should be at least Rs 2 lakh. Even before you take a home loan, buy insurance or make tax-saving investments such as PPF, you may be eligible for several deductions. For example, all individual tax-payers are eligible for a standard deduction of Rs 50,000. Apart from this, you may claim deductions for such items as your office PF contributions, children’s tuition fees or rent. All put together, do your deductions reach 20 per cent of your income? If so, you should remain in the old regime. As Table1 demonstrates, at all levels of income, the old regime is better if you can get 20 per cent deductions. Do note this is merely a rule of thumb. You must refer to your particular income numbers to understand what is best for you. Use an online tax calculator to understand the numbers. Your home loan provides you a way to streamline your tax deductions. With it, you can get a large deduction of up to Rs  3.5 lakh under 80C and 24B. If you can hit the Rs 1.5 lakh limit under 80C with your principal paid, you don’t need additional tax-saving investments — and, therefore, you can also avoid the often messy trail of paperwork and proofs. If you’re falling short of the 80C limit with your principal payments, you could simply prepay your home loan to that extent. Your home loan deductions put together with your standard deduction (16IA) health insurance (80D), NPS (80CCD1), LTA [10(5)], education loan (80E), donations (80G) and others may bring your total deductions to 20 per cent. If you’re falling short, you can invest higher. If you cannot invest higher, you may be better off forgoing all deductions and opting for the new regime. At higher levels of income — let’s say upwards of Rs 20 lakh — the caps on deductions may make it difficult to reach the 20 per cent mark. Even home loan deductions taken to the fullest may fall short. But this can only be ascertained once you’ve done the math by calculating your tax liabilities in either regime. You may find that the new regime works best for you despite the heavy contributions you are making towards your home loan. Picking the right regime could save you thousands of rupees. When in doubt, speak to a tax adviser. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
