08-09-2020||Business||SBI to retire 30,000, not a cost-cutting measure says lender||The State Bank of India (SBI) on Monday said it proposes to recruit 14,000 employees during the current year and its “on tap VRS” is not a cost-cutting exercise. The country’s largest lender has planned a voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) under which about 30,190 employees are eligible. The proposed VRS is not a cost-cutting exercise, an SBI spokesperson said in a statement. The bank “has been employee friendly and is expanding its operations and requires people, which is evidenced by the fact that bank has plans of recruiting more than 14,000 employees this year”, the statement added. State Bank has an existing workforce of around 2.50 lakh and it has been at the forefront of serving employee needs, it said. “In this backdrop, it was thought to provide a congenial solution to employees who expressed desire to make a strategic shift in their vocations, either due to professional growth limitations, mobility issues, physical health conditions or family situations,” the statement said. According to the draft scheme, “Second Innings Tap VRS-2020” will be opened to all permanent officers and staff who have put in 25 years of service or completed 55 years of age on the cut-off date. In 2001, too, SBI had offered VRS to its employees. Ahead of amalgamation of SBI’s five associates with it in 2017, the merging subsidiaries had announced VRS for their employees. Earlier on Monday, Congress leader P Chidambaram slammed the proposed VRS. “News reports say that SBI plans to implement a VRS scheme as an ‘economic measure’. In normal times the plan would be debatable. In these abnormal times, when the economy has collapsed and jobs are scarce, it is cruel,” Chidambaram tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
08-09-2020||Business||Damodar Valley Corporation snaps Tata Power ties as it becomes self reliant||State-owned Damodar Valley Corporation has opted out of a power purchase agreement with its joint venture firm that has Tata Power as its partner. The move is aimed at streamlining the operations of the power major as its own generation improves. DVC officials said on Monday that a notice has been served to Maithon Power Limited (MPL), a 74:26 joint venture between Tata Power and DVC. The notice says DVC will no longer take the 150 MW of power that it sources from MPL from September 2021 onwards. MPL, a public private partnership in the power generation sector, has an installed capacity of 1050 MW comprising two units of 525 MW each located at Maithon in Jharkhand and commissioned between 2011 and 2012. The partnership involves DVC offering water from Maithon reservoir for thermal power generation. The project supplies power to the states of Jharkhand, Bihar, Bengal, Delhi and Punjab. According to DVC officials, the joint venture agreement signed 10 years back has a clause to review the power purchase agreement every five years. In the first five years, DVC has surrendered 150 MW and now has communicated its intention to surrender the remaining 150 MW. “DVC has many high tension consumers in Jharkhand and Bengal and earlier, many of our units were not stable suppliers because of their age. As a result, we needed these power purchase agreements. Over the last two years DVC has retired around 800 MW generation capacity and has improved its PLF (plant load factor) . We are now becoming self sufficient and can generate power ourselves at lower rates,” a DVC official said. With a thermal power generation capacity of 6960 MW and hydel capacity of 147.2 MW, DVC had achieved a PLF of 60.52 per cent in 2019-20 against a national PLF of 55.99 per cent. In August this year, the PLF has improved to 62.17 per cent. DVC officials also said that there is no near-term solution to clear the pending dues from the Jharkhand discom that has accrued to Rs 5,500 crore over the last five years despite the Centre urging all states, including Jharkhand, to take credit from PFC and REC at lower rates and clear the dues of their discoms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
08-09-2020||Business||RVNL selloff planned in third quarter||The government plans to divest a part of its stake in Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd through an offer for sale (OFS) by the end of October-December quarter as part of its plan to kick-start the stake sale process, which has been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Officials said an inter-ministerial group will meet soon to finalise the OFS and the quantum of stake to be sold in the next quarter. They said the government plans to bring down its stake in the firm below 75 per cent over a two-year period to comply with Sebi norms. At present, the government holds 87.84 per cent. In April last year, the government raised Rs 476 crore by selling its 12.12 per cent stake through an initial public offering of RVNL. The members of the group include officials from the Railway Board, Dipam, legal and finance ministry officials. Last week, the government invited bids to appoint merchant bankers and brokers to sell its stake in Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corp Ltd (IRCTC) through an offer for sale. The government at present  holds a 87.40 per cent stake in IRCTC. To meet Sebi’s public holding norm, the government has to lower its stake in the company to 75  per cent. The government intends to select and appoint up to four merchant bankers with requisite experience in public offerings, who together will form a team. The number of merchant bankers shall be decided at the time of appointment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
08-09-2020||Business||Delhi High Court directs SpiceJet to pay Marans||The Delhi High Court has directed SpiceJet to cough up Rs 243 crore to the Marans in six weeks. If it doesn’t, the court says the Marans will be allowed to press their claims for status quo on the shareholding of the budget airline. The ruling could jeopardise the plan to spin off the cargo business of the airline into a separate entity if promoter Ajay Singh refuses to comply. The Marans had signed a share purchase agreement with Ajay Singh on January 29, 2015 and transferred their entire 58.46 per cent shareholding to the businessman who has since run the budget airline. Under the 2015 agreement, KAL Airways Pvt Ltd and Kalanithi Maran were to be issued certain warrants and non-convertible redeemable cumulative preference shares (CRPS) in two tranches. Since these warrants were never given, the Marans have been pursuing a lawsuit and then an arbitration case against SpiceJet. The arbitration tribunal in July 2018 ordered a refund of Rs 579 crore — comprising Rs 308 crore received from the Marans as advance towards the subscription of warrants along with a 12 per cent interest for a period of 30 months. The case went on to the Supreme Court and the Delhi High court had ruled the Marans were due Rs 308 crore from SpiceJet plus interest payment. Though the Marans had received the sum in two tranches, first Rs 250 crore on April 30, 2019 and another Rs 58 crore on October 4, 2019, the interest was  not forthcoming. A large number of calculations were done to fix the final interest liability: the rates were calculated at 12 per cent and 18 per cent corresponding to various dates — leading to the final sum “Judgement Debtor (in this case SpiceJet and promoter Ajay Singh) is hereby directed to deposit a sum of Rs 242.93 crore as post-award interest sum within a period of six weeks. In the event the amount is not deposited, the Decree Holder(in this case Kalanithi Maran and his firm KAL Airways) shall be at liberty to seek directions to maintain status quo with respect to shareholding of SpiceJet Limited and Ajay Singh,” said the court. “We are reviewing the court order,” said a SpiceJet spokesman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
08-09-2020||Business||Bengal FM Amit Mitra finds Centre stimulus inadequate||The Narendra Modi- government spent just Rs 1 lakh crore more in the first four months of this fiscal to pump prime the economy ravaged by a once-in-a-century catastrophe, leading to an unprecedented 24 per cent contraction in GDP. “The Centre failed to create a demand pull in the system during this crucial period because it did not spend enough. Even though the headline screamed Rs 20 lakh crore of fiscal stimulus, the Centre just spent Rs 1.07 lakh crore more than the same period last year,” Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said on Monday. According to data offered by Mitra, who was trained as an economist, central expenditure between April and July  2020-21 was Rs 10.54 lakh crore compared with Rs 9.47 lakh crore in the same period of 2019-20. India’s GDP contracted by 23.9 per cent in the April-June period against 12.4 cent of Italy and 9.5 per cent of the United States, the two countries most affected by Covid-19 pandemic, other than India. By numbers, Rs 11 lakh crore of GDP was wiped away in the first quarter this year. “While there has been focus on the supply side, little attention was given to the demand side. I wonder if there are enough people in the Centre who understand macroeconomics. The United States came out of the Great Depression by boosting demand. We had to do the same,” Mitra said. According to the Bengal finance minister, 60 per cent of India’s GDP comes from consumption. This meant that if the Centre had put money in the hands of people, much of the Rs 11 lakh crore loss could be recouped as it would have come back to the system, Mitra argued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
08-09-2020||Business||Reliance Industries unveils spinoff plan for O2C business||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) has formally set in motion the process of spinning off its oil-to-chemical (O2C) business into a separate subsidiary and induct partners into the entity. It has come up with a detailed scheme of arrangement to transfer the undertaking to the O2C subsidiary through a slump sale, which is likely to be presented to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) for approval. At its annual general meeting in July, RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani had disclosed that they expect to complete this process of spinning off into a separate subsidiary by early 2021. Though a proposed deal with Saudi Aramco in the 02C business did not make much progress since its announcement last year, there has been some ray of hope recently with Aramco indicating that it is doing a due diligence on picking up a stake. According to the scheme of arrangement, the transferee company, or the O2C subsidiary, will be Reliance O2C Ltd. Slump sale is the sale of an undertaking on a going concern basis for a lump sum consideration without values being assigned to the individual assets and liabilities. Explaining the rationale for the divestment, RIL said that the nature of risk and returns involved in the O2C business are distinct from those of its other businesses and the O2C business attracts a distinct set of investors and strategic partners. RIL added that it has been exploring various opportunities to bring in strategic and other investors in the O2C business and that investors have expressed interest to make an investment. “RIL cannot issue shares with differential rights (equity shares with interest linked only to O2C Business) to the investor(s). Therefore, the O2C undertaking has to be transferred into a wholly owned subsidiary of RIL, in which the investor(s) will invest,” it added. The businesses which will go to the subsidiary include refining, petrochemicals, fuel retail (the majority interest of RIL), aviation fuel and bulk wholesale marketing businesses. Some of the assets that will go to the O2C undertaking are the refining and petrochemicals plants and manufacturing assets at RIL’s Jamnagar, Dahej, Hazira, Nagothane, Vadodara, Patalganga, Silvassa, Barabanki and Hoshiarpur units. Also to be included in the subsidiary are a 51 per cent equity interest in the petroleum retail joint venture with BP; a 100 per cent equity interest of RIL in each of Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte Ltd and Reliance Global Energy Services Ltd (UK) (trading subsidiaries), Reliance Industries Uruguay Petroquimica S.A, Reliance Ethane Pipeline Ltd; and a 74.9 per cent equity interest of RIL in Reliance Sibur Elastomers Pvt Ltd (a subsidiary of RIL and joint venture between RIL and Sibur Investments AG).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
08-09-2020||Business||New liquor levy not till November||The new excise duty structure on liquor involving taxes based on the declared price of foreign liquor is likely to be notified from November while that of country spirit will be notified next month. The state excise department has prepared the necessary directive for the final consent of the state government. The directive also sets a minimum sales target for retailers failing which they could lose their licence. In a meeting with the state officials on August 24, foreign liquor manufacturers had expressed their difficulties in formulating the ex-distillery price (EDP) in Bengal in a short notice with the state initially planning to implement the new structure from September. The state excise department is also in favour of implementing an annual minimum guaranteed quantity of sale from retail vends of foreign liquor and country spirit. A concept under discussion, this will offer retailers incentives if they can cross the target. If they miss the target, action can be taken including the non-grant of license. “This will be a double blow if implemented. Sales are not encouraging right now and the prices have been jacked up by additional duty. The new duty structure could push up the prices of some popular brands. In this situation if we fail to achieve the target, the licence could be lost,”said a city-based retailer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
08-09-2020||Business||Vodafone Idea displays new brand identity||Vodafone Idea on Monday unveiled a new brand identity — VI (pronounced as We) — which is a fusion of the brand identities of Vodafone India and Idea. Launching the brand, Ravinder Takkar, MD & CEO, Vodafone Idea said, “Vodafone Idea came together as a merged entity two years ago. We have, since then focussed on integrating two large networks, our people and processes. And today I am delighted to present Vi, a brand that will bring important meaning to lives of our customers. “Indians are optimistic and want to get ahead in life. They would love a credible partner to help them on this journey. Vi’s positioning is built around this promise and will focus on meeting the customer’s needs to help them thrive.” “Starting today, Vi ads will be on TV and digital platforms, followed by a high decibel intensive multi-media campaign. The brand buzz will then continue in the market over the coming weeks,” a statement said. The company claimed that it had “readied a robust, future-fit network built on many principles of 5G architecture”. There was no word on the fund-raising plan of Rs 25,000 crore unveiled last week or on the speculation surrounding Amazon and Verizon’s interest in picking up equity in the company which has an AGR burden of Rs 50,000 crore to pay over the next 10 years. Takkar, however, said the Supreme Court’s decision to extend the payment timeline for AGR dues by 10 years was a “good outcome” but stressed that mobile tariffs would need to be raised to give sustainability and returns to companies. The Voda Idea CEO said that in the past, the company had not shied away from raising tariffs — which are under forbearance — but insisted that the regulator and the government should take a call on fixing a minimum floor price. The Vodafone Idea stock witnessed volatility on Monday as investors were expecting an announcement with regard to the induction of new strategic investors. After opening higher at Rs 13.21 — a gain of 10 per cent, it gave up all these gains to hit an intra-day low of Rs 11.95. The share ended at Rs 12.30 — a rise of 2.41 per cent over the previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
08-09-2020||Business||Debt recast eligibility rules set||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday notified the new debt recast plan for businesses as it accepted the recommendations submitted by the KV Kamath committee. Banks will have to consider five key ratios while finalising the resolution plans of the borrowers hit by Covid-19-related stress. The committee — which submitted its recommendations to the RBI last Friday — has fixed the financial parameters for 26 sectors and lenders can make their assessment of the other sectors. The new resolution framework will replace the moratorium which ended on August 31. Under the new mechanism, only those accounts which have defaulted for not more than 30 days as on March 1 will be eligible for resolution. Banks have time till December 31 to invoke the resolution framework. The resolution plan must be implemented for corporate borrowers in 180 days from the date of invocation. In the case of personal loans, it must be implemented in 90 days. In a resolution plan, the lenders can extend the residual tenor of the loan by a maximum of two years and they can also give a loan moratorium. The resolution process will be treated as invoked once lenders representing 75 per cent by value and 60 per cent by number agree to invoke it. The five key ratios that have been recommended by the Kamath committee will have to be considered during the resolution process of a corporate account. The five ratios that should be considered by lending institutions are: total outstanding liability divided by adjusted tangible net worth; total debt divided by earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation & amortisation; current ratio (current assets divided by current liabilities); debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) and average debt service coverage ratio (ADSCR). DSCR is a metric which measures a firm’s ability to repay its current debt given its cash flows. The parameters may be considered as a guide to prepare a resolution plan. The plan may be prepared based on the pre-Covid operating and financial performance of the borrower and the impact of the pandemic on its operating and financial performance in the first and the second quarters to assess the cash flows for this year, the next and subsequent year. Some of the 26 most-affected sectors identified by the committee are automobile manufacturers, auto component makers, aviation, power, cement, chemicals, hotels, restaurants and tourism, iron and steel manufacturing, logistics, mining, textiles, consumer durables and FMCG, plastic product manufacturing, pharmaceutical manufacturing and construction. The RBI added that given the differential impact of the pandemic on various sectors or companies, the lending institutions may, at their discretion, adopt a ‘graded approach’ depending on the severity of the impact on the borrowers while preparing or implementing the resolution plan. Such a graded approach may also entail the classification of the impact on the borrowers into mild, moderate and severe. The signing of ICA is a mandatory requirement in all cases involving multiple lending institutions, where the resolution process is invoked. Additional provisions need to be made if the agreement is not signed within a month of invoking the resolution process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
