09-09-2020||Business||Covid: Travel & tourism industry likely to lose around Rs 5 lakh cr, says study||The coronavirus pandemic has dealt a crippling blow to the Indian travel and tourism industry. The entire value chain linked to the sector is likely to lose around Rs 5 lakh crore or USD 65.57 billion, according to a study by industry chamber CII and hospitality consulting firm Hotelivate. The organised sector alone is likely to lose USD 25 billion. The figures are quite alarming and the industry needs immediate measures for survival, according to the report from CII-Hotelivate. "This is the one of the worst crises to ever hit the Indian tourism industry impacting all its geographical segments - inbound, outbound and domestic, almost all tourism verticals - leisure , adventure, heritage, MICE, cruise, corporate and niche segments," it said. The shut down and slowdown, initially expected to affect revenue streams till October, have now indicated otherwise. Trends are currently indicating that only 30 per cent of occupancy in hotels till the start of next year, with hotels seeing an 80 to 85 per cent erosion in revenue streams, it said. According to the study, occupancy was at its peak in January this year at 80 per cent followed by February at 70 per cent, dipping to 45 per cent in March and then to the lowest at 7 per cent in April. In May, June, July and August occupancies were at 10 per cent, 12 per cent, 15 per cent and 22 per cent, respectively, it added. The CII-Hotelivate study has projected that the occupancy in September will be 25 per cent, 28 per cent in October, 30 per cent in November and 35 per cent in December. In a worst case scenario, the estimated loss in hotel for both branded and unbranded segments in 2020 is USD 19.31 billion (around Rs 1.42 lakh crore), it added. On the other hand, the report said the estimated revenue loss of travel agents and tour operators in a worst case scenario is USD 4.77 billion (about Rs 35,070 crore). However, in the best-case scenario, industry revenue will improve by 10-15 per cent, said the report, to which online travel services MakeMyTrip also contributed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||R.J. Shahaney no more||R.J. Shahaney, chairman Emeritus of Hinduja Group flagship company Ashok Leyland, died here on Tuesday following a brief illness, the heavy commercial maker said. Shahaney was the city-based company’s first managing director who served in that capacity between 1978 and 1998 and later as chairman till 2010. The company in a statement described him as a visionary architect who laid a strong foundation in manufacturing, engineering and technology. Ashok Leyland’s Hosur, Alwar and the Bhandara plants were the creations of Shahaney, the company said. Shahaney had also served the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) as its president. Ashok Leyland chairman Dheeraj Hinduja said: “We mourn the loss of a great leader, ally and friend.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||No salary for Vodafone Idea CEO||Vodafone Idea managing director and chief executive officer Ravinder Takkar will not be given any remuneration during his current tenure of three years, according to a proposal by the company. Vodafone Idea may bear expenses incurred by Takkar for the business of the company, the notice for the 25th annual general meeting  stated. The AGM is scheduled to be held on September 30. VIL appointed Takkar as its MD and CEO following the resignation of Balesh Sharma from the post. According to the notice, Takkar has been appointed as MD and CEO for a period of three years with effect from August 19, 2019. He will be given “nil remuneration”. His predecessor Sharma was paid Rs 8.59 crore in remuneration during his tenure and he was not entitled to any increase in the remuneration during 2019-20. Other terms of Takkar’s appointment provide that “the company may bear all the expenses relating to travelling, lodging, entertainment and all other incidental expenses for the business of the company as per policy of the company. Takkar will not be “paid any sitting fees for attending the meetings of the board of directors or any committee(s) thereof”, the notice said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||GST voting ignores majority||The number of states opposed to the Centre’s GST compensation policy far outnumber those in favour, but a tilted voting rule may see the Centre carry the day at the GST council meeting on Thursday, if a ballot is held on the contentious issue. The seven-day window for states to give their opinion on the Centre’s proposal to borrow from the market and recover their compensation cess dues is now over. Ten states including Punjab and Bengal are opposed to the idea of state borrowing and would prefer the Centre to do so and pass on the proceeds to the states. The GST Council will meet on Thursday to take a call on borrowing, The Centre can swing the decision in its favour with a one-third vote share in case of division. The states have been given two options: borrow Rs 97,000 crore to meet the shortfall arising because of GST implementation; or borrow Rs 2.35 lakh crore which includes the Rs 1.38 lakh crore that the Centre has refused to pay as this is attributed to Covid-related factors. The ten states opposing the two options are Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, Telangana, Pondicherry, Kerala and Bengal. Of the 31 states, 17 states have spelt out their stand. Four  states are in favour of borrowing Rs 97,000 crore — Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Tripura, while Manipur and Sikkim are in favour of the second option.  Karnataka has stated that it is ready to borrow but has not so far disclosed which option it would opt for. Given the growing opposition to the borrowing plans, it is likely the issue could be settled through voting at the council meeting. However, the Centre can bulldoze its way. Not just because most of the states are ruled by the BJP, but, the way the voting itself is structured. The rules specify that the weight of the Centre shall be 1/3rd of the total weight of the votes cast. So, among the members who cast their votes, the Centre’s vote is assigned a weight of 1/3 while the rest 2/3 is distributed to the states’ voting. The Centre has justified the borrowing by states in view the prevailing economic situation where its revenues were under greater strain than state GST revenues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||Indian economy: Forecasts indicate pandemic will wreak greater havoc than feared initially||A bunch of forecasts released on Tuesday indicate the pandemic will create a greater havoc on the Indian economy than feared initially. All the three numbers from Fitch Ratings, India Ratings and Research and American brokerage Goldman Sachs forecast contraction much deeper than their earlier projections for this financial year. Fitch Ratings has forecast a 10.5 per cent contraction. Goldman Sachs has sharply cut its 2020-21 GDP (gross domestic forecast) forecast to a contraction of 14.8 per cent. India Ratings revised its forecast to 11.8 per cent contraction from 5.3 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||Two men snap up top brands||It has been a prolonged period of retail carnage: storied names declaring bankruptcy, mass market brands closing thousands of stores, tens of thousands of shop employees furloughed or laid off, garment workers in dire straits. More ominous still are the predictions that we will never shop the same way again. For Jamie Salter and David Simon, however, it has been a time of great opportunity. Salter is the founder and chief executive of the Authentic Brands Group, a company known for buying the intellectual property of famous brands at discount prices and then striking licensing deals with other companies that want to stick those well-known names on their products. Simon is the chief executive of Simon Property Group, the largest mall operator in the United States with more than 100 properties. Together, they are reshaping the American retail landscape. Last week, they closed a deal to buy the bankrupt Brooks Brothers, the 202-year-old American fashion brand and retailer, for $325 million. Last month, they acquired Lucky Brand denim, and in February, they bought Forever 21. Together, the acquisitions will bring the global revenue generated by the company’s brands — a sprawling mix that includes Sports Illustrated and rights tied to Marilyn Monroe’s likeness — to $15 billion annually. And Salter is hunting for more. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||Byju’s raises $500m||Ed-tech major Byju’s has raised fresh funding from Silver Lake and existing investors, Tiger Global, General Atlantic and Owl Ventures. While the company did not disclose financial details, sources said Byju’s has raised $500 million (about Rs 3,672 crore) in the new round that valued it at $10.8 billion. “We are fortunate to be in a sector of positive relevance during this crisis. This has brought online learning to the forefront and is helping parents, teachers and students experience and understand its value,” Byju’s founder and CEO Byju Raveendran said. In a statement on Tuesday, Byju’s said the fresh funding round saw participation from Silver Lake, and existing investors Tiger Global, General Atlantic and Owl Ventures. “We are delighted to lead this investment and partner with Byju and his impressive team of education technology pioneers in their mission to help children in India and around the world achieve their true potential,” Greg Mondre, co-CEO of Silver Lake, said. Following the closure of schools because of  the ongoing pandemic, the company had made content on its learning app free for all students. Over the last few months, Byju’s has entered the after-school learning space with the launch of Byju’s classes, a comprehensive online tutoring program. Last month, Byju’s acquired WhiteHat Jr, a Mumbai-based coding platform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||PUBG severs Tencent link, may return||Days after the Indian government placed a ban on the popular gaming app, PUBG Corporation has barred Chinese firm Tencent Games from owning the game’s franchise in the country in an attempt to work around the ban. “PUBG Corporation has made the decision to no longer authorise the PUBG MOBILE franchise to Tencent Games in India. Moving forward, PUBG Corporation will take on all publishing responsibilities within the country,” the company said in a statement. PlayerUnknown’s BattleGrounds (PUBG) is an online multiplayer gaming application (app) developed and published by PUBG Corporation, a subsidiary of South Korean video game company Bluehole. The company, in its official statement, has said that it will work with the Indian government to find a solution that will allow gamers to continue playing the battle royale mobile game. “PUBG Corporation fully understands and respects the measures taken by the government as the privacy and security of player data is a top priority for the company. It hopes to work hand-in-hand with the Indian government to find a solution that will allow gamers to once again drop into the battlegrounds while being fully compliant with Indian laws and regulations,” the company said in its statement. Among the apps banned, PUBG is the most popular one. According to the Intelligence Firm Sensor Tower, India is a vast market for PUBG, clocking 175 million downloads of the game till date. It is 24 per cent of the total download in the world. India had banned 118 more Chinese apps on September 2. The list included apps such as Baidu and WeChat but the biggest name on it was PUBG Mobile. The Lite version of PUBG Mobile, designed specifically for markets such as India to work on slower internet, was also part of the list. Officials of the ministry of information and technology declined to comment on the South Korean firm distancing itself from Tencent. However, it would be interesting to see if the government reconsiders the ban on PUBG Mobile now that technically the game has no “links” with China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||Tata arm stalls base shift||Tata Steel Long Products Ltd, formerly Tata Sponge, has put its plans to shift the company’s registered address from Odisha to Bengal on ice after receiving some feedback from “key stakeholders”. The company had proposed to shift the office, which is important for regulatory and tax purposes, to Calcutta from Joda, where its sponge iron plant is located, and passed a resolution to this effect during the annual general meeting on July 15, 2019. TSLPL, formerly Tata Sponge, has now disclosed that it has decided not to pursue the proposal. “Basis the feedback received from the key stakeholders, the board at its meeting held on June 09, 2020, decided not to pursue the said proposal of shifting the registered office of the company, for the time being. Hence, the registered office of the company will continue to be at Joda, Odisha,” the company informed shareholders in the annual report. Shifting of headquarters or a registered office are often fraught with resistance, both political and local. For instance, any move to relocate public sector undertakings such as Coal India or Damodar Valley Corporation and regulator Tea Board of India from Calcutta has always drawn strong protest from all quarters in Bengal. Likewise, a plan to move the registered office of TSLPL would be challenging given the large and expanding presence of Tata Group in Odisha. The need to keep the Naveen Patnaik government in good humour is paramount given that Tata Steel Group, the parent of TSLPL, operates iron ore, chrome ore mines and two large integrated steel plants at Kalinganagar and Angul. Apart from expanding the two plants, it is contemplating construction of a new port in Odisha — tasks that would require administrative support. In comparison, Tata Group’s presence in Bengal has grown modestly in the last 10 years. Sources said TSLPL realised it was not worth the effort to shift the registered office given the sentiments attached to it. However, the corporate office of the company is now formally located at Tata Centre in Calcutta, the address of various Tata Steel Group companies. A synergy with the rest of the group firms was one of the drivers for the proposed shift. Explaining the rationale, it had informed the shareholders in 2019. It had cited “operational efficiency and convenience of the board of directors” as some of the reasons for the shift. “Tata Steel is the parent company of Tata Sponge and all major Tata Steel Group companies have their registered offices in Calcutta. For the ease of liaising with common regulatory authorities and to meet other compliance requirements smoothly, the company proposes to shift its registered office within the same jurisdiction i.e. to the state of Bengal and within the jurisdiction of the registrar of companies at Calcutta. “To improve operational efficiency and convenience of the board of directors and to streamline the management of affairs, the board of directors at its meeting held on April 18, 2019, accorded their recommendation to shift the registered office of the company from Odisha to Bengal.” It had noted that such a move was “in the best interest of the company, shareholders and all parties concerned and shall not be detrimental to the interest of members of the public, shareholders, creditors or employees”. It appears now that local interest has trumped for now and Bengal would be a loser, again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||Recast load more on smaller banks||More debt recast cases may arise in small and mid-sized banks than the bigger ones with the RBI accepting the recommendations of the KV Kamath panel and setting into motion the recast mechanism to help borrowers affected by the pandemic. The Kamath panel recommended five ratios that lending institutions have to consider while finalising their resolution plans . It also identified 26 most affected sectors where various thresholds have been prescribed. The panel said that Rs 38 lakh crore of bank debt exists  in the key sectors affected by Covid-19, forming 37 per cent of total credit. Moreover, the top 10 affected sectors account for close to 29 per cent of the credit. Analysts, however, remain divided over the impact of the proposals. They fear banks may only postpone the stress in a restructured account, which may turn into non-performing assets, if the conditions do not improve. Some of the larger lenders are taking comfort from the relatively lower number of accounts opting for the loan moratorium, which ended on August 31 in the second round. In SBI, around 9 per cent of its borrowers opted for the repayment relief in the second round (June-August) against 23 per cent earlier. Some of the other lenders where the loan moratorium ratio was in single digits included HDFC Bank, Axis and Kotak Bank. Arijit Basu, managing director, SBI, told a television channel on Tuesday the lender does not expect too many applications for the one-time restructuring while hinting the low loan moratorium ratio signals improved conditions at the level of the borrowers. According to analysts at Motilal Oswal Institutional Equities, 20-25 per cent of the moratorium book will be restructured in mid-sized banks, while large banks expect restructuring in low single digits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||Virus rot deeper than feared ||Three forecasts of the gross domestic product (GDP) for the current fiscal show contraction to be much deeper than their initial assessments — because of the untramelled spread of the virus and intermittent lockdowns which have devastated all sectors barring agriculture. The projections of Fitch Ratings, India Ratings and Research and American brokerage Goldman Sachs estimated deeper contractions even as the economy took a despairing 23.9 per cent plunge in the first quarter. Fitch Ratings has forecast 10.5 per cent contraction against its earlier forecast of 5 per cent contraction made in June. Fitch has projected global GDP  to contract 4.4 per cent in the current year but revised upwards China’s growth estimate to 2.7 per cent for 2020. Goldman Sachs has sharply cut its 2020-21 GDP forecast to a contraction of 14.8 per cent, saying the Indian economy is the worst-hit among the major ones. It had earlier estimated an 11.8 per cent contraction. Domestic rating agency India Ratings revised its forecast to 11.8 per cent contraction from 5.3 per cent contraction made earlier. The agency, however, expects GDP to rebound and grow at 9.9 per cent year-on-year in 2021-22 mainly due to the weak base of 2020-21.  According to the agency, the retail and wholesale inflation in the country is expected to come in at 5.1 per cent and negative 1.7 per cent, respectively, in 2020-21. Fitch said multiple challenges are holding back growth recovery, both in the short and medium term. “New cases of the coronavirus continue to increase, forcing some states and Union territories to re-tighten restrictions... The continued spread of the virus and the imposition of sporadic shutdowns across the country depress sentiment and disrupt economic activity,” Fitch said. It further noted that the severe fall in activity has also damaged household and corporate incomes and balance sheets, amid limited fiscal support. According to Goldman Sachs, activity across all sectors barring agriculture contracted because of the lockdowns. The nearly two-month-long lockdowns chilled economy activity but was unable to contain the number of infections, which stands at 40 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
09-09-2020||Business||Japan GDP drop worst since War||Japan’s economy sank deeper into its worst postwar contraction in the second quarter as the coronavirus jolted businesses more than initially thought, underscoring the daunting task the new Prime Minister faces in averting a steeper recession. Other data put that challenge in perspective, with household spending and wages falling in July as the impact of the pandemic kept consumption frail even after lockdown measures were lifted by the government in May. The world’s third-largest economy shrank an annualised 28.1 per cent rate in April-June, more than a preliminary reading of a 27.8 per cent contraction, revised gross domestic product (GDP) data showed on Tuesday, suffering its worst postwar contraction. The data will put the new prime minister, to be elected in a ruling party leadership race on September 14, under pressure to take bolder economic support measures. Chief cabinet secretary Yoshihide Suga, the frontrunner to become next premier, has signalled his readiness to boost spending if he were to lead the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
