10-09-2020||Business||Airfare refund quibble||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to clarify through an additional affidavit the government’s assurance that passengers who had booked flight tickets before the Covid-19 lockdown would also be refunded the cancelled fares along with those who had booked tickets during the actual lockdown period. The court passed the direction after senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for some passengers, expressed apprehension that the recent affidavit filed by the DGCA did not specify whether those passengers who booked tickets prior to the lockdown would be refunded the cancelled fares, too. “We only want to say relief should not be confined to those who booked tickets during the first lockdown. “The affidavit gives an impression that relief is confined to only those who had booked during the first lockdown. Relief should be granted to everyone whose flights had been cancelled because of the lockdown,” Hegde said. Justice Ashok Bhushan asked solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, whether cancellation of tickets for travel during lockdown but booked before it were also taken care of, to which Mehta said: “Yes.” However, the court wanted a written assurance and asked the government to clarify the point through an additional affidavit. “Airlines and other stakeholders have prayed for one week’s time to file their reply to the affidavit. The request in granted. “Tushar Mehta may also file the additional affidavit within the same period,” the bench headed by Justice Bhushan said, listing the matter for further hearing on September 23. The Centre had in a recent affidavit assured the court that passengers would be entitled to full refund of their cancelled fares for all tickets booked during lockdown 1 and 2 between March 25 to May 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||Business||Satchet-sized credit only way to survive: Viral Acharya||Public sector banks should learn from FMCG players and “democratise credit”, a move that can help state-run banks solve the “biggest fiscal challenge” of recapitalisation, former RBI deputy governor Viral Acharya said on Wednesday. Acharya further said that re-privatisation of the lenders is necessary to help reduce the recapitalisation burden and stressed that public sector banks (PSBs) have had a mixed performance on financial inclusion. Banks were nationalised in 1969 and depend on the government for capital support, which has gone up with the spurt in NPAs. In the present times, as Covid-19 is likely to have an impact on buffers, many of the private sector banks have already raised capital but most of the PSBs are yet to move on and there is speculation of re-privatising some of the PSBs. “There are some PSBs whose business model is so broken in my assessment that there won’t be any immediate suitors who are interested in buying their equity in a significant manner or at decent prices. What is the option? I’d say they should focus on sachetisation or democratisation of credit,” Acharya said, speaking at a summit organised by ETBFSI.com. “Learning from the FMCG companies on how to democratise credit through a satchetisation approach would actually solve one of the biggest fiscal challenges that the country faces right now, which is how to ensure that the bills the government has to keep paying for recapitalising public sector banks can be brought down,” he added. Just like the fast-moving consumer goods ((FMCG) companies did with the shampoo selling in the 1970s, credit can be extended in small packets by such state-run lenders to the financially excluded people, Acharya said. SBI managing director Arijit Basu warned that banks should not solely focus on the retail segment as sluggish growth can impact this category of loans. “A complete shift to retail may not be in the best interests because if your economy doesn’t grow, even your retail at some point of time would get impacted,” Basu said at the virtual event. SBI on Wednesday said it has raised Rs 4,000 crore through  Basel-III compliant debt instruments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||Business||Flaws surface in Boeing Dreamliner ||Boeing Co has warned of delays in deliveries of its 787 Dreamliner as three separate production flaws over the past year hamper efforts to develop an alternative cash cow to its grounded 737 MAX. In the latest issue, Boeing learned during fabrication of the 787 horizontal stabiliser that some components were clamped with greater force than specified, which could result in improper gap verification and shimming. Boeing identified the problem in February and announced it on Tuesday. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) said it “is investigating manufacturing flaws affecting certain Boeing 787 jetliners. The agency continues to engage with Boeing”. A person briefed on the matter said the horizontal stabiliser issue could require the inspection of as many as about 900 airplanes. Boeing said the stabiliser issue, identified at a production plant in Salt Lake City, Utah, was being corrected on airplanes not yet delivered and was not an immediate flight safety issue. “Analysis is underway to determine if action is required on the in-service fleet,” Boeing added. On Monday, the FAA said it was also investigating two other manufacturing flaws in some Boeing 787 Dreamliners, but said it was too early to say if it will require new inspections. In late August, Boeing had said that airlines had removed eight 787 Dreamliners from service as a result of two distinct manufacturing issues in fuselage sections. Boeing said on Monday some airplanes have shims that are not the proper size, and some airplanes have areas that do not meet skin flatness specifications. Boeing identified the shimming issue in August 2019. “Individually these issues, while not up to specifications, still meet limit load conditions. When combined in the same location, however, they result in a condition that does not meet limit load requirements,” Boeing said. Boeing said it expected the inspections to affect the timing of 787 deliveries in the near term. Boeing also said it secured its first 737 MAX order in 2020, while also recording more cancellations as customers continued to ditch orders for the grounded MAX jets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||Business||Freight sop boosts rail cargo traffic||Concessions have pushed up overall freight loading for Eastern Railways, which has set its sight to surpass the target of 69 million tonnes for 2020-21. Coal comprises over 60 per cent of the cargo handled by Eastern Railways. The Railway Board had earlier decided to offer a 15-20 per cent concession on coal, iron ore and steel over long distances. For short-distance traffic, the concessions range from 10-50 per cent, except coal and iron ore. While the railways is considering more sops, carrying coal over shorter distances such as less than 100 km is unlikely to be viable. With barely any passenger traffic, Eastern Railways is gradually picking up freight loading since June. “April and May were lean  periods for us. From June, we have seen a growth in freight loading. August was on a par with last year as some of the coal mines were flooded. With industry picking up, the numbers are expected to go up and we expect to surpass the target for the year,” said Suneet Sharma, general manager, Eastern Railways.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||Business||LVMH-Tiffany deal off||The $16.2-billion deal that would have brought together LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton and Tiffany & Company, which would have been the biggest acquisition ever in the luxury sector, is cratering. On Wednesday, LVMH said it was withdrawing its offer to buy Tiffany, while Tiffany said it had filed a lawsuit to force the luxury giant to move forward with its offer. There has been concern for months that LVMH would seek to renegotiate the deal, which was announced last November, in light of the stress the pandemic has put on the jewellery business. LVMH said in statement on Wednesday that it couldn’t complete the deal “as it stands”, citing a request from the French government to delay the deal beyond January 6, 2021, because of the threat of US tariffs on French goods. In a filing with the Securities Exchange Commission, Tiffany said that while LVMH had informed the jeweller that it had received a letter from the French government to delay the deal, the company had not yet seen a copy of that letter. Tiffany’s lawsuit, filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery on Wednesday, claims that LVMH is in breach of its contract relating to obtaining antitrust clearance. It rejects the idea that LVMH can avoid the deal by claiming that Tiffany has undergone a “material adverse effect” that would have breached its deal obligations. The lawsuit also says that LVMH cannot avoid completing the deal because it is inconsistent with its patriotic duties as a French company. Tiffany decided to sue LVMH over frustration that 10 months after the agreement, it had not yet filed for antitrust approval in the European Union, a source said. The proposed acquisition appeared to be a savvy move by LVMH, the world’s largest luxury goods company by sales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||Business||Texmaco Rail shelves rights issue||Texmaco Rail and Engineering on Wednesday said that it will not proceed with a proposed rights issue amid the crash in the economy. Instead its promoters will infuse Rs 200 crore through a preferential allotment. Texmaco said its board had met on Tuesday and decided to call off the rights issue because its share price had fallen since the rights were announced in April. “In view of the impracticality of the issue now, the board has decided not to proceed with the rights issue.” On the BSE, Texmaco shares fell to Rs 37 on Wednesday compared with a 52-week high of Rs 56.15. The gross revenue of the Adventz group firm, headed by Saroj Kumar Poddar, for the April-June quarter was Rs 225 crore compared with Rs 399 crore in the corresponding period a year ago. Net loss during the quarter was Rs 27 crore compared with a profit of Rs 10 crore in the corresponding period previous year. “The silver lining is privatisation of railway services and boost to rail infrastructure. This would lead to generation of new opportunities,” Texmaco said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||Business||Eveready net jumps on cost check||Eveready Industries has posted a three-fold increase in net profit in the first quarter of the year, backed by a sharp drop in raw material prices, better product mix and stringent cost control. The storage cell battery maker recorded a profit of Rs 23.61 crore in April-June of 2020-21 compared with Rs 6.85 crore earned in the same period last year even as the operating income went down 18 per cent to Rs 263.45 crore from Rs 321.04 crore on a like-to-like basis. Battery and flashlight, the mainstay of Eveready’s business, did well in the month of May and June where volumes were higher by 12 per cent and 6 per cent, respectively, over the same period last year. “We have been able to contain cost and also sell premium category products (in battery) with higher margins. The results were achieved despite April being a washout,” Amritanshu Khaitan, managing director of Eveready, said. A higher demand for batteries was accounted by two factors —depleted inventory in the distribution chain because of the prolonged lockdown in the economy and a continuous fall of cheap Chinese import. The first-quarter profit of power producer CESC dipped 13.4 per cent to Rs 200 crore from Rs 231 crore in the same period last year. Total income went down 24.3 per cent to Rs 2,465 crore from Rs 3,257 crore a year ago as the company faced problems in tariff collection from consumers during the lockdown period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||Business||Silver Lake first to bet on RIL Retail||An investor rush is on way in Reliance Industries’ retail business — just as a bevy of marquee names flocked to its digital arm amid the economic mayhem triggered by the pandemic. A beginning was made on Wednesday when Reliance announced US private equity firm Silver Lake Partners will pick up 1.75 per cent in Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd for Rs 7,500 crore. Silver Lake is likely to be followed by KKR, which is reportedly in advanced talks to invest around $1.5 billion as Mukesh Ambani looks to lay the marker for Jeff Bezos’s Amazon and Walmart-led Flipkart in India. Silver Lake’s investment values Reliance Retail Ventures at a pre-money equity value of Rs 4.21 lakh crore, its second-billion dollar investment in a Reliance subsidiary after its $1.35 billion investment in Jio Platforms announced earlier this year. As much as Rs 1.52 lakh crore has been invested by 13 investors in Jio Platforms, the RIL subsidiary for digital services, and market circles are not ruling out the possibility of some of them picking up stakes in the retail arm as well. Speculation is rife on Facebook and Google’s interest as they try to create a base for their payment platforms, to be followed by others such as General Atlantic and Mubadala. It is learnt that all the 13 investors in Jio Platforms have been offered a chance to invest in the retail unit. “We believe technology will be key to bringing the much-needed transformation in this sector so that various constituents of the retail ecosystem can collaborate to build inclusive growth platforms. Silver Lake will be an invaluable partner in implementing our vision for Indian Retail,’’ Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of RIL, said. While RIL had used the proceeds from the transactions in Jio Platforms to largely retire debt, it is now likely to plough the money in retail to scale up the business, more particularly the e-commerce operations in food and grocery as it looks to integrate more small shops. The announcement of the deal led to RIL shares settling 2.57 per cent higher at Rs 2,161.25 on the BSE. RIL has a market capitalisation of around Rs 14.24 lakh crore if one was to include the partly paid shares. The transaction has also thrown up questions on whether RIL is adequately valued at the current market price or is there is more upside in the stock. Amid differences, analysts have put the sum-of-parts valuation of the various businesses at around Rs 16 lakh crore: over Rs 4 lakh crore for the oil-to-chemicals business, Rs 4.2 lakh crore for retail, Rs 6 lakh crore for Jio Platforms and cash in books of over $1 billion. Going by this estimate, there could be only some upside left in the stock. While the latest transaction values Reliance Retail at over $58 billion post investment, it is below the estimate of brokerages such as CLSA. The brokerage said the deal value of Rs 4.21 lakh crore is 12 per cent lower than the Rs 4.77 lakh crore equity value assigned in its September 2021 target price. The brokerage has a sum-of-parts-valuation of Rs 14.32 lakh crore: Rs 4.7 lakh crore for O2C business, Rs 4.62 lakh crore (excluding the minority interest) for Jio, Rs 4.7 lakh crore for the retail business and Rs 44,700 crore as the value of other business minus debt. On the other hand, BofA Securities has a fair value of Rs 15.92 lakh crore on Reliance Industries minus debt and other payables of Rs 58,600 crore. It has an enterprise value of Rs 11.70 lakh crore on the consumer business and Rs 5.51 lakh crore on the other business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||Business||Clamour for stimulus to kick start demand||The government needs to go in for a major fiscal push on the demand side to return to positive growth trajectory, according to an industry survey released on Wednesday. “In the absence of a major fiscal push on the demand side, we could end up being stuck in a quagmire of low demand and low-income cycle. If we have to return to the positive growth trajectory, the time for bold and decisive action is now,” Ficci president Sangita Reddy said. Reddy said reviving the economy requires sustained efforts, especially when we have seen that in the first quarter, the gross domestic product (GDP) has suffered a major blow. In May, the government had announced a new financial package of over Rs 20 lakh crore. The Ficci-Dhruva Advisors survey, conducted in August among 166 firms, showed that some of their operational parameters were improving as the economy is progressively opening up in phases. However, improvement in performance on a sustained basis will have to wait, Ficci said. Dhruva Advisors LLP chief executive Dinesh Kanabar said the survey results were a reflection of the gradual improvement in the Indian economy after the staggered unlocking. “In the next phase, it is imperative that the critical business parameters continue to improve and are fast-tracked with government support and stimulus,” Kanabar said. He added that this would help the overall economy to grow. The chamber said the government and regulatory institutions must continue to lend strength to businesses through all possible measures as well as improve those already announced based on feedback from stakeholders. The survey respondents felt additional cash transfers for migrant workers, the poor and farmers, a temporary reduction in GST rates, an increase in government procurement; front-ending infrastructure projects and part-funding of wages would help. They also suggested that the Centre must come out with a uniform policy for entry of tourists across various states as movement of people will promote regional economies. In case of pending dues from a government entity, either the government should release the funds against the bank guarantee which will be part of the restructuring programme or the government should guarantee the release of these funds, they suggested. Hospitality, tourism, retail, healthcare, real estate and aviation sectors need a special package, said the surveyed companies. India’s travel and tourism industry and the entire value chain is likely to lose around Rs 5 lakh crore, or $65.57 billion, because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Hotel occupancy is likely to be at 30 per cent till early next year, according to a study by CII and hospitality consulting firm Hotelivate. The figures are quite alarming and the industry needs immediate measures for survival, the report says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
