11-09-2020||Business||Titagarh inks solar power pact||Titagarh Wagons has signed a power purchase agreement with renewable energy firm Fourth Partner Energy to procure 4.8MW of solar power for its units in Bengal. The company plans to replace 25 per cent of its current annual electricity demand with clean energy. Three installations in Titagarh and Uttarpara will be spread over 48,000 square metre of roof space which will offset over 1.3 lakh tonnes of carbon in the next two decades for Titagarh Wagons. The installation is expected to be commissioned by January 2021. “Apart from a significant reduction in our carbon footprint, solar power is cheaper than grid electricity. We expect to see substantial savings in our annual power cost through solar energy. We shall evaluate adding solar power capacity in these as well as other units to increase the percentage of clean energy used in our plants,” said Pritish Chowdhary, vice-president, Titagarh Wagons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||Inflation forecast above target||There is unlikely to be any good news on the inflation front with prices rising above the Reserve Bank of India’s medium term target in August, a Reuters poll has showed. The poll of nearly 50 economists showed retail inflation to rise 6.85 per cent for the month because of supply disruptions which kept food and fuel prices high. Though this is lower than the 6.93 per cent rise in July, it still means that headline CPI inflation is above the RBI’s target of 2-6 per cent for the fifth straight month. This would disappoint those expecting another round of interest rate cut from the RBI. The central bank has since March brought down the policy repo rate by 115 basis points. However, firm inflation saw the monetary policy committee deciding on a status quo in the August policy. A report from the economic research wing of State Bank of India (SBI) also expects inflation to be well above the 6 per cent mark in August. Attributing the recent surge in retail inflation to huge government procurement and supply disruptions on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the SBI report said the rate of price rise was likely to come down to below 4 per cent only after December. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation during August was likely to remain at about 7 per cent, SBI Ecowrap said. The data is scheduled to be released on Monday. However, the report said that it looks difficult to believe that supply disruptions would normalise soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||Fuel demand declines in August||The country’s fuel demand in August saw its biggest decline in monthly sales since April because of a surge in coronavirus cases which continue to impact economic activity. Sales of refined fuels, a proxy for oil demand, fell to 14.39 million tonnes in August, about 16 per cent lower from a year earlier, its sixth consecutive year-on-year slide. It also fell 7.5 per cent from July, its biggest month-on-month decline after April, data from the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) of the ministry of petroleum and natural gas showed. Fuel demand had slumped a record 48.6 per cent in April to 9.4 million tonnes as the government imposed a nationwide lockdown in an attempt to curb the spread of coronavirus. It recovered in the subsequent two months but has been falling again since July, on a monthly basis. Sale of diesel, the most consumed fuel, fell 12 per cent to 4.84 million tonnes in August from 5.51 million tonnes in the previous month. Petrol sales fell 7.4 per cent year-on-year to 2.38 million tonnes although it rose 5.3 per cent from 2.26 million tonnes in July as commuters preferred driving personal vehicles to using public transportation. Demand for aviation turbine fuel grew 9.9 per cent to 256 million tonnes, growing for the fourth consecutive month, as domestic carriers ramped up services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||Indiabulls sells UK bank stake||Indiabulls Housing Finance on Thursday said it has sold a part of its stake in the UK-based OakNorth Holding Ltd, the parent company of OakNorth Bank Ltd, to HighSage Ventures LLC for Rs 440 crore. In a regulatory filing, Indiabulls Housing Finance said that the sale proceeds will be accretive to the regulatory net worth and the capital to risk weighted assets ratio (CRAR) of the non-banking finance company. On Wednesday, the company had informed about a partial stake sale in OakNorth Bank in one or more tranches to boost its capital. HighSage Ventures LLC is a Boston-based investment firm with an investor network spanning the venture capital, private equity and public equity communities. “The company plans to conclude a few other transactions on the partial stake sale in OakNorth Bank over the next few days. The divestments in OakNorth Bank will result in boosting CRAR and shall free up capital to grow the loan book of the company,” Indiabulls Housing Finance added. OakNorth Bank was launched in September 2015 and the company had invested Rs 663 crore in November 2015 for a 40 per cent stake in the bank. With the first major investment from Indiabulls Housing in 2015, the bank started addressing the mid-market funding gap in the UK, a business similar to loans against property business that Indiabulls Housing has done very successfully, the non-bank lender said. The Indiabulls Housing Finance stock closed at Rs 194.55 on the BSE, down 3.28 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||CIL to revive 12 closed mines||Coal India is planning to revive underground mine production in a bid to boost overall output. The public sector miner has identified 12 mines with provisional reserves of around 1,060 million tonnes (mt). Of these, eight mines with estimated reserves of 596mt belong to Eastern Coalfields and four mines with a reserve of 464 mt belong to Bharat Coking Coal. Bengal and Jharkhand stand to benefit from this revival move with all 12 mines spread across the two states. Of the 12 mines, seven are in Bengal. Coal India’s primary production is from opencast mining with underground mining constituting less than 10 per cent of the overall production. According to Coal India officials, these underground mines were discontinued earlier not because of exhaustion of reserves but on account of difficult geo-mining conditions, economic unviability and lack of suitable methods at that time to extract coal from deep seated reserves. Underground mines tend to have better quality of coal. Moreover, five of the mines have coking coal, which is used in steel making and is scarce in the country . “With the advancement of technology in coal mining, it is now possible to extract the locked coal reserves of these mines and this has prompted us to explore this option once again,” a CIL executive said. The Central Mine Planning and Design Institute, the in-house mine consultancy arm of Coal India, will prepare a feasibility report. Subsequently, coal companies will float tenders according to their requirement to engage suitable developers and operators and firms with the requisite technical knowhow to pursue the operations on their behalf. “The project is on the drawing board but CIL aims to start the process soon to bring these mines to active production. This is an effort towards increasing production from indigenous sources,” said the executive. In the ongoing fiscal, Coal India has increased its pace of production, recording a 9.3 per cent growth in offtake and 7.1 per cent growth in production for August compared with last year after mining in the early months was affected by the nationwide lockdown and the monsoons. “The growth slowdown is contained and going forward we hope to maintain our production and off-take tempo,” the executive said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||BSNL asset sale plan||The department of telecommunications has mooted a draft cabinet note on asset monetisation of BSNL and MTNL as part of a Rs 69,000-crore revival package for the state-owned telecom firms. Officials said the asset monetisation will help the two operators to upgrade their network, offer voluntary retirement schemes and also repay a part of their debt. The two PSUs have a combined debt of about Rs 40,000 crore. Sources said CBRE, JLL and Knight Frank  — the consultants appointed to identify the land and other properties for monetisation —have submitted their preliminary reports. The land parcels identified are spread across the country in locations such as Mumbai, Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai and Ghaziabad. The three consultants were asked to look at the valuation of the land assets, gauge the market appetite and assess the process that could be adopted for monetisation. The officials said it would take a few years for the asset monetisation process to be complete and much would depend on the prevailing market conditions. The draft cabinet note just kicks off the process. Sanjay Dhotre, the minister of state for communications, had informed the Lok Sabha last year that BSNL and MTNL had identified 14 and 16 properties, respectively, “for monetisation through the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM). Eleven  properties of BSNL and six of MTNL have been approved for monetisation by DIPAM’s Alternate Mechanism”. In October last year, telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had said: “BSNL and MTNL are strategic assets. They will raise a sovereign bond of Rs 15,000 crore and their assets will be monetised. The cabinet has also approved an attractive VRS package for the employees.” Over the last few weeks, both the companies have launched their VRS plans and thousands of employees have opted for the scheme. The scheme will help reduce BSNL’s wage bill by 50 per cent and MTNL’s by 75 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||Jane Fraser to lead Citigroup||Citigroup said on Thursday that its chief executive, Michael Corbat, plans to retire in February, paving the way for his top lieutenant, Jane Fraser, to become the first woman to lead a big Wall Street bank. Corbat, who has served as chief executive since 2012, will be succeeded by Fraser, who is Citi’s president and the head of its global consumer banking business. A 16-year veteran of the firm, Fraser was teed up as the bank’s next CEO last year when she was promoted to her current role. Fraser has also overseen several of the bank’s businesses, serving as the chief executive of its private bank, its Latin American region and its US consumer and commercial bank and mortgage business. She worked at Goldman Sachs and McKinsey & Company before joining Citi in 2004. “We believe Jane is the right person to build on Mike’s record and take Citi to the next level,” John C. Dugan, Citi’s chairman, said in a statement. “She has deep experience across our lines of business and regions, and we are highly confident about her.” Fraser’s ascension will break one of corporate America’s longest-enduring glass ceilings. At a hearing of the House Financial Services Committee last April, one lawmaker asked Corbat and six of his peers to raise their hand if any of them believed they would be succeeded by a woman or person of colour. None did. Fraser, 53, is poised to join a very small group of female leaders at major corporations. There are only 31 women among the CEOs of the 500 companies that make up the S&P 500 stock index, according to the advocacy group Catalyst. Succession plans at other Wall Street firms may now attract more attention. JPMorgan Chase, for example, has two women, Marianne Lake and Jennifer Piepszak, among the potential candidates to succeed its longtime chairman and chief executive Jamie Dimon. Under Corbat — who took over in 2012 after the sudden resignation of his predecessor, Vikram S. Pandit, amid a revolt by its board — the bank sought to rebuild after the 2008 global financial crisis. In its statement, Citi noted that its net income during Corbat’s tenure grew to nearly $20 billion last year, from $7 billion in 2012. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||SC against interest penalty||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it will announce its verdict on the plea for an interest waiver during the six-month loan moratorium period till August 31 in two weeks’ time. The court allowed parties to file all documents and decisions in the next two weeks. The court indicated that banks may not be allowed to charge interest on interest during the six-month moratorium period on loans even as it gave the Centre and the RBI two weeks to come out with a suitable mechanism on charging interest from customers and allay their apprehensions regarding credit rating downgrades by banks. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah passed the directions after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the Centre sought two weeks adjournment on the grounds that the issue with regard to compound interests, downgrading of credit ratings during the moratorium period was being considered “at the highest level”. “With respect to interest, we are yet to take a decision but on the aspect of debiting of interest on interest, we are inclined to pass an order that it may not be debited,” Justice Bhushan heading the bench orally observed during the hearing. In other words, the court holds prima facie the view that it would not be proper for banks to charge interest on interest during the six-month moratorium on loans announced by the RBI which ended on August 31. The court also recorded the submission of various petitioners that status quo be maintained on the court’s interim order. The order said no account shall be declared NPA by banks post August 31 till the present matter was resolved. The bench was dealing with a batch of petitions filed by UP-based businessman Gajendra Sharma and several others challenging the banks’ decision to charge interests on interests during the six-month moratorium period. The petitioners also wanted the extension of the moratorium period which had ended on August 31. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for banks’ association said that norms and guidelines have to be issued with regard to individual borrowers. The bench asked who will formulate “these norms” to which Salve replied that the finance ministry will do as it has been done at the level of the RBI. Mehta said that it was being done at a level higher than the RBI and whatever will be there it would be comprehensive. Salve pointed out that for the power sector, the states will have to be taken on board as entire loans cannot be put on banks. The government has formed a three-member committee under former CAG Rajiv Mehrishi to look into the concerns raised during the Supreme Court hearings in the Covid-19 loan moratorium case. The panel will help the government assess the need to offer relief to borrowers on the issue of interest charged on loan instalments deferred during the moratorium period. The panel will measure the impact of the pandemic on the economy and the financial viability of waiving of interest and of interest on interest for this payment holiday. The committee will suggest ways to alleviate financial constraints of borrowers and other suitable measures, the finance ministry said in a statement. The committee will also have Ravindra H. Dholakia, former professor, IIM Ahmedabad & ex-member, Monetary Policy Committee of the RBI, and B. Sriram, former managing director, State Bank of India & IDBI Bank. The committee will submit its report within a week. Additional reporting by our special correspondent in New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||Reliance’s market capitalisation hits $200 billion||Reliance on Thursday became the first Indian company to record a market capitalisation of $200 billion. News of Silver Lake Partners investing in its retail arm and the possibility of similar announcements over the next few weeks buoyed the stock. On the BSE, the RIL share closed at Rs 2,314.65, a gain of Rs 153.40 or 7.10 per cent. Earlier in the day, the stock hit a 52-week high of Rs 2343.90 — a rise of 8.45 per cent over the previous close. At close, it had a market cap of Rs 14.67 lakh crore or $199.74 billion. RIL’s partly paid shares also finished 10 per cent higher, leading to a market cap of Rs 58,937.43 crore — adding up to a total market cap of almost $208 billion. In July 2018, RIL had re-claimed a $100-billion market cap after a period of 11 years. However, the jump in its market value has been meteoric in the past six months, particularly after March. After hitting a 52-week low of Rs 867.82 as markets were hit by fears over the Covid-19 pandemic, its shares have rallied a whopping 170 per cent after it announced a string of investments in its digital services business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||Amazon eyes foothold in RIL Retail||Retail industry rivals Mukesh Ambani and Jeff Bezos could bake the bread together in India with Bezos’s Amazon reportedly eyeing a slice of Ambani’s Reliance Retail Ventures, which has started selling a part of the equity to global investors. Bloomberg on Thursday said Amazon.com Inc was in discussions with Reliance Industries Limited to invest around $20 billion in Ambani’s retail business. RIL could even sell as much as a 40 per cent stake in Reliance Retail Ventures to Amazon. Though the buzz of Amazon investing in the retail arm of RIL has been doing the rounds the past couple of months, a stake sale of such a magnitude should come as a surprise. “We would like to reiterate that as a policy, we do not comment on media speculation and rumours and we cannot confirm or deny any transaction which may or may not be in the works. Our company evaluates various opportunities on an ongoing basis,” Reliance said in a clarification to the stock exchanges after market hours. “We have made and will continue to make necessary disclosures in compliance with our obligations under Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015 and our agreements with the stock exchanges,” Reliance said. Amazon’s keenness to invest in the retail business of RIL comes only a day after it sold 1.75 per cent in Reliance Retail Ventures to US private equity firm Silver Lake Partners for Rs 7,500 crore. According to the analysts at Credit Suisse, the combined entity can leverage the deep offline network of Reliance Retail and the established logistics network of Amazon to harness cross-selling and omni-channel opportunities. The brokerage said RIL can benefit through an increase in the addressable user base for JioMart via access to the existing 140 million monthly active users of Amazon. Besides, the business of cash-and-carry arm Reliance Market would grow with Amazon sellers such as Cloudtail and Appario Retail supplying their products to it. On the other hand, Amazon will gain access to a large logistics network, which has further strengthened post Reliance Retail’s acquisition of Future Group’s logistics and warehousing business. Amazon will also expand its user base by tapping footfalls in the Reliance Retail stores to drive its online cross-purchases. Brokerages have also signalled the risks to the deal: one being the integration of Amazon Pay with WhatsApp Pay. JP Morgan said that though such a transaction would be positive for Reliance Retail, there are certain matters which they are unable to “square off”. “What would happen to growth plans for JioMart/New Commerce; WhatsApp partnership?” its analysts asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
