12-09-2020||Business||HDFC Bank ups card rates||HDFC Bank has raised the interest rates on the revolving balances on credit cards and late payment fees at a time default rates are rising because of Covid-19. The charges on revolving credit on certain cards have been raised to 3.6 per cent per month, or 43.2 per cent annually, from 3.49 per cent per month (41.88 per cent annually) from September 1. Charges will go up for customers holding Regalia, Business Regalia, Regalia First, Business Regalia First, Doctors Regalia, Diners Privilege, Diners ClubMiles, Millennia, Millennia Easy EMI, InterMiles Signature, InterMiles World, Indigo 6E Rewards, Indigo 6E XL, Indian Oil Card, Times Titanium and Times Platinum cards. The late payment charges have been increased to Rs 1,100 for those with a statement balance of Rs 25,000-50,000 and to Rs 1,300 for a balance of over Rs 50,000. Till August 31, the bank was charging a flat fee of Rs 950 on late payments. In April, the late payment fee was Rs 750 — which means that this hike is the second since the outbreak of the crisis. According to Macquarie Research, late payment fees account for around 22 per cent of any card issuer’s total fee income. HDFC Bank is the country’s largest credit card issuer. According to RBI data at the end of June this year, HDFC Bank had over 1.45 crore credit cards in circulation. The number of transactions made by its credit card customers at PoS terminals was over 3.58 crore. Industry circles do not rule out the possibility of its peers following suit. HDFC Bank allows a grace period of three days from the payment due date on credit card accounts where payments are not overdue. The due date as mentioned in the credit card statement is the date by which clear funds must be credited to the credit card. However, three grace days are provided to accommodate the processing time of payments. HDFC Bank has said that it will report a credit card account as “past due” to credit information companies (CICs) and levy a late payment charge when a credit card account remains past due for more than three days. Angshuman Chatterjee, head (consumer credit cards and digital acquisitions) at HDFC Bank, had recently said that the number of customers buying high-value products through instalments stood at an all-time high during the pandemic. Chatterjee further said customers were opting for larger spends by breaking them up into simple EMIs, which is helping consumption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-291
12-09-2020||Business||Annuity rate shield||The widening gap between returns in the accumulation phase and the return on annuities offered to National Pension System (NPS) subscribers on retirement has prompted the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) to “actively” consider an alternative. NPS subscribers can withdraw 60 per cent of their accumulated corpus on retirement and the remaining 40 per cent needs to be invested in annuities offered by empanelled life insurers, including LIC. While the subscribers get an average return of around 9 per cent on their corpus during the accumulation phase, the return on annuities has gone below 6 per cent with  falling interest rates. Moreover, in the case of annuities, the amount is fixed for life and the payouts are taxable. To protect the interest of the pensioners, PFRDA chairman Supratim Bandyopadhyay said a systematic withdrawal plan, similar to what mutual funds offer, is being planned to protect the retirement corpus. He did not give a timeline as the process would need parliamentary approval. “Annuity rates normally track interest rates. As the interest rates are coming down, annuity rates have also come down. We are exploring whether we can manage the withdrawal part within our system and try to give a kind of systematic withdrawal to the retired employee. We cannot give a timeline now. But, we are considering this actively,” Bandyopadhyay said at an event organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce. A systematic withdrawal plan could offer retired individuals withdrawals at periodic intervals while potentially offering a better management of the funds and higher return. Bandyopadhyay said  public sector undertakings are increasingly shifting from their own superannuation funds to NPS. However, the rate of adoption among corporates is low. He added that the central government employees’ fund over the past 12 years has given a return of around 9.95 per cent with 15 per cent equity exposure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-291
12-09-2020||Business||July factory output falls at lower rate||Industrial output declined 10.4 per cent in July — contracting for the fifth straight month, though at a milder pace — pulled down by lower output in manufacturing, mining and power generation. Analysts expect industries to take a longer time to recover because of the localised lockdown to contain the pandemic, which is spreading at a rapid pace across the country. “The indices for June 2020 have undergone the first revision and those for April 2020 have undergone the final revision. “The Quick Estimates for July 2020 have been compiled at a weighted response rate of 87 per cent, the first revision for June 2020 at a weighted response rate of 93 per cent and the final revision for April 2020 at a weighted response rate of 94 per cent,” the ministry of statistics and programme implementation said. However, it was silent on the revision of May output numbers. The index for July 2020 stands at 118.1 compared with 54.0 in April, 89.5 in May and 108.9 in  June. The index had contracted 15.7 per cent in June; 33.8 per cent in May and 57.3 per cent in April. In July last year, factory output had expanded by 4.9 per cent. Shilan Shah, senior India economist, Capital Economics said: “With India now on course to becoming the epicentre of the coronavirus, restrictions are likely to remain in place for a long time which will continue to hold back industrial recovery.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-291
12-09-2020||Business||Moody’s sees 11.5% contraction||Moody’s Investors Service on Friday said the economy was likely to see a sharper contraction of 11.5 per cent in the current fiscal compared with a 4 per cent contraction estimated earlier. The agency feels the contraction would be more pronounced because of the lockdown and continued rise in coronavirus cases. The US-based rating agency also projected India’s debt burden to peak at 90 per cent of GDP in the current fiscal and the Centre’s fiscal deficit to be close to 7.5 per cent of gross domestic product. In the previous fiscal, India’s debt burden was 72 per cent of GDP, while fiscal deficit stood at 4.6 per cent. India’s GDP contracted 23.9 per cent year-on-year in the April-June quarter, following the economic impact of the lockdown measures. “The collapse in GDP was one of the sharpest among all major G-20 economies. We now expect real GDP to contract 11.5 per cent in the financial year starting April 2020, much weaker than our previous forecast of a 4 per cent contraction,” Moody’s said. It expects growth to rebound to 10.6 per cent in fiscal 2021, reflecting a strong statistical base effect from the low GDP levels of 2020 as economic activity gradually normalises. The sharp decline in growth will result in materially weaker government revenue. Combined with increased fiscal expenditure in response to the coronavirus outbreak, this will contribute to a wider general government fiscal deficit, which it expects to reach 12 per cent of GDP in this fiscal, Moody’s said. Domestic rating agency CARE Ratings said the economy is likely to shrink 8-8.2 per cent in the current financial year compared with a decline of 6.4 per cent it had projected earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-291
12-09-2020||Business||Lodhas skip Pilani voting||Rajashree Birla will continue on the board of Pilani Investment and Industries Corporation Ltd as a director after two investment firms under the control of Harsh Vardhan Lodha abstained from voting today on a special resolution seeking to give effect to her appointment at the annual general meeting. The special resolution, which must be carried by a three-fourths majority of the members present and voting, became necessary as Rajashree Birla turns 75 on September 15. The Sebi listing rules mandate that shareholders must pass a special resolution for the reappointment of all directors above 75. Rajashree Birla is the mother of Aditya Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla. Pilani Investment and Industries Corporation is a premier Birla family investment company set up by patriarch Ghanashyam Das Birla in 1948. The scrutiniser of the voting at the AGM has yet to issue his report and the results will likely come in the next few days. However, sources confirmed that entities belonging to the erstwhile MP Birla group -- and now controlled by Harsh Vardhan Lodha -- chose to abstain from voting. The Lodhas, who have been locked in a spate of cases with the Birlas, hold around 25 per cent in Pilani. Their decision to abstain will pave the way for Rajashree Birla to be reinstated on the board. The Birla family entities as promoters of Pilani Investment hold a 57.55 per cent stake and would have required active or tacit support of the public shareholders, including the Lodha-controlled firms, to carry any special resolution. The Birla family and the Lodhas are enmeshed in bitter legal disputes ever since Late Priyamvada Devi Birla bequeathed the reign of M.P. Birla empire to Rajendra Singh Lodha, Harsh’s father, in 2004 by a will. Angered at the turn of events that an ‘outsider’ would gain control of a slice of Birla family empire, the purported will was challenged by the family, led by Basant Kumar Birla, grandfather of Kumar Mangalam. More than 100 cases have been filed by either side since then. Both B.K. Birla and R.S. Lodha passed away in 2019 and 2008 respectively. The Lodhas' decision to abstain from voting at the Pilani AGM comes at a time when a single judge is hearing the probate of the will sought by Lodha even as the Birla camp has renewed its efforts to dislodge Harsh Lodha from the M.P. Birla group companies. Harsh Lodha sits on the board of all the operating companies of M.P. Birla and acts as their chairman. “Lodha would not have gained control of Pilani by blocking Rajashree on the board and, hence, may have decided not to vote,” said a source. Lodha did not respond to text messages or phone calls. Unsurprisingly, Birla camp had a different take. “If a company (Pilani) is doing well and the investment is safe and giving return, why rock the boat?” they argued to explain Lodha's decision. The reappointment of Rajashree Birla had some dramatic moments in the lead up to the AGM.  On September 5, she informed the board that she would not be seeking re-appointment without assigning any reason. This sparked a piquant prospect where for the first time in 70 years, there might be no one from the Birla clan on the board of the investment company which has stakes in several top Birla companies including Century Textiles, Kesoram, Hindalco, and Ultratech. The company then informed the bourses of the withdrawal of the resolutions pertaining to her appointment. Two days later on September 7, the company again informed the bourses that she had agreed to stay on at the request of the rest of the directors and the special resolution relating to her appointment was back on the table for a vote. The investment company, founded by GD Birla, bears the name of the village from Birla family hails in Rajasthan. Before it was relocated to Calcutta, Pilani was headquartered in Gwalior, a princely state before independence, which attracted many companies due to the benign tax system and easy compliance. Three factions of the Birla family — Ghanshyam Das and his two brothers — had equal shares in them. While the share of M.P. Birla is now under control of Lodha, the rest is now consolidated and owned by Kumar Birla and his grandfather's estate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-291
12-09-2020||Business||Tatas to stymie Cyrus share pledge||The battle between the Tatas and the Shapoorji Pallonji group has erupted once again: this time over the cash-strapped SP group’s plan to raise funds by pledging a tiny sliver of its 18.4 per cent stake in Tata Sons with a bunch of Canadian investors for Rs 3,750 crore. The SP Group signed a definitive agreement for the loan pledge on September 4 -- and the Tatas retaliated on the following day by moving an “urgent application” before the Supreme Court to stop them from doing so. The Shapoorji Pallonji group has been locked in battle with the Tatas ever since Cyrus Mistry was removed from his position as chairman of the Tata group in October 2016 in a boardroom coup. The real estate and construction group has been planning to raise Rs 11,000 crore that it desperately needs to tide over an acute funds crunch precipitated by the pandemic. The group had signed a deal with Brookfield -- a marquee Canadian investment  firm  -- to raise a sum of Rs 3750 crore in the first tranche. The SP group has argued that the pledge of the Tata Sons shares was a legitimate practice in the industry and does not amount to the transfer of ownership. The group said that it needed funds as it had been badly hit by the pandemic that has knocked the bottom out of most of its businesses including real estate and construction. The 18.4 per cent stake held by the SP group is valued at about Rs 1 lakh crore. The Tatas are afraid that the loan pledge is just a ruse to circumvent a proviso in the articles of association of the $111 billion Tata group’s holding company -- which turned into a private company in controversial circumstances in August 2018 -- that grants a right of first refusal to the Tatas before any share sale can go through. Through the petition, the Tatas have sought to prevent the SP Group from creating any direct or indirect pledge of shares. Reacting to the application by Tata Sons which was made on September, the SP Group said the vindictive move amounts to oppression of minority shareholder rights. “The promoters of the SP Group are in the process of raising around Rs 11,000 crore from marquee global investors with Rs 3,750 crore being raised in the first tranche, against the security of shares that their investment companies own in Tata Sons. These funds are intended to mitigate the severe stress caused by Covid pandemic, deleverage the group’s balance sheet, support its financial obligations and protect the livelihoods of its workforce,” a spokesperson for the SP Group said. The spokesperson added that the “vindictive move by Tata Sons is solely aimed to create delays and roadblocks in the fund raise that will jeopardize the future of 60,000 employees and over 1 lakh migrant workers who draw sustenance by working at various SP Group facilities. This calculated move by the Tatas is intended to inflict irreparable damage on the SP Group. These actions are a departure from the values and ethos of the founders of the Tata Group and is an unfortunate reflection of the mindset of the present leadership. We will vigorously contest these frivolous and misguided claims in the Supreme Court”. The SP Group further said the articles of association of Tata Sons only regulate transfer of shares and the Tata Sons board only has a right of first refusal to buy back, at fair market value, the shares of any minority shareholder who is seeking to exit. “There is absolutely no provision in the articles of Tata Sons that restrict the creation of a pledge or encumbrance,” the SP Group said. The spokesperson further said the group “will ask the Supreme Court to dismiss the Tatas’ application at the threshold by highlighting the settled position in law that a mere creation of a pledge on shares would not amount to a transfer of title of the shares”. Questioning the motive and timing of Tata’s application, the SP Group pointed out that it had raised funds against Tata Sons shares in January 2020. “The security documents, which are in public domain, clearly record that lenders would comply with the articles of Tata Sons in the event they seek to enforce the pledge of shares. The Tatas have suppressed this vital information in their application in their desperate bid to mislead the apex court,” the spokesperson added. The group also quoted the opinion of Justice (Retd) Srikrishna, a former judge of the Supreme Court. “The ability of Cyrus Investments and Sterling to pledge their shares in Tata Sons in favour of third party is not in any way controlled by the Articles of Tata Sons. This is so because the pledge of shares does not amount to a transfer of the title to the shares, as the title of the shares would continue with the pledgor,” the retired judge said. In their 152-page supplementary petition against Cyrus Investment submitted to the Supreme Court on September 5, Tata Sons sought to prevent the Mistry group from “creating any charge/pledge/interest/ encumbrance on the shares of Tata Sons in any manner, either directly or indirectly and also to further direct them to forthwith remove any charge/pledge/ interest/ encumbrance created by them”. “It is respectfully submitted that creation of a pledge in this manner, without informing the Tatas and seeking the leave of this SC, is in absolute derogation of the spirit of this court's January 10 order, wherein the Tata voluntarily gave a good faith undertaking to not exercise their rights under Article 75 against Mistrys,” it said. Article 75 gives the Tatas the power, via a special resolution, to squeeze out the Mistry family by buying out their shareholding at fair market value.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
