14-09-2020||Business||Microsoft out as TikTok chooses Oracle as US tech partner  ||Satya Nadella-led Microsoft lost a bid to acquire TikTok in the US after the Chinese owner of the video-sharing platform chose Oracle to be its technology partner for its American operations, ahead of President Donald Trump’s  September 20 deadline to ban the popular app if it wasn't sold to an American company. Microsoft said in a statement on Sunday that the Chinese owner of TikTok ByteDance has informed it that they would not be selling TikTok's US operations to Microsoft". “We are confident our proposal would have been good for TikTok's users, while protecting national security interests. To do this, we would have made significant changes to ensure the service met the highest standards for security, privacy, online safety, and combatting disinformation, and we made these principles clear in our August statement. We look forward to seeing how the service evolves in these important areas,” Microsoft said. A report in The New York Times said it was unclear whether TikTok choosing Oracle as a technology partner would mean that the multinational computer technology corporation would also take a majority ownership stake of the social media app. The Wall Street Journal said in a report that Oracle is set to be announced as TikTok's trusted tech partner in the US, and the deal is likely not to be structured as an outright sale. The next step is for the White House and the Committee on Foreign Investment in the US to approve the deal, said one of the people, adding that the participants believe it satisfies the concerns around data security that have been previously raised by the US government, the WSJ report said. In an executive order signed last month, Trump had said that TikTok would be blocked in the US if it did not sell its US operations to an American company by September 20. The Trump administration has said that TikTok and other Chinese apps are national security threats. “But sale talks had been in a holding pattern because China issued new regulations last month that would bar TikTok from transferring its technology to a foreign buyer without explicit permission from the Chinese government. And any resulting deal could still be a geopolitical pinata between the United States and China," the NYT report said. The report added that the Chinese regulations helped scuttle the bid by Microsoft, which had said in August that it would insist on a series of protections that would essentially give it control of the computer code that TikTok uses for the American and many other English-speaking versions of the app. Microsoft said the only way it could protect the privacy of TikTok users in the United States and prevent Beijing from using the app as a venue for disinformation was to take over that computer code, and the algorithms that determine what videos are seen by the 100 million Americans who use it each month, the NYT report said. Oracle has not yet disclosed what it would do with TikTok's underlying technology, written by a Chinese engineering team in Beijing. India was the first country to ban TikTok and WeChat, citing national security concerns. India has banned over 220 Chinese apps, a move welcomed by both the Trump administration and US lawmakers. As tensions between the US and China escalated, TikTok had become the flash point between Washington and Beijing over issues of technology and privacy concerns. The Trump administration had already banned the Chinese telecom giant Huawei from selling 5G networks and equipment in the US, citing the risk of a foreign power controlling the infrastructure on which all internet communications flow. Even if Oracle may try to close a deal, it is unclear whether Beijing would create new obstacles to the process. And election-year politics have hung over the negotiations from the start. "Unlike many other technology companies, Oracle has cultivated close ties with the Trump administration. Its founder, Larry Ellison, hosted a fund-raiser for Mr Trump this year, and its chief executive, Safra Catz, served on the president's transition team and has frequently visited the White House, the NYT report said. Last month, Trump had said he would support Oracle buying TikTok, calling Oracle a great company and said the firm, which specialises in enterprise software, could successfully run TikTok. “I think that Oracle would certainly be somebody that could handle it,” Trump had said. Trump has said that apps such as TikTok, WeChat and equipment maker Huawei pose a national security threat because data collected about users can be shared with the Communist Party-led Chinese government. The Chinese firms have denied this claim. Two of ByteDance's largest backers, Sequoia Capital and General Atlantic, have sought to retain their holdings in its valuable subsidiary while saving TikTok from a ban in the US. Both firms are represented on ByteDance's board of directors. In late August, the firms teamed up with Oracle to bid against Microsoft. Microsoft, meanwhile, had teamed up with Walmart to make its bid. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||Tips to build a robust  financial immunity amid all the uncertainties||All of us have adapted to our own sanitisation routines to protect ourselves and our loved ones, especially in the face of the ongoing pandemic. We are not only realising the importance of physical and mental immunity, but are also learning new lessons in financial immunity. A survey by Swiss Re states that Covid-19 has significantly impacted financial stability with up to one out of three people feeling overwhelmed and anxious about their finances. The survey goes on to state that 68 per cent of the respondents felt that insurance helped to ease their stress and provide financial support during uncertain times, with 78 per cent saying their claims experience matched expectations. Clearly, if you find yourself consumed with the thoughts of rising medical costs and overwhelming financial responsibilities, know that you are not alone. Here are a few financial tips which should help you to alleviate this anxiety and build a robust financial immunity. It is common knowledge that increased levels of stress can lead to lowered physical and mental immunity. The key to maintaining a healthy immune system lies in the right lifestyle choices such as following a healthy diet and regular exercise. Similarly, the key to building financial immunity is by taking the right precautions towards protecting one’s finances and creating a financial cushion to safeguard oneself and the family from monetary stress, led by lifestyle disease or any unforeseen eventuality. Hence, the first step is to take care of oneself, ward off unwanted panic and deliberate on concrete steps to build financial immunity. Families grow stronger and closer when they withstand challenges and adversities together. Therefore, it is important to stay closer to the people you love, who comfort you and who provide you the best advice related to life, finances etc. Spending time with your loved ones keeps anxiety and stress at bay and, thus, keeping physical immunity unaffected in the long run. Spending more time doing fun activities with family and friends gets one into a better frame of mind, leading to a better handling of any situation. Given the reboot of the larger economy, it is wise to revisit our saving patterns and prioritise expenses. The thumb rule for the success of any financial plan is to first safeguard against the uncertainties of life and health as these eventualities could potentially wipe out our savings of a lifetime. Address the shortcoming in your portfolio by diversifying with insurance and investment instruments; this way you can build the much-needed cushion of financial immunity for yourself and your family. While focusing on financial planning, it is imperative to always have a life insurance plan in the portfolio that offers both life cover and critical illnesses cover in a single product to safeguard the insured and the family from worries related to life and health. A dual protection plan will ensure the family tides through the tough time along with a monetary safety net. One can look for hybrid instruments that combine life cover with a critical illness cover as it provides financial assistance as a lump sum amount to take care of the treatment cost as well as loss of pay, if a critical illness is identified. In the current scenario, a dual protection insurance plan is a must in one’s portfolio as it offers a holistic protection cover. It is indispensable to keep the nominee in the loop about the insurance policies that one holds, which needs to be done after the purchase of any insurance policy. By doing so, the family is aware of the policy bought and in the case of an unfortunate event, the nominee can claim the sum assured for which the insured has been making regular premium payments. It has been noticed in several cases that the insured has forgotten to keep the nominee informed, making their policies worth no more than a piece of paper in an exigency. Informing the nominee on the policies purchased helps the deceased family members to not rummage to find the policy information during emergencies. Remember, just like we are taking care of our health immunity, it is imperative that we pay equal attention to build a robust financial immunity to stay protected in uncertain times. The writer is president Zone III, SBI Life Insurance||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||Banks seek risk cushion for start-ups||The banking sector is in favour of a risk cushion in the form of a structured credit guarantee mechanism specifically for start-ups to boost lending to the sector. The RBI has revised the guidelines for priority sector lending, including start-ups, to prompt banks to start lending to the sector. Loans up to Rs 50 crore to start-ups engaged in agriculture and allied services as well as those that meet the definition of MSMEs are now part of priority sector lending. Banks, while welcoming the inclusion of start-ups under the priority sector, have warned of multiple challenges that warrant a careful evaluation of the loan prospects keeping in mind the elevated risk in the current economic scenario. Inadequate collateral, uncertain future cash flow and inexperienced management are among the key risks that banks are wary of. Moreover, there is a lack of clarity whether only recognised start-ups will be eligible to get credit under priority sector lending. According to government data, there are around 4.2 lakh start-ups in the country of which only 36,692 are recognised by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade. “To boost lending to start-ups, it is imperative to set in place an institutional mechanism. For example, start-ups don’t have collateral and performance evaluation mechanism matrix. Hence, it will be interesting to see how the lenders can diversify their risk appetite and lend to start-ups which do not meet the traditional requirements of security/collateral/cash flow. We believe a suitably structured guarantee scheme from the government could be useful in the current scenario to give impetus to lend to start-ups,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, State Bank of India. Bankers said that a credit guarantee scheme like the one in place for MSMEs will encourage more banks to convert enquiries into actual borrowings. “With the inclusion of start-ups in priority sector lending, banks will be encouraged to give credit to the sector. A credit guarantee, similar to MSME-CGTMSE will be beneficial,” said Sudhakara Rao KS, general manager, MSME, of Indian Bank. The deteriorating economic condition has also impacted start-ups, especially those lacking marquee investors with industry estimates suggesting 70 per cent of the start-ups in India have less than 3 months of cash available in their banks. “Getting a start-up off the ground is not an easy task for any entrepreneur. Lack of adequate funding when required and high risk perception of the banks towards this segment has most often been the two major reasons why start-ups have found it difficult to even set up shops. The credit guarantee scheme has helped MSMEs so far and the same if applied to start-ups will surely be beneficial for them,” said Parthiv Neotia, director, Ambuja Neotia. “A credit guarantee from start-ups may not potentially be anticipated from the Centre in a market reeling from the coronavirus induced lockdown. The move to assign priority sector status to start-ups may act as a serious boost for smaller entities in terms of funding and seeking credit. This makes available multiple funding options beyond angel investments and PE/VC funding,” said Arindam Sarkar, partner, Khaitan and Co.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||Prospective EV buyers worry over costs||The upfront cost of electric vehicles (EV)s, battery replacement and the distance a vehicle can run on a single charge are the top concerns for people planning to buy EVs, according to a survey by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI). The potential of EVs to reduce pollution, carbon emissions and oil dependency in India has prompted the government to push for wider adoption of the technology. According to the Society of Manufacturers of Electric Vehicles (SMEV), 3,400 electric cars and 1.52 lakh electric two-wheelers were sold in India in 2019-20. Total sales grew 20 per cent over the previous financial year. Yet the current EV penetration in India is low. “We saw that there is a difference in the expectations of those who own an EV and those who do not. For example, EV owners do not assign much importance to the availability of the used car market and the vehicle’s resale value,” said Parmeet Singh, research associate, TERI. “The difference in perception of the two groups is directly related to the knowledge and experience of EVs. We also found that household income does not affect EV purchase decisions,” said Singh. In the survey, 71 per cent of respondents under the age of 25 asked about the resale value of EVs. “These consumers are likely to procure a vehicle from the used car market because of their income level and the desire to replace an existing vehicle,” said Singh. The survey also found that the ability of EVs to cover a limited distance in comparison to internal combustion engines had an impact on perception and highlighted an important concern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||SBI Card offers its own recast plan||SBI Card is in the process of enrolling “delinquent” customers, who did not repay after the end of the moratorium, in the RBI restructuring scheme or its own repayment plan to provide them more time for repayments, a top company official has said. A number of customers had not been paying for the first three months of the payment holiday and the company treated them as standard accounts in line with the entire industry. However, since then, as the first moratorium ended, SBI Card made it a customer-led enrolment in the second moratorium in which a lot of customers did not enrol, SBI Card managing director & CEO Ashwini Kumar Tewari said. “Therefore, we had a large chunk of customers who came out of the moratorium. A lot of them paid up but many of them did not pay also. And these became what we call as more delinquent customers. “So with these delinquent customers, we are now working to enrol them either into the RBI restructuring scheme or our own repayment plans so that they get more time and a better interest rate to pay their dues,” Tewari, who took charge over a month ago, said. According to the company, it had Rs 7,083 crore under moratorium in May, which came down to Rs 1,500 crore in June. Those who would be availing the company’s restructuring plan will have a benefit over the RBI scheme as SBI Card will not report such cases to credit scoring agency Cibil. In March, the RBI had allowed the first three-month moratorium on payment of all term loans due between March 1, 2020 and May 31, 2020. Later it was extended for another three months till August 2020. The process of restructuring is going on currently, Tewari said, adding a large number of accounts are to be enrolled and the company needs to make a 10 per cent provisioning on these accounts, according to the RBI guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||Equity drag on mutual funds||Mutual funds have pulled out Rs 17,600 crore from the stock markets in July-August mainly on account of withdrawals from equity-oriented schemes. The pandemic-related disruptions, a sharp slowdown in economic activity across the globe and a volatility in the equity markets led to the massive withdrawals. Mutual funds had made a net investment of Rs 39,755 crore in the stock markets during January-June 2020, data available with Sebi showed. Foreign portfolio investors (FPI) turned net sellers in the Indian markets by pulling out Rs 2,038 crore so far in September as participants turned cautious in view of rising India-China tensions and weak global cues. According to the depositories data, a net Rs 3,510 crore was withdrawn from equities, while Rs 1,472 crore was pumped into debts by FPIs between September 1 and September 11. FPIs were net buyers for three consecutive months — June to August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||Gas producers seek pricing formula review ||Domestic gas prices are set to fall significantly from October because of a slump in global prices, raising a question mark on the pricing formula as it challenges the operational viability of oil firms and hurts investment sentiment in the exploration and production sector. Gas producers have sought a review of the pricing formula. The domestic prices are set to fall to about $1.80 per mBtu from October 1 for the next six months, the fourth straight cut, which would significantly hurt domestic producers. The gas price for locally produced fields has been revised from April 1 till September end to $2.39 per mBtu from $3.23 per mBtu, a 26 per cent decrease. The ceiling price for gas to be produced from difficult fields has also fallen to $5.61 per mBtu from $8.43 per mBtu, down 33.5 per cent. Oil industry sources said a further cut in prices would make domestic production unviable. Gas producers have written to the oil ministry offering various suggestions, including a review of the formula that puts domestic producers at a disadvantage over imported LNG. Industry sources said the existing formula is based on the gas surplus market and should not be applicable in India. They said ONGC in a recent communique to the government has stated that the break-even price to produce gas from new discoveries was in the range of $5-9 per mBtu. In previous years, loss from the gas segment was offset by the gain in the oil business. But with the oil business itself coming under severe strain because of a sharp slump in benchmark prices, it has become difficult for the company to meet even the operating expenses, they said. The reduction in natural gas prices would mean lower raw material cost for compressed natural gas (CNG) and piped natural gas to households (PNG) and should translate into a reduction in retail prices. It would also mean lower feedstock cost for power generation and the manufacturing of fertilisers. However, this could impact the revenue of state-owned PSUs such as ONGC and Oil India, which produce 83 per cent of the domestic gas. Other producers such as Reliance Industries, Vedanta and Hindustan Oil Exploration Company would also see their revenues going down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||Retail inflation will fall, asserts CEA||Chief economic adviser K.V. Subramanian has attributed the rise in inflation to supply-side frictions and exuded confidence that retail inflation will come down in the days ahead with the easing of lockdowns. According to government data, retail inflation rose to 6.93 per cent in July, driven 
by rising prices of food items such as vegetables, pulses, meat and fish. However, wholesale price-based inflation declined 0.58 per cent in July, even as food items turned costlier. “If you look at inflation... it’s primarily because of those supply-side frictions, but as local lockdowns are actually being reduced, these frictions should basically go down,” he said. “Overall, the difference between wholesale and retail inflation is primarily because of supply-side factors which should decrease and, therefore, going forward even retail inflation should ease,” Subramanian said. There are fears that retail inflation would remain at an elevated level during the rest of the year, limiting the scope for the RBI to further ease the benchmark interest rate. The six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) headed by the RBI governor has been given the mandate to maintain the annual retail inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2021, with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent. Retail inflation so far has been in the tolerance range of MPC except for a breach in July. In June, retail inflation was 6.09 per cent. At the same time, WPI inflation in June was at (-) 1.81 per cent, while for the month of May and April it was (-) 3.37 per cent and (-) 1.57 per cent, respectively. As far as growth is concerned, India’s economy suffered its worst slump on record in April-June, with the gross domestic product contracting 23.9 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||Leeway for multi-cap mutual funds||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Sunday sought to allay the concerns of fund managers of multi-cap mutual funds after it tightened the investment rules for the category on Friday. Sebi had said multi-cap funds must have a minimum corpus of 75 per cent invested in equities against the present requirement of 65 per cent. Moreover, to diversify their investments, it ruled that these funds will have to make a minimum investment of 25 per cent each in equity and equity related instruments of large cap, midcap and smallcap companies. Sebi gave fund houses time till January 2021 to meet this requirement. The move created a flutter in the domestic mutual fund industry as fund houses began examining options to dodge compulsory purchases of small and midcap stocks. In a clarification on Sunday, Sebi said multi-cap schemes had flexibility in terms of allocation to large, mid and small cap stocks, based on the preference of their unit holders. Apart from rebalancing their portfolio, they can facilitate a switch to other schemes by unit holders, merge their multi-cap schemes with the large cap ones or convert their multi-cap schemes to another category, for instance a “large-cum-mid cap scheme” to be “true to label”. The market regulator said it will examine the proposals of the industry, if any, received in this regard. Experts had welcomed Friday’s move, pointing out that it will correct the investment structure of multi-cap funds which are tilted heavily in favour of large cap stocks. However, fund managers expressed concern that the poor liquidity in small and midcap stocks will sharply increase the risk for investors investing in these schemes. The clarification from Sebi could temper the optimism of a rally in small and midcap stocks. Dhiraj Sachdev, managing partner and chief investment officer at Roha Asset Managers, told The Telegraph, “This rectification has to be welcomed. Over the last two to three years, we have seen polarisation towards large caps and this will now get corrected.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||Sri Lanka realty battle heats up||Two strands of a bruising court battle are looming on either side of the Palk Strait as a clutch of top builders from Calcutta mount legal challenges to claw back at a prestigious development in Colombo. Multiple cases are being fought before the company law court in India and the commercial court in Sri Lanka over the fate of the $300-million Altair project which has been declared as a ‘flagship foreign investment project’ in the island nation. The first round in what appears to be a long battle has gone to the challenger Jaideep Halwasiya who was granted a stay by the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) over his ouster from the board of the Indian firm which used to be the main promoter of the Sri Lankan subsidiary which is building Altair. However, Halwasiya may have to toil hard to maintain the early lead as the Commercial High court of Colombo is ready to hear a case filed by the Indian parent to challenge the manner in which it has been reduced to a minority in Altair after the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka paved the way for the hearing on September 8. The Commercial High Court in Colombo could hear the matter as early as Monday or Tuesday while the NCLAT order was delivered on September 4. At the heart of the dispute is a change in ownership of the Sri Lankan company, Indocean Developers Pvt Ltd (IDPL), the promoter of Altair. Calcutta-based AA Infraproperties (AAI) used to own 100 per cent share of IDPL. Its stake is now down to 13.84 per cent after Halwasiya issued fresh shares to entities linked to him. South City Projects (Kolkata) Ltd, which holds 87.5 per cent in AAI — the remaining 12.5 per cent is with Halwasiya — claims that the issuance of shares in IDPL was an act of fraud perpetrated by Halwasiya to wrest control of Altair. SCPL, which is owned by top city builders Sushil Mohta, Pradeep Sureka, Jugal Khetawat, Rajendra Bachhawat and Emami Group, has in turn lost control of Altair — two towers leaning one over another overlooking the sea — which is nearing completion after at least two years of delay. A bench comprising acting chairperson Bansi Lal Bhat overturned an order of NCLT, Calcutta, which declined to grant an interim stay to Halwasiya plea to challenge his removal from AAI via an extraordinary general meeting of January 4 and the induction of three additional directors by an AGM on September 24, 2019. While returning the matter to the lower court, NCLAT observed: “We are of the opinion that the impugned order suffers from (a) grave legal infirmity besides factual frailty. (The) Same cannot be supported. The appeal is allowed and the impugned order is set aside.
Appointment of respondents No. 4 to 6 as directors and removal of the appellant as the director is stayed till the decision on the company petition by the tribunal.” AAI had sought to remove Halwasiya from the board after the change in shareholding of IDPL came to light. AAI had moved Commercial High Court in Colombo to challenge the dilution of their equity interest in IDPL. However, it now appears that the court has to first adjudicate on who represents AAI after the NCLAT order. There is only one director representing the interests of South City promoters after the appointment of three directors were stayed. The other director is Halwasiya himself. AAI is challenging the validity of a power of attorney purportedly granted to Halwasiya in 2019 to represent the Indian parent in Sri Lanka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-291
