15-09-2020||Business||Airbus warns of layoffs as air travel fails to recover||Airbus has stepped up warnings of compulsory layoffs as air travel fails to recover as quickly as expected from the coronavirus crisis, putting itself on a potential collision course with unions and the French government. The warning in a letter to its 130,000 staff from Chief Executive Guillaume Faury, seen by Reuters, marks a more pessimistic tone from the planemaker, which had previously said only that it could not rule out compulsory measures. “I owe it to you to be transparent: it’s unlikely that voluntary departures will be enough,” Faury wrote in the letter distributed on Friday evening. Unions and the French government have urged the Toulouse-based planemaker to avoid compulsory layoffs as it sheds up to 15,000 posts to cope with plummeting travel demand. Airbus has repeatedly warned that the outlook is uncertain as the industry’s worst crisis hits aircraft deliveries and severely weakens airline finances. But a disappointing rise in air travel over the summer has cast a fresh pall over the company’s biggest ever restructuring plans. “Unfortunately, the recovery in airline traffic over the summer period has not been at the level the industry was counting on,” Faury wrote. “We must now prepare for a crisis that will probably be even deeper and longer than the previous scenarios suggested”. The group representing most of the world’s airlines, the International Air Transport Association, said last week that air traffic had failed to recover as quickly as expected in July, a key part of the peak season for airline revenues. July traffic was down 80% compared with the same month of 2019, compared with a 94% drop at the low point in April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||Nvidia buys British chip designer Arm from SoftBank||Nvidia said on Sunday that it would acquire the British chip designer Arm from SoftBank in a deal worth about $40 billion, a move that could reshape the battle over technology that powers smartphones and data centers. Nvidia, best known for supplying chips that render images in video games, said it would pay SoftBank a combination of cash and shares in the transaction. Nvidia’s market capitalisation has skyrocketed to over $300 billion lately, partly owing to recent success in artificial intelligence applications and pandemic-fueled growth in chips used for PC gaming. If completed, the transaction would instantly transform Nvidia into one of the most influential players in smartphone technology, a market that had previously eluded it. Arm, which licenses designs that other companies turn into chips, has long defined the computing technology found in most mobile devices. And Arm designs are starting to play a bigger role in cloud data centers. But the deal is likely to prompt close scrutiny by antitrust authorities around the world. Influential Arm customers potentially affected by the transaction include Apple, Samsung Electronics, Amazon.com, Qualcomm and Huawei. Arm, which was acquired by SoftBank in 2016, is widely perceived as an independent entity that gives equal treatment to all licensees. Industry executives and analysts have pointed to potential conflicts if a company received technical assistance from an Nvidia-owned Arm that could give its own chip business unfair advantages over other licensees. Jensen Huang, Nvidia’s chief executive, pledged to keep operating Arm as it has been. “Arm’s business model is brilliant,” he wrote in a letter to Nvidia employees on Sunday. “We will maintain its open-licensing model and customer neutrality, serving customers in any industry, across the world.” Nvidia also said it would keep operating Arm from Cambridge, England, and honour commitments SoftBank made to keep investing in Britain. Mr. Huang said he and Simon Segars, Arm’s chief executive, had already held initial talks with British officials, who were “delighted” with the company’s expansion plans. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||McLeod Russel loss at Rs 90cr in first quarter||Bulk tea producer McLeod Russel India Ltd has suffered a first-quarter loss of Rs 90.52 crore compared with a loss of Rs 11.64 crore a year ago. The June quarter of last fiscal included an exceptional gain of Rs 90.70 crore. Revenues stood at Rs 196.4 crore in the reporting quarter, down from Rs 245.83 crore as the nationwide lockdown disrupted tea plantation in April and partly in May. The crop loss has since created a shortage in the market, leading to tea prices going up and the company is expecting the next two quarters to be better. The company, which is hoping for a resolution to its debt problem, acknowledged  that while operational performance has improved, the financial position continued to be under stress. The inter-corporate deposits worth Rs 2,868.81 crore given to various group companies to provide them funds along with interest are outstanding as on this date. “These have resulted in a mismatch of current resources vis-a-vis its commitments and liquidity constraints, causing hardship in servicing short term and long-term debts and meeting other obligations,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||Bengal GST revenue contracts 35.9%||GST revenues of Bengal contracted 35.9 per cent to Rs 11,781 crore between April and August because of the Covid-induced lockdown, while the state is due Rs 7,750 crore in provisional compensation for the fiscal, according to data presented by minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur in the Lok Sabha on Monday. The compensation due to states stands at over Rs 1.51 lakh crore, Thakur said. The provisional GST compensation due to states and Union territories for 2020-21 was highest for Maharashtra at Rs 22,485 crore, followed by Karnataka, Rs 13,763 crore and Uttar Pradesh, Rs 11,742 crore. So far, 15 of the 31 states have opted for one of the two borrowing options proposed by the Centre which could pave the way for the proposal getting voted at the GST Council meeting on October 5. States to have opted for the first option are Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Odisha. Manipur is the the sole state to go for second option. States and Union territories that are not in favour of either of the two options are Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, Telangana, Pondicherry, Kerala and West Bengal. States have been given two options: either borrow Rs 97,000 crore to meet the shortfall arising due to GST implementation or  borrow Rs 2.35 lakh crore which includes the Rs 1.38 lakh crore that the Centre has refused to pay as this is as attributed to Covid-related factors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||Infosys acquires Czech-based GuideVision||IT services major Infosys on Monday said it will acquire Czech Republic-based GuideVision for up to 30 million euros (about Rs 260.4 crore). The acquisition is being carried out by Infy Consulting Company Ltd, a step-down subsidiary of Infosys, a regulatory filing said. “GuideVision’s training academy and nearshore capabilities in Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, and presence in Germany and Finland will strengthen Infosys’s ServiceNow capabilities for its clients in Europe,” Infosys said in a statement. GuideVision’s end-to-end offerings, including SnowMirror — a proprietary smart data replication tool for ServiceNow instances — enables over 100 enterprise clients to simplify complex business and IT processes. ServiceNow is an enterprise software firm that develops cloud computing platforms to help companies manage digital workflows. According to the filing, the cost of acquisition is “up to 30 million euros, including earn-out and bonuses”. The acquisition is expected to close during the third quarter of 2020-21, subject to customary closing conditions, it added. “This acquisition is an important milestone in our journey to build capabilities relevant to the digital priorities of Infosys clients. This move reaffirms our commitment to the growing ServiceNow ecosystem and augments Infosys’s portfolio of cloud services,” the filing said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||Retail prices ease in August||The country’s retail inflation slightly eased in August to 6.69 per cent as food prices fell, but remained above the upper limit of the RBI tolerance band of 6 per cent for the fifth straight month. Economists expect the central bank to press for another pause in policy action in the forthcoming policy. Data released by the National Statistics Office on Monday showed food inflation eased in August to 9.05 per cent from 9.27 per cent in the preceding month. Under the food segment, double digit inflation in case of eggs (10.1 per cent), oils and fats (12.4 per cent),  vegetables (11.4 per cent), pulses (14.4 per cent) and spices (12.3 per cent) continue to push food inflation higher. Inflation in case of fuel components rose to a five-month high of 3.1 per cent in August 2020 compared with 2.7 per cent in July 2020 and (-)1.7 per cent in August 2019. A low base effect and a rise in prices of diesel and kerosene has led to the uptick in this component from the previous month’s figures. The government has revised downwards the retail inflation numbers for July to 6.73 per cent from the earlier estimates of 6.93 per cent. “CPI inflation is expected to print sub-4 per cent only in December 2020-February 2021, based on which a continuation of the accommodative stance appears doubtful,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist at Icra said. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings, said: “MPC will keep this number at back of the mind when evaluating its decision in the next meeting. Inflation is well above 6 per cent while growth has slipped quite sharply. The liquidity situation is comfortable while bank credit growth has been negative. The decision may steer towards another pause in policy action.” Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings, said: “Despite first-quarter  GDP contracting 23.9 per cent, we believe policy rates are unlikely to be cut in the forthcoming monetary policy.” Data separately released by the industry department earlier in the day showed India’s wholesale price inflation turned positive in August after a gap of four months. The wholesale price index (WPI) inflation stood at 0.16 per cent in August against a contraction of 0.58 per cent in July as inflation for the manufactured items accelerated to 1.27 per cent from 0.51 per cent during the same period. During August, crude oil prices softened 17.44 per cent from a year ago, while fuel prices eased by 9.7 per cent from their levels a year earlier. The Reserve Bank of India has cut policy rates by 115 basis points so far this year, to 4 per cent. However, rising food inflation has pushed inflation higher than the upper band of the central bank's target range, forcing the RBI to put a pause in its rate cutting cycle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||Trai says no plan to regulate OTTs||The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) on Monday said there is no need to regulate over-the-top (OTT) communication services at the moment. The regulator said that the time is not opportune to recommend a comprehensive regulatory framework for various aspects of OTT services beyond the laws and regulations prescribed currently, and decided against any immediate regulatory intervention. OTT services refer to applications and services that are accessible over the internet and ride on an operator’s network. Skype, Viber, WhatsApp and Hike are some of the popular OTT services. The department of telecommunications had in March 2016 sought the recommendations of Trai on net neutrality and other related aspects such as economic, security and privacy issues, and regulatory framework for OTT services similar to services provided by telecom service providers. Trai had subsequently come out with a discussion paper on regulatory framework for OTT services in November 2018 where it had sought the industry’s views on multiple issues. Releasing its recommendations on the regulatory framework for OTT communication services, Trai said the matter can be looked into afresh when more clarity emerges in international jurisdictions, particularly the study undertaken by the ITU (International Telecommunication Union). It added that no regulatory interventions are needed for privacy and security related issues of OTT services for now. “It is not an opportune moment to recommend a comprehensive regulatory framework for various aspects of services referred to as OTT services, beyond the extant laws and regulations prescribed at present,” Trai said in a statement. The authority added that market forces may be allowed to respond to the situation without prescribing any regulatory intervention. “However, developments shall be monitored and intervention as felt necessary shall be done at appropriate time,’’ it said. Telecom companies in India had long been demanding that OTT players be brought under the ambit of the regulatory framework as they offer similar services without attached licensing obligations, conditions and levies (such as licence fee).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||No plans of excise hike on cigarettes||The government has no plans to increase central excise duty on cigarettes, bidis and smokeless tobacco, Parliament was informed on Monday. “The GST rates on goods, including compensation cess rates are fixed on the basis of the recommendations of the GST Council. As regards central excise duty, there is no proposal to increase duty at present,” Anurag Thakur, minister of state for finance, informed the Lok Sabha in a question. The total tax collected under central excise and cess for Tobacco Products have increased from Rs 1,234 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 1,610 crore in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||Centre to pour funds into PSU banks||The Modi-government on Monday sought Parliament approval for a Rs 20,000 crore bank recapitalisation programme for this fiscal but the out-of-budget proposal may not be enough given looming bad asset concerns and the difficulties faced by PSU banks to raise funds from the markets. The lockdown has forced the government to do a U-turn on recapitalisation: in her budget speech in February, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had ruled out recapitalisation funds for banks as the government had already large sums in them over the past few years. Amid the bad asset fears, the RBI prodded the Centre to go for a recap. In its stability report, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said recapitalisation had “become necessary” and called for lenders to raise money in advance to “build resilience” in the financial system. “There are certain stress points in the financial system, which would require constant regulatory and policy attention to mitigate the risks. The economic impact of the pandemic may result in higher non-performing assets and capital erosion of banks. A recapitalisation plan for PSBs and private banks (PVBs) has, therefore, become necessary,” Das said. According to the RBI, the gross non-performing asset ratio of PSBs will increase to 15.2 per cent of advances by March 2021 from 11.3 per cent a year back “under the baseline scenario”. Analysts said PSU banks may need capital to the tune of around Rs 60,000 crore in this fiscal alone, much in excess of the Rs 20,000 crore proposed in the budget. Banks will have to set aside more funds to provide for a possible rise in bad loans during the second half, the analysts said. Experts, however, point out that much will depend on the one-time restructuring. The recast mechanism which was announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) last month is expected to lower the capital needs of banks on account of lower slippages as banks restructure stressed assets. Last month rating agency Icra had estimated that the capital requirements for the state owned lenders could decline to Rs 20,000-55,500 crore this year. It had earlier projected capital requirements for PSU banks at Rs 46,000-82,600 crore for 2020-21. Rating agency CARE said the recap exercise was more likely to be undertaken through recap bonds rather than any budget expenditure as it does not come under the head of “cash outgo”. The rating egency did not rule out the possibility of the funds being raised through savings by other departments. “We need to see which of these options would hold here; and more likely it would be the first. This was not part of the budget and hence can be interpreted as being expended to cushion PSBs against the pandemic impact,” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||Government borrowings may leap||The government on Monday sought Parliament approval for an additional gross expenditure of Rs 2.35 lakh crore with a net cash outgo of Rs 1.67 lakh crore. It aimed to shovel another Rs 40,000 crore into the rural jobs guarantee programme. Officials have indicated government borrowing could be revised upwards and the bond market will have to deal with a higher supply of government paper in October-March as both the Centre and states will be strapped for cash — that will raise yields in the market. The borrowing calendar for the second half of the fiscal will be finalised later this month. The supplementary demands for grants said the net cash outgo will be Rs 1.66 lakh crore as the gross additional expenditure “matched by savings of the Ministries or Departments or by enhanced receipts or recoveries aggregates to Rs 68,868.33 crore”. The government has also sought Rs 46,602.43 crore towards providing additional allocation under Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant to the states following the recommendations of the Fifteenth Finance Commission. The first batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants for 2020-21 includes 54 Grants and 1 Appropriations. “The expenditures are part of the announcements made by the government as part of Covid relief and hence these demands are formalisation of the process of incurring these expenses,” according to Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Rating. “However, the state deficit grant appears to be outside these announcements and hence become additional expenditure. This amount would be around 0.23 per cent of GDP. “We believe that the others have already been buffered in our calculation of the fiscal deficit which we project now to be at around 8-8.5 per cent of GDP assuming marginal fall in nominal GDP from last year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
