16-09-2020||Business||RBI 'battle ready' to kick-start growth, says Shaktikanta Das||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das on Wednesday said economic recovery is still not well entrenched and that the central bank is "battle ready" to take appropriate measures to support growth. Addressing a virtual conference organised by industry body Ficci, Das said that Gross Domestic Product (GDP) data released by the government was a "reflection of the ravages of the Covid-19". The economy contracted 23.9 per cent during the April-June quarter on account of the strict lockdown imposed by the government towards end of March to check the spread of coronavirus infections. "Nevertheless, high frequency indicators of agricultural activity, the purchasing managers' index that is PMI for manufacturing and certain private estimates on unemployment point to some stabilisation of economic activity in the second quarter of the current year, while of course contractions in several other sectors are also simultaneously easing," he said. However, Das said that the economic recovery was not yet fully entrenched and also that the recovery is likely to be gradual. "The recovery is, however, not yet fully entrenched and moreover, in some sectors, the uptick, which was noticed in June and July they appear to have levelled off. By all indications the recovery is likely to be gradual as efforts towards the reopening of the economy are confronted with rising infections," he said. At the same time, Das assured the industry that the RBI stands "battle ready" and whatever measures are required will be taken to support liquidity, growth and control price rise. According to him, the immediate policy response to Covid-19 in the country has been to prioritise the stabilisation of the economy and support quick recovery policies for durable and sustainable high growth in the medium term post the coronavirus. The Governor also said financial market conditions in India have eased significantly across segments in response to the front-loaded cuts in the policy repo rate and large system-wide as well as targeted infusion of liquidity by the central bank. "We are also very carefully monitoring the markets. As and when required further measures will be taken. I even said it earlier during my statements that the RBI stands fully prepared... I had used the terminology that the RBI stands battle ready and whatever measures are required will be taken up by the RBI," he said. Despite substantial increase in the borrowing programme of the government, Das said that persistently large surplus liquidity conditions have ensured non-disruptive mobilisation of resources at the lowest borrowing costs in a decade. Currently, government paper borrowing rates are the lowest in the last 10 years, he added. Moreover, Das said that benign financing conditions and the substantial narrowing of spreads have spurred a record issuance of corporate bonds of close to Rs 3.2 lakh crore during 2020-21 up to August. Noting that fragility of NBFCs is a concern, Das said the RBI is regularly monitoring the health of top 100 NBFCs and it would be the endeavour of the central bank that no large institution should fail. Prior to the IL&FS crisis, Das said there were light touch regulations for the NBFC sector and the RBI is now trying to bring the regulations at par with banks so that there is no repeat of failure. Regarding loan restructuring scheme, the RBI chief said he would look into the suggestions of the industry. Interests of depositors and financial stability were kept in mind while framing the loan restructuring scheme, he said, adding that it had to be careful and a balanced decision on the part of the RBI. "The primary concern of any banking system should be the protection of the depositors' interests because ultimately it is the depositors' money. "... so, on the one hand we had to keep in mind the interest of the depositors, the need to maintain financial stability, the stability of the banking sector as we don't want a repeat of the situation which India experienced a few years ago where the NPA levels of banks had gone up very steeply," he said. On the other hand, Das said, "we are also equally mindful of the fact that Covid-19 has substantially affected a large number of businesses and particularly businesses that have availed loans from the banks. Therefore, they also needed some relief". The emphasis of resolution plan is to enable companies facing cash problem due to Covid-19 crisis to come back to normalcy and resume their activities, he noted. "So both the sides had to be matched. In fact, the revival of businesses would also ensure that the NPA levels are kept low and it will also ensure a quicker economic recovery," he said. Describing the New Education Policy 2020 (NEP) as a historic and much needed new age reform, he said it has the potential to leverage India's favourable demographics by prioritising human capital and that the goal to increase public investment in the education sector to 6 per cent of GDP must be pursued vigorously. It is important to recognise that investment in education pays by raising average wages, he said, adding that higher education also contributes to economic development through greater sensitivity to environment/ climate change, energy use, civic participation and healthy lifestyle. "While laudable crisis time response to scale up health infrastructure has helped in dealing with the health emergency, a more comprehensive approach similar to NEP for the health sector may be warranted, which must also cover deeper penetration of insurance, given the high burden of out of pocket expenses in India, and also preventive care," he said. Noting that India's participation in Global Value Chains (GVCs) has been lower than many emerging and developing economies, he said there is need to tap this potential segment for bolstering global trade and growth. A sharp policy focus on other GVC intensive "network products", including equipment for IT hardware, electrical appliances, electronics and telecommunications, and automobiles would also provide the cutting edge to India's export strategy with considerable scope for higher value additions, he added. Terming tourism as an engine of growth, the RBI Governor said although the sector is severely impacted by Covid-19, this is a sector where pent up demand could drive a V shaped recovery when the situation normalises. He also said the Covid-19 has brought the importance of food security and food distribution or supply chain network to the forefront of public policy debate in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||Tax break for start-ups likely||Start-ups are likely to get a major tax break with the parliamentary standing committee of finance recommending that the tax on long term capital gains be abolished by at least two years for all investments funnelled through collective investment vehicles (CIVs) such as angel funds, alternative investment funds (AIFs) and investment limited liability partnerships (LLPs). “At a minimum, this should be done for at least the next two years to encourage investments during the pandemic period,” the committee said in a report posted on the Lok Sabha website. “After this two year period, the Securities Transaction Tax (STT) may be applied to CIVs so that revenue neutrality is maintained.” The committee noted that Investments by CIVs are transparently done and have to be done at fair market value. Thus, it is easy to calculate the STT associated with these investments. This can be done in lieu of imposing the long-term capital gains tax on these CIVs “to make the taxation system fairer, less cumbersome, and transparent,” the committee added. “This will also ensure that investments in unlisted securities are on a par with investments in listed securities.” STT is imposed at 0.1 per cent of the value of listed shares traded on exchanges. The panel said that unicorns —startups with over $1 billion valuation — need to be scaled up, and the source for their capital-raising should be Indian as against current source of US and Chinese funds. India has about 50 ‘unicorns’ that are now worth more than $500 billion collectively, and are leaders in the IT services, telecom, financial services, airline, e-commerce, and retailing industries, according to the report. The committee felt that the current law governing the taxation of long-term capital gains is “highly complex” due to varying tax treatment of income from capital gains based on varied parameters such as holding, tax rates that range from 10 per cent to 40 per cent and allows indexation only in respect of certain assets. It said the capital gains tax rates for investment in unlisted shares by domestic investors can range from 28.49 per cent  to 42.74 per cent. The complex tax regime dampens the enthusiasm of investors in the private equity (PE)/venture capital (VC) that are eyeing Indian investments. It said there was a need to incentivise large PE/VC funds to invest in the private sector and provide necessary capital to cash crunched companies. The report said that in various developed jurisdictions such as the US, the UK and other EU, capital gains earned by foreign investors are not taxed. Closer to home, countries such as Singapore do not have any capital gains tax, which attracts investors to pool/ invest in Singapore, the report added. The recommendation comes at a time when the Modi government amended its FDI policy by deciding to clamp down on investments in Indian companies through Chinese investors by subjecting them to rigorous scrutiny.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||WTO rap on US tariffs||The World Trade Organisation said on Tuesday that the Trump administration’s tariffs on Chinese goods totaling more than $200 billion are illegal under the rules of the global trade body. The decision marks the first time the Geneva-based trade body has ruled against a series of tariffs that President Donald Trump’s government has imposed on a number of countries, allies and rivals alike. Trump has repeatedly criticised the WTO, which oversees international disputes on trade, for allegedly treating the US unfairly. In its decision, the WTO ruled against the Trump administration’s argument that China has engaged in practices harmful to US interests, on issues including intellectual property theft, technology transfer and innovation. The ruling, in theory, would allow China to impose retaliatory tariffs on billions worth of US goods — if the process is completed. But the US government can appeal the decision announced by the WTO’s dispute settlement body, and the WTO’s appeals court is currently no longer functioning — largely because of Washington’s single-handed refusal to accept new members for it. The US tariffs target two batches of Chinese products. Duties of 10 per cent were imposed on some $200 billion worth of goods in September 2018, and were jacked up to 25 per cent eight months later. AP||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||Exide shifts strategy||Automotive and industrial battery major Exide sees a better opportunity in the lithium ion sector amid the ongoing economic slowdown and geopolitical tensions, with many of its existing clients reviewing their sourcing strategy from China. The company’s managing director and CEO Gautam Chatterjee informed shareholders at the annual general meeting on Tuesday that Exide will benefit from an early mover approach through its joint venture with Swiss firm Leclanche. “The JV is well placed with an assembly line of 1.5 GWh capacity to take a leading position in the lithium ion battery market in India. Production lines have been ordered for battery pack assembly of cylindrical, prismatic and pouch cells, with some of them already in operations. Many pilot orders have been collected from multiple automotive OEMs, as well as large telecom operators, UPS manufacturers and solar PV companies,” Chatterjee said. He added that the existing infrastructure will give an edge as demand for lithium ion cells picks up in the country in a phased manner. The lockdown has taken a toll on the business with automobile sales being subdued. The company has decided not to undertake any major capital expenditure, including planning any greenfield expansion in the near future. However, Chatterjee said that brownfield expansions will be under consideration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||Max buyback bonanza||Max India on Tuesday said it would come out with a capital reduction programme under which the company would buy back equity shares worth up to Rs 92 crore from the public. The company plans to offer its shareholders the option of taking Rs 85 per share for up to 20 per cent of their equity in lieu of cancelling the shares. The shares of Max India rallied more than 8 per cent to close at Rs 67.05 on the BSE after the announcement. The buyback price translates to a 37 per cent premium to the closing price of the Max India scrip on Monday. Max India, which got relisted on the bourses on August 28, said it had Rs 400 crore in its kitty primarily from the divestment of its erstwhile subsidiary Max Bupa. Max wants to use up to Rs 92 crore of the sum for capital reduction, while the balance of more than Rs 300 crore will be apportioned for growth and other operational expenses. “The board has approved the capital reduction exercise. The proposal will need to be approved by a special resolution of public shareholders. It will additionally need regulatory approvals including from stock market regulator and NCLT, Mumbai. The approval process is expected to take about 6-8 months,” Max India said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||Goodricke meets goals||Premium tea maker Goodricke on Tuesday said that uprooting and replantation exercise is a continuous process for the company and the average age of bushes is less than 50 years. Speaking at the AGM, Goodricke MD & CEO Atul Asthana said that due to modernisation and replantation, the company had been able to meet the production shortfall as the entire workforce was not available due to the pandemic. He said that more areas have been brought under tea cultivation by introducing modern irrigation methods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||Apple subscriptions in a bundle||Apple Inc rolled out a new virtual fitness service and a bundle of all its subscriptions, Apple One, focusing a holiday-season product launch on services that are the backbone of Apple’s growth strategy and cater to customers working at home during the Covid-19 pandemic. Apple also introduced a new Apple Watch Series 6 that monitors blood oxygen and will cost $399, and a lower-cost Apple Watch SE for $279. The Apple One bundle will cost $15 per month for an individual plan or $20 per month for a family plan and include television, music and games. Apple is also offering a bundle for $30 per month that adds news, the fitness service and more storage. Apple said both new watches can be pre-ordered starting Tuesday and will be available on Friday. Apple also introduced the Apple Fitness+ service, powered by its watches, that will deliver virtual workouts for $10 per month or $80 per year and be available before the end of the year. Shares of exercise stationary bike maker Peloton Interactive Inc, which also has a subscription service, were up about 3.6 per cent after Apple’s announcement. Apple said that most of its workouts were designed to be conducted with either no equipment or minimal gear such as a set of dumbbells, whereas Peloton’s workouts typically require either a bike or a treadmill. The ability of the Apple Watch to monitor blood oxygen seeks to match a similar feature already available on watches from rival Fitbit Inc, which Alphabet Inc’s Google is buying for $2.1 billion. Apple added a faster chip to its base model iPad, which it priced at $329 for consumers and $299 for education customers. Apple’s new iPad Air will cost $599 and look more like its iPad Pro models and a new A14 processor chip that Apple says will be the first to use a 5-nanometer chip manufacturing process. Apple’s biggest seller — the iPhone —is expected to be announced next month after executives have said its launch will be delayed by several weeks because of pandemic-related disruptions. Apple shares have soared this year even as the virus has crippled economies around the world, thanks in large part to booming sales of work-from-home items.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||SAIL slips into the red||Domestic steel major SAIL has suffered a consolidated net loss of Rs 1,226.47 crore for the June quarter of 2020, mainly on account of reduced income. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 102.68 crore in the year-ago quarter, SAIL said in a BSE filing. During the quarter under review, the company said its total income declined to Rs 9,346.21 crore from Rs 14,998.20 crore in the April-June period of the preceding fiscal. Its total expenses stood at Rs 11,325.10 crore against Rs 14,893.07 crore a year ago. The company said the pandemic outbreak and measures to contain it have caused significant disturbance and slowdown of economic activities. Consequently, the company’s manufacturing operations had to be scaled down during the said quarter. “Though the operations resumed in the later part of the quarter with limited availability of workforce and disrupted supply chain, the restrictions imposed adversely impacted the sales volume and realisation,” SAIL said. Budget carrier SpiceJet on Tuesday reported a first-quarter net loss of Rs 600.5 crore owing to the suspension of flight operations because of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. It had posted a net profit of Rs 262.8 crore a year ago. The airline’s operating revenue stood at Rs 521 crore in the first quarter of 2020-21, significantly lower against Rs 3,002.8 crore a year ago. Operating expenses during the June 2020 quarter were Rs 1,311.6 crore compared with Rs 2,886.7 crore in the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||Toyota in Rs 2,000cr investment flip-flop||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Tuesday found out that investment plainspeak could land a company into a political pothole in the country. Some hours after threatening to stop expansion because of the Modi-government’s  lopsided taxation , the auto giant did a U-turn to keep the political hounds at bay. The Japanese car maker announced an investment of Rs 2,000 crore over the next 12 months after a senior official of the company had said it would stop all expansion in India on account of high taxes The announcement on investment was made by TKM vice-chairman Vikram Kirloskar, whose company, Kirloskar Systems Limited, holds 11 per cent in TKM. Earlier in the day, TKM vice-chairman and whole time director Shekhar Vishwanathan had in an interview to Bloomberg said the company would halt all expansion in view of the prevailing high taxes on cars. He had stated that the “central government keeps taxes on cars and motorbikes so high that companies find it hard to scale”. It also makes car-owning out of reach for many consumers which translates into idle factories and less jobs. “The message we are getting after we have come here and invested, is that we don’t want you,” Vishwanathan has been quoted as saying. All it then took was a tweet by heavy industries minister Prakash Javadekar. “The news that Toyota Company will stop investing in India is incorrect. vikramkirloskar has clarified that Toyota will invest more than Rs 2,000 crore in next 12 months,” the minister said in his tweet. Endorsing Javadekar, Kirloskar tweeted: “Absolutely! We are investing 2000+ crs in electric components and technology for the domestic customer and export. We are committed to the future of India.” Sandwiched between Vishwanathan’s assessment and the late evening climbdown, the company had put out a statement saying it would first try to “achieve full capacity utilisation which will take time”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||States may go to court for GST dues||Opposition-ruled states may go to court if the Centre is able to rustle up support in the GST Council to the “disagreeable” option of forcing the state governments to raise borrowings from the market to fill up the shortfall in the GST collections which is estimated at Rs 3 lakh crore this fiscal. The shortfall — which the Centre is obligated to compensate the states for a period of five years till 2022 — should have come out of the proceeds of a compensation cess that is levied on a handful of luxury and other demerit goods. But the cess isn’t likely to yield more than Rs 65,000 crore this year which leaves a yawning gap of Rs 2.35 lakh crore. The Centre has refused to fork out this sum. Instead, it has cleverly diced this sum up into two components: a sum of Rs 97,000 crore which it has arbitrarily attributed to the infirmities in GST implementation and a larger Rs 1.38 lakh crore that has been ascribed to the Covid-19 pandemic and treated as an exogenous factor outside the scope of the GST regime. States have been given the option of either borrowing a sum of Rs 97,000 crore through a special loan window to be created by the RBI or the entire sum of Rs 2.65 lakh crore at market rates. Most BJP-ruled states have weighed in favour of the first option and the proposal is likely to be carried at the GST Council meet this Saturday. The Centre has a one-third weightage in any Council vote which fairly secures the outcome. At least one state, Bengal, has not ruled out the possibility to challenge the Centre’s sinister plan to shake off its obligations under the GST which was critical in securing the states’ support for a contentious tax reform that required them to subsume virtually all their taxes and levies under an overarching tax system designed to create a pan-India common market. “Whether we will go to court or not is a strategy I can’t reveal,” Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra told Karan Thapar in an interview for news portal The Wire. Even though Mitra had always insisted that trust and consensus had been the guiding lights for ushering GST in the country, seeking the view of the attorney-general of India on GST compensation may have changed the equation. Some believe the Centre has paved the way for legalese in the matter of GST when it buttressed its stand with the AG’s view in an attempt to wreck the spirit of cooperative federalism that underpinned the GST regime. Bengal and several other non-BJP states want the Centre to borrow the entire shortfall. In return, they are okay with extension of cess collection period to pay for the principal and interest on the central loan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||Narendra Modi sows agri reforms||The Narendra Modi-government on Tuesday set the stage for big bang reforms in the farm sector when it secured the Lok Sabha’s approval for the first part of a three-stage legislative template with the passing of a bill to amend the 65-year-old Essential Commodities Act. The farm sector reforms — which will allow the Big Boys of Business to storm the country’s farmlands and grab control over the distribution of farm produce — are designed to break the hegemony of the mandis, usher in contract farming in a big way, catalyse the creation of large cold chain storage facilities and logistic networks and shake off decades-old stockholding restrictions that were designed to ensure a pricing system that would be fair to both farmers and retail consumers at the end of a convoluted value chain. The contours of the reform process were outlined in June when the Centre passed three ordinances that are now set to gain the imprimatur of Parliament through legislative amendments. But the changes have already sparked an outcry from opposition MPs who worry that the system is now being gamed to help big business rather than the farmers who supposedly will get a fair price for their produce. On Wednesday, the Lok Sabha is expected to debate the second piece of legislation — the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill — which seeks to give farmers the freedom to skirt the mandi system and sell their produce through alternative trading channels that the large retailing channels in the country hope to create. Later, the House will also debate a proposal to allow big business to establish large contract farms, which many believe will threaten the livelihood of the small and marginal farmers who hold less than 2 hectares of land each and account for over 86 per cent of all the farmers in the country. The Modi-government’s farm sector reforms came under attack during the Lok Sabha debate with several opposition members dubbing it as a thinly-disguised plan to favour a few crony capitalists while professing to create a brave new world for farmers. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, seeks to deregulate food items, including cereals pulses and onion. Trinamul Congress’ Saugata Roy and Kalyan Banerjee opposed the bill and accused the Centre of taking away the power of states. “I don't understand what was the hurry of bringing the ordinance,” Roy said and claimed the legislation will benefit big traders, while farmers would be left in the lurch. “It will give big corporates entry into the space of farmers.” The Opposition cited to the provision that does away with stock limit unless prices shoot up to extra-ordinary levels. Participating in the debate, Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, an ally of the ruling BJP, spoke about “misgivings” and “doubts” among farmers on the Bill and two other proposed legislations related to the farm sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
