17-09-2020||Business||Bhel plans to introduce Maglev trains||State-run engineering firm Bhel on Wednesday announced its tie-up with SwissRapide AG to bring Maglev trains (magnetic levitation) to India. Aimed at expanding its footprint in the urban transportation sector as part of its diversification initiatives, Bhel has entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with SwissRapide AG for Maglev Train projects in India, a company statement said. The Maglev Rail system hovers in the air instead of rolling because of magnetic levitation. Thus the vehicles have no physical contact with the guideway. This enables the system to be highly energy efficient with operating speeds of up to 500 km per hour and significantly reduces the total cost of system ownership. The MoU was signed by S. V. Srinivasan, GM and head (transportation business group), Bhel, and Niklaus H. Koenig, president and CEO, SwissRapide AG. SwissRapide AG is a Swiss company specialising in the promotion, project management, planning, specification, design, implementation and commissioning of international Maglev Rail projects and related technologies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
17-09-2020||Business||New Bandhan Bank vertical part of five-year strategy||Bandhan Bank on Wednesday announced the consolidation of different microlending operations under a new business vertical, called Emerging Entrepreneurs Business (EEB). The introduction of this vertical is part of the next five-year strategy of the microfinance-turned-universal bank, which completed the first five years of operations last month. The EEB vertical of the bank will also focus on small-ticket home loans, micro bazaar loans and micro enterprise loans. Former Airtel and ICICI Bank official Kumar Ashish, who has been appointed executive president and head of EEB, will lead the operations of the vertical. Ashish spent about two decades in ICICI Bank where his last role was the senior general manager and retail head of North India, leading businesses such as mortgage, MSME loan, auto loan, commercial vehicle loan, personal loan, credit card, wealth management, fee income and branch operations. Before joining Bandhan Bank, Ashish was group director, Airtel Money, in Africa. “We are committed to our next five-year strategic vision and are ready for the next phase of growth. In line with the capability requirements, the bank has been focusing on capacity building both through training and up-skilling of existing employees, and through lateral hiring,” said Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, MD and CEO of Bandhan Bank. “Kumar Ashish brings with him a wealth of experience in banking. We are confident he will drive the newly formed EEB vertical to success,” Ghosh said. The microbanking assets of Bandhan bank stood at Rs 47,500 crore as on June 30, 2020, recording a growth of 21.2 per cent over previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
17-09-2020||Business||Airlines seek $1.5bn interest-free credit||Airlines in India have sought at least $1.5-billion in interest-free credit from the government. The Covid-19 related lockdowns and restrictions have dragged their revenues down 86 per cent in the first quarter to Rs 3,651 crore from a year ago, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Wednesday. The carriers have also sought a deferment of loan repayments by six months without these borrowings being classified as “non-performing”, Puri said in a written reply to Parliament. The airlines have asked the government to include jet fuel in the Goods and Services Tax and abolish excise duty on aviation turbine fuel, the minister said. Indian carriers need as much as $2.5 billion to keep flying, according to estimates by CAPA Centre for Aviation; and one or more of the country’s airlines are expected to fail in the absence of additional funding from the government or their owners. “The revenue of Indian carriers has reduced from Rs 25,517 crore during April-June 2019 to Rs 3,651 crore in the same period in 2020. The revenue of airport operators has decreased to Rs 894 crore from Rs 5,745 crore during April-June 2019,” the minister said. The employee count of Indian carriers went down to 69,589 on July 31 from 74,887 on March 31, a decrease of 7.07 per cent. The employee count at airports has come down to 64,514 on July 31 from 67,760 on March 31. The number of employees at ground handling agencies fell 22.44 per cent to 29,254 in the April-July period. Air India’s total revenue has come down to Rs 1,531 crore during the first quarter of 2020-21 from Rs 7,066 crore during April-June 2019. Scheduled domestic flight services were suspended in India from March 25 to May 24 because of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. They were resumed from May 25 but in a curtailed manner. Puri stated the domestic air traffic in the country fell to 1.2 crore during March-July period compared with 5.85 crore in the year-ago period. International traffic dropped to 11.55 lakh during these five months compared with  93.45 lakh in the year-ago period, he added. Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 because of  the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. However, special international passenger flights have been operating in India under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements formed between India and other countries since July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
17-09-2020||Business||Power draft rules placed in public domain for suggestions||The government has for the first time attempted to enumerate the rights of power consumers. A set of draft rules, placed in public domain for comment, propose strict timelines for the provision of electricity connections, enjoin power distribution companies to provide smart prepayment meters and pay compensation to consumers if they stumble on performance parameters. The “Union power ministry in a historic pro-consumer move drafts Electricity (Rights of Consumers) Rules, 2020; invites suggestions/comments by September 30, 2020”, the ministry said in a statement. The objective is to provide consumers better services and facilities, it said, adding that electricity consumers are the most important stakeholders in the power sector. According to the draft rules, state electricity regulators will have to notify updated “standards of performance” for discoms and specify the compensation amounts that consumers would receive if the standards are not met. The parameters for which consumers would be eligible for compensation include unsatisfactory supply duration, number of power cuts and the time taken by discoms to provide new connections and replace defective meters. The draft rules also entitle consumers to get rebates on power bills not served on time and other compensation from discoms if they fail to address grievances in a timely manner. The draft said a distribution licensee shall supply 24x7 power to all consumers. The Electricity Commission, however,  may specify lower hours of supply for some category of consumers such as agriculture. New connections must be provided within seven days in metro cities, 15 days in other municipal areas and 30 days in rural areas. Under the draft rules, no connection will be provided without a meter; most often it will be a smart pre-payment meter. Consumer shall be given the option to purchase the meter and associated equipment. The meter shall be read at least once in every billing cycle. In the case of smart pre-payment meters, the meters shall be read remotely at least once a month. A bill amount of more than Rs 1,000 must be mandatorily paid online. There will be suitable rebates for online payments, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
17-09-2020||Business||Safety focus in mobility choice in post-Covid times||Indian consumers would prefer to travel in their own vehicles instead of public transport in a post-Covid world. About 73 per cent of the respondents of a survey conducted by the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam) and Grant Thornton India titled “Personal mobility experience post Covid-19” said they would buy a new vehicle once the economy slowly revives. While 29 per cent of the respondents planned to purchase a new vehicle over a period of 12 months, 8 per cent were eager to buy one in the next six months. More than 56 per cent of participants feel it makes better financial sense to keep their current vehicle considering the overall economic scenario at present. Rajesh Menon, director-general of SIAM, said, “The survey revealed two clear trends. While most consumers are preferring personal mobility over public and shared transportation, the slowing economy and its adverse impacts will continue to remain a cause of worry for consumers when it comes to making new purchases. However, because of safety concerns in the wake of the pandemic, customers who were earlier not considering buying vehicles, have also become potential buyers now.” Respondents also showed a preference towards two wheelers and electric vehicles, accounting for around 20 per cent each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
17-09-2020||Business||Flipkart overseas IPO bid in early 2021||Walmart-controlled Flipkart is preparing for an initial public offering overseas as early as 2021, which could value the firm up to $50 billion, sources familiar with the company’s plans told Reuters. Bangalore-based Flipkart, which vies with players such as Amazon.com’s local unit in India and India’s Reliance Industries, will be aiming for a valuation in the $45-50 billion range, according to one source with knowledge of the matter. If achieved, that would mean Walmart would have more than doubled its investment. Flipkart is likely to choose between Singapore, or the United States for the initial public offering (IPO), said two other sources, who asked not to be named as discussions are private. “Flipkart is incorporated in Singapore, but listing in the United States, where parent Walmart is based, could give it access to a deeper pool of funds,” one of the sources said. Flipkart and Walmart did not respond to Reuters requests for comment. The sources said the preparations and discussions have been largely internal for now, but the company is preparing to tap external advisers on the process soon. The discussions come as India drafts new regulations that could pave the way for domestic companies to directly list overseas. Two other sources familiar with the plans said that work has begun to ensure compliance, legal and finance functions will meet regulatory standards ahead of a potential listing. “Right now, the IPO target is more or less considered to be late 2021, or early 2022, but the current crisis has made things a little blurry,” said one of these two sources. The second person added that being “IPO ready” has become a constant refrain in top level meetings internally. Walmart acquired a roughly 77 per cent stake in Flipkart for about $16 billion back in 2018. That deal remains the single largest foreign direct investment in India. It turned Flipkart’s founders Sachin Bansal and Binny Bansal into billionaires, and confirmed Flipkart’s status as the country’s most successful start-up at the time. Later that year, Bentonville, Arkansas-based Walmart in a regulatory filing said it could take Flipkart public in four years. In July this year, Flipkart raised $1.2 billion in fresh funding with Walmart as its lead investor. That round valued Flipkart, which counts China’s Tencent, US hedge fund Tiger Global, and Microsoft among its investors, at $24.9 billion. Flipkart said it would use the funds, to be received in two tranches this fiscal year, to support the development of its e-commerce marketplace as India emerges from the Covid-19 crisis. Like its rival Amazon, Flipkart began by selling books, but diversified rapidly into selling smartphones, clothing and other items. It now competes with Amazon in most categories. India’s e-commerce sector is expected to be worth $99 billion by 2024, according to Goldman Sachs, as more Indians switch to online shopping. That expanding market has attracted not only global giants such as Walmart and Amazon, but also India’s oil-to-telecom conglomerate Reliance, which has jumped into the fray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
17-09-2020||Business||Vedanta wins arbitration case involving government||A judgment of a Malaysian tribunal was considered as valid by the Supreme Court in a case involving the government of India and some Indian parties. The apex court on Wednesday squashed the government’s claim that the award by the Malaysian arbitration was not valid as it was against “public policy”. The tribunal had awarded $476 million to Vedanta Limited (formerly Cairn India Ltd.),  Ravva Oil, Singapore and Videocon Industries towards contract charges for exploration of oil and gas on the Ravva oil fields, while the government claimed they were entitled to $198 million. The Union government had pleaded that in terms of the original production sharing contract (PSC) entered between the government and the private companies in October 1994, the latter were entitled to only $198 million. The Ravva fields are located off the Odisha coast. However, a Malaysian arbitration tribunal in 2011 had ruled that the Indian government had to pay around $476 million. The decision was subsequently upheld by the Malaysian High Court and the Court of Appeal in that country. Thus all the three forums had rejected the Indian government’s plea. Aggrieved, the Centre had appealed in the Delhi high court challenging the award. However, the Delhi high court too in this year dismissed the government’s appeal, following which the Centre appealed in the apex court. A three-judge bench of Justices Abdul Nazeer, Indu Malhotra and Aniruuddha Bose refused to interfere with the award, saying there was nothing on record to prove that the award was contrary to “public policy” as argued by India. “The Award is not contrary to the fundamental policy of Indian law, or in conflict with the notions of justice, as discussed hereinabove. The term of the PSC was for a period of 25 years from October 28, 1994, which ended on October 27, 2019. “We have been informed that the term of the PSC has since been extended for a further period of 10 years, through the mutual agreement between the parties. This itself would reflect that the performance of the obligations under the PSC were not contrary to the interests of India,” the apex court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
17-09-2020||Business||RBI holds out early rate cut hope||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das on Wednesday said that the central bank was “battle ready’’ to crank up the economy as he gave priority to growth over inflation, which has been well above the tolerance level. Das said the RBI was prepared to take whatever measures to revive the economy, which contracted at a shocking 23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter, even as retail inflation at 6.69 per cent in August remained above the medium-term target of 4 per cent  plus or minus 2 per cent for the for the fifth straight month. At its meeting last month, the monetary policy committee (MPC) of the RBI had left the policy repo rate unchanged because of concerns over inflation. The latest comments from the RBI governor will keep hopes alive of an interest rate cut from the MPC at its October meeting. Addressing a virtual conference organised by industry body Ficci, Das said the contraction of 23.9 per cent in the first quarter was a telling reflection of the ravages of Covid-19. However, high frequency indicators such as  agricultural activity, the purchasing managers’ index (PMI) for manufacturing and private estimates of unemployment point to some stabilisation in the second quarter  amid several sectors reporting easing in contraction. But at the same time, the recovery is not yet fully entrenched and in some sectors, the uptick seen in June and July is easing. “By all indications, the recovery is likely to be gradual as efforts towards the reopening of the economy are confronted with rising infections,” Das said. The RBI governor said the immediate policy response was to focus on stabilisation along with quick recovery policies in the medium term. Ficci chairperson Sunita Reddy said the private sector was afraid of getting crowded out of the loan market as the government could increase borrowing because of the poor state of its finances. The Centre has announced a record borrowing of Rs 12 lakh crore for this fiscal. Das allayed Reddy’s fears as the borrowing costs in the economy were at their lowest levels in a decade. “Despite substantial increase in government borrowing programme, large surplus liquidity conditions has facilitated non-disruptive mobilisation of resources at the lowest borrowing costs in a decade, the RBI governor said. Moreover, Das said that benign financing conditions and the substantial narrowing of spreads have spurred a record issuance of corporate bonds of close to Rs 3.2 lakh crore during 2020-21 up to August. Commenting on its one-time restructuring scheme, Das said that the interests of depositors and financial stability were kept in mind while framing the mechanism. “The primary concern of any banking system should be the protection of the depositors’ interest... so, on the one hand we had to keep in mind the interest of the depositors, the need to maintain financial stability, the stability of the banking sector as we don’t want a repeat of the situation which India experienced a few years ago where the NPA levels of banks had gone up very steeply,” he said. At the meeting, the RBI governor told the industry leaders to focus on five areas which would sustain India’s growth in the medium-run. These included human capital, in particular education and health, productivity, exports, which is linked to raising India’s role in the global value chain, tourism and food processing. In a bid to protect the interest of depositors, the Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed an amendment to the Banking Regulation Act to bring cooperative banks under the supervision of the RBI. The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 replaces an ordinance that was promulgated on June 26. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the legislation was designed to protect depositors’ funds and would not undermine the powers of the Registrar of Co-operative Societies. The powers of the registrar have not been encroached upon but the banking activity of co-operatives will be regulated by the RBI, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
