18-09-2020||Business||Google removes Paytm from Play Store for policy violation ||Google said on Friday it had removed the Paytm app from its Play Store for violation of its policy on sport betting activities. Paytm will not be available for download now but there will be no impact on existing users of the app, Google has clarified. "The app was blocked for violation of play policies - a clarification of our policy was released earlier today (Friday) ahead of the IPL tournament," Google said in an e-mailed response. Google also said that only the app availability on Play Store was impacted and there was no impact on users. Paytm is a popular app for digital transactions. In a tweet, Paytm said Paytm Android app is temporarily unavailable on Google's Play Store for new downloads or updates. "It will be back very soon. All your money is completely safe, and you can continue to enjoy your Paytm app as normal," it added. In a blog on Friday, Google said it did not allow apps facilitating sports betting and would remove such apps from the Google Play Store. "We don't allow online casinos or support any unregulated gambling apps that facilitate sports betting. This includes if an app leads consumers to an external website that allows them to participate in paid tournaments to win real money or cash prizes, it is a violation of our policies," the blog post said. According to the blog post, these policies are in place to protect users from potential harm. There is often a surge in launches of such apps before major sporting tournaments like the IPL. The latest season of the Indian Premier League (IPL) is scheduled to start from Saturday, September 19 in the United Arab Emirates. Google said when an app violates these policies, it notifies the developer of the violation and removes the app from Google Play until the developer brings the app into compliance. "And in the case where there are repeated policy violations, we may take more serious action which may include terminating Google Play Developer accounts. Our policies are applied and enforced on all developers consistently," the blog post by Android Security and Privacy Vice President Product Suzanne Frey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
18-09-2020||Business||US law firm files class action suit against HDFC Bank||A law firm in the US has filed a class action suit against HDFC Bank, claiming damages for the losses incurred by investors because of “materially false and misleading” representations made by India’s largest private sector lender. The suit by Rosen Legal specifically names the bank’s managing director and chief executive Aditya Puri, his chosen successor Sashidhar Jagdishan and company secretary Santosh Haldnakar, who are the defendants in the suit, according to a copy of the complaint uploaded on the website. The complaint did not mention the exact amount of the damages sought, though it maintained that thousands of investors might have suffered.  HDFC Bank could not be immediately reached for comment. According to the suit, bank officials “engaged in a plan, scheme, conspiracy and course of conduct, pursuant to which they knowingly or recklessly engaged in acts, transactions, practices and courses of business which operated as a fraud and deceit”, resulting in the losses to investors. The allegations pertain to the vehicle finance vertical, where the bank later acknowledged to have found some improprieties which resulted in some executives being acted against. The bank had inadequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, maintained improper lending practices in the vehicle financing making the operations unsustainable and all this was likely to have a negative impact on its financial condition and reputation, it alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
18-09-2020||Business||GST: Covid ruse to silence automakers||Covid-19 — infamously characterised as an Act of God by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman — has again come in as a handy excuse for a glowering response from the Narendra Modi government to silence the first rumblings of protest from automakers. Some auto firms have had the temerity to suggest that the high goods and service tax (GST) rate has badly stalled recovery in the industry. On Thursday, finance ministry sources sent out a stern message to the automakers: cut manufacturing costs and pare royalty payments to overseas parent firms instead of trying to pressure the government to cut GST rates. The brouhaha over GST rates burst into the open on Tuesday when Toyota Kirloskar vice-chairman Shekar Viswanathan told Bloomberg in an interview that the carmaker had decided not to expand operations in India because of the country’s high tax regime. “The message we are getting, after we have come here and invested money, is that we don’t want you,” Viswanathan said in that interview. In the absence of any reforms, “we won’t exit India, but we won’t scale up”. Viswanathan’s statement resonated with other automakers and the rumblings of dissent over the high taxes started to begin, prompting Union heavy industries minister Prakash Javadekar to say in a tweet later that evening: “The news that Toyota Company will stop investing in India is incorrect. Vikram Kirloskar has clarified that Toyota will invest more than Rs 2,000 core in the next 12 months.” Kirloskar, a minority partner in the car venture, stepped in to try and end the rumpus with his own soothing tweet: “Absolutely! We are investing over Rs 2,000 crore in electric components for the domestic customer and exports. We are committed to the future of India.” The mild damage-control exercise didn’t apparently work as other automakers turned equally restive though they were too scared to issue public statements. The government has now decided to come out with a more aggressive response to quell criticism over its tax regime at a time when it is trying to woo foreign investors to set up shop in India. Driving etiquette says you must not dazzle a flustered car driver in a sudden face-off with a luminous high-beam response — but the government has chosen to do exactly that. “If the regulatory environment was not conducive, it would be hard to imagine new players investing heavily in vehicle-manufacturing facilities like Jeep, Kia Motors and MG Motor, to name a few. Those companies which can feel the pulse of the Indian consumer and deliver accordingly are ruling the roost,” a source said. The suggestion to cut royalty payout to overseas parents is unusually aggressive since the royalty was the real reason the Japanese and South Korean automakers invested in India in the first place. Most pay royalties between 3 and 5 per cent. In the case of small global automakers like Suzuki Motors, this is a critical source of revenue. Maruti Suzuki paid Rs 38.2 billion — amounting to 5 per cent of its revenues — in royalties to its Japanese parent Suzuki Motor in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020, according to its annual report. Toyota Motor’s India arm paid $88 million or 3.4 per cent of revenue to its Japanese parent, government data showed. Automakers have not responded to the government’s suggestion to cut royalties but maintain that it is becoming hard to do business in India because of the high tax rates. Shashank Srivastava, executive director of Maruti Suzuki India, told The Telegraph: “India’s GDP per capita is low by international standards and because of our demographics profile we have a large number of first-time buyers who buy more value cars. These two factors make for a high elasticity of demand as regards the cost of acquisition of cars. The high sensitivity of buyers to the cost of acquisition makes it imperative to keep the costs low if the industry has to tap the big upside potential that comes from the current low car penetration in our country.” He said automakers try to optimise costs relating to components, labour, productivity, logistics and retailing. But the costs outside their control are regulatory and statutory costs like road taxes, registration taxes, insurance costs, GST, cess, etc. Therefore, the industry often appeals for the reduction of the costs of acquisition arising from these elements. “The government obviously has to take appropriate decisions on these based on the overall economy,” Srivastava said. But an increasingly truculent government is not prepared to listen to any form of criticism and, instead, insists that automobile taxes in India are among the lowest in the world. A finance ministry source said: “The GST rates on automobiles are less than what value-added tax (VAT) and excise duty rates used to be in pre-GST times. The tax policy on automobiles has been quite consistent for the last three decades and we have incentivised domestic manufacturing by providing reasonable protection from imports. Industry has, on its part, also delivered on its side of the bargain. It has contributed by making large investments and increasing employment. “This sudden dissent in some quarters on tax rates on automobiles is surprising. These companies should cut down their costs of manufacturing by cutting down the royalty payments to their parent companies abroad instead of asking the government to reduce GST.” The source suggested the response was coming from frustrated automakers who were unable to stand the heat of competition. The official said that Japan currently imposed three types of taxes on automobiles: once on purchase, then an annual automobile tax based on engine size and, finally, a weight tax at inspections required once every two years. Over and above this, there is GST at the highest applicable rate, the official said. Sources also cited the example of the EU where the base rate for VAT/GST on automobiles ranges from 20 per cent to 25 per cent, with a string of other taxes varying with jurisdiction. “The UK charges vehicle excise duties that vary with car emission norms and has 14 rate slabs varying from zero to £2,175 a year with a surcharge of £325 in the first year and £150 for expensive vehicles,” a source said. “Besides, there are road usage charges. Further, high parking charges are common across the globe. Most of the countries provide certain concessions to electric vehicles. Given this, it would be unfair to claim that the GST rates in India are astounding or a demand dampener.” Ravi Bhatia, president and director, JATO Dynamics, an automotive research firm, said: “It is not wrong for industry to seek a stable policy framework and globally comparable taxation regime. ‘Make in India’ can happen only when the government puts money where its mouth is.” He added: “We have idle capacity and that hurts profitability in a very big way. This sector also has employment generation potential which is not being utilised…. For a country which can economically benefit from improving mobility, the auto sector wants to be seen as a facilitator of economic growth and not a burden or a sin good.” It is hard to say why the dissent has erupted now after months of poor automobile sales. One view is that the carmakers want to head off the possibility of the GST Council tinkering with rates again — especially raising the compensation cess on high-end cars — at a time when the Centre is locked with the states in a battle over unpaid dues and inadequate compensation payouts to make up for the shortfall. The issue is likely to come to a head on October 5 when the GST Council is to meet with the states, which are being asked to vote on two stark and disagreeable options: either borrow a sum of Rs 97,000 crore from a special window to be created by the Reserve Bank of India to meet a small part of the expected Rs 3 lakh crore shortfall in GST collections this year, or raise the entire uncovered sum of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the form of debt. The GST compensation cess is expected to raise a paltry Rs 65,000 crore this year, creating a gaping hole in the states’ finances. The Modi government has broken a circle of trust after it disclaimed its constitutional obligation to compensate the states for any annual shortfall in tax collections this year. Automakers fear that the compensation cess -- which is levied on cigarettes, pan masala, aerated drinks and cars that are more than 4 metres long — might be raised to meet a part of the dues, which would wreck their operations. The GST Council was supposed to meet on Saturday but will now meet after the end of the current session of Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
18-09-2020||Business||GM Indian plant sale delay to result in hefty unplanned costs||Delays in General Motors’ sale of its Indian plant to Great Wall Motor because of tensions between India and China are likely to result in hefty unplanned costs for the US automaker, people familiar with the matter said. Gaining approval from the Indian government for China-related deals is now expected to take quite some time and although the sale should still happen at some point, GM has not changed its plan to begin winding down the plant’s operations next month, they said. “By next year, it will either be a closed GM site or it will be an operating site with Great Wall,” said one source. GM had planned to use the expected sale proceeds of $250 million-$300 million to pay off liabilities incurred with its exit from manufacturing in India in what a second source said would have been a “no gain-no loss” situation. Although money will come through once the deal is done, it will now have to pay out of pocket for severance pay, some of which would never have occurred had the deal proceeded smoothly, as well as other costs — which could amount to a couple hundred million dollars, according to the second source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
18-09-2020||Business||Vodafone Idea Ltd drops faster data speed claims||Faced with regulatory heat on its controversial plan, Vodafone Idea Ltd has dropped faster data speed claims, which formed a prominent part of its pay-more-for-priority-treatment offering, and has filed a revised plan with Trai, a source said. The move assumes significance as the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) late last month slapped a showcause notice on VIL over its priority mobile plan, saying the tariff offer lacked transparency, was “misleading” and not in compliance with regulatory framework. The source said the company has now submitted a new RedX plan with Trai and claims of faster data speeds — a major bone of contention — has been done away with. The company’s website is also no longer touting claims of faster speeds for RedX plan, which had been under Trai’s scanner over the past few weeks. Instead, VIL’s website is talking of benefits purely in terms of entertainment privileges (Netflix and Amazon Prime), travel privileges, mobility benefits and other privileges. In the new RedX plan, which has now been filed with Trai, the company has withdrawn the claim of “priority 4G network as compared to other Vodafone postpaid plans”, the source added. VIL’s spokesperson declined to comment on the issue. The regulator had, on August 25, issued a showcause notice asking the company “why appropriate action should not be initiated against it for violating the extant regulatory framework by its RedX tariff plan”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
18-09-2020||Business||Irdai considering to extend tenure of Covid-specific offerings||Insurance regulator Irdai is considering a plan to extend the tenure of Covid-19 specific products as the vaccine for the disease is likely to take some more time, its chairman Subhash C. Khuntia said on Thursday. The watchdog is also working towards facilitating a standard product for coronavirus, which will be easy to understand and will not require “voluminous policy documents”.  “With regard to extending the tenure of the Covid-19 related products, we are hoping that the vaccine would not be delayed for too long. But now that it appears that it will take some more time, we will take a decision about extending the tenure of the policy at an appropriate time,” Khuntia said while addressing the CII Insurance and Pensions Summit webcast. Corona Kavach, launched on July 10 and is being offered by both general and health insurers, is a standard health insurance policy created to meet the treatment requirements for coronavirus infection. The term of the policy ranges from three-and-a-half months to nine-and-a-half months, with a maximum insured amount at Rs 5 lakh. On new Covid-19 insurance products, Khuntia said, “We are coming out with a standard product which is to be sold by all the companies so that it becomes much easier for the policyholder to pick up that product.” Pandemic pool A working group of Irdai has suggested setting up of a pandemic risk pool with a Rs 75,000 crore backstop guarantee from the government in the initial stages, with a view to help MSME workers and migrant labourers facing loss of income.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
18-09-2020||Business||DoT directs telecom service providers to carry out Special Security Audit||Telecom players must do an audit of their network equipment on security grounds amid growing fears of data pilferage by Chinese companies, the government said in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. State-owned BSNL is heavily reliant on Chinese vendors for its equipment, according to data released by minister of state for communications Sanjay Dhotre in the Rajya Sabha. BSNL has procured 44.4 per cent of its mobile network equipment from ZTE and 9 per cent from Huawei, both Chinese companies. Fellow PSU, Mahanagar Telecom Nigam Limited, has procured 10 per cent of its equipment from the Chinese vendors. “The DoT (department of telecommunications) has directed the telecom service providers i.e. Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited, Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited, Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, Bharti Airtel Limited & Vodafone Idea Limited to carry out a Special Security Audit of their networks by an external agency,” the minister said. The objective of the exercise is to check for any “backdoor” or “trapdoor” telecom network vulnerabilities that may allow foreign agencies to listen or collect data being shared on the network. Under unified licence norms, each operator has to undertake an audit of their networks. “According to condition no 39.6 of Chapter VI of Unified Licence, each licensee has to undertake an audit of its network or get its network audited from a security point of view once in a financial year from a network audit and certification agency,” Dhotre said in response to a question from a lawmaker. The minister’s comments come on the back of a security overhaul by the government where it has banned Chinese apps and has asked operators to complete their audits as well. Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited (RJIL) has not deployed any equipment from ZTE and Huawei in its network, the minister said. Vodafone Idea Limited  follows a multi-vendor strategy and has always been compliant with the various security-related requirements. Bharti Airtel Limited, too, follows a multi-vendor approach with equipment from Indian, American, European and Chinese companies across different domains such as radio, core and transport, Dhotre said in his reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
18-09-2020||Business||Govt permits FDI of up to 74 per cent under automatic route in defence sector||The government has permitted foreign direct investment (FDI) of up to 74 per cent under the automatic route in the defence sector, according to a press note issued by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) on Thursday. However, the investments would be subject to scrutiny on the grounds of national security. The government shall reserve the right to review any foreign investment in the sector that affects or may affect national security, the DPIIT said in the note. Under the current FDI policy, 100 per cent overseas investments are permitted in the defence industry — 49 per cent under the automatic route — while beyond that government approval is required. What is FDI under automatic route? Investments that do not require government or RBI approval.FDI in defence up to 49% at present under automatic route What is the rule change? Henceforth, FDI in defence up to 74% will not require any approval. Above 74%, approval will be required According to the Press Note 4 (2020 series): “FDI up to 74 per cent under the automatic route shall be permitted for companies seeking new industrial licences”. The Press Note said infusion of fresh investments up to 49 per cent in a company not seeking industrial licence or which already has government approval for FDI in defence shall require “mandatory” submission of a declaration with the defence ministry in case of change in equity/shareholding pattern or transfer of stake by the existing investor to a new foreign investor for FDI up to 49 per cent, within 30 days of such a change”. The proposal to raise FDI beyond 49 per cent from such companies will require government approval. “The decision will take effect from the date of Fema (Foreign Exchange Management Act) notification,” the note said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
18-09-2020||Business||India ranks 116 on human capital index||India has been ranked at the 116th position in the latest edition of the World Bank’s annual Human Capital Index that benchmarks key components of human capital across countries. However, India’s score increased to 0.49 from 0.44 in 2018, according to the Human Capital Index report released by the World Bank on Wednesday. The 2020 Human Capital Index update includes health and education data for 174 countries — covering 98 per cent of the world’s population — up to March 2020, providing a pre-pandemic baseline on the health and education of children, with the biggest strides made in low-income countries. The analysis shows that pre-pandemic, most countries had made steady progress in building human capital of children, with the biggest strides made in low-income countries. Despite this progress, and even before the effects of the pandemic, a child born in a typical country could expect to achieve just 56 per cent of their potential human capital. “The pandemic puts at risk the decade’s progress in building human capital,” said World Bank group president David Malpass.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
18-09-2020||Business||Shapoorji Pallonji threatens to file for unquantified damages against Tatas||The cash-strapped Shapoorji Pallonji group has threatened to file for unquantified damages against the Tatas for wrecking its fund-raising plans that has been built on the pledge of a small portion of the 18.4 per cent stake held in Tata Sons. In a legal notice sent two days ago, the Cyrus Mistry camp has questioned the complicity of the $111-billion Tata group’s holding company and the members of its board of directors, individually and collectively, for seeking to block the Mistry family from raising funds against the security of the Tata Sons shares that they own. The latest battle between the Tatas and the Mistry camp erupted after the Shapoorji Pallonji group entities signed a deal with Brookfield — a marquee Canadian investment firm — to raise Rs 3,750 crore as part of the first tranche of its fund raising plans. The group is hoping to raise Rs 11,000 crore to tide over an acute funds crunch precipitated by the pandemic. The Tatas immediately approached the Supreme Court on September 5 seeking to restrain the Mistry group from raising capital against their Tata Sons shares. Through the petition, the Tatas sought to prevent the SP Group from creating any direct or indirect pledge of shares. The Mistry camp has asked the group to respond to its notice “within three working days” of receiving the notice, failing which they will initiate action to stop the Tatas from once again trying to oppress a minority shareholder with a vindictive desire to harm its financial interests. The notice said the company and its directors had been rendered “liable for damages, apart from being responsible for aiding, abetting and fomenting vexatious litigation without basis, and thereby putting at risk the lives and employment of tens of thousands of Indians in dire times of pandemic-induced socio-economic stress”. The Mistry camp sought an explanation from the board members, particularly the independent directors, whether the oppressive action that causes prejudice to a minority shareholder was with their concurrence. An SP Group spokesperson stated that this move was solely intended to inflict irreparable harm on the group. The notice accused the Tatas of seeking to create panic among the lenders to the SP Group entities. “The real objective was to spread panic among lenders and financial institutions and cause our clients colossal damage,” the notice said. It added that the malafide intent was borne out by the fact that after filing an “urgent application” before the Supreme Court and seeking to be heard immediately, the Tatas had started to employ dilatory tactics. “Now the urgency has miraculously evaporated and the application itself has been purportedly kept pending for curing defects,” the Mistry notice said. “Abusing the process of a court, no less than the Supreme Court of India, underlines such malafide conduct you have indulged in,” the notice added. It accused Tata Sons and its board of directors of having acted in a manner detrimental to the interests of the company and its shareholders “especially when the outcome of such a move will also have serious implications on every company in the Tata Group that holds shares in Noticee No 1 (Tata Sons), and the encumbrances they or their shareholders may create from time to time”. It accused the independent directors of failing in their statutory duty to “protect the minority shareholders and have acted as a mere rubber stamp to implement the majority shareholders’ decision without weighing its consequences on minority shareholders”. “We have no comment to offer,” a Tata Sons spokesperson told PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
