19-09-2020||Business||Foreign investments in defence will be subject to scrutiny: Piyush Goyal||The government’s decision to ease the FDI norms in the defence sector will push self-reliance in production and keep national interests and security paramount, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said on Friday. He said the foreign investments would be subject to scrutiny on the grounds of national security. The government has permitted 74 per cent foreign direct investment (FDI) under the automatic route in defence with certain conditions. “Now, FDI is allowed up to 74 per cent through the automatic route and beyond 74 per cent to be permitted through the government (approval) route. This will enhance ease of doing business and contribute to growth of investment, income and employment,” Goyal said in a tweet. “In line with our collective vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat, amendments will enhance self-reliance in defence production, while keeping national interests and security paramount.” The government has permitted foreign direct investment (FDI) of up to 74 per cent under the automatic route to attract overseas investors, according to a press note issued by the DPIIT. However, the investments would be subject to scrutiny on the grounds of national security and the government reserves the right to review any foreign investment that affects or may affect national security, the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) said in the note. At present, 100 per cent overseas investments are permitted in the defence industry — 49 per cent under the automatic route, while government approval is required beyond that level. The permit for up to 74 per cent FDI through the automatic route was announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in May while announcing the fourth tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package for the coronavirus-hit economy. In July 2018, the government had relaxed the foreign direct investment norms in the defence sector by allowing up to 49 per cent FDI under the automatic route. According to DPIIT data, defence industries have received FDI equity inflows of $9.52 million (Rs 56.88 crore) between April 2000 and March 2020. Under the government route, foreign investors have to take prior approval of the respective ministry/department, while in the automatic route, the investor just has to inform the RBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
19-09-2020||Business||Govt tightens rule for domestic procurement||Foreign entities of countries which do not allow Indian companies to participate in their government buying will not be permitted to take part in domestic procurement, an official statement said on Friday. The government has also mandated a higher minimum local content from domestic suppliers. The limits for Class I and Class II local suppliers, at 50 per cent and 20 per cent, respectively, will be raised. The changes in the procurement norms would not violate the global trade pacts as India is not a signatory to the WTO’s government procurement agreement and gives ample flexibility for the government to formulate policies, Biswajit Dhar, trade economist with JNU, said. The government has added a reciprocity clause in its Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order, 2017. “According to the Order, entities of countries which do not allow Indian companies to participate in their government procurement for any item, shall not be allowed to participate in government procurement in India for all items related to that nodal ministry/ department, except for the list of items published by the ministry/ department permitting their participation,” it said. The order said this stipulation shall be part of all tenders invited by the central government procuring entities. All procurement on government e-marketplace shall also necessarily have this provision for items identified by nodal ministry/department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
19-09-2020||Business||Govt reduces  import duty on masoor dal by 20 per cent||The government has reduced the import duty on masoor dal by 20 per cent till October-end to boost the availability of the lentil in the domestic market during the festive season. The import duty on masoor dal has been reduced to 10 per cent from 30 per cent from countries other than the US. In the case of the US, the duty has been brought down to 30 per cent from 50 per cent. Bimal Kothari, vice-chairman of the Indian Pulses & Grains Association, said the government should have a consistent import policy. He said the duty cut announced in June benefitted foreign farmers and traders as the global prices of lentil rose after India reduced the import duty. The country imported about 25 lakh tonnes of pulses last fiscal of which 8.5 lakh tonnes were lentil. The import of lentil is seen to rise to 10 lakh tonnes this fiscal although the overall shipments might come down to 20 lakh tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
19-09-2020||Business||Trai issues rules for publications and ads on tariff plans||Telecom regulator Trai on Friday issued a fresh set of rules for publication and advertisement of tariff plans by telcos, in a bid to boost transparency in mobile offers and to help subscribers make informed decisions. The move assumes significance as telecom subscribers often grapple with issues such as lack of information and vague plan details — a situation that affects subscribers’ ability to make proper choices. Tightening the rules for telcos, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) on Friday issued directions on tariff publication and tariff advertisements. “It has been observed that existing measures adopted by telecom service providers are not transparent as they should be and that some of the telecom service providers are not prominently highlighting additional terms and conditions. “They are also collating the terms and conditions applicable to various tariffs on a single web-page and that the relevant information either gets lost in the maze of details or becomes ambiguous and incomprehensible to consumers,” the Trai directive said. Trai has now directed telcos to publish, service area wise — within 15 days — each tariff plan for postpaid and prepaid subscribers, and offer full information to subscribers at customer care centres, points of sale, retail outlets and websites, and apps with requisite disclosures. The “essential disclosures”, mandated in Trai’s directive, include information on units/volume of voice, data and SMS, and its rates, limits of usage rates and speeds beyond entitled use. Telcos will also have to transparently inform subscribers about upfront cost along with details such as advance rentals, deposits, connection fee for postpaid services as well as top-up, tariffs vouchers and others. Trai asserted that “clear, unambiguous and easy to understand” disclosures also have to be made on the validity period of the tariff plan and the last date of bill payment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
19-09-2020||Business||Apple to launch online store in India next week||Apple on Friday said it will launch its online store in India next week, offering its full range of products to customers across the country for the first time, a move that will help the tech giant cash in on the festive demand. The online store, which will be launched on September 23, will provide customers with the same premium experience found in Apple Store locations around the world, delivered by online team members who are ready to offer their expertise, Apple said in a statement. In February, Apple CEO Tim Cook had said the company will launch its online store in India later this year, while its first physical retail store will open in the country in 2021. “We know our users are relying on technology to stay connected, engage in learning, and tap into their creativity, and by bringing the Apple Store online to India, we are offering our customers the very best of Apple at this important time,” Apple senior vice-president of Retail + People, Deirdre O’Brien, said. At present, Apple sells its products in India through third-party sellers and online marketplaces such as Flipkart and Amazon. The online store will allow people to shop for Apple products, with online Apple specialists available to help with services like custom-configuring Macs to setting up new devices. Customers can get advice, receive guidance, and learn about new products directly from Apple, both in English and Hindi, the statement said. The online store will  offer financing options and trade-in programmes. All orders from the Apple Store online will ship with contactless delivery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
19-09-2020||Business||Google bars Paytm from play store for violating gambling policy||Google on Friday restored the Paytm app on its Play store after removing it for violating its policy on sports betting activities. The app was back on the Google Play store on Friday evening after the Softbank-backed Paytm removed the “cashback” feature from a recently-launched game on the application. Google had removed Paytm from Play Store for violation of its gambling policies. Paytm’s fantasy sports app — Paytm First Games (PFG) — had also been barred. Incidentally, on Tuesday, PFG had brought in cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar as its brand ambassador as it looked to cash in on the Indian Premier League (IPL) fever. Google’s decision was prompted by Paytm’s move to allow its customers to collect cricket cards linked to their purchases or payments. Once a customer collected five such cards, he or she would earn a cashback. In a blog post, Suzanne Frey, vice-president, product, Android security and privacy, said Google did not allow online casinos or support any unregulated gambling apps that facilitate sports betting. “If an app leads consumers to an external website that allows them to participate in paid tournaments to win real money or cash prizes, it is a violation of our policies. We have these policies to protect users from potential harm. When an app violates these policies, we notify the developer of the violation and remove the app from Google Play until the developer brings the app into compliance,” she added. Paytm, which has more than 50 million monthly active users, sought to assuage its customers saying all their account balances “are 100 per cent safe”. Paytm added that all its services are fully functional. Paytm disclosed that it has temporarily removed the cashback component in an effort to meet the Play Store policy requirements. While it is learnt that Google had notified the developers of Paytm a few days ago, its founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma told a television news channel that while Google’s decision has surprised them, an email was sent only after informing that the application has been taken down. Staff Reporter, Calcutta: Consumers are in favour of the government prohibiting the advertisements of gaming platforms that encourage gambling. According to a survey by LocalCircles, ads from gaming platforms were one area with which most consumers were not happy. When asked if the government should prohibit advertisements from gaming platforms, 77 per cent of the respondents said “yes” while 18 per cent disagreed and a small 5 per cent were unsure about it. This particular poll received 7,293 responses, a statement by LocalCircles said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
19-09-2020||Business||Calcutta HC restrains Harsh Vardhan Lodha from holding position in MP Birla Group||Harsh Vardhan Lodha has been restrained from holding any position in the MP Birla Group by Calcutta High Court, handing the Birla family its most significant victory in the 16-year long legal tussle. The trial court judgment on Friday also restrained Lodha from drawing any benefit from the estate of the late Priyamvada Devi Birla. Lodha is the chairman of all manufacturing companies of the MP Birla Group. Lodha is seeking probate of a will of late Priyamvada Devi Birla, wife of Late Madhava Prasad Birla, which handed the control of the group to late Rajendra Singh Lodha, father of Harsh Vardhan. A testamentary suit is being heard in the high court at present. The leash on Lodha will remain till the pendency of the suit, the judgment said, citing the requirement “to prevent apprehended wrong or anticipated mischief”. “Following this order, Lodha has ipso facto vacated his office either as a director, or as a trustee or governing body member from all entities of MP Birla Group, which includes flagship Birla Corporation,” N. G. Khaitan, senior partner of Khaitan & Co and counsel for Birlas, commented. The Lodhas said the order passed by Justice Sahidullah Munshi “does not appear to be lawful”. Debanjan Mandal, partner of Fox & Mandal, advocates for Harsh Lodha, said the orders passed on Friday were not even asked for and will be challenged on this ground. “Our client’s confidence in the system remains completely unshaken and our client will challenge the judgment in the appeal court for immediate and long term relief,” Mandal said. Administrators Even as a three-member committee of administrator pendente lite (APL committee) was appointed by the court in 2012 to oversee the estate of late Priyamvada till the 
pendency of the probate matter, a significant disagreement arose in 2019 when the committee asked all investment companies, trusts and societies to vote against the reappointment of Lodha on the boards of Vindhya Telelinks and Birla Cables. This year they again asked, by a majority decision, to vote against Lodha’s appointment in Birla Corporation and Universal Cables. Lodha maintained that the APL Committee must decide unanimously and its direction is limited to only those shares the directly held by the estate. In flagship Birla Corporation, the estate cast its voting rights against only 1,260 shares, while the promoters’ block consists of 62.9 per cent share. Justice Munshi rejected both the Lodha contentions which may have long term impact on not only how the companies are managed but also many public institutions such as schools and hospitals are run. The judgment read: “It is thus apparent that within its power and authority, the APL Committee has the right to exercise all such powers and perform all such acts as late Priyamvada Devi Birla would have exercised had she been alive. “Priyamvada Birla had a controlling share in the investment companies either by direct investment or along with other investment companies.” “This view has been confirmed by both the division and single bench of this court and, in view thereof, the APL Committee is well within its powers to ask all entities which were under the control of Priyamvada Devi Birla to exercise their voting rights with regard to their investment in the share capital of any of the companies which were under the control of Priyamvada Devi Birla, in the manner considered by the APL as beneficial to the interest of the Estate,” it added. “All these entities of the group would have exercised their voting rights in accordance with the directions of Priyamvada Devi Birla had she been alive. “Accordingly, now such entities would exercise their voting rights flowing from their investment in the companies controlled by Priyamvada Birla in the manner to be guided by the APL Committee,” the judgment said. Khaitan said: “It has been established beyond doubt that the majority decision of the Administrators is binding on the Lodhas and their decisions have to be implemented in full. “Justice Munshi has further held that all the companies and entities holding shares of MP Birla Group have to vote in accordance with the direction of the Administrators. This is a path-breaking judgment which was necessary for protection and preservation of the estate.” Decision by majority The judgment suggested that Lodha should have raised his objection to the APL committee taking any decision by majority long ago and by not doing so thus far, he cannot agitate now. “In my view once the parties allowed themselves and they participated in the meeting without raising any objection that its decision if not unanimous cannot be deliberated in the meeting and after resolution has been adopted by majority it is no more open for the plaintiffs to agitate that the APL’s decision ‘by majority’ is not binding on them,” the judgment read. Shareholders’ right The Lodhas said the judgment did not uphold the right of the shareholders. “It has all along been the case of the Lodhas that the probate court examining the validity of a Will has no jurisdiction over any company in which late Priyamvada held shares. Though the inherent lack of jurisdiction was observed in the verdict in respect of the companies, Lodha has been injuncted from holding office of directors in the board of companies which the court itself said was beyond its remit,” Mandal said. All resolutions pertaining to Lodha’s appointment or his remuneration linked to profit in all four manufacturing companies were passed with an overwhelming majority in the AGMs of the companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
19-09-2020||Business||Birla blow to Lodhas in court||The Birlas on Friday clinched a major victory in the 16-year battle with the Lodhas over the control of the MP Birla Group. Calcutta High Court ruled that Harsh Vardhan Lodha — whose late father R.S. Lodha was given control of the group in July 2004 under the terms of Priyamvada Birla’s contentious will — could not hold any office in any of the entities of the M.P. Birla Group. It also restrained him from drawing any benefit personally out of the assets of the MP Birla estate. Justice Sahidullah Munshi, who delivered the verdict, said that the three-member committee of administrators, which had been appointed in 2012 to oversee the affairs of the MP Birla estate, would “exercise all such powers and perform all such acts as the late Priyamvada Birla would have exercised had she been alive”. The court turned down a request made by the Lodhas as for a stay on the court’s order. The Lodhas said they would challenge the order in the appeals court as it “does not appear to be lawful”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
