20-09-2020||Business||CAMS raises Rs 666 crore ||Warburg Pincus-backed CAMS has raised a little over Rs 666 crore from anchor investors ahead of its initial share sale that opens for public subscription on Monday. The company has finalised the allocation of 54,19,230 shares at Rs 1,230 apiece to 35 anchor investors, CAMS, which acts as a registrar and transfer agent (RTA) for mutual funds, said in a filing to stock exchanges. At this price, the company garnered Rs 666.56 crore. Of the 35 anchor investors, 17 foreign portfolio investors, 13 mutual fund through 30 schemes, three insurance companies and two alternative investment funds subscribed to the shares. Some of the anchor investors are SmallCap World Fund, HSBC, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, Caisse de Depot et Placement First State Investments, Eastspring Investments, Fidelity Investment Trust, Goldman Sachs, Government of Singapore and Nomura Funds Ireland Public Ltd. The offer will see the sale of 1,82,46,600 equity shares or a 37.4 per cent stake by NSE Investments, a subsidiary of National Stock Exchange (NSE). The entire quantum of shares being sold to investors is NSE’s holding and there will not be any new issue of shares which may see money coming into the company. The issue will open on September 21 and close on September 23. The price band has been set at Rs 1,229-1,230 per share and the company will raise Rs 2,242 crore at the upper end of the band. Computer Age Management Services (CAMS) is a technology-driven financial infrastructure and services provider to mutual funds and other financial institutions. Based in Chennai, CAMS is co-owned by NSE Investments, Warburg Pincus, Faering Capital ACSYS Investments and HDFC Group. The company claims to be India’s largest registrar and transfer agent of mutual funds with a market share of nearly 70 per cent, based on mutual fund average assets under management (AAUM) as of November 2019. The issue is being managed by Kotak Mahindra Capital Co Ltd, HDFC Bank Ltd, ICICI Securities Ltd and Nomura Financial Advisory and Securities (India) Pvt Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
20-09-2020||Business||Penalties in Companies Act cut||Lok Sabha on Saturday passed a bill to further amend the Companies Act and decriminalise various compoundable offences as well as promote ease of doing business in the country. The Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2020 seeks to decriminalise certain penal provisions, permit direct overseas listing of Indian corporate houses and introduce a new chapter related to producer organisations in the legislation. Reduction in penalties for certain offences as well as in timeline for rights issues, relaxation in CSR compliance requirements and creation of separate benches at the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal are also among the proposed changes. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said decriminalisation of various provisions will also help small companies by reducing the litigation burden on them. Around 48 sections of the Companies Act, 2013 will be amended. Sitharaman said there are around 124 penal provisions compared with 134 in 2013 under the Companies Act. The minister said the number of “non-compoundable” offences under the Act remains the same at 35. Generally, compoundable offences are those which can be settled by paying certain amount of money.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
20-09-2020||Business||Blackstone sells Essel Propack stake||American buyout major Blackstone on Friday sold a 23 per cent stake in Essel Propack, one of the largest manufacturers of laminated tubes used by FMCG and pharma companies, for a little over Rs 1,860 crore through open market transactions. The shares were picked up by Axis Mutual Fund, Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund and DSP Mutual Fund, Morgan Stanley, Neuberger Berman and Nomura. According to BSE data, Blackstone, through its entity Epsilon Bidco PTE Ltd, sold a total of 7,25,80,090 shares, translating into a 23 per cent stake, of Essel Propack. The shares were sold on an average price of Rs 256.5, valuing the transaction at Rs 1,861.68 crore. After the stake-sale, Blackstone’s holding in the company has come down to 52 per cent. Last year, Blackstone had acquired a 75 per cent stake in Essel Propack for Rs 3,211 crore. Essel Propack’s Ashok Goel is the younger brother of Subash Chandra, the promoter of financially troubled Essel Group that has an indebtedness of Rs 17,174 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
20-09-2020||Business||Nirmala roots for holistic code in insolvency process||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said insolvency proceedings against corporate debtors as well as personal guarantors should be considered together for a comprehensive resolution. Replying to members’ queries on the liability of personal guarantors in the IBC process in the Rajya Sabha, Sitharaman said, “The corporate debtor often has guarantors. So, for a comprehensive corporate insolvency resolution and liquidation, we felt it was necessary that the insolvency of the corporate debtor as well as its guarantors are considered together to whatever extent possible.” The Rajya Sabha on Saturday passed amendments to the insolvency law to suspend fresh insolvency proceedings for at least six months starting March 25 amid the coronavirus pandemic, with Sitharaman saying a decision on extending the suspension of the relevant provisions will be taken next week. In June, an ordinance was promulgated to amend the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). Default on repayments from March 25, the day when the nationwide lockdown began, would not be considered for initiating insolvency proceedings for at least six months. The six-month period is ending next week. The minister also clarified that insolvency proceedings against corporates defaulting on loans prior to March 25 will continue and the amendment will not stall those cases. On queries about the urgency to bring the ordinance, Sitharaman said that “between sessions if there is a need for ordinance because the ground situation demands it, I would think a responsive government’s duty is to at least use the ordinance to show that we are there with the people of India”. “The IBC Code is not a recovery law... Saving lives of companies is far more important than enabling recovery of loans... We have the compulsion to save businesses, (the) corporate sector and they need to be insulated rather than enabling creditors to recover the loan for which they have several other options,” the finance minister said. “There are several other avenues through which recoveries can be done. One can use statutory options or supervised compromises and court-supervised compromises. One can even use the RBI’s prudential framework and arrangements which are available under the Companies Act can also be used,” she added. Businesses are facing trouble because of the pandemic. So, it was decided “that it was better to suspend Sections 7, 9 and 10 of IBC so that we can prevent corporate persons experiencing distress on account of the unprecedented situation of being pushed into insolvency proceedings”, she said. Sections 7, 9 and 10 deal with the initiation of the corporate insolvency resolution process by financial creditors, operational creditors and corporate debtors, respectively. Citing data for NPAs of commercial banks during 2018-19, Sitharaman informed the House that Lok Adalats recovered 5.3 per cent, debt recovery tribunals (DRTs) 3.5 per cent and SARFAESI 14.5 per cent. IBC ensured 42.5 per cent of recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
