21-09-2020||Business||CBI books Kwality Ltd, directors over Rs 1,400cr bank fraud||The CBI has booked dairy major Kwality Ltd and its directors for allegedly cheating a consortium of 10 banks, led by the Bank of India, of over Rs 1,400 crore through bloating of financial statements and diversion of loan funds, officials said Monday. Nearly 11 days after registering an FIR in the case, the CBI conducted searches on Monday at eight locations in multiple cities including Delhi, Saharanpur, Bulandshahr (Uttar Pradesh), Ajmer (Rajasthan), Palwal (Haryana) on the premises of the company and its directors. The CBI has registered the case against Kwality Ltd. -- which started as an ice-cream manufacturing company and diversified into milk-based products -- and its directors Sanjay Dhingra, Siddhant Gupta, Arun Srivastava besides other unidentified persons, the officials said. The agency has acted on a complaint by the Bank of India. "It was alleged in the complaint that the said accused had cheated the Bank of India-led consortium comprising BOI (lead bank), Canara Bank, Bank of Baroda, Andhra Bank, Corporation Bank, IDBI, Central Bank of India, Dhanlaxmi Bank, Syndicate Bank to the tune of Rs.1400.62 core (approx.)," CBI spokesperson RK Gaur said. They allegedly cheated the banks by way of diversion of bank funds, sham transactions with related parties, fabricated documents/receipts, falsified books of accounts and created false assets and liabilities etc, Gaur said. In its complaint, the Bank of India, the lead member of 10-bank consortium, has alleged that the company manipulated its financial statements by bloating its business operations through overstatement of the sales. purchases, debtors. creditors and inventories to keep the fund flow from bank going. The bank conducted a forensic audit of the company after it failed to repay loans. "Out of the total sale of Rs.13,147.25 crore made by the company only Rs.7,017.23 crore was routed through the consortium accounts," the BOI has alleged. It said a considerable amount of trading, sales and purchases were made "without actual receipts of the same in factory premises and physical deliveries therefrom". "Supplies have been effected directly by the suppliers of the Company to the customers of the Company. These items being exempt from taxes, they are also not covered under VAT and GST regime. These suppliers and customers appear unorganised in nature and appear to have a weak financial base to support such large volumes of business," the bank has alleged in its complaint which is now a part of the FIR. The bank has alleged that a considerable amount of sales and purchases was settled without actual payments being received or made by the companies. "Balance Confirmations in respect of receivables show huge deviations. Against total outstanding of Rs 1,807.57 crore parties have confirmed receivables of Rs 972.82 crore. Accordingly, it indicates inflation of receivables by Rs 834.75 crore," it alleged. The bank has alleged that the accused directors acted dishonestly with the aid, consent and active connivance of each other, carried out the misappropriation and dishonest conversion of funds for their personal gains. "The accused persons have given the shape and effect to the forgeries and fabrication as a result of which window dressing and cheating of Bank has been carried out. By their acts of misappropriation, cheating and frauds. the money entrusted to the accused persons for the permitted business purpose have been utilized for their own benefit causing wrongful loss to the Bank of India Consortium," it alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||Spend with benefits||Covid-19 has prompted both businesses and customers to turn to digital transactions. Transacting cashlessly with modes such as debit and credit cards, UPI and netbanking allows you to minimise contact and reduce the chances of being infected. With even local businesses going online,you can now buy just about anything from the safety of your home. E-commerce has come a long way in 2020. The digital habits formed now are likely to persist. Which brings us to the key point of this piece: shopping online is now a daily fact of life, but what’s the best way to transact? Some modes of digital spending provide you no benefits beyond ease of use. But a feature-rich credit card not only provides those conveniences but also offers rewards such as cashbacks, freebies, and points you could convert into goods and services, the combined value of which may run into thousands of rupees every year. Here’s what you need to know about how to get the best out of your credit card. Depending on the kind of credit card you have, many of your transactions may help you earn rewards. Rewards help you save money. The key is to maximise rewards with the help of the habit you have now developed, which is online shopping. Many cards tie up with online businesses and help you earn rewards on many transactions but also accelerated rewards on select transactions. For example, one online shopping credit card from a government bank gives five points per Rs 100 spent online and one point per Rs 100 on other eligible spends, but it offers 10 points per Rs  100 spent when you shop with partner websites such as Amazon. This helps you if you are already a regular shopper at the partner website. Over time, your accumulated points can be converted into gift vouchers that can help you make additional purchases. Let’s consider your other options. If you opt for cash-on-delivery (COD), your benefits in terms of cashback and reward points is likely to be nil. The same may be true for netbanking and UPI where rewards such as discounts and cashback may be rare, one-time, or completely random. The only other digital payment instrument that may be able to provide you consistent benefits is your debit card. However, these rewards too may be limited. You may find that a credit card that provides above-average benefits for online shopping may be your best option. Not just that, a premium credit card for which there may be an annual charge may be able to provide bigger benefits than a lifetime free credit card. Refer to the table where online shopping via COD has no benefit whereas planned online shopping with partner websites can lead to rewards worth Rs 9,501 in a year. To get the best out of your credit card, it is necessary to know the fine print to understand the rewards you’re eligible for. It’s also important that your card allows you to enjoy the lifestyle you desire. It should help you maximise the rewards from your unique spends. If you don’t already have such a card, you may research the market for one. For example, if you love shopping at brand ABC, then it’s not useful to have a card that incentivises shopping with brand XYZ. You must also understand if caps apply on your reward. For example, one card may offer reward points with a one-year expiry while another card may not expire your points. Similarly, one card may cap your cashback rewards in a month at Rs 750 while another card may let you enjoy unlimited cashbacks. Apart from these, your card may also provide privileges that help reduce costs and maximise gains. For example, many cards provide free lounge access at domestic or international airports, gift vouchers on reaching spending milestones such as Rs 1 lakh and joining or renewal gifts such as e-vouchers or reward points. The benefits are attractive when one assumes that all credit card dues are being paid off in the same billing cycle. This allows the user to enjoy the card privileges and avoid late payment penalties as well as steep interest charges. Credit card debt is unsecured debt which is typically the most expensive form of borrowing. Therefore, it’s critical to be timely with the payments and not let the debt snowball. Late payments could lead to hefty charges that may reduce the gains through rewards. Use your credit card smartly, get greater value for your spends, but always pay your dues in time. This may prove more beneficial than a combination of cash-on-delivery, netbanking, debit cards and UPI. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||Chip giant MediaTek ready for 5G in India||MediaTek, one of the top chip companies in the world, expects 5G mobile services will roll out in the country within a year, offering a market for its chips in the 5G devices in the country. The company, based in Taiwan, powers more than 1.5 billion devices across the world. It caters to original equipment manufacturers such as Motorola, Oppo, Realme, Vivo, Samsung, Xiaomi, Lenovo, Sony, Broadlink, LG, Google, Amazon among others. MediaTek is a fabless semiconductor company, meaning it designs and markets chip but does not manufacture them. “5G has been one of the verticals where we have been doing strong research and development over the last few years. We have launched the flagship products from our side. In India, the government does realise the importance of 5G. From MediaTek’s point of view, the chipsets are already available and our OEM partners have already launched 5G devices powered by MediaTek worldwide,” said Anku Jain, managing director, MediaTek India. “In the next 12 months, there are high chances that 5G network would be available in India. The government realises its importance and in the current situation of the Covid-19 pandemic I feel this will expedite the whole process. As soon as that happens, I am sure our OEM partners will announce devices for India,” Jain said. Smartphones and tablets constitute around 43-48 per cent of the revenue of MediaTek, while the remaining revenue is from smart devices and connectivity solutions such as WiFi and bluetooth. A transition to 5G would aid MediaTek to consolidate its presence in India further amid the changing global dynamics of application processors. Jain said the company would follow a two-pronged approach to grow its presence in India. This includes more research from its two centres in Noida and Bangalore and increasing revenue with the adoption of 5G and smart devices in the country. According to Counterpoint Research, MediaTek has been able to increase its market share in the application processor category to 38 per cent from 32 per cent in India in the second quarter of 2020 reflecting a global trend amid the shift in competitive dynamics in the sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||Auto makers launch models to spur demand||Auto makers are launching models to build excitement and ramp up demand in a moribund market. Buyers have been buffeted with four models last week — Korea’s Kia is offering the Sonet its first compact SUV, while Skoda has rolled out compact sedan Rapid TSI. In bikes, BMW has vroomed out with Motorad, while Ashok Leyland has hit the roads with a light commercial vehicle. Kia Motors has launched the Sonet at an introductory price of Rs 6.71 lakh, ex showroom, pan India. The compact SUV will directly compete with sister company Hyundai’s Venue in a similar price range. The Sonet is being offered across 17 variants, including two petrol engines, two diesel engines (WGT & VGT configurations), five transmissions and two trim levels — Tech Line and GT-Line. The Sonet has received 25,000 bookings and is being produced at the company’s manufacturing unit at Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh. Kookhyun Shim, MD and CEO at Kia Motors India, said “Given the enthusiastic reception it has already received, we are extremely excited about introducing Kia’s latest made-in-India car for the world, the Sonet, in India.” Skoda Auto India unveiled the Rapid TSI Automatic Transmission at an introductory ex-price starting from Rs 9.49 lakh, nationwide. The Rapid has a new engine mated to a six speed torque converter. Premium bike maker BMW Motorrad India has launched the BMW R18 , marking the brand’s entry into the cruiser segment. The R18 can be ordered as a completely built-up unit (CBU) through the BMW Motorrad dealer network at a price range of Rs  18.9 lakh to Rs 21.9 lakh. In the commercial vehicle segment, Ashok Leyland launched a  platform called Phoenix together with the first product based on the platform, Bada Dost. The company aims to garner 65 per cent of the market share in the LCV segment by launching products every three months based on its new Phoenix platform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||Business sentiment improves in July-September quarter||India Inc’s business sentiment has improved during the July-September quarter as the government gradually unlocked the economy and business activity resumed, according to the CII’s business outlook survey. The latest CII Business Confidence Index has surged to the level of 50.3 in July-September 2020, bouncing back from its lowest reading of 41.0 recorded in April-June 2020, the industry chamber said in a statement. “The stellar recovery in the index has been supported by the remarkable increase in the Expectations Index (EI), which rose 46 per cent quarter-on-quarter, to the level of 55.2, as nationwide lockdown restrictions were lifted and businesses gradually began to reopen during the July-September quarter,” it added. CII director-general Chandrajit Banerjee said while a recovery is underway, it could be tremendously expedited through continued government support and handholding of businesses during this crisis. The survey was conducted during August-September 2020 and saw the participation of over 150 firms across different sectors. Over half of the respondents stated that the weakness in domestic demand is likely to be the topmost risk to business confidence in the next six months. “More than a third of the respondents (35 per cent) foresee a contraction higher than 4 per cent in India’s GDP in 2020-21 as the significant setback to economic growth has been aggravated by state-imposed lockdowns to curb local outbreaks,” the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||21 states to tap RBI for GST shortfall||As many as 21 states, mostly ruled by the BJP or parties which have supported it on various issues, have opted to borrow Rs 97,000 crore to meet the GST revenue shortfall in the current fiscal, sources said on Sunday. The states and Union Territories (UTs) which have intimated their decision to the Centre are Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Puducherry, Sikkim, Tripura, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. Finance ministry sources said Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab,  Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Bengal are yet to respond to the GST Council proposal to decide their options. The states which do not submit their borrowing options before the GST Council meet on October 5, 2020 will have to wait till June 2022 to get their compensation dues, subject to the condition that the GST Council extends the cess collection period beyond 2022, the sources said. The GST Council needs only 20 states to pass any resolution, in case voting is required on any issue, the sources added. In the current fiscal, the states are staring at a staggering Rs 2.35 lakh crore GST revenue shortfall. Of this, according to the Centre’s calculation, a shortfall of about Rs 97,000 crore is on account of GST implementation and the rest Rs 1.38 lakh crore is due to the impact of Covid-19 on states’ revenues. The Centre has given two options to the states — to borrow either Rs 97,000 crore from a special window facilitated by the RBI or Rs 2.35 lakh crore from the market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||Small NBFCs seek refinance and relaxation in PSL norms||Small and medium sized non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) have sought a refinancing body on the lines of the National Housing Bank (NHB) and further relaxation in the priority sector lending (PSL) norms for banks. According to the Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC), a representative body of NBFCs, bank funding of small and medium NBFCs has been a challenge because of various reasons, particularly during the last two years. The poor response to the Targeted Long Term Repo Operations 2.0, which mandated banks to invest at least 50 per cent of the stipulated amount in small and medium NBFCs, was an evidence of the relatively poor funding by banks. In a letter to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the FIDC has said there is a need to reduce the over-reliance on banks and have a dedicated refinancing body. It said this role could be assigned to Sidbi and Nabard and these institutions could fund by way of term loans for a tenure of 3-5 years. The body also pointed out that a vast majority of loans given by NBFCs to MSMEs and individuals are for an average tenure of 24 to 48 months and, therefore, it is imperative that NBFCs need to borrow for a commensurate period to maintain a healthy asset liability match. However, at present, funding under the partial credit guarantee scheme, the special liquidity scheme are all for a short tenure of 6-18 months. The FIDC urged that the tenure be increased to at least 36 months. While bank lending to NBFCs for on-lending to the priority sector is treated as priority sector lending for banks and the sectoral limit has been kept at five per cent, the body wants this to be increased to 10 per cent. It has also said that there is an artificial cap of Rs 20 lakh per loan put on such on-lending transactions which may be done away with.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||Pandemic pool for MSME wage cover ||An insurance panel has proposed the creation of a pandemic pool and a policy shield to protect the wages of individuals working in micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs).  Business interruption losses suffered by MSMEs on account of the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown are at present not covered by traditional insurance policies. “The covers for these losses are not provided by the market as it is beyond the risk appetite of the insurance and reinsurance market. If insurance companies are required to cover such claims, such an action would create substantial solvency risks for the sector, significantly undermining the ability of insurers to pay other types of claims and exacerbate the negative financial and economic impacts,” the panel said in its report. Hence, the working group, comprising insurance industry officials and members of IRDAI, has proposed the creation of a pandemic pool and an associate insurance cover that protects up to three months of wages of individuals working in MSMEs that employ up to 10 persons in the first phase. The premium for the product is estimated at Rs 999 per employee. This will be later scaled up to cover salary charges of MSMEs with more than 10 employees.  The initial pool size has been proposed at Rs 5,000 crore with the government providing a backstop guarantee of Rs 75,000 crore. “Pandemic is a risk that the industry cannot handle. It’s like nuclear disaster or terrorism risk. The reason is the risk is too high for insurance companies to handle and the premium is not there for it,” Sarbvir Singh, CEO, Policybazaar.com, told The Telegraph. Singh said that while the pandemic pool will make it easier for insurers and reinsurers to manage risk, it is necessary to make the product accessible to the MSMEs. “Right now, MSMEs come under the commercial lines of insurance. Big brokers who only focus on relatively large companies serve this category. It is necessary to see that MSME insurance like retail insurance is easier for companies to buy. This will make the base widespread,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||Wait for Centre's borrowing plan||The finance ministry in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will decide the borrowing calendar for the second half of the current fiscal in the last week of this month, sources said. According to the announcement made in May, the government intends to borrow the remaining Rs 5.02 lakh crore out of the Rs 12 lakh crore during the October-March period to meet rising expenditure to combat the Covid-19 crisis amid the moderation in tax collections. The exact date for the meeting to decide the borrowing calendar is yet to be fixed but most likely it should happen in the last week of this month, the sources said. The government had envisaged to raise 58 per cent of the total borrowing target of Rs 6.98 lakh crore from the dated securities in the first half of the current fiscal. During the first quarter of 2020-21, the central government issued dated securities worth Rs 3,46,000 crore against Rs 2,21,000 crore in the same period a year ago. In the second quarter, the borrowing through dated papers has touched Rs 3.60 lakh crore as of September 18. Thus, the total borrowing so far this fiscal has been Rs 7.06 lakh crore, exceeding the government borrowing plan of Rs 6.98 lakh crore. This leaves room for borrowing of less than Rs 4.94 lakh crore in the second half of the financial year. One more borrowing, according to the calendar is likely to take place on September 25 of Rs 30,000 crore. After that, the borrowing for the remaining six months of the current fiscal will be limited to Rs 4.64 lakh crore if the government does not raise its borrowing level beyond Rs 12 lakh crore. Hard-pressed for funds to combat rising coronavirus infections, the government in May increased its market borrowing programme for the current financial year more than 50 per cent to Rs 12 lakh crore. In the 2020-21 Union budget presented in Parliament in February, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had pegged the gross market borrowing — which is also a reflection of fiscal deficit —  for the current fiscal at Rs 7.80 lakh crore. The amount was up from Rs 7.1 lakh crore in 2019-20. However, in view of the impact of the lockdown on tax collection and the need to garner additional resources to fight the pandemic, the government decided to substantially increase the market borrowing programme for the current fiscal by about 54 per cent or Rs 4.2 lakh crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||Lodha to appeal against court curbs ||The trial court order restraining Harsh Vardhan Lodha from all the entities of MP Birla Group will be contested by Lodha’s counsels on two key grounds when they file an appeal before the division bench of Calcutta High Court on Monday. The Lodha camp is likely to argue that the order extends the reach of the committee of administrator pendente lite (APL committee) to 30 entities — which include investment and manufacturing companies, trusts and societies — even though most of them were not part of the estate of late Priayamvada Devi Birla (PDB). The Lodhas will also contest that part of the trial court order which allows the three-member APL committee, which was appointed by the HC in 2012 to oversee and protect the estate of late Priyamvada Birla, to take decision by a majority. Justice Sahidhulla Munshi restrained Lodha on Friday from holding any position in the MP Birla group and drawing any benefit. Lodha will seek an immediate stay on the operation of the order before the division bench. The legal feud between the Birla family and the Lodhas erupted in 2004 when late Rajendra Singh Lodha sought the probate of late Priyamvada’s purported will which landed the control of the MP Birla group to him and after his sudden demise in 2008, to his younger son Harsh. Three of the four listed manufacturing companies have informed bourses they are  reviewing the matter. The Birla camp argued that Lodha has ceased to be a director of all companies and if he attends any board meeting, gives direction or even enters the office premises of these entities, it would be construed as contempt of court. Asked if the Birlas would move court again to enforce the trial court order, a source said: “We are reviewing the matter,” pointing out that communiques sent by the companies are inadequate. The Lodha camp may argue that the extent of control of the committee is limited to the inventory of assets of the estate of late Priyamvada, which has been unanimously agreed upon by all sides multiple times. The inventory does not include the companies in which she did not hold shares personally, nor does it include trusts or societies which hold significant holding (14.35 per cent) in Birla Corporation Ltd. However, around 30 third-party companies, trusts and societies holding shares in various companies of MP Birla Group, have been asked to exercise their voting right in accordance with the directions of the administrators by the trial court. A four-tier structure controls the five MP Birla Group manufacturing companies. While four — Birla Corp, Vindhya Telelinks, Universal Cables and Birla Cables — are listed, Hindustan Gum and Chemicals is unlisted. Such an order has been passed thereby taking away the voting right of such third party entities without hearing them, the Lodhas said. Lodha may also point out that the APL committee in the past had written to the company secretary of Birla Corp giving proxy for 1,260 shares only, which late Priyamvada Birla directly held in her name. Attention will also be drawn on how a division bench had made a distinction between Harsh Lodha as a legatee in a probate suit and Lodha as a director and chairman of a company. “The same court has previously made clear distinction between Harsh Lodha as chairman of Birla Corporation and Harsh Lodha as a proponent of the Will when the Birlas in 2016 made an unsuccessful attempt to block Birla Corporation's acquisition of Reliance Cement,” Debanjan Mandal, partner of Fox & Mandal and counsel for Lodha, said. No restrictive order was passed by the probate court which held that it had no jurisdiction over outsiders. But that distinction was completely lost in Friday’s verdict, Mandal countered. The trial court allowed the APL committee to decide based on majority decisions. After retired judge Mohit Shah joined the committee, it has taken decisions which went against Lodha. It had asked all investment companies to vote against resolutions seeking the appointment of Lodha and profit-linked remuneration in listed companies. Lodha’s counsels are likely to point out that twice in the past committee members had sought guidance from a division bench of the HC whether a decision can be taken by majority. However, no explicit order was granted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
