22-09-2020||Business||Shapoorji Pallonji Group says ‘time to separate from Tata’||Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) Group, the largest minority shareholder with 18.37 per cent stake in Tata Sons, on Tuesday said it is “time to separate from Tata” to end a relationship that has spanned over 70 years. Tata Sons is the holding company of Tata Group. In a press statement, the SP Group said: “It stated before the Supreme Court that a separation from the Tata Group is necessary due to the potential impact this continuing litigation could have on livelihoods and the economy.” “They stated that it was crucial that an early resolution is reached to arrive at a fair and equitable solution reflecting the value of the underlying tangible and intangible assets,” the statement added. The SP Group and Tatas have been engaged in a bitter legal battle ever since Cyrus Mistry was sacked as chairman of Tata Sons in October 2016. “Tata Sons has amplified its institutional efforts to suppress and inflict irreparable harm on the SP Group, in the midst of a global crisis triggered by the COVID pandemic,” the SP Group said. The Mistry family was in the midst of raising funds against the security of their personal assets to meet the crisis arising from the global pandemic. This move was undertaken to protect the livelihoods of its 60,000 employees and over 1,00,000 migrant workers, it added. “The action by Tata Sons to block this crucial fund raise, without any heed for the collateral consequences, is the latest demonstration of their vindictive mindset,” the statement said. Maintaining that the current situation has forced the Mistry family to sit back and reflect on the past, present and possible future for all stakeholders, the SP group said: “The past oppressive actions and the latest vindictive move by Tata Sons that impact the livelihoods of the wider SP Group community leads to the inexplicable conclusion that the mutual co-existence of both groups at Tata Sons would be infeasible.” The SP-Tata relationship, spanning over 70 years, was forged on mutual trust, good faith, and friendship. Today, it is with a heavy heart that the Mistry family believes that a separation of interests would best serve all stakeholder groups, it added. When contacted, Tata Sons spokespersons declined to comment. The SP Group claimed that as the largest minority shareholder owning an 18.37 per cent stake, the role hitherto played by it was always “one of guardianship with an aim to protect the best interests of the Tata group”. “The SP Group had always used its voting rights as a shareholder for the best interest of the Tata Group. It is a matter of record that prior to the year 2000, when the Tata Trusts, being Public Charitable Trusts, couldn’t exercise their voting rights, the same being held by a Public Trustee, the SP Group voted to protect the best interests of the Tata Group,” it said. The statement further said that after Cyrus Mistry was appointed as chairman of Tata Sons, he set about trying to establish a governance structure that would institutionalise accountability, and create the right checks and balances, without contravening the new Sebi insider trading law that regulated the flow of information across all stakeholders. “Unfortunately, he was removed in October 2016, when he attempted to implement these governance reforms,” it added. The statement by the SP Group further said: “It is extremely unfortunate that the current leadership of Tata Sons has not only continued to take value-destructive business decisions in a misguided effort to prove a point in these proceedings.” It is a matter of public record that several issues identified years earlier continue to plague the group, be it the operations of Tata Steel UK, where over the last three years alone the operational losses have increased by an additional Rs 11,000 crore, or the Group's aviation businesses. These actions, or lack thereof, have meant that the total debt in the major Tata group companies has increased by approximately Rs 1,00,000 crore in the past three years, it added. “Excluding TCS, the last quarter’s losses of all the listed group companies of approximately Rs 14,000 crore causes great concern. Unfortunately, the impact of these actions continue to hurt minority shareholders, be it the SP Group at Tata Sons or the millions of shareholders of the listed companies in the Tata Group,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
22-09-2020||Business||Rajan plan to stem bad loan crisis||Former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan on Monday suggested the government to privatise select public sector banks, set up a bad bank to deal with NPAs and dilute the role of Department of Financial Services. The reforms are necessary to ensure the growth of banking government without  the periodic boom-bust cycles, said a paper titled “Indian Banks: A Time to Reform?” co-authored by Rajan and former Reserve Bank deputy governor Viral Acharya. “Re-privatisation of select PSBs can then be undertaken as part of a carefully calibrated strategy, bringing in private investors who have both financial expertise as well  as technological expertise; corporate houses must be kept from acquiring significant stakes, given their natural conflicts of interest,” the paper said. Noting that the government obtains enormous power from directing bank lending, it said sometimes this power is exercised to advance public goals such as financial inclusion or infrastructure finance, sometimes it is used to offer patronage to, or exercise control over, industrialists. “Winding down the department of financial services in the ministry of finance is essential, both as an affirmative signal of the intent to grant bank boards and management independence and as a commitment not to engage in “mission creep” when compulsions arise to use banks for serving costly social or political objectives,” the paper noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
22-09-2020||Business||MP Birla trio oppose court order restraining Harsh Vardhan Lodha||Harsh Vardhan Lodha and three cable manufacturing companies of the MP Birla group filed appeals against the trial court order which restrained Lodha from holding any office in any group entity. Sources say Birla Corporation, the flagship of the group, will also file an appeal on Tuesday and a hearing at the division bench could start from Wednesday. The Lodhas are seeking an interim stay on the operation of the order. The legal setback to Lodha, who is the chairman of all group companies, appeared to have unsettled the investor community. On the first trading day after the single bench order was passed, all four listed companies came off sharply in an already weak market. While the broader market shed a little over 2 per cent — Nifty 50 closed 2.21 per cent lower — the Birla Corp stock fell by 8.19 per cent. The cable companies — Universal Cable, Birla Cable and Vindhya Telelinks — also fared worse than the market, correcting 6.29 per cent, 3.76 per cent and 3.68 per cent, respectively. The appeal filed by Lodha and the three firms would revolve around what constitutes the controlling block of shares in the manufacturing companies. According to the submission made on Monday, Lodha would argue that the estate of late Priyamvada Devi Birla, was only a minority shareholder in the companies. The estate, which is now governed by a committee of administrator pendente lite (APL committee), is one of the many shareholders of the larger promoter group, his counsel would argue before the division bench. Sources in the Lodha camp pointed out that estate is conclusively defined by the inventory of assets unanimously prepared by joint administrators and produced in court in 2013. Harsh Lodha — whose father late Rajendra Singh Lodha was handed the reign of MP Birla group in 2004 by a contentious will of late Priyamvada Birla — in his submission is also going to point out that despite the trial court acknowledging its limitation on jurisdiction over companies, it ordered all such promoter group entities to exercise voting rights in line with the direction of the APL committee. “The verdict seeks to change the composition of independent trust and societies run by trustees and managing committees by removing a member without giving any of them any hearing,” a source in the Lodha camp argued. Such entities hold over 14 per cent in Birla Corp. Birla camp had a different take. It argued that the controlling block of share — 62.9 per cent in Birla Corp — is part of the estate, a view taken by the single bench as well. The Birlas also contested that the inventory of the estate drawn up in 2013 is not full and final, noting that the Lodhas have made at least four submissions before the court seeking direction to prepare a final list. “How come Lodha is now in control of the MP Birla group today? It is because he had stepped into the shoes of his father R.S. Lodha, who was the executor of late Priyamvada Birla’s will. Today, the APL Committee is in her shoes,” said a Birla source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||Bengal excise duty worry for liquor makers||Two industry bodies representing major foreign liquor manufacturers in the country have written to the Bengal government to make changes to a proposed excise duty structure for liquor in the state or delay its implementation in the current year. The state had planned to bring in the new structure from September 2020 and had sought the industry’s opinion on setting the excise duties based on ex-distillery prices along with data on comparative prices of other states. But following requests from the industry for additional time to gather more data, the implementation has been deferred. The industry has estimated that the new structure, where there are 22 slabs of additional excise duty based on ex-distillery price, would inflate the cost of foreign liquor in the state by 40-90 per cent over those prevailing in March 2020. In its representation to the state, the International Spirits and Wines Association of India and the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies have requested that the additional excise duty slabs be cut from 22 to 12, bringing in parity with neighbouring states and thwart the spread of spurious liquor. Diageo-USL, Pernod Ricard, ABD Limited, Radico Khaitan, Beam Suntory, Bacardi, Moet Hennessey, Brown-Forman, William Grant, Campari and Mohan Meakin are part of these associations. While the government has proposed that suppliers can charge 10 per cent higher than the lowest ex-distillery price, the associations want the state to consider this at 30 per cent and make the prices valid for a period of 12 months only. As an alternative the associations have also urged the government to consider the proposal of deferring the implementation of the new tax structure in 2020-21. According to the associations, when most states are rationalising taxes (Odisha, Delhi) in order to bring MRP at such levels that revenue is maximised, Bengal has proposed a tax structure which will take MRPs even higher. They have estimated a 40-45 per cent drop in volume and 25 per cent shortfall in revenue if the proposed taxation structure is implemented in its current shape and form. Sources however said that the government is not primarily in favour of deferring the rollout of the new tax structure any further, but would have to carefully weigh any revenue loss in the process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||Telcos to pay 10% of AGR dues by March||Telecom operators, including Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea, which have pending adjusted gross revenue dues will have to pay 10 per cent of the total liability by March 31 irrespective of the part-payments made by them, according to government sources. Operational telecom operators are expected to pay Rs 12,921 crore by March 31, of which around 80 per cent have to be paid by Vodafone Idea and Bharti Airtel. “The Supreme Court order is very clear that telecom operators have to make 10 per cent payment of the total dues as demanded by the DoT by March 31, 2021. “The DoT has already raised demand for full AGR dues. The 10 per cent payment to be made by this March will be calculated on the total AGR liability,” a DoT official said. The officer said operators can clear the balance dues in 10 yearly instalments from the next financial year. According to the officer, Vodafone Idea will have to pay around Rs 5,825 crore and Bharti Airtel Rs 4,398 crore against the total demand of Rs 58,254 crore and Rs 43,980 crore, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||Mahindra & Mahindra mulls Ssangyong stake bid ||Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) is understood to be considering a $258 million (300 billion won) bid for its stake in Ssangyong Motor Company (SYMC) made by HAAH Automotive Holdings Inc, a US-based automobile distributor. Mahindra holds almost 75 per cent in the South Korean auto maker. In August this year, M&M decided to reduce its stake in SYMC to less than 50 per cent even as the company indicated that it was open to the possibility of ceding control over SYMC in full or part. This was to induct potential investors into SYMC or to otherwise meet its funding requirements through other sources. According to M&M’s annual report for 2019-20, as of March 31 2020 its investments in SYMC stood at Rs 2,450 crore, while its ownership interest was at 74.65 per cent. Shares of M&M on Monday settled almost five per cent lower on the bourses. On the BSE, it ended at Rs 622.35 — a drop of 32.10, or 4.90 per cent, over its last close. M&M was recently in news when the company said that it has terminated share purchase agreement with CLP India to sell the entire stake held by its step down arm Mahindra Renewables in Neo Solren Pvt Ltd (NSPL) for Rs 104.67 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||Dalmia OCL to invest Rs 100 crore to step up local production||Dalmia OCL, the refractory manufacturing arm of cement and sugar major Dalmia group, plans to invest Rs 100 crore over the next five years in a bid to step up indigenous production in India and bring down dependance on imports, especially from China. Refractories are used in furnaces and kilns primarily in the steel and cement industry. At present, around 40 per cent of India’s requirement is met through imports. In a bid to de-risk and localise, Dalmia OCL on Monday announced the opening up of a 1.08-lakh-tonne brownfield capacity at Rajgangpur in Odisha to manufacture magnesia carbon refractory bricks. Phase 1 of the plant with a capacity of 36,000 tonnes has come up at an investment of Rs 20 crore. Two more phases would be added over the coming years. “Current investment has been Rs 20 crore and we will be investing Rs 100 crore over the next 3-5 years to expand refractory manufacturing,” said Sameer Nagpal, CEO, Dalmia OCL. The investment decision comes on the back of demand from the steel industry to localise the production of refractories in India amid rising geopolitical tension. Steel constitutes around 70 per cent of the refractory demand followed by cement at around 10-12 per cent and glass, non-ferrous metals and petrochemicals among the other sectors. The primary reason for import has been the incremental cost of manufacturing which is 5-7 per cent lower in China mainly due to their cost competitiveness. But with adequate handholding from the domestic industry and government, Dalmia OCL expects the cost in India can be brought down over the next 6-12 months. "It is important to do the initial hand holding by the customers. Some of them are demanding supply from India. Because of the momentum we have accelerated the setting up of capacity in India. We are also in discussion with the government on how to make domestic manufacturing more competitive,” Nagpal said. Tax benefits, production linked incentives, import duty changes and thrust on mining and exploration could speed up capacity expansion, he added. The company has 5 plants in India in Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh besides one plant each in Germany and China. Nagpal said that the company has spent more than Rs 100 crore in acquiring a German firm that will give access to crucial technology in the sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||Government must pick tab for waivers: Rajiv Mehershi panel||The Rajiv Mehershi panel on loan recast has proposed the government should bear the burden of any relief while the waiver of the contentious interest on interest be given only to a few borrowers, sources said. The report on the impact of the waiver of interest and the waiver of interest on interest, or compound interest, on loan moratorium has indicated banks are a financial intermediary and have a responsibility to their depositors. The government appointed panel is under ex CAG Rajiv Mehrishi. The panel has suggested the government should bear the burden and the sovereign should compensate the banks if relief has to be given. Given the huge burden of interest on interest faced by borrowers, the government can limit the waiver to the the most vulnerable segments such as affordable housing, MSMEs and smaller education loans. The committee has indicated a complete waiver of compound interes would tantamount to punishing the good borrowers for paying their loans on time. The Mehrishi committee  has reportedly arrived at a compound interest sum of around Rs 15,000 crore to Rs 20,000 crore and the sovereign should bear the burden if they be waived. Brokerage firm Macquarie had estimated that interest waiver will cost the banking system about Rs 2.1 lakh crore while waiver of compound interest will cost about Rs 15,000 crore. The ministry of finance had set up this three-member expert committee on September 10, comprising former CAG Rajiv Mehrishi, former monetary policy committee member Ravindra H Dholakia and the former managing director of SBI and IDBI Bank B Sriram. The report of the committee would assist the government in the assessment of providing relief to the bank borrowers on the issue of banks charging interest on loan installments deferred during the moratorium period due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||SBI charges 0.35% extra for loan recast ||State Bank of India (SBI) on Monday announced the details of its resolution framework to restructure Covid-19 related stress loans. Corporate borrowers will have to provide a personal guarantee of the promoters or a pledge of their shares. Individuals seeking a restructuring of their loans will have to pay an additional interest of 0.35 per cent annually over and above the current pricing for the remaining tenure of the loan though they will not be subject to any processing fee. The country’s largest bank also launched a facility on its website to help retail customers check their eligibility for the one-time loan restructuring. Last month, the RBI had announced a one-time restructuring scheme for personal loans and corporate borrowers affected by the pandemic. This will apply to only those accounts that existed in banks’  books as on March 1, 2020. Another crucial condition is that the accounts should be standard (performing) and also not in default for more than 30 days as on March 1, 2020. SBI managing director (retail & digital banking) C. S. Setty said while retail customers can check their eligibility, if found eligible they will have to visit the respective branches to complete the other formalities such as the signing of papers. As of now, around 3,500 retail customers of the bank have accessed the portal and of them 111 are eligible and have got their reference number generated, he said. The bank’s retail customer will be asked to fill his or her account number in the relevant segment on its website. After the completion of OTP validation and keying in the requisite information, customers will get to know their eligibility and receive a reference number. This reference number will be valid for 30 days and within which time customers can visit the branch to complete the required formalities. An  individual borrower will be considered as affected by the Covid-19 pandemic if his or her salary in August 2020 got reduced  compared with February 2020, or there is a reduction/suspension in salary during the lockdown period. The individual can get home and other related loans, education, auto and personal loans restructured. The tenure of the loan can be extended for maximum 24 months under the framework for Covid -19 related stress. The restructuring process will be complete after the verification of documents and execution of simple documents at the branch or the processing centre. Once an application is submitted, it will be processed within 7-10 working days. The customer will have to upload or submit documents like salary slips for the month of February and latest salary slip apart from a declaration of estimated salary or income immediately after the end of the desired moratorium period (maximum 24 months) or a letter of discharge from job in case of job loss. However, customers whose application has been accepted will be required to pay additional interest of 0.35 per cent per annum over and above their current pricing for the remaining tenure of the loan. SBI said that this is to offset partial cost of additional provisions required to be made. For non-personal borrowers, SBI said that in case of unlisted entities, personal guarantee of the promoters will have to be furnished and for listed companies, promoters will have to pledge their shares. In these cases, a processing fee or upfront fee of 0.25 per cent of the `aggregate limits’ will be payable. SBI added that for loans with aggregate exposure of Rs 1500 crore and above from the banking system, last date for submitting application is November 15 and for others, the last date to apply for relief under the November 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||Poor market conditions do not affect CAMS first day of bidding||The disappointing conditions in the market did not impact the initial share sale of Computer Age Management Services (CAMS), which was subscribed 82 per cent on the first day of bidding. Warburg Pincus-backed CAMS received bids for 1,05,75,864 shares against 1,28,27,370 shares offered. The qualified institutional buyer category was subscribed 25 per cent, while the retail individual investor segment was subscribed 1.40 times. Shares of Route Mobile Ltd on Monday made a stellar stock market debut as they jumped 86 per cent at close of trade against its issue price of Rs 350. During the day,it rose to a high of Rs 735, a gain of 110 per cent. It later closed at Rs 651.10, higher by 86 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||Stocks collapse on fresh virus scare||Wall Street’s main indices tumbled to their lowest in nearly seven weeks on Monday, with the Dow shedding as much as 900 points, as worries about fresh coronavirus-driven lockdowns spilled over from Europe. Back home, the Sensex crashed 812 points, while the Nifty finished below the 11300-mark. While the selloff was in line with global trends, investor wealth worth Rs 4.23 lakh crore was wiped off. Investors were jittery following reports of Denmark, Greece and Spain imposing fresh restrictions on activities to tackle a surge in Covid-19 infections even as Britain was considering a second nation-wide lockdown. The 30-share Sensex opened lower at 38812.69 and fell below the 38000-mark to hit a day’s low of 37938.53. It finally ended 811.68 points, or 2.09 per cent, lower at 38034,14, falling for the third straight session. The broader Nifty cracked 254.40 points, or 2.21 per cent, to finish at 11250.55. “The markets sold off in a major way because of several factors such as reports about irregular financial dealings involving some of the major international banks and fears of a second-wave of pandemic in many parts of Europe. With the markets having run ahead of the economy, it is only probable that there will be higher level of volatility,’’ said Joseph Thomas, head of research,  Emkay Wealth Management. In the Sensex pack IndusInd Bank was the top loser as it fell 8.67 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, Tata Steel, ICICI Bank, M&M, Maruti, Axis Bank and Bajaj Finance. Only three stocks ended in the green -- Kotak Bank, Infosys and TCS, rising up to 0.86 per cent. Meanwhile, shares of Route Mobile made a strong debut as they jumped 86 per cent at close of trade against its issue price of Rs 350. On the BSE, it got listed at Rs 708, reflecting a jump of 102.28 per cent from the issue price. During the day,it rose to a high of Rs 735, registering a gain of 110 per cent. It later closed at Rs 651.10, higher by 86 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||Wheat MSP hiked by 2.6% to douse ire ||The Centre has raised the minimum support price of wheat by Rs 50, or 2.6 per cent, to Rs 1,975 per quintal amid growing farmer unrest against two pieces of legislation that seeks to encourage contract farming and allow farmers to directly sell their produce to institutional buyers such as big traders and retailers by bypassing state-regulated mandis. Besides, MSPs of lentil (masoor), gram, barley, safflower and mustard/rapeseed have been increased. The move came a day after Parliament approved two agriculture sector-reform bills which have been bitterly opposed by the opposition parties such as the Congress and Trinamul as well as from within ruling NDA alliance over apprehension that the new legislations might virtually end MSP-based procurement by the government. Farmer groups in Punjab, Haryana and some other states are also protesting the two bills — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. Tomar said the MSPs of six rabi crops were approved by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, a move aimed at encouraging farmers ahead of the sowing operations of winter crops. Announcing the increased MSPs for the six rabi crops for 2020-21 crop year (July-June) and 2021-22 marketing season, Tomar said MSP of gram has been increased by Rs 225 to Rs 5,100 per quintal. MSP of barley has been hiked by Rs 75 to Rs 1,600 per quintal. Lentil MSP has been hiked by Rs 300 to Rs 5,100 per quintal. MSP of mustard/ rapeseed have been raised by Rs 225 to Rs 4,650 per quintal, while that of saffflower has been hiked by Rs 112 to Rs 5,327 per quintal. Analysts said the Modi-government support price does not address the structural shift in its agricultural policy which would have a significant impact on the farmers’ livelihood and food security of the country. Biswajit Dhar of the Jawaharlal Nehru University said the two farm bills were meant to transform Indian agriculture to be export oriented. But the country’s bilateral FTA engagements as well as in the WTO, partner countries are unlikely to accept India’s export oriented stance, while its own market remains largely protected behind high tariffs. “But, before comprehensively opening India’s market to import, the government must have a plan in place for sustaining domestic food security and to also protect the livelihoods of almost 60 per cent of the workforce that is directly or indirectly dependent on agriculture,” Dhar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
