23-09-2020||Business||Mistry gives up, to sell  out to Tatas||The Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) Group has finally thrown in the towel after a bruising, four-year battle with Ratan Tata and the executors of the trusts of the $113-billion salt-to-software conglomerate. “Today, it is with a heavy heart that the Mistry family believes that a separation of interests would best serve all stakeholder groups,” the Cyrus Mistry camp said in a media release just hours after the Supreme Court ordered status quo on the shares in Tata Sons that the SP Group had intended to pledge with a Canadian investor to raise badly needed funds for the cash-strapped construction and real estate group. The battle between the two partners had erupted in October 2016 when the Tata Group summarily removed Mistry as its chairman, angered over the manner in which he was running its affairs at Bombay House, the headquarters of the Tata Group. On September 5, the Tatas had filed a petition before the Supreme Court to stymie a funding agreement between the SP Group and Brookfield — a marquee Canadian investment firm — to raise a first tranche of Rs 3,750 crore. The real estate and construction group had been planning to raise Rs 11,000 crore that it desperately needed to tide over an acute funds crunch precipitated by the pandemic. The Mistry camp informed the apex court at a brief videoconference hearing in the morning that a “separation from the Tata Group is necessary due to the potential impact this continuing litigation could have on the livelihoods and the economy”. Counsel for the SP Group had informed the court that “it was crucial that an early resolution is reached to arrive at a fair and suitable solution reflecting the value of the underlying tangible and intangible assets (of Tata Sons)”, the release from the Mistry camp said. “The past oppressive actions, and the latest vindictive move by Tata Sons that impact the livelihoods of the wider SP Group community leads to the inescapable conclusion that the mutual co-existence of both groups at Tata Sons would be infeasible,” the letter issued by the Mistry camp said. The Tatas refused to comment on the sudden turn of events. Until the late evening letter, it wasn’t clear after the Supreme Court hearing that the Mistrys were planning to take such a precipitate step and sever their ties with the Tatas. Earlier in the day, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde had ordered the parties to “maintain status quo regarding the transfer and pledging of shares already made” while posting the case for hearing on October 28. At the hearing, counsel for the two sides sparred over the Mistry camp’s fund-raising plan. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Tatas, accused the SP Group of playing “mischief” by pledging the shares with a foreign company and not offering it to the Tatas who, he claimed, held the right of first refusal. Senior advocate C.A. Sundaram, appearing for the Mistry camp, countered the allegation and said the Tata Group’s action was “causing havoc” and “throttling” the Pallonji group from pledging its shares. The Mistry camp will of course try to extract the best possible value for the shares that the group assiduously built up within the Tata Group from the mid-sixties. An estimate floating around in Mumbai put the value of the Tata Sons equity shares at Rs 9,70,029 crore with each share valued at Rs 2.40 crore. This would place the value of the Mistry camp’s 18.37 per cent stake at Rs 1,78,459 crore. The estimate includes the value of Tata Sons’ stakes in various listed and unlisted companies of the group. It also includes the “intangible” value of the Tata brand which has been estimated at Rs 1,46,000 crore. Ratan Tata had pioneered a system in the mid-nineties under which group companies had to pay royalties to the holding company for the use of the Tata brand name. There are tough negotiations that lie ahead between the two partners turned foes. The Tatas are expected to try to beat down the valuation and the ultimate payout. The Mistry camp did not spell out how the process of separation would be achieved but it is likely to be a court-driven process, which could be initiated at the next hearing of the Supreme Court. Tata Sons had turned into a private limited company in September 2017 and changed its articles of association that empower it to exercise a right of first refusal on any share that an investor plans to sell in the group’s holding company. Tata Sons, which has only 23 equity shareholders, had all but effectively shut down the Mistry camp’s options. However, in December last year, the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) had ordered the reinstatement of Mistry as chairman of the group and declared the decision of the registrar of companies (RoC) to change Tata Sons’ status from a public company to a private company as “illegal” and set it aside. That verdict sparked another legal battle — this time before the Supreme Court. The SP Group has clearly tired of the costly litigation battle. On Tuesday, the group tried to set the record straight both on the events that have unfolded over the past four years and the honourable manner in which it had upheld its fiduciary responsibility as a minority shareholder of Tata Sons. “The SP Group had always used its voting rights as a shareholder for the best interest of the Tata Group. It is a matter of record that prior to the year 2000, when the Tata Trusts, being public charitable trusts, couldn’t exercise their voting rights, the same being held by a public trustee, the SP Group voted to protect the best interests of the Tata Group,” the Mistry camp’s release said. The letter recalled that Cyrus Mistry had accepted the position of chairman of Tata Sons in 2012 — when Ratan Tata decided to retire — “with a sense of duty as an ‘insider’ on the Board of Tata Sons”. Mistry said that he had attempted to establish a governance structure for the Tata Group — which eventually resulted in the feud with Ratan Tata — only because “several leaders who were retiring from the Board of Tata Sons also served as Trustees of the majority shareholders — the Tata Trusts”. The letter said Mistry was removed when he attempted to implement these “governance reforms” and undo the financial damage caused to the group because of certain “value destructive business decisions” taken in the past. As a result, the total debt of the major Tata Group companies had ballooned to approximately Rs 100,000 crore in the last three years. The Mistry camp said it decided to sever ties after being blocked by Tata Sons from raising funds from the pledge of the shares they held. The fund-raising plan was designed, it said, “to protect the livelihoods of 60,000 employees and over 100,000 migrant workers” of the 150-year-old SP Group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
23-09-2020||Business||US partner for real estate consultant Anarock ||Real estate consultant Anarock on Tuesday said it has partnered US-based Binswanger to offer advisory, brokerage and transaction services in the industrial and logistics parks segment. The two partners — Binswanger Commercial Real Estate Services and Anarock — will offer these services on industrial real estate opportunities between India, the US and other global markets, Anarock said in a statement. “Manufacturing is the strongest common denominator among developed and developing nations. Many of our US-based clients business are eager to expand in India,” said Jeff Binswanger, managing partner, Binswanger. Anarock chairman Anuj Puri said the government’s thrust on local manufacturing has led to increased activity among international industrial units  to ramp up capacities in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
23-09-2020||Business||Mistry camp looking at big valuations||The Shapoorji Pallonji camp is looking at a huge payout for the 18.37 per cent stake it holds in Tata Sons, the holding company of the $113-billion Tata group. An unofficial estimate floating around in corporate circles put the value of the Mistry camp’s holding of 74,352 Tata Sons’ shares at Rs 1,78,459 crore — which would arguably suggest the biggest-ever payout to any shareholder in India Inc even though both sides will almost certainly quibble over the sum. In a statement put out late on Tuesday evening, the Shapoorji Pallonji Group (SP Group) said it was looking for a “fair and equitable solution reflecting the value of the underlying tangible and intangible assets”of the group. Tata Sons has a 72.02 per cent stake in technology major TCS — the most profitable company in the group — which reported a total income of Rs 1.39 lakh crore in the year ended March 31 and earned a net profit of Rs 33,260 crore. The holding company also has a 32.93 per cent stake in Tata Steel, 38.97 per cent in Tata Motors and 28.51 per cent in Tata Chemicals — the other frontline companies in the group which comprises over 80 operating companies. A spokesperson for the SP Group refused to comment on the valuation of their equity holding in Tata Sons. Sources, however, said the Rs 1.75 lakh crore valuation had been derived from the value of the stakes held by Tata Sons in the listed and unlisted companies of the group and the value of the Tata brand. In the mid-nineties, Ratan Tata had ordered Tata group companies to pay a royalty for the use of the Tata brand name, setting a trend among several companies to extract a stream of revenue from operating companies in the group in addition to dividend income. Tata Sons currently holds a stake in 14 listed companies. Based on the closing price of TCS on the BSE on Tuesday, the value of the over 72 per cent stake held by Tata Sons comes close to Rs 6.82 lakh crore. Tata Sons also holds a stake in Titan, Voltas and Tata Consumer Products. Taken together, the market value of Tata Sons’ holdings in the group’s listed companies works out to over Rs 7.79 lakh crore. It also has a stake in several unlisted entities, including Ewart Investments, Panatone Finvest, Tata Capital, Tata International and Infinity Retail. The value of these investments is being assessed at Rs 25,000-50,000 crore. The Mistry family may also be looking at the Tata brand value. In June, Brand Finance, which values 5,000 of the world’s biggest brands, said the Tata group had retained its title as India’s most valuable brand. It said the value of the Tata brand had risen by a modest 2 per cent to $20 billion (or Rs 1.47 lakh crore) — the first time that any Indian brand has surpassed this threshold. It added that the Tata Group was the only Indian brand to feature in the top 100 of the Brand Finance Global 500. If the value of all the listed and unlisted companies is taken along with the valuation of the Tata brand, it would soar to over Rs 9.50 lakh crore. Based on the 18.37 per cent holding of the Mistry family, this could imply a value of over Rs 1.75 lakh crore for their holding in Tata Sons. However, these are only estimates and the actual payout may be less. While the key question is whether both the group will arrive at a valuation that is acceptable to them, it also remains to be seen if the Tatas can raise Rs 1 lakh crore to buy out the Mistry camp which also holds 20,000 preference shares of Tata Sons. Automobiles, steel, hospitality, consumer goods — areas in which the Tatas have a big investment — have been rocked by the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
23-09-2020||Business||Sebi shield for debt mutual funds||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) is initiating a series of measures to address the challenges faced by debt mutual funds, particularly the lack of liquidity in non-AAA bonds. Apart from a “backstop facility” for such schemes, the market regulator will be setting up a working group to address the problem of liquidity risk management for open-ended debt-oriented schemes, Sebi chairman Ajay Tyagi said on Tuesday while addressing the 25th annual general meeting of the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi). Tyagi said Sebi has taken several measures such as mandating fund houses to hold 20 per cent of their assets under management (AUM) in liquid assets like cash, government securities and treasury bills, and directing them to invest primarily in listed debt securities (including commercial paper). However, debt mutual funds have faced the challenge of significant risk aversion and the bond market was hit by illiquidity, especially in AA and below rated papers, resulting in redemption pressures. “That experience brought to the fore not only the structural issues related to the corporate bond markets but also revealed some areas of improvement in respect of the practices followed in the mutual fund industry,” Tyagi said. His comments must be seen in the context of the recent statement made by RBI governor Shaktikanta Das in his address to the Ficci national executive committee where he said that benign financing conditions and the substantial narrowing of spreads have spurred a record issuance of corporate bonds of close to Rs 3.2 lakh crore during 2020-21 up to August. Tyagi said Sebi was considering a backstop facility, a mechanism almost similar to a bad bank wherein the latter acquires the stressed assets of banks. However, in this case, it will be an entity that will buy the illiquid corporate bonds from mutual funds. The expert committee will frame a stress testing methodology, encompassing liquidity, credit and market risks for all open-ended debt-oriented mutual fund schemes. The panel will also design a framework to determine the minimum asset allocation required in liquid assets. According to Tyagi, another issue that needs to be examined is the impact of large redemptions on the remaining unit holders of a scheme. For schemes witnessing large redemption requests, there are high chances that the more liquid assets get liquidated first and the scheme is then left with a relatively more illiquid portfolio. This benefits exiting investors at the cost of those who continue to stay. Here, the proposed committee will examine liquidity risk management tools such as anti-dilution levy for passing on transaction costs to the transacting investors. On the recent circular on multi-cap funds, Tyagi said the market regulator was not forcing anyone to invest in small-caps and the investment should always be in the interest of investors amid new portfolio allocation rules for multi-cap mutual fund schemes. On the recent circular relating to multi-cap funds, he disclosed that a representation has been made by AMFI which is being examined by SEBI and a decision will be announced soon. It may be recalled that Sebi had made it mandatory for multi-cap funds to play true to their label and invest a maximum of 25 per cent in each of the fund categories: large cap, mid-cap, and small cap. Here he said that the market regulator is not forcing mutual funds to invest in small and mid cap funds, but they must not mis-label and mis-sell mutual fund products.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
23-09-2020||Business||PMC Bank gets new administrator||The RBI has appointed A.K. Dixit, former general manager of Union Bank of India, as the new administrator of Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank (PMC Bank) with effect from Wednesday. He will replace J.B. Bhoria, who is stepping down because of health reasons. The Parliament on Tuesday passed amendments to the Banking Regulation Act to bring co-operative banks under the supervision of the RBI, a move aimed at protecting the interest of depositors. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government was able to quickly resolve the crisis at Yes Bank as it was governed by commercial bank rules, but a solution for the PMC Bank crisis is yet to be found. PMC Bank, which is among the top 10 urban co-operative banks, was placed under an RBI administrator because of massive under-reporting of dud loans. The RBI said in a statement that while the administrator of PMC Bank and the central bank have been exploring various options for resolution, several factors such as huge losses incurred by the bank and a steep erosion in deposits pose serious challenges in finding a workable plan for revival of the bank. “The bank has also been making efforts to recover bad loans  although the progress has been constrained because of the Covid-19 pandemic and legal complexities. Nevertheless, in the interest of the depositors, the PMC Bank and the RBI are working with stakeholders to find a viable solution,’’ the RBI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
23-09-2020||Business||Finance ministry to suspend spending forecasts||The government will not make expenditure forecasts for the next two financial years — 2021-22 and 2022-23 — because of “unreliable growth estimates” on account of the  Covid-19 pandemic, according to a finance ministry report. The ministry will not make a full disclosure in its medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) statement that will be presented in the current session because of unreliable growth estimates. The statement is a mandatory requirement under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act. The MTEF forecasts government expenditure based on GDP, fiscal deficit and gross tax revenue projections. “The MTEF statements provide rolling targets of prescribed expenditure indicators for the next two financial years — 2021-22 and 2022-23. These projections are usually derived by providing a normative increase over the anticipated expenditure of the current year, subject to other factors. This year, on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the base line expenditure estimates may be artificially inflated,” the finance ministry said in a report. “It may be difficult to tease out the transient components of the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Package and Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan Package,” the report said. Hence, expenditure estimates may be unreasonably high providing an inaccurate fiscal plan, “and a faulty foundation for the upcoming budgets”, it said. The report also said the accepted recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission to transfer tax receipts to states and grants to local bodies are applicable till March 31, 2021. The share of taxes for financial years 2021 to 2026 will be based on the final report to be submitted in October-end. On the fiscal deficit target for 2019-20 being recalibrated to 3.8 per cent of GDP compared with the budgeted target of 3.3 per cent of GDP, the report said the deviation was necessary on account of the structural reforms, both on the supply and the demand side, carried out by the government. Parliament on Tuesday passed amendments to the Banking Regulation Act to bring co-operative banks under the supervision of the RBI, a move aimed at protecting the interest of depositors. The bill replaces an ordinance that was promulgated on June 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
23-09-2020||Business||Onion exports to Bangladesh to resume||The government is working on resuming onion supplies to Bangladesh with certain conditions within days of imposing a ban. The move follows diplomatic intervention which resulted in the consignment in transit to be exported. Senior commerce ministry officials said the ministry was considering imposing a minimum export price and also allowing certain varieties of onion such as Bangalore rose and Krishnapuram, that have insignificant domestic demand. They said the issue was being discussed at the highest level so that the relaxation in export does not result in a spike in domestic prices. Sources said the government plans to move cautiously on this issue, especially at a time the country is witnessing growing peasant unrest over the farm bill, and this can add fuel to farmers’ ire. Sources said the government would be keen to allow exports to neighbouring countries given the border tension so that the immediate markets in the neighbourhood are not captured by Pakistan and China. India is the biggest exporter of onions to Bangladesh, Nepal, Malaysia and Sri Lanka. However, traders in Bangladesh have been tapping various countries to import onion. According to the information provided by Chittagong Plant Quarantine Station (Sea Port), as many as 274 import permits were issued for 118,727 tonnes of onion between September 3 and September 21, the Dhaka Tribune said. These permits indicate that 17,365 tonnes of onion will come from China apart from shipments from Pakistan, Myanmar, Egypt, Turkey, the Netherlands, Malaysia and New Zealand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
23-09-2020||Business||Reliance Jio starts price war||After unleashing a price war in mobile tariffs and fibre-broadband services, billionaire Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Jio on Tuesday unveiled postpaid plans, bundling up to 500GB of data and subscription to Netflix, Amazon Prime and Disney+ Hotstar. JioPostPaid Plus for mobile customers will have a monthly tariff of Rs 399 to Rs 1,499 with different benefits, the company said in a statement. The move assumes significance as it marks a major tariff offensive by Jio in the post-paid category, where typically average revenue per user tends to be far higher than the pre-paid segment. Jio is also offering free home delivery, activation and premium call centre service. “There can’t be a more opportune time to introduce JioPostpaid Plus,” said director Akash Ambani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
23-09-2020||Business||Donald Trump plays H1B staff wage card||The US government is planning to raise the minimum wage for foreign workers under the H-1B visa programme ahead of the presidential elections in November. The move could act as an impediment to on-shoring contracts and may push technology companies to consider hiring more local employees. According to Reuters, the White House budget office is reviewing a regulation that would raise the wages that employers must pay to H-1B visa holders. The move is aimed at bringing parity in a programme that otherwise permits US employers to underpay H-1B workers compared to US workers. At present, H-1B employees are hired at four levels (entry, qualified, experienced, fully competent or supervisory) based on their education and experience. The US labour department determines the wages based on prevailing rates for specific employee roles in different regions of the country. However, market observers and legal experts said increasing the minimum wages could make it difficult for businesses, especially in the IT sector, to meet the minimum wage threshold, effectively deterring companies from hiring workers on the H-1B visa. US president Donald Trump faces re-election on November 3 and has made immigration a focus area of his campaign against Democratic challenger Joe Biden. Nandini P. Nair, partner at US law firm Greenspoon Marder LLP, said: “The Trump administration is pursuing an aggressive agenda to revamp the H-1B programme ahead of the elections. If the rumour is correct that they will most likely force employers to pay a Level 3 Wage, most companies will not be able meet that threshold, especially small, mid-size and startup companies. The impact would be great and could force business to shut down or off shore the work outside the US.” “The proposal to hike the minimum wage of foreign workers is more of an election propaganda which will severely affect the foreign workers employed in the IT sector. Such a move will push for local hiring and will further tighten the rules of employment for foreign workers,” said Sumit Batra, partner at India Law Alliance. IT industry sources said that poll related cyclical risks have played a crucial role in the growth of the sector and IT services growth in India has moderated in each of the last three US presidential election years. Nasscom is internally discussing the potential impact if the decision comes through. But most Indian IT companies such as TCS, Infosys, Wipro, TechM and HCL have started reducing their H-1B visa dependence in the last three years. Some of the firms have been hiring locally. US tech firms, however, have been a key recipient of H-1B visas in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
23-09-2020||Business||Murugappa clan riven by feud||The stage is set for another tussle in the Murugappa family. Shareholders of Ambadi Investments Ltd (AIL), the holding company of the Murugappa group, have voted against inducting Valli Arunachalam as a director. Arunachalam is the eldest daughter of the former executive chairman M.V. Murugappan. Early this year, Arunachalam, the US-settled nuclear scientist, had said in an interview that she was being denied a board berth just because she is a woman. M.V. Murugappan had passed away in September 2017, leaving a probate will bequeathing his 8.15 per cent stake in the group holding firm, Ambadi Investments, to his wife and two daughters. At an annual general meeting of the privately held AIL on Monday, around 91.36 per cent of its shareholders voted against a resolution that proposed a board position for Arunachalam. “In any event, we would definitely pursue justice and we will take all the steps needed for the same. Clearly it seems the family is more concerned about protecting its draconian perspectives and practices, even if it means forcing us to take the battle to courts. We will not shy away this time,’’ Arunachalam said in a statement. “It is evident that the family cannot tolerate women in their boardrooms, and they have showcased their considered view in this regard,’’ she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
23-09-2020||Business||August crude oil imports fall||Crude oil imports declined in August, though at a slower pace, as soaring coronavirus cases continued to hit mobility and slowed economic recovery, government data showed on Monday. Crude oil imports last month fell about 23.4 per cent from a year earlier to 15.15 million tonnes, or 3.58 million barrels per day (bpd), data from the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) of the ministry of petroleum & natural gas showed. On a monthly basis, imports rose 9.9 per cent from 13.79 million tonnes, or 3.26 bpd in July. Fuel demand in the world’s third-biggest oil importer and consumer also slipped in August, posting its biggest monthly decline since April and a sixth consecutive year-on-year drop. Refined product imports edged up 1.5 per cent to 3.25 million tonnes year-on-year, but slipped 18.77 per cent from 4.01 million tonnes in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
