24-09-2020||Business||Sensex crashes 1,115 points, investors lose Rs 3.95 lakh cr||The Sensex plunged 1,115 points while the Nifty crashed below the 10,850-mark on Thursday as investors dumped equities amid a sharp global sell-off and concerns over economic recovery. World markets were bathed in a sea of red as fears about a second wave of coronavirus infections in major economies and lack of fresh stimulus from central banks clobbered sentiment. Back home, a sharp depreciation in the rupee and volatility on F&O expiry day further weighed on the bourses, traders said. Sliding for the sixth straight session, the 30-share BSE Sensex plummeted 1,114.82 points or 2.96 per cent to finish at 36,553.60. The benchmark posted its biggest single-day fall since May 4 this year, when it had plunged over 2,000 points. Similarly, the NSE Nifty tanked 326.30 points or 2.93 per cent to close at 10,805.55. The Sensex has now lost 2,749.25 points in six days, while the Nifty has declined by 799 points. The market capitalisation of all BSE-listed companies stood at Rs 1,48,76,217.22 crore, down by Rs 3.95 lakh crore compared to the previous session. Barring Hindustan Unilever, which inched up 0.36 per cent, all Sensex components ended in the red on Thursday. IndusInd Bank was the top laggard, tumbling 7.10 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, M&M, Tech Mahindra, TCS, Tata Steel, ICICI Bank and Infosys. "Weak global cues coupled with worrying data points from the US led to a gap down start today even as the re-emergence of the virus rattled the Euro zone. Indices here saw deep cuts led by TCS and Infosys as both along with RIL were the ones which led the recovery in the last five months. "The broader markets were pounded today much beyond the 3 per cent cut witnessed in the Indices," said S. Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. All sectoral indices closed with losses, with BSE IT index dropping 4.45 per cent, followed by teck, auto, metal, realty, basic materials, bankex and finance. The BSE mid-cap and small-cap gauges lost as much as 2.28 per cent. In the forex market, the rupee depreciated 32 paise to finish at 73.89 against the US dollar. In rest of Asia, South Korea's KOSPI index plunged 2.59 per cent. Markets in Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong closed with losses of up to 1.82 per cent. Bourses in Europe too started off on a weak note. Meanwhile, global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.22 per cent lower at USD 41.68 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
24-09-2020||Business||Lockdown: Supreme Court seeks clarity on fare refund||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to clarify by Friday the modalities of refund of air ticket fare for flights cancelled during the nationwide lockdown. The top court asked the Centre to file a fresh affidavit by September 25. Solicitor- general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the ministry of civil aviation and DGCA, agreed that the affidavit submitted was poorly drafted. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah said the affadavit is only concerned with refund and non-refund of fare for tickets booked during the lockdown. The bench asked Mehta that if a person had booked a ticket one day before the lockdown for travel during the lockdown, then what about his refund. Mehta replied that he would not get the refund immediately. The bench then asked Mehta what happened to the refunds of a travel agent, who has already paid to the airlines but is yet to be paid by the passenger. Senior advocate Pinaki Misra, appearing for Air Vistara and AirAsia, said usually travel agents maintain a corpus with airlines and its balance keeps coming down with the issuance of each ticket. He said if the passenger has not yet paid for the ticket,  the corpus of the travel agent will get reimbursed. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for NGO Pravasi Legal Cell, said if one had booked tickets with airlines such as Air India and Indigo to fly out of India the affidavit filed by the DGCA is applicable. He said the DGCA should also cover people who had booked flights on these carriers to come to India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
24-09-2020||Business||Toyota Kirloskar Motor launches compact SUV Urban Cruiser||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) plans to cater to the lower segment of the market with its cross-badged products from Suzuki, Naveen Soni, senior vice-president (sales and service), said at the launch of compact SUV Urban Cruiser — the second product from the Suzuki-Toyota alliance. “The compact SUV segment is an important one for us. From 1 per cent of the total automobile market, it now comprises 14 per cent,” said Tadashi Asazuma, vice-president, sales and marketing, TKM. The Urban Cruiser sports a price tag of Rs 8.4 lakh to Rs 11.30 lakh. Toyota Kirloskar Motor managing director Masakazu Yoshimura on Wednesday said taxation and regulation need to run parallel and if they go in opposite directions it would be difficult to create demand. Fresh investments are not feasible with frequent change in policies, he added. The company said India remains an important market from a strategy point of view but bringing in new models  would depend on demand. Mercedes Benz India wants the government to implement the promised policies on scrappage and capital expenditure on infrastructure. Reacting to the finance ministry’s advice to cut back on royalties paid to parents,  Mercedes Benz India sales director Santosh Iyer said: “We have very miniscule amounts that go out as royalties.” “We have invested Rs 2200 crore here. All we ask for is a consistent policy that will help us to do business in the long run.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
24-09-2020||Business||EPFO starts conducting virtual hearings||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation has launched virtual hearing of cases to fast track dispute resolution and assessment of the dues of workers. The move is a step towards the provident fund body’s objective of faceless assessment in the future. “With the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic and the need to practice social distancing restrictions, virtual hearings are being conducted in most of the district and sessions courts. In the same spirit and with a view to provide expeditious and affordable adjudication to its establishments and subscribers, hearings under sections 7A and 14B of Employees’ Provident Funds & Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952, will be conducted in a virtual mode,” the EPFO said in a statement. A virtual court is aimed at eliminating the need for a physical presence of the litigant and lawyers. There will be facilitation of e-notices and real time recording of proceedings and communication of orders. Case status, including the daily and final orders, can also be accessible to all parties on the portal. EPFO said that the launch was made after a successful pilot run at two regional offices of EPFO in July and August 2020. 90 quasi judicial cases were attended by higher management of establishments leading to quick disposals, consent orders and immediate compliances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
24-09-2020||Business||Coal India to produce urea from next fiscal||Coal India expects to produce urea from its joint venture company — Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited — from 2021-22. The public sector miner has formed a partnership with other public sector entities to revive old fertiliser plants in Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Bihar. Coal India, NTPC, IOC hold a 29.67 per cent stake each in the joint venture, while FCI and HFCL together hold 10.99 per cent. Three plants are being set up with an estimated cost of around Rs 22,000 crore with a debt-equity finance of 75:25. “In 2018, contracts were awarded to the respective successful bidders to set up the three plants on a lump sum turnkey basis. Construction activities are in progress in all the three sites. Urea production is expected to commence in 2021-22,” Coal India chairman Pramod Agrawal said at the company’s annual general meeting on Wednesday. The public sector miner also has another joint venture company with RCF, GAIL and FCIL to set up a coal gasification based urea plant at the premises of the closed fertiliser plant of FCI at Talcher in Odisha. Agrawal said coal remains the mainstay of energy production in the country, while solar, wind, hydel and natural gas supplement the fuel without wholly substituting it. “For the past couple of years, India accounted for around 11 per cent of the global coal consumption. India remains the second-largest coal consumer in the world,” he said. Meanwhile, Coal India has said that its research and consultancy arm CMPDI will remain an integral part of the miner and will not be separated. In 2019-20, CMPDI added 7.8 billion tonnes of coal resources, the highest ever estimated by CMPDI in a year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
24-09-2020||Business||Harsh Vardhan Lodha plea hearing today||A division bench comprising Calcutta High Court Chief Justice T.B. Nair Radhakrishnan and Justice Shampa Sarkar will start hearing a batch of applications  filed by Harsh Vardhan Lodha and three companies of the MP Birla group seeking a stay on a trial court order that restrained Lodha from holding any position in the group. The appeals by Universal Cables, Birla Cables and Vindhya Telelinks and Lodha were admitted for hearing this morning by the bench and listed for Thursday when the respondents sought more time to go through the voluminous papers submitted. The three companies and the chairman of the MP Birla group on Tuesday moved applications challenging a verdict passed by a single judge of the same court on Friday, handing a major victory to the Birla family. “After the admission of the appeals, the division bench was pleased to grant time till tomorrow, when the applications will be taken up again for consideration of interim relief sought by our clients,” said Debanjan Mandal, partner at Fox & Mandal, who represents Lodha. Lodha and the Birla family are involved in a 16-year-old legal battle that saw more than 100 cases being filed by either side. The row has reached the Supreme Court at least five times. The tussle started in 2004 when late Rajendra Singh Lodha — father of Harsh — was handed the reins of the MP Birla group by a contentious will of late Priyamvada Devi Birla, wife of late Madhava Prasad Birla. Hearing on the testamentary suit seeking the probate of the will is in the final stages in the trial court of Calcutta High Court. Lodha is challenging the trial court order on the grounds that the estate of late Priyamvada is only a minority shareholder among the controlling block of shares of the five manufacturing companies of the group, including flagship Birla Corporation, a cement producer. Lodha claims that the committee of administrators pendente lite, appointed by the high court in 2012 to oversee and protect the estate, cannot dictate 30 entities of the group, which include trusts, societies and investment companies, to vote according to their wish as they are independent entities outside the control of the estate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
24-09-2020||Business||Techies flock to Bengal jobs portal||Bengal finance and industries minister Amit Mitra on Wednesday said the state has seen a surge in IT professionals registering themselves on an online skill platform launched by the state IT department amid the pandemic. While addressing a CII event, Mitra said 36,694 individuals have registered themselves on the portal, called Karmo Bhumi, since its launch in June. Around 27,000 applications have been processed and around 3,000 professionals have been selected. The portal was created to build a database of skilled IT workers in the state which the companies operating out of Bengal can have access to. The platform has gained importance as several IT employees from other states such as Bangalore and Hyderabad started returning to Calcutta amid the lockdown and the pandemic. “I am hoping some of the professionals who have returned from Bangalore and Hyderabad because of the pandemic and were not able to go back have found an alternative in Bengal,” said Mitra. Mitra further said that the state’s upcoming IT hub at Rajarhat has received interest from various corporates like TCS, Jio, Firstsource, besides smaller firms and start-ups. “In the 200-acre Silicon Valley Hub, there is scope for more investments,” Mitra said. He added that the state was also offering brick and mortar infrastructure at its own IT parks in tier-2 and tier-3 locations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
24-09-2020||Business||National policy for retail trade on course||The government has proposed to formulate a National Retail Trade Policy and stakeholder consultations are being held for the same, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal informed Parliament on Wednesday. In March, the minister had said that the Centre proposes to have a national policy to create a conducive environment for retail trade by simplifying the rules and regulations affecting the growth of the retail sector. In a written reply, Goyal  said the government has set up a National Traders’ Welfare Board with the objective of simplification of the Acts and rules applicable to traders, reduction of compliance burden and improvement in access to funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
24-09-2020||Business||Centre propoes norms for discom sale||The Centre has proposed bidding guidelines for the privatisation of power distribution companies (discoms) that can be used by the states. The objective of the guidelines is to reduce the mounting losses at the discoms. According to the draft, the highest bidder “shall be provided with a clean balance sheet, free of accumulated losses/unserviceable liabilities” of the discoms. It also proposed that existing assets of the distribution licensee, other than land, would be transferred to the highest bidder according to rates set by  state power regulators. Land owned by the discoms shall be provided to the new owner on a right to use basis at nominal charges, the document stated. The provisions enlisted “are essentially being presented with an aim of initiating discussions and soliciting inputs from stakeholders on the standard bidding document  (SBD),” the power ministry said. The document said significant loss-making power distribution companies with medium to high aggregate technical & commercial losses (AT&C) of above 15 per cent may be bid out on AT&C loss reduction commitment for the first five years. The fixed parameter will be the consideration for sale of equity shares in the successor entity. A second bid parameter has been proposed in case of discoms with lower than 15 per cent AT&C Losses (or with negligible ACS-ARR gap). The guidelines suggest the bid parameter may be upfront premium for equity consideration in the distribution company. A fixed AT&C loss trajectory for the next five years may be specified in the request for proposals (RFP) which shall be adopted for tariff determination.The power purchase agreements (PPA) of existing distribution licensees shall be transferred to successor entities. “Only in specific cases where there is a significant gap between Average Revenue Realized and Average Cost of Supply, PPAs may be retained in a State or Union Territory (UT) Government entity to structure a subsidised bulk power purchase cost for the successor entity for making it an independently financially viable entity, for a specified period,” the documents proposed. The successor entity shall be provided with a clean balance sheet free of accumulated losses or unserviceable liabilities, the document said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
24-09-2020||Business||US private equity firm KKR invests in Reliance Retail||US private equity firm KKR is investing Rs 5,550 crore to buy a 1.28 per cent in the retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) as the oil-to-telecom conglomerate continues its fund raising exercise. The latest investment comes days after Silver Lake picked up 1.75 per cent in Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL) by investing Rs 7,500 crore. Like Silver Lake, KKR’s investment values Reliance Retail at a pre-money equity value of Rs 4.21 lakh crore. This marks the second investment by KKR in a subsidiary of RIL, following a Rs 11,367-crore investment in Jio Platforms announced earlier this year for a 2.32 per cent stake. Reliance Retail Ltd, a subsidiary of RRVL, operates India’s largest and most profitable retail business with close to 640 million footfalls across 12,000 stores nationwide. The retail arm, through its new commerce platform, has started digitalisation of small and unorganised merchants and has announced plans to expand the network to over 20 million. This is expected to enable the merchants to use technology tools and an efficient supply chain infrastructure to deliver a superior value proposition to their own customers. Founded in 1976, KKR has $222 billion in assets under management as on June 30, 2020. It has made investments in Epic Games, OutSystems, Internet Brands, Go-jek and Voyager Innovations. KKR set up its first of eight Asia offices in 2005 and the firm now has around $5.1 billion in private equity investments across more than 15 Indian companies, including Jio Platforms, JB Chemicals, Max Healthcare, Eurokids International and Ramky Enviro Engineers. “KKR has a proven track record of being a valuable partner to industry-leading franchises and has been committed to India for many years. We look forward to working with KKR’s global platform, industry knowledge and operational expertise across our digital services and retail businesses,” Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of RIL. IRIL has mobilised over Rs 1.52 lakh crore from these investors in the digital services subsidiary, most of which was used to retire debt. However, RIL is expected to use the proceeds from the stake sale in RRVL to use it in the organised retail business. “Reliance Retail’s new commerce platform is filling an important need for both consumers and small businesses as more Indian consumers move to shopping online,” said Henry Kravis, co-founder and co-CEO of KKR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
24-09-2020||Business||Tatas mull options to buy Mistry stake||Bombay House wore a cloak of silence a day after the Shapoorji Pallonji camp squarely put the ball in the Tata court by announcing its desire to sever a 70-year-old relationship with the $113 billion conglomerate. The Mistry camp owns an 18.37 per cent stake in Tata Sons, the group’s holding company, and intends to press for a high valuation of Rs 1.78 lakh crore for the sale of its shares. The ballpark valuation figure has left everyone a little bemused by the options that lie before the Tatas as they look to squeeze the Mistry family out of their lair. The funding options for the Tatas are complicated by the restrictions in the Companies Act 2013 that bar cash-rich operating companies in the Tata fold such as TCS from stumping up a part of the funds to help Tata Sons buy out the Mistry stake. The Tata Trusts are equally hemmed in by regulations: they cannot purchase the shares as the law does not permit such transactions by charitable trusts. The first step for the Tatas will be to appoint a valuer for Tata Sons’ equity capital. The SP Group may be eyeing a valuation of Rs 1.78 lakh crore that takes into account the direct and indirect assets that Tata Sons controls and the valuation of the Tata brand itself that brings a stream of revenue from the operating companies in the form of royalty. Back in 2016, chartered accountant Y.H. Malegam had valued Tata Sons at around Rs 58,000 crore. The first step is to narrow the wide gap between the two numbers and see if the two sides can agree. The Tata group’s holding company will find it hard to rustle up a large sum of money as it comes under increasing pressure to funnel cash into the many operating businesses that are grappling with an alarming drop in demand for their products in a post-Covid environment. But Tata Sons has some options that they can still explore. The first would be to rope in a strategic investor whose vision is in sync with their own. It can also sell a part of the stake in Tata Consultancy Services (TCS). Tata Sons holds a little over 72 per cent in TCS and, at the current market prices, the IT giant is valued at Rs 6.67 lakh crore. But it would then would have to live with a lower income stream from TCS in the future in the form of dividends. According to a note from the proxy advisory firm IiAS, Tata Sons will need to sell a roughly 16 per cent stake in TCS if it wants to buy out the SP Group by relying on its own resources. But this would bring down its stake in the country’s leading technology company to 56 per cent, which will still give it control but could bring in investors who may wish to drive their own corporate governance agenda. “This will mean that the Tata Group will continue to control TCS, but its cash flows from the company will be lower than before. For the past several years, and even now, Tata Sons’ ability to infuse equity and provide liquidity support to its businesses has been driven by TCS’s dividends and buyback. The sale of 16 per cent of TCS will restrict Tata Sons’ financial flexibility and somewhat weaken its ability to hold the group together,” the proxy advisory firm cautioned. The next option is to induct strategic partners or other investors like private equity and sovereign wealth funds into Tata Sons. But they might baulk at the status of Tata Sons being a private company. These investors may insist that Tata Sons reverts to its earlier status as a public company. It remains to be seen if the Tatas will agree to such a demand should it be raised. Tata Sons has the option of going in for a buyback. However, the consequent reduction in share capital may affect its ability to raise debt in the future. Meanwhile, shares of SP Group companies rallied on the bourses on Wednesday. On the BSE, the Forbes  Company share was locked in at the 5 per cent upper circuit at Rs 1484.15, while Sterling & Wilson zoomed 20 per cent to close at Rs 235.90.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
