25-09-2020||Business||Vodafone wins Rs 22,100 cr retro tax case against India||British telecom giant Vodafone Group plc on Friday won an arbitration against the Indian government over a demand for Rs 22,100 crore in taxes using retrospective legislation. An international arbitration tribunal ruled that India's demand in past taxes were in breach of fair treatment under a bilateral investment protection pact. "The award is confidential but Vodafone can confirm that the tribunal has found (it) in Vodafone's favour," Vodafone Group said in a statement. "We are studying the lengthy documents and can make no further comment at this time." It was not immediately known if the Indian government will abide by the arbitration award. The Government of India's liability will be restricted to about Rs 75 crore -- Rs 30 crore in cost and another Rs 45 crore in tax refund, sources with direct knowledge of the matter said. Vodafone had before the arbitration tribunal challenged India's usage of a 2012 legislation that gave it powers to retrospectively tax deals like Vodafone's USD 11 billion acquisition of 67 per cent stake in the mobile phone business owned by Hutchison Whampoa in 2007. It challenged the demand of Rs 7,990 crore in capital gains taxes (Rs 22,100 crore after including interest and penalty) under the Netherlands-India Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT). Sources said the tax demand was on the UK-listed company and Vodafone's India venture faced no liability. Vodafone merged its India operations with billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla's conglomerate but the combined entity Vodafone Idea Ltd is facing a USD 7.8 billion bill in past statutory dues. Tax authorities had in September 2007 served notice to Vodafone International Holdings BV (VIHBV) for its alleged failure to deduct withholding tax from consideration paid to the Hutchison Telecommunications International Ltd. Vodafone challenged this in the Supreme Court, which in January 2012 set it aside, saying the transaction was not taxable in India and so the company had no obligation to withhold tax. In May that year, Parliament passed the Finance Act 2012 that amended various provisions of the Income Tax Act 1961 with retrospective effect to tax any gain on transfer of shares in a non-Indian company which derives substantial value from underlying Indian assets. The company was in January 2013 served a tax notice of Rs 14,200 crore after including interest on the principal amount. A year later, Vodafone challenged the tax demand under the Dutch BIT. Sources said the company in April 2014 served the notice of arbitration after out-of-court dispute resolution talks failed. The tax department in February 2016 served a demand notice of Rs 22,100 crore, including interest accruing since the date of the original demand. Vodafone has always maintained that there is no liability and that it will "continue to defend vigorously any allegation that VIHBV or Vodafone India Ltd is liable to pay tax in connection with the transaction with Hutchison and will continue to exercise all rights to seek redress". Besides Vodafone, the Indian government also used the retrospective tax legislation to seek Rs 10,247 crore from British oil explorer Cairn Energy Plc over a 2006 reorganisation of its Indian businesses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
25-09-2020||Business||ED notice to attach Rs 127 cr London flat of Yes Bank co-promoter Rana Kapoor||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached a Rs 127-crore flat of Yes Bank co-promoter Rana Kapoor in London in connection with a money laundering investigation against him and others, the central agency said on Friday. The agency issued a provisional order for attaching the property -- Apartment 1, 77 South Audley Street, London -- under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). "The market value of the flat is 13.5 million pound (about Rs 127 crore). The property was purchased by Rana Kapoor in 2017 for 9.9 million pound (Rs 93 crore) in the name of DOIT Creations Jersey Limited and he is the beneficial owner," the ED said in a statement. It claimed that the agency had obtained "information from a reliable source that Kapoor was trying to alienate this property in London and that he has hired a reputed property consultant." "Enquiries from open sources confirmed that this property has been listed for sale on several websites," it said. The agency, as per procedure, will now approach their counterparts in the United Kingdom to execute the attachment order and will issue a proclamation that the asset cannot be sold or purchased as it has been seized under the criminal sections of the PMLA. The ED has earlier attached assets in the US, Dubai and Australia in a similar fashion as part of other investigations under the PMLA. The ED had booked Kapoor, his family members and others under the PMLA after studying a CBI FIR that alleged that dubious multi-crore loans were given by Yes Bank to various entities in contravention of the law and in lieu of purported kickbacks given to the Kapoor family. The CBI FIR had stated that during April-June, 2018, Yes Bank Limited had invested Rs 3,700 crore in the short term debentures of DHFL. "Simultaneously, Kapil Wadhawan of DHFL paid kickback of Rs 600 crore to Rana Kapoor and his family members in the garb of loan of Rs 600 crore (given by DHFL) to DOIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd (Rana Kapoor group company)." "In addition to the above, Yes Bank Ltd had also sanctioned a loan of Rs 750 crore to RKW Developers, a group company of DHFL beneficially owned by Kapil Wadhawan, Dheeraj Wadhawan and their family members," the ED alleged. This loan of Rs 750 crore had been sanctioned to them for their Bandra Reclamation Project, Mumbai, but the entire amount was siphoned off by Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan through their shell companies, it said. Rana Kapoor, Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan have been arrested by the ED in this case and they are in judicial custody at present. The agency had also filed charge sheets before a special court in Mumbai in this case. The ED had earlier attached properties in this case and with this order, the total attachment in this probe stands at Rs 2,011 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
25-09-2020||Business||Govt extends suspension of fresh insolvency proceedings||The government on Thursday extended the suspension of fresh insolvency proceedings under the insolvency law by three months till December 25. The six-month period of suspension, which was effective from March 25, was to end on Thursday. According to a notification issued by the corporate affairs ministry, the suspension of fresh proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code has been extended for a “period of three months from the 25th September, 2020”. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s office tweeted that the extension gives companies “breathing time” to recover from financial stress. “Extension of suspension of sections 7, 9, 10 of the IBC reinforces the government's commitment to protecting businesses,” the tweet said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
25-09-2020||Business||UTI AMC fixes share price for IPO||UTI Asset Management Company (AMC) on Thursday fixed a price band of Rs 552-554 per share for its initial public offering (IPO) that will open for public subscription on September 29 and close on October 1. The bidding for anchor investors would open on September 28. The issue comprises the sale of 3.8 crore equity shares, or a 30.75 per cent stake, held by existing shareholders. State Bank of India (SBI), Life Insurance Corporation and Bank of Baroda (BoB) are offering to sell about 1.04 crore shares each, while Punjab National Bank (PNB) and T Rowe Price International are offloading around 38 lakh  shares each. SBI, LIC, PNB and BoB hold 18.24 per cent stake each in UTI AMC. US-based T Rowe Price owns 26 per cent stake in the company. The fund house has also reserved two lakh equity shares for its eligible employees. Bids can be made for a minimum of 27 equity shares and in multiples of 27 equity shares thereafter. Sebi norms The offer for sale will comply with Sebi norms which stipulate a shareholder or a sponsor owning at least 10 per cent stake in an asset management company is not allowed to have 10 per cent or more stake in another mutual fund house operating in the country. In August, the market regulator had imposed a penalty of Rs 10 lakh each on  SBI, LIC and BoB for not complying with the regulations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
25-09-2020||Business||Ministry allows airlines to decide domestic baggage limits||The aviation ministry has allowed airlines to decide on baggage limitations for domestic passengers — an indication that the sector may resume normal flight schedules soon.
Passengers were so far allowed only one check-in bag on domestic flights since May 25. Before domestic flights were suspended on March 25, Air India would allow check-in luggage of up to 25 kg and private airlines — with some limiting the number of bags — up to 15 kg for economy flyers. “The matter has been reviewed based on inputs received from stakeholders. Considering the convenience of passengers, it has been decided to (allow)… baggage limitation according to airlines’ policies,” said an order issued by Usha Padhee, joint secretary in the aviation ministry. Air India says it will now allow domestic passengers in economy and business class to check-in up to 25 kg and 35 kg, respectively. Air India Express says it “permits 25 kg as checked-in (on domestic flights) and 7 kg as hand bags which continues”. Vistara said it will be “restoring the pre-Covid baggage allowance from Monday (September 28)… in response to the latest advisory issued by the government.” Most airlines are likely to return to their piece concept (allowing one bag without extra charge and payment for subsequent checked in baggage) and a 15-kg weight limit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
25-09-2020||Business||Harley-Davidson to discontinue sales and manufacturing ops in India||Harley-Davidson Inc said on Thursday it would discontinue its sales and manufacturing operations in India, effectively abandoning the world’s biggest motorcycle market after a decade of unsuccessful efforts to gain a foothold. The move involves $75 million in restructuring costs, some 70 redundancies and the closure of its Bawal plant, walking away from a market worth about 17 million bike and scooter sales a year. It will retain only a scaled-down sales office in Gurgaon. “As part of The Rewire, an overhaul of its operating model and market structure, the company is changing its business model in India and evaluating options to continue to serve its customers,” a press release said. The Harley-Davidson dealer network will continue to serve customers through the contract term. “The present contract term is till December,” said Adarsh Tulsyan, proprietor of the sole Harley Davidson dealership in Calcutta. The company has a total of 33 dealerships in the country. Tulsyan said he sold 100 motorbikes in a year on an average. “We are naturally disappointed. With the closure of the factory, the possibility of having new bikes is low. The news is yet to sink in. However, servicing of bikes continues.” Last year, Ford Motor ceased independent operations in India by entering into a joint venture with M&M. General Motors, which stopped domestic sales in 2017, plans to stop manufacturing and exports from India by the end of this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
25-09-2020||Business||Maruti Suzuki India launches vehicle subscription programme||Maruti Suzuki India on Thursday launched its vehicle subscription programme for individuals to cash in on the festive demand even as a survey of car dealers threw up two key concerns —  support for future business evolution and to re-start business post lockdown. Maruti Suzuki Subscribe will be launched initially in Delhi, NCR region and Bangalore. The company plans to extend this programme to  up to 60 cities in the next three years. The company has partnered ORIX Auto Infrastructure Services India, a subsidiary of Japan’s ORIX Corporation, to launch the service. Customers can choose to subscribe to a new Swift Dzire, Vitara Brezza and Ertiga from Arena showrooms and the Baleno, Ciaz and XL6 from Nexa dealerships. “Maruti Suzuki Subscribe allows a customer to use a new car without actually owning it by paying an all-inclusive monthly fee that covers maintenance, insurance and roadside assistance,” Maruti said. Dealer woes FADA, an auto dealer association, said dealers were looking to rationalise their assets as well as manpower, especially in bigger cities, and also expect original equipment manufacturers to improve their profitability. “Dealers are moving to smaller places with lower rent and are also looking to rationalise manpower in order to carry forward in these challenges times,” FADA president Vinkesh Gulati said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
25-09-2020||Business||Competition Commission approves Adani Group's Mumbai airport deal||The Competition Commission has approved Adani Group’s proposed acquisition of a controlling stake in Mumbai airport from GVK Airport Developers under the green channel route. The green channel route provides for automatic approval of certain deals, subject to various conditions. “The commission received the green channel combination pertaining to acquisition of GVK Airport Developers by Adani Airport Holdings,” the regulator said in a tweet. Adani Group had announced in August that it would acquire GVK Airport Developers’ (GVKADL) 50.50 per cent stake as well as buy out the 23.5 per cent stake of Airports Company of South Africa and Bidvest Group. Deals beyond a certain threshold require approval from the Competition Commission of India (CCI). According to a notice filed with the watchdog, the acquirer proposes to take sole control of GVKADL through one or more steps, which will involve purchase of all external debt, conversion of the said debt to equity and purchase of its balance shares. Adani said there is no overlap in the relevant geographic market and there are also no vertical or complementary linkages between the activities of the group and GVKADL in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
25-09-2020||Business||Borrowing road map for fiscal second half on Monday||The government is expected to come up with a borrowing road map for the second half of the fiscal on Monday amid a raging debate whether it would raise Rs 4.34 lakh crore as planned or a higher sum to foot the burgeoning pandemic bill as tax collections moderate. Some analysts said the government would wait till the third quarter was over when it would be better able to assess its revenue post the festive season. Hard-pressed for funds to combat the rising coronavirus infections, the government in May increased its market borrowing for the current financial year by more than 50 per cent to Rs 12 lakh crore. In February, the budget had set a target to borrow Rs 7.80 lakh crore. Aditi Nayar, principal economist, Icra said: “The government’s net tax revenues, non-tax revenues and disinvestment proceeds will together trail the FY2021 budget estimate by a huge Rs 6 lakh crore.” “Moreover, expenditure will rise on account of the fiscal support announced under the ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’, and the cash outgo for other items included in the First Supplementary Demand for Grants.” She said the  fiscal deficit would widen to at least Rs 14 lakh crore this fiscal from the budgeted Rs 8 lakh crore. Accordingly, this entails a further expansion in the GoI’s borrowing calendar for the second half of at least Rs 1.1 lakh crore. However, Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings, said: “It is unlikely to be more than Rs 12 lakh crore for the full year….therefore no surprise is expected.”
“The government would wait and watch the situation and take a call at the end of the third quarter of the current fiscal. The Covid-19 pandemic has created uncertainty on the demand spur in the coming months and the government would be cautious to watch out and take a call,” Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist in India Ratings & Research, said. Collections suffer Tax collections have taken a huge hit owing to lockdowns imposed since March to contain the spread of Covid-19. With GDP contracting a record 23.9 per cent in the first quarter, the expectations are that the government may have to announce additional measures to boost demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
25-09-2020||Business||Sensex slumps 1110 points over Covid second wave fears||Investors ran for cover and the Sensex slumped 1110 points on Thursday over fears of a second wave of the coronavirus triggering more lockdowns and derailing the global economy. The Sensex suffered its biggest single-day fall since May 4 to end at 36553.60, wiping out Rs 3.95 lakh crore of investor wealth. The NSE Nifty tanked 326.30 points to close at 10805.55. Market circles are divided on their forecasts: some are expecting a pullback but others are warning of a difficult period as recovery is far away and the much awaited vaccine is expected only next year. Investors are not just spooked by the global factors. Back home, measures taken both by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the central government have failed to yield tangible results. The first stimulus package was a major disappointment. And the Modi government is holding off on a second round of fiscal measures, giving investors enough reason to stay on the sidelines. Though the RBI is likely to maintain its accommodative stance and use unconventional tools to kickstart the economy such as targeted long-term repo, an interest rate cut is being ruled out at its forthcoming meeting given the elevated retail inflation. Market circles said it was the negative global cues that led to stocks opening in the red and remaining under pressure through the session. There were apprehensions about global economic growth as the UK is set to go into a second lockdown and travel restrictions return in several countries in Europe. Further, there were  mounting concerns over the recovery in the US with the weekly jobless showing a surprising rise on Thursday. There were more fears as the US Federal Reserve indicated it would not increase the size of its asset purchases amid fears that investors were poised to dump junk bonds. “Investors have largely given up on the idea the US Congress will provide a new stimulus, while worrying about a recent rise in Covid-19 cases. Economists at Goldman Sachs cut their US growth forecast for the fourth quarter by half, to 3 per cent from 6 per cent,” said Deepak Jasani head of retail research, HDFC Securities. “Investors are bombarded by a perfect storm of problems including rising virus infections, new lockdowns, a slowing economic recovery, stalled US stimulus talks and election uncertainty.” Sliding for the sixth straight session, the 30-share BSE Sensex opened 37282.18 and fell below the 37000 mark to hit a day’s low of 36495.93 — a fall of 1172.44 points. It later settled at 36553.60 showing a drop of 1114.82 points or 2.96 per cent. The benchmark thus posted its biggest single-day fall since May 4 this year, when it had plunged over 2000 points. Similarly, the NSE Nifty tanked 326.30 points or 2.93 per cent to close at 10805.55. The Sensex has now lost 2749.25 points in six days, while the Nifty has declined by 799 points. Barring Hindustan Unilever, which inched up 0.36 per cent, all Sensex components ended in the red on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
