26-09-2020||Business||I lead a disciplined lifestyle, Anil Ambani tells UK court||Reliance Group chairman Anil Ambani has told a UK court that suggestions of his lavish tastes are speculative because his lifestyle is "very disciplined" as he gave evidence in a dispute involving a loan agreement with three Chinese banks. The 61-year-old former billionaire appeared via videolink from Mumbai before the High Court on Friday for compulsory cross-examination in aid of an asset disclosure order obtained by the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd Mumbai Branch, China Development Bank and Exim Bank of China. The order required Ambani to give full disclosure of all of his assets worldwide exceeding USD 100,000. "My needs are not vast and my lifestyle is very disciplined," Ambani told the London court. Asked about his fleet of luxury cars and other references to his lavish lifestyle as the counsel for the banks cross-examined him, the Reliance Communications chief dismissed them as "speculative" media stories. "Mr Anil Ambani has always been a simple man of simple tastes, contrary to exaggerated perceptions of his flamboyance and lavish lifestyle," said a spokesperson for Anil Ambani. "He is devoted to his family and company, an avid marathon runner, and deeply spiritual. He is also a lifelong vegetarian, teetotaller and non-smoker who would much rather watch a movie at home with his kids than go out on the town. Reports that suggest otherwise are completely misleading," the spokesperson said. The dispute revolves around an alleged breach of a personal guarantee on a company debt refinancing loan of around USD 925 million dating back to February 2012. Ambani denies providing authority for any such guarantee, resulting in the High Court action in the UK - the jurisdiction agreed upon as part of the terms of the loan agreement. In May, the Commercial Division of the High Court of England and Wales in London had ruled that the personal guarantee was binding on Ambani and directed him to pay early USD 717 million to the three Chinese banks. "The banks will use the information from the cross-examination to pursue all available legal avenues to protect their rights and recover the outstanding loans owed to them, the banks said in a statement this week. At a hearing in the case earlier in the year, a UK judge had ruled that he did not accept Ambani's defence that his net worth was nearly zero or that his family would not step in to assist him when "push came to shove". Reliance Group chairman Anil Ambani has told a UK court that suggestions of his lavish tastes are speculative because his lifestyle is "very disciplined" as he gave evidence in a dispute involving a loan agreement with three Chinese banks. The 61-year-old former billionaire appeared via videolink from Mumbai before the High Court on Friday for compulsory cross-examination in aid of an asset disclosure order obtained by the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd Mumbai Branch, China Development Bank and Exim Bank of China. The order required Ambani to give full disclosure of all of his assets worldwide exceeding USD 100,000. "My needs are not vast and my lifestyle is very disciplined," Ambani told the London court. Asked about his fleet of luxury cars and other references to his lavish lifestyle as the counsel for the banks cross-examined him, the Reliance Communications chief dismissed them as "speculative" media stories. "Mr Anil Ambani has always been a simple man of simple tastes, contrary to exaggerated perceptions of his flamboyance and lavish lifestyle," said a spokesperson for Anil Ambani. "He is devoted to his family and company, an avid marathon runner, and deeply spiritual. He is also a lifelong vegetarian, teetotaller and non-smoker who would much rather watch a movie at home with his kids than go out on the town. Reports that suggest otherwise are completely misleading," the spokesperson said. The dispute revolves around an alleged breach of a personal guarantee on a company debt refinancing loan of around USD 925 million dating back to February 2012. Ambani denies providing authority for any such guarantee, resulting in the High Court action in the UK - the jurisdiction agreed upon as part of the terms of the loan agreement. In May, the Commercial Division of the High Court of England and Wales in London had ruled that the personal guarantee was binding on Ambani and directed him to pay early USD 717 million to the three Chinese banks. "The banks will use the information from the cross-examination to pursue all available legal avenues to protect their rights and recover the outstanding loans owed to them, the banks said in a statement this week. At a hearing in the case earlier in the year, a UK judge had ruled that he did not accept Ambani's defence that his net worth was nearly zero or that his family would not step in to assist him when "push came to shove".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
26-09-2020||Business||Harley-Davidson Inc and Hero MotoCorp distribution deal on talks||Harley-Davidson Inc is in advanced talks with Hero MotoCorp for a distribution deal which will allow the US company’s motorcycles to be sold in India, after it stops local manufacturing there, three sources told Reuters. The Milwaukee-based company said on Thursday it will stop sales and shut its manufacturing plant in India, effectively abandoning the world’s biggest motorcycle market after a decade of unsuccessful efforts to gain a foothold. Harley, however, is in talks with Hero over a distribution arrangement that will allow the Indian company to import and sell Harley bikes as its sole distributor, two sources with familiar with the talks said. “Hero will be the master distributor for Harley bikes in India... This will be a partnership, a strategic alliance,” said one of the sources, all of whom declined to be named as the discussions were private. Discussions are also ongoing to let Hero become a contract manufacturer for at least one Harley motorcycle with 300-600cc engine capacity, which it will launch later, the first source added. The financial details of the deal were not immediately clear. Asked about the talks with Hero, a Harley spokesperson said the company would not comment on speculation. On Thursday, it said it was changing its business model in India evaluating options to continue to serve customers. Hero MotoCorp, India’s largest two-wheeler manufacturer by sales, also declined to comment on market speculation. It produced 6.4 million scooters and motorcycles in the financial year ended March 2020, a third of India’s total output. Harley manufactured 4,500 motorcycles during that period, largely assembled from imported knock-down kits at its plant near New Delhi, which it will shut as part of its restructuring. Harley’s decision to stop direct manufacturing marks another major exit by an automotive player in India and is a setback for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has invited foreign firms to ramp up local production. Ford Motor and General Motors have both cut back their India operations in recent years. Harley, known for its heavy touring motorcycles, struggled in India mainly because of high import duties and also because its locally assembled bikes faced high taxes. Hero typically sells motorcycles with engine capacity of under 200cc and a deal with Harley will boost its entry into the mid- and high-engine market favoured by biking enthusiasts and fashion conscious younger riders, the second source said. Harley’s 33 dealerships will likely to come under Hero’s management under the new arrangement, said one of the sources. In a statement on Friday, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (Fada) in India criticised Harley for not informing dealers about their India plans. “It goes without saying that dealers who have invested their hard-earned capital in this iconic brand are left like an abandoned baby without any compensation package,” Fada said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
26-09-2020||Business||Berger Paints to scale investment in upcoming UP plant||Berger Paints plans to scale up its investment in the upcoming plant at the Sandila industrial area in Uttar Pradesh to around Rs 260 crore. The plant, which was originally stated to be commissioned by 2021 at an investment of around Rs 200 crore, will now go onstream in 2022. The company has added waterproofing, besides decorative, industrial and putty lines. Waterproofing is a Rs 8,000 crore-market where the company plans to make further inroads. “The capital expenditure for the current year has not been scaled down. The major expenditure this year will be on the  plant that we are setting up in Sandila near Lucknow. This new plant will have decorative, industrial, water proofing, putty. Construction work going on. The plant is expected to be operational from 2022,” said Berger Paints managing director and CEO Abhijit Roy. He added that slight changes in design and delay in obtaining approvals, including environmental clearances, have delayed the commissioning of the plant. Roy said that the paint maker has seen an improvement in demand from the smaller markets and this will help in recovering part of the business lost during the first quarter of the fiscal. “We have had double-digit growth from June onwards in volume and even in value in the months of June and August. July was muted though we had volume growth. The second quarter will be positive over last year,” Roy said. “Waterproofing is doing well. We believe the segment has got good potential and it is starting to open up in India,” he said. He added that the company is strengthening its distribution in certain pockets to bridge the gap with market leader Asian Paints. At the company’s annual general meeting, Berger Paints chairman Kuldip Singh Dhingra said that the market capitalization of the shares of the company stood at Rs 48,363 crores as on 31st March, 2020 as against Rs 31,440 crores as on 31st March, 2019 - an increase of more than 50 per cent in one year. The company has paid an interim dividend of Rs 1.90 per share in March 2020 and the board has recommended a final dividend of Rs 0.30 per share aggregating the total dividend to Rs 2.20 per share in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
26-09-2020||Business||Sebi imposes Rs 1 crore penalty on Rana Kapoor||Sebi on Friday imposed a penalty of Rs 1 crore on Rana Kapoor, former managing director and CEO of Yes Bank, for not making disclosures about Morgan Credit’s transaction. By not disclosing the transaction to Yes Bank’s board of directors, Kapoor has created an opaque layer between him and the stakeholders, Sebi said in an order. Morgan Credit which was an unlisted promoter entity of Yes Bank, raised Rs 950 crore from Reliance Mutual Fund, now Nippon India Mutual Fund, through unlisted zero coupon non-convertible debentures in April 2018. Kapoor, who was also the promoter of Yes Bank, entered into an agreement as a “guarantor” with Morgan and Milestone Trusteeship Services with respect to the transaction through a trust deed. Kapoor has provided a “personal guarantee” for the obligations of Morgan to the extent of Rs 410 crore and provided his shares in the company as a security for the outstanding amounts equal to Rs 820 crore, Sebi noted. According to the regulator, Kapoor has hidden the material information of him being a “guarantor” from the board of the bank and the same has directly impacted the lender in terms of market capitalisation. London property The Enforcement Directorate has attached a Rs 127-crore flat of Kapoor in London in connection with a money laundering investigation against him and others. 
The agency issued a provisional order for attaching the property — Apartment 1, 77 South Audley Street, London — under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
26-09-2020||Business||Appointments committee of the cabinet approves SAIL board restructuring||The appointments committee of the cabinet (ACC) has approved the restructuring of the board of Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL), which would give more powers to the officials directly heading steel plants. After the approvals, the four posts of the chief executive officers (CEOs) of SAIL’s integrated steel plants (ISPs) will be elevated to the level of functional directors, by designating them as directors-in-charge of the Bokaro, Rourkela and Bhilai plants. The Burnpur and Durgapur units will be represented by one director-in-charge. 
This would enable them to be part of the board meetings and take up issues concerning their plants at the board level, officials said. Moreover, the post of director (raw materials and logistics) and that of director (projects and business planning) will be merged with the post of director (technical) and consequently re-designated as director (technical, projects and raw materials). An official statement said the restructured board of  SAIL will consist of the chairman, director (finance), director (commercial), director (technical, project and raw materials), director (personnel) and the directors in charge of the ISPs. The board will also have non-official directors under the Companies Act 2013 and two government nominee directors. According to the policy of the department of public enterprises, it is expected that the elevation of CEOs (now Directors in-charge of ISPs) into the company board as Functional Directors would lead to a greater degree of decentralisation of decision making within the company. It will also give more say to CEOs in the future investment decisions that will be made by the SAIL Board. “The restructuring of the board will facilitate greater de-centralisation and nimble decision making with the Directors-in-charge of plants as direct ACC appointees, with their views having weight in the central corporate governance structure. This will also facilitate a speedy modernisation and expansion programme of SAIL,” the official statement said. “Directors as in-charge of ISPs would in turn be critical in having the corporation respond with agility in a globally challenging environment,” the statement added. Besides, the board will have non-official directors as per the Companies Act 2013 and 2 government nominee directors as per the DPE (Department of Public Enterprise) policy. SAIL aims to reach 50 million tonnes of capacity through brownfield/greenfield expansion and this input has also been considered while formulating the National Steel Policy 2017, having a vision of 300 million tonnes capacity in the country by 2030-31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
26-09-2020||Business||SC to consider making flight refund vouchers transferable||The Supreme Court on Friday said it will consider the Centre’s suggestion to make transferable the refund vouchers to be given to the passengers in lieu of the tickets booked for the flights which were cancelled because of the lockdown. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta told the court the vouchers would be transferable from one passenger to another passenger. “We have done our best to ensure that the passenger either gets the money back or gets the voucher which is transferable,” Mehta told the court. At the hearing, private airlines opposed any move by the DGCA (directorate-general of civil aviation) to levy a monthly interest of 0.1 per cent at the time of refund of the tickets cancelled between March 23  and May 5. The DGCA had earlier told the court it would ask the airlines to pay a nominal interest on the cancelled fares after many passengers complained that airlines were refusing to refund the fares. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah, which heard the arguments of passengers, travel agents and airlines, reserved its verdict. The court is expected to give the verdict in another fortnight. Senior advocate Pinaki Misra for Air Asia and Vistara argued that there was a wrong impression that the money retained by the airlines was parked in some bank.
Advocate Puneet Jain for an intervener complained that the DGCA had failed to address the issue of passengers who had booked their tickets outside India for travel to the country. Mehta clarified that the DGCA has jurisdiction only on tickets booked in India and not abroad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
26-09-2020||Business||Balmer Lawrie to go ahead with expansion plan||Balmer Lawrie plans to go ahead with its expansion and capital expenditure plan even though the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown has affected its business verticals. The city-based diversified public sector undertaking   has a presence in segments such as industrial packaging, greases and lubricants, leather chemicals, refinery and oilfield services, logistics, travel and vacation services. “Balmer Lawrie spends around Rs 30-35 crore every year as capital expenditure for both modernisation and replacement of old machinery. This year, our target capex is around Rs 35-40 crore. We are setting up a new temperature controlled warehouse in Bhubaneswar that we hope to commission in the last quarter,” said Prabal Basu, chairman and managing director of Balmer Lawrie. “Going forward in the next two years, we will continue with a capex of around Rs 40 crore per year. We are thinking about expansion in cold chain space and some modernisation of our plants,” he said. Balmer Lawrie has recorded a profit before tax of Rs 232 crores in 2019-20 as against Rs 280 crores in 2018-19. “The decrease is being attributable to the decrease in the performance of some SBUs, primarily on account of adverse impact of onset of Covid-19 pandemic during the last quarter of the financial year,” Basu said at the company’s annual general meeting on Friday. He added that despite a challenging first quarter, the company would remain profitable for the rest of the year. The travel and vacation vertical however will take a longer time to recover, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
26-09-2020||Business||Equity benchmark Sensex rallies 835 points||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 835 points on Friday after six days of declines as investors returned to buying mode amid a modest recovery in global markets. A strengthening rupee — which spurted 28 paise against the dollar — added to the momentum, traders said. The 30-share BSE Sensex opened higher following Thursday’s selloff and stayed in the positive territory throughout the session. It finally closed at 37388.66, up 835.06 points, or 2.28 per cent. The NSE Nifty vaulted 244.70 points, or 2.26 per cent, to finish at 11050.25. On a weekly basis, the Sensex lost 1457.16 points, or 3.83 per cent, while the Nifty tumbled 454.70 points, or 4.04 per cent. Global markets stabilised following an overnight pullback on Wall Street after reports said US lawmakers were working on a stimulus deal that could be voted on as early as next week. “Stimulus measures, if any, in the US could provide support to the markets. If the market corrects from these levels, then investors should actively look for accumulating good quality stocks for long term wealth creation,” said Sanjeev Zarbade of Kotak Securities. In the rest of Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul settled with gains, while Shanghai and Hong Kong ended in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a mixed note in early deals. In the forex market, the rupee strengthened by 28 paise to finish at 73.61 against the dollar. All sectoral indices finished higher. The BSE Telecom index spurted 5.73 per cent, led by Vodafone Idea, following reports that Vodafone has won the arbitration case against India over the latter's Rs 20,000 crore retrospective tax demand. Teck, IT, auto, capital goods, banks, basic materials and metal indices rose as much as 4.02 per cent. The broader BSE midcap and smallcap indices jumped up to 2.90 per cent. Global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.05 per cent higher at USD 41.96 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
26-09-2020||Business||Govt sale of 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL likely to be delayed by two years||The strategic sale of the government’s 52.98 per cent stake in state-owned refiner BPCL is likely to be delayed close to two years, complicating the Centre’s ability to raise Rs 2.10 lakh crore from the centrepiece of its disinvestment plan this fiscal. The deadline for the submission of bids for the oil refiner and retailer, which has been extended three times till now, ends on September 30. For the sale, only the third step of a 25-step process has been completed so far and it could take as long as another 21 months for the disinvestment to be completed, although some of the stages could be carried out concurrently. Potential buyers still need to obtain security clearance, conduct valuation assessments and agree to the financial terms. After the initial bids are submitted by the prospective bidders, they are given access to the data room to study the financials of the firm. However, given the restrictions on international travel at present, global bidders are unlikely to travel immediately, the officials said. Aramco of Saudi Arabia, Adnoc of Abu Dhabi and Rosneft of Russia were expected to be strong bidders for the oil company. On November 21, 2019, the Centre cleared the privatisation of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL). The government invited bids for the sale of Rs 3.27-lakh-crore BPCL on March 7 this year. The government is proposing a strategic disinvestment of its entire shareholding in BPCL, comprising 114.91 crore equity shares, which constitutes 52.98 per cent of BPCL’s equity share capital, along with the transfer of management control to a strategic buyer, the notice inviting the offer said. BPCL’s equity shareholding of 61.65 per cent in Numaligarh Refinery Ltd, however, will not be part of the disinvestment. The government has barred PSUs from bidding for BPCL and expects private sector Indian players and global MNCs to bid for its stake. It will be sold to a state-owned oil and gas firm.The bidding will be a two-stage affair, with qualified bidders in the first EoI phase being asked to make a financial bid in the second round. The Centre has allowed prospective bidders with a minimum net worth of $10 billion to present their bids. Another condition pertains to a maximum of four members are permitted in a consortium, and the lead member must hold 40 per cent in proportion. Other members of the consortium must have a minimum $1 billion net worth. The EOI allows changes in the consortium within 45 days, though the lead member cannot be changed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
26-09-2020||Business||Law Tribunal to decide validity of spectrum sale by Aircel||The National Company Appellate Law Tribunal (NCLAT) will decide the validity of the spectrum sale by insolvent operator Aircel. The Supreme Court on Friday allowed Aircel’s plea to let the NCLAT decide on the vexed issue instead of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) as earlier ordered by the court on September 1. The application for the modification of the order was filed by the committee of creditors of Aircel on the grounds that the matter was pending with the NCLAT and not the NCLT. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta appearing for the department of telecommunications (DoT) also told the court that the issue should be before the NCLAT and not the NCLT. Technically all appeals against orders passed by the NCLT are dealt by the NCLAT, an appellate body. A bench headed by Justice Abdul Nazeer on Friday allowed the plea of Aircel. On September 1, a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra (since retired) had asked the NCLT to decide within two months the question whether insolvent companies such as Aircel, Videocon and R-Com can be permitted to sell their spectrum to other operators towards settlement of their dues under the insolvency code. The apex court had passed the order after inferring that the insolvency proceedings were being resorted to by the operators  in an apparent bid to avoid payment of the Rs 1.47 lakh crore AGR (adjusted gross revenue) arrears to the government in terms of the court’s October 2019 order. While passing the direction, the court had, however, granted the telecom operators a 10 year period to pay the dues. The government, which allowed spectrum trading in October 2015 but does not permit the sale of the leased asset, believes the liability of repayment of past telecom dues passes to the new acquirer of the spectrum assets. The apex court was hearing the petition filed by Aircel which sold a part of its spectrum to Airtel. In 2016, Airtel has entered into the Rs 3,500-crore deal with Aircel to acquire rights to use the latter’s 4G spectrum in eight telecom circles – Tamil Nadu (including Chennai), Bihar, Jammu & Kashmir, West Bengal, Assam, North East, Orissa and and Andhra Pradesh. In its order issued in the AGR case on Sept 1, the Supreme Court said: "...the liability of the purchaser/buyer with respect to past dues of the seller shall not arise. In a case where the entire spectrum is under sale, in that case, the past dues of the seller shall be the liability of the buyer except the amount/dues, if any, found recoverable after the effective date of the trade..." It added: "... in such a situation, the liability of such dues of the buyer and seller would be (held) jointly or severally and the government at its discretion is entitled to recover such amount." The Supreme Court allows the issue of spectrum sale under IBC to be decided by NCLAT in the case of Aircel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
26-09-2020||Business||Vodafone wins arbitration case against Indian government||Vodafone Group Plc on Friday won an international arbitration case against the Indian government, ending one of the most high-profile disputes in the country involving a Rs 22,000-crore tax claim. An international arbitration tribunal in The Hague ruled that India’s imposition of a tax liability on Vodafone, as well as interest and penalties, were in a breach of an investment treaty agreement between India and the Netherlands. The tribunal, in its ruling, said the government’s demand is in breach of “fair and equitable treatment” and it must desist from seeking the dues from Vodafone. It also directed India to pay £4.3 million ($5.47 million) to the company as compensation for its legal costs, sources said. Vodafone said in a statement the amount of the award was confidential. Shares in the company’s India unit, Vodafone Idea, ended 13 per cent higher on Friday. “The tribunal held that any attempt by India to enforce the tax demand would be a violation of India’s international law obligations,” the Vodafone statement said. India’s finance ministry said it would carefully study the award along with its lawyers. “After such consultations, the government will consider all options and take a decision on further course of action, including legal remedies,” the ministry said in a statement. The government of India’s liability will be restricted to about Rs 75 crore — Rs 30 crore in cost and another Rs 45 crore in tax refund, sources  said. “Vodafone has finally got justice. Hopefully, this award brings an end to all litigation around the issue,” said DMD Advocates, which represented Vodafone. The ruling brings an end to one of the most controversial disputes in India under the international treaties that it enters into with countries to protect foreign investments. India is entangled in more than a dozen such cases against companies, including Cairn Energy, over retrospective tax claims and cancellation of contracts. The exchequer could end up paying billions of dollars in damages if it loses. To reduce future arbitration claims, India has ended such agreements with over 50 countries and is working on a new law to protect foreign investors by offering relief from possible policy changes even as it upholds the right to tax them, a Reuters report said. Long tussle Vodafone’s tax dispute stems from its $11 billion deal to buy the Indian mobile assets from Hutchison Whampoa in 2007. The government said Vodafone was liable to pay taxes on the acquisition, which the company contested. In 2012,  the Supreme Court ruled in favour of the telecom provider but the government changed its tax laws with retrospective effect to nullify the apex court’s verdict and arm itself with powers to tax acquisitions involving deals between overseas entities with direct or indirect equity interest in Indian entities that account for more than 50 per cent of their global revenues. In 2014, Vodafone initiated arbitration proceedings against India. Details of the arbitration award were not available at the time of going to press. But the crux of the tribunal’s verdict was that it had the “jurisdiction under the terms of the agreement between the Netherlands and India for protection of investments, done at The Hague on November 6, 1995, to consider Vodafone’s claims for breach of the agreement”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
