27-09-2020||Business||Mindtree founder pares stake||Mindtree co-founder Krishnakumar Natarajan and his family have sold over 4.66 lakh shares of the company, reducing their combined shareholding to 2.01 per cent from 2.29 per cent. The transactions were carried out by Krishnakumar N, wife Akila Krishnakumar and son Siddarth in multiple tranches between September 15 and September 23, Mindtree said in a regulatory filing on Saturday. Earlier this month, Natarajan and his family had sold over 42 lakh shares in multiple tranches between April 30 and September 14 that had reduced their combined shareholding to 2.29 per cent. Krishnakumar Natarajan, who held a 1.96 per cent share, sold about 2.85 lakh shares, the filing said on Saturday. After the transaction, his shareholding came down to 1.79 per cent. Akila sold about 1.32 lakh shares, bringing down her holding to 0.11 per cent. Siddarth Krishna Kumar sold 49,405 shares and bought 1,000 shares, bringing his latest shareholding to 0.10 per cent. The shares were sold and purchased in the open market, the filing said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
27-09-2020||Business||Trai drops Vodafone Idea probe||Trai has decided to drop proceedings against Vodafone Idea in the priority plan case after the operator withdrew contentious claims on faster speed and modified its offering. Last month, the regulator had slapped a show-cause notice on Voda Idea saying the tariff offer lacked transparency and was “misleading” and not in compliance with regulatory framework. Voda Idea recently dropped the faster data speed claims, which formed a prominent part of its pay-more-for-priority-treatment scheme, and filed a revised plan. The regulator has now informed Voda Idea that “the authority has decided not to proceed with the investigation/ further inquiry”. The Trai letter, seen by PTI, noted that the operator has informed that the earlier RedX plan has been discontinued and that a new tariff plan of RedX, without the claim of priority 4G network with faster speed, has been filed. The company’s website too had stopped touting claims of faster speeds for the RedX plan and instead spoke of benefits purely in terms of entertainment privileges (Netflix and Amazon Prime) and travel and mobility benefits. Trai had been examining Vodafone Idea’s priority plan RedX and Bharti Airtel’s Platinum offering to see if network preference to specific customers led to deterioration of services for other non-premium subscribers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
27-09-2020||Business||Debate on GST fund fumble||The Comptroller and Auditor General’s comments that the Centre has wrongly retained Rs 47,272 crore of GST compensation cess meant for states could become a major topic of debate during the upcoming GST Council meet on October 5. On Saturday, senior finance ministry officials countered the CAG’s audit, saying temporary retention cannot be termed as diversion. The time taken in the reconciliation of compensation receipts can’t be termed as diversion of GST cess fund when the dues to the states were fully released by the central government, they said. “The compensation receipt in the Consolidated Fund of India was subject to reconciliation in the coming months. If for that reason the amount remained in the Consolidated Fund of India, how can that be treated as a diversion,” officials, who did not want to be identified, said. The auditor raised red flags over the violation of GST compensation laws by the Centre. The CAG report highlighted that the Centre used the GST cess of Rs 47,272 crore elsewhere instead of crediting it to the GST compensation fund in the last two financial years. According to the CAG report, short-crediting was a violation of the GST Compensation Cess Act, 2017, and it has asked the finance ministry to take immediate corrective action. “Collection of the cess and its transfer to the GST Compensation Cess Fund shows that there was short crediting of Rs 47,272 crore during 2017-18 and 2018-19,” the CAG report said. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra tweeted: “Modi government caught red-handed by its own CAG for hiding Rs 47,272 crore from the Cess Compensation Fund meant for states! Slyly put into Consolidated Fund of India. Violating GST Act. Why? To bluff us by overstating revenue collection and bluff global rating agencies by understating fiscal deficit. Shameful.” Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac in a tweet said, “The CAG report confirms illegal diversion of undistributed GST by the government — an issue that the Council has discussed and has nearly resolved. But it totally exposes the double standards of the GoI. When the going is good, the GoI misappropriates the surplus and wash its hands of when a temporary deficit appears.” In 2017-18, Rs 62,611 crore was collected, of which the government released full compensation dues of Rs 41,146 crore to the states and Union Territories (UTs). In 2018-19, an amount of Rs 95,081 crore was collected, of which Rs 69,275 crore was paid as full compensation dues. An amount of Rs 47,271 crore collected in 2017-18 and 2018-19 had remained unutilised for reconciliation post full payment of GST compensation dues. For 2019-20, the Centre released Rs 1,65,302 crore as compensation against a cess collection of Rs 95,444 crore which it could do with the unutilised cess of Rs 47,271 crore. The GST (Compensation to States) Act guarantees all states an annual growth rate of 14 per cent in their GST revenue in the first five years of implementation of GST beginning July 2017. It was introduced as a relief for states for the loss of revenues arising from the implementation of GST. If a state's revenue grows slower than 14 per cent, it is supposed to be compensated by the Centre using the funds specifically collected as compensation cess. To provide these grants, a GST compensation cess is levied on certain luxury and sin goods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
27-09-2020||Business||China chink in Damodar Valley Corporation armour||Damodar Valley Corporation is worried about the maintenance of its 1200-MW thermal power plant at Raghunathpur in Purulia district of Bengal, which uses equipment based on Chinese technology. India had imported power equipment worth Rs 71,000 crore in 2018-19, of which tools of Rs 20,000 crore are from China, Union power minister R.K. Singh said recently. The power ministry wants to cut down on imports and subject imported equipment to testing given the strategic nature of the sector and its vulnerability to cyber attacks. The two units of 600 MW of DVC was built using Chinese technology and availability of equipment and localisation of the plant could pose challenges, both technical and financial. A document from the Central Electricity Authority shows that the Boiler Turbine Generator (BTG) order of the plant was placed with Shanghai Electric Corporation of China. Anil Ambani firm Reliance Infrastructure was the engineering procurement company for the project. “Our plant at Raghunathpur is fitted with Chinese supplied equipment. The government has taken a decision and we have to abide by that. The plant is already running. Tomorrow we may need small equipment for which orders may have been placed many months back,” said DVC member secretary Prabir Kumar Mukhopadhyay at an event organised by the CII on Saturday. While there is a need for localisation, specialised power equipment may not be readily available. Bengal power minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who was also present at the event, said the state electricity transmission company could invest Rs 20,000 crore over the next five years to strengthen the renewable energy sector and improve power infrastructure through various projects in the state. State-run REC on Saturday said it shareholders have approved a proposal to raise the overall borrowing limit to Rs 4.5 lakh crore from the existing Rs 3.5 lakh crore. The company’s 51st AGM was held on September 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
