28-09-2020||Business||SC gives government one more week on loan moratorium||The Supreme Court has given the government one more week to formulate a plan on loan moratorium. The apex court, which had asked the centre to submit its plan on September 28, deferred the hearing till October 5 after the latter asked for more time. The Centre informed the Supreme Court that a decision is likely in 2-3 days.  A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said that it would hear the batch of pleas filed by various industries, trade associations and individuals on October 5. Mr Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General, submits that the issues are under active consideration of the Government of India and only after decision is taken, an affidavit along with decision can be filed. "He further submits that the affidavit will be sent by October 1, through email to appearing counsel. List on October 5, 2020, said the bench also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah. Mehta, appearing for the Centre said the government is looking into several economic issues. The bench asked Mehta if he will be able to circulate his affidavit in advance to the parties concerned to which he agreed. We will fix the matter for Monday (October 5). Whatever is your policy, whatever you have, you circulate it. We will take it up on Monday. We don't want any further adjournment, the bench said. It said that Mehta shall endeavour to circulate the affidavit among the parties by Thursday so that the matter is heard on October 5. The decision taken by the government should be brought on record along with an affidavit, the bench said. Senior advocate Rajiv Dutta, appearing for the main petitioner Gajendra Sharma, said this is a very important matter and banks are acting as if it is a very normal issue. Mehta requested him to wait for 2-3 days so that the government can take a final call. I assure you that it is under consideration and it is at a very advanced stage . On September 10, the top court had extended its interim order that no account is to be declared a non performing asset (NPA) or bad loan till further orders after the Centre said an expert panel has been set up to look into the issue of interest being charged by banks on instalments deferred during the moratorium period due to Covid-19 pandemic. The government at highest level is considering all the issues raised before the court in the petitions and a decision would be taken within two weeks, the Centre had informed the apex court. The top court had directed that decisions taken by the Centre, the RBI and different banks be placed on record for consideration. As noted above, on the next date of hearing, the specific instructions with regard to charging of compound interest and credit rating/downgrading during moratorium period shall be obtained, so that appropriate order be issued on the next date of hearing, the bench had said. The Centre had sought two weeks' time to file an appropriate affidavit bringing on record the relevant decisions and directions of the government as well as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). It had said that everything has to be considered holistically and the government is considering all the sectors, for which an expert panel has been constituted. The top court had asked the Centre that concrete decisions should be taken with clarity. On September 3, in a relief to stressed borrowers who are facing hardship due to the impact of pandemic, the top court had said that accounts which were not declared as non-performing assets till August 31 this year, shall not be declared NPA till further orders. The pleas in the apex court have raised issues pertaining to validity of RBI's March 27 circular which allowed lending institutions to grant moratorium on payment of instalments of term loans falling due between March 1, 2020 and May 31 this year due to the pandemic. Later, the period of moratorium was extended till August 31. The Centre had recently told the court that waiver of interest on deferred EMIs during moratorium period would be against the basic canons of finance and unfair to those who repaid loans as per schedule. RBI has however come out with a scheme which provides for extension of moratorium for two years to certain stressed borrowers, the Centre had informed the top court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
28-09-2020||Business||Shareholders vote out Lakshmi Vilas Bank chief ||In a rare instance of corporate activism, the shareholders of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) have voted seven directors out from the bank’s board, including MD-cum-CEO S. Sundar and two others who belonged to the promoter group, reflecting their displeasure with the working of the bank, particularly its finances. Details of the voting results of the annual general meeting (AGM) held on September 25 were released late on Saturday night. On Sunday, LVB sought to assuage the concerns over the outcome of the AGM. The lender said in a statement that though the re-appointment of the seven directors was not approved, the bank continues to have a fully functional board of directors, including three independent directors. “Till a new managing director is appointed, the existing senior management team along with the board of directors will discharge the day-to-day affairs of the bank as usual,” it said. At the shareholders’ meet, 15 resolutions were put to vote. Of this, 11 pertained to the appointment of directors, which included that of Sundar. The rest related to the raising of capital, adoption of audited financial statements of the bank for the year ended March and the appointment of statutory auditors. The shareholders did not give their approval to a proposal to appoint P Chandrasekar LLP, chartered accountants, Bangalore, as the statutory central auditors of the bank. Shareholders also voted out the proposal to re-appoint S. Sundar, who took charge as the MD and CEO of the bank on January 1, 2020. While approving Sundar’s appointment, the RBI had fixed his term till November 30 or till a new MD and CEO took charge, whichever is earlier. Around 60.6 per cent of the votes polled came against this resolution. A similar result was also seen in the case of the two directors belonging to the promoter group — N. Saiprasad and K. R. Pradeep— who were the non-executive and non-independent directors of the bank. The proposals to appoint four other directors — Gorinka Jaganmohan Rao, Raghuraj Gujjar, B. K. Manjunath and Y. N. Lakshminarayana Murthy — were also rejected. However, the appointments of G. Sudhakara Gupta, Shakti Sinha, Satish Kumar Kalra and Meeta Makhan were passed with more than 99 per cent votes in their favour. Following the voting results, the bank at present has six directors on its board. The other two directors on its board are RBI nominees —  Rajnish Kumar and Sundaram Shankar. The development comes at a time the bank is close to a merger with Clix Capital. In June, the lender had announced that it has received a non-binding letter of intent from Clix Capital Services and Clix Finance India to pick up a stake. The bank on Sunday said it will continue the process of considering and evaluating the proposed amalgamation with the Clix Group. It disclosed that the mutual due diligence is substantially complete and additionally, to strengthen its capital, the shareholders have approved a resolution authorising the bank to undertake capital raising through a follow-on offer, rights issue, QIP or other available routes. Clix was founded by Pramod Bhasin and Anil Chawla (formerly  with GE Capital) and backed by private equity firm Aion Capital. In October last year, the RBI rejected the proposed merger of Indiabulls Housing Finance (IHFL) with LVB. LVB, which is under the prompt corrective action (PCA) of the RBI, posted a net loss of Rs 112.28 crore for the first quarter of the current fiscal compared with a loss of Rs 237.25 crore in the same period of the previous financial year. However, its gross non-performing assets (NPAs) rose to 25.40 per cent of the gross advances from 17.30 per cent in the earlier quarter. Its tier-I capital ratio turned negative at 1.83 per cent against the minimum requirement of 8.875 per cent. On Sunday, LVB said its liquidity position was comfortable, with the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) in excess of 250 per cent, about 262 per cent against the minimum 100 per cent required by RBI. The bank continues to enforce cost reduction measures both of direct and indirect costs. Further, besides the existing business, the bank will continue its focus on capital-light loans. All eyes are now on the next step to be taken by the Reserve Bank of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
28-09-2020||Business||Labour code eases compliance||Top industry voices cautiously welcomed the new labour regime, noting that the simplification of as many as 25 laws into three codes would reduce compliance burden, “remove pockets of inefficiencies” and offer employers “little more freedom than they had earlier”. While the codes can potentially curtail the rights and privileges of workers to a large extent, some in the industry say the culture of “hire and fire” would be a slow process. Harsh Goenka, chairman of RPG Enterprises, claimed that an atmosphere when labour needed to protest to establish his rights no longer exists. “Both industry and labour are on the same side of the business,” Goenka said. The Mumbai-based conglomerate employs close to 30,000 people. Tata Steel boss T.V. Narendran believed the new piece of legislation would allow more women to join the force. “An important change is that now women can work any number of hours with consent and necessary precautions as opposed to earlier laws that barred women from certain activities and night time work hours,” the managing director & CEO of Tata Steel Group said. “It (the code) will help balance the interests, rights and obligations of employees and employers by extending social security to temporary, migratory, contract and casual workers in the form of life and disability insurance, health and maternity benefits,” Narendran argued. Industry said the lower compliance burden was much needed. “We are already facing large scale unemployment due to the pandemic and if we have to avert further job losses, it is imperative that the economic cycle revives and business becomes viable. The proposed changes are meant to simplify compliance and remove pockets of inefficiencies in a speedy manner, before they render the entire business unviable,” Goenka contended. Narendran concurred. “It (new labour regime) will also enable employment generation by giving employers a little more freedom than they had earlier,” he said. Will the focus on “fixed-term employment” — a worker can be deployed for as short as 3-6 months  —  lower the threshold to hire and fire and usher a new industrial relation culture? Vijay Shankar Beriwal, national president of the Institute of Indian Foundrymen, argued it would be a slow process. “We have to see the ground reality today. A hire and fire framework will not work, as of now,” he said. Units deploying up to 300 workers can now fire people without seeking the government’s nod, raising the threshold from 100 workers earlier. The codes also allow states to suspend the freedom of workers going for strike in new units. Foundry sector is of the large employers in India in the medium and small sector typically deploying 100-300 people. “We have to see the ground reality today. A hire and fire framework will not work, as of now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
28-09-2020||Business||Sri Lanka seeks fresh bilateral currency swap||Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa sought an additional currency swap facility and deferment of debt payments from India during an online bilateral summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, Indian officials said. Sri Lanka owes about $960 million to India and earlier this year India agreed to a $400-million currency swap facility for Sri Lanka until November 2022. “An additional request for a bilateral currency swap arrangement worth around $1 billion by the Sri Lankan side remains under discussion,” said the Indian foreign ministry in a statement. Modi told his Sri Lankan counterpart that under the country’s “Neighbourhood First” policy, India will continue to “give special priority to relations between the two countries”, said the officials. Sri Lanka, located off the southern tip of India, has become an arena of competing influence between India and China, which has built ports, power stations and highways as part of President Xi Jinping’s signature “Belt and Road Initiative”, designed to boost trade and transport links across Asia. But the terms of some of these projects have drawn domestic criticism in Sri Lanka and opened the way for countries such as India, the United States and Japan to rebuild ties in the Indian Ocean country that lies near key shipping lanes. Rajapaksa, who won a general election last year after promising to pull the country out of its deepest economic slump, has to service mounting external debt amid the coronavirus pandemic. He told Modi that the Sri Lankan government’s policies will facilitate deeper economic and strategic cooperation between the two countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
28-09-2020||Business||Rs 600cr foundry gain for Bengal ||Changes in the global supply chain forced by the pandemic could bring Rs 600 crore worth of additional business opportunities to foundries based in Bengal, a section of the industry claimed. Units located in the state are large suppliers of sanitary casting, which primarily comprised manhole cover, to the United States and Europe. Industry representatives said the local units already received at least 1 lakh tonne of additional order this fiscal. They cite two primary reasons for the bounty. Dependence on China, which meets 35 per cent of global casting requirements, is gradually declining. India, which produces 12 per cent of the world production, stands to gain most from such disruption. “Foundries in the US depend a lot on Mexican migrant workers. Similarly, units located in the western Europe hire many people from the eastern Europe. Many of these units are not operating to the full strength as a part of the migrant workers have gone home. As a result, import orders to India has gone up,” Vijay Shankar Beriwal, national president of the Indian Institute of Foundrymen, said. Even as the jury is out whether the shift in procurement practice from China to India would be a temporary one, industry hoped it would be permanent. Ravi Sehgal, past president of the Engineering Export Promotion Council and an industry veteran, reminded Indian foundries must upgrade technologically to meet customer  satisfaction levels. If this plays out as it is happening this fiscal, Bengal would stand to gain. The  foundry park at Ranihati, Howrah, may be a reality after a decade of struggle. Even though only six units have started work, expectation is that at least 100 more will set up shop in the next 2-3 years. There are four major clusters in the country, each focusing on specific sectors of the industry. While Bengal has an edge in railways and sanitary castings, the northern cluster in and around Ludhiana has high dependency on the tractor industry. The Coimbatore belt in the south focuses on the two-wheeler and the commercial vehicle sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
28-09-2020||Business||Compact SUVs brave turmoil||Sales of compact SUVs have bucked the auto industry trend during the pandemic. The segment is the most populated in the market following back-to-back launches of the Kia Sonet and Toyota Urban Cruiser last week. With the SUV body style proving to be the most preferred among consumers, the entry-level segment is witnessing phenomenal growth even in a depressed market. “The compact SUV segment has grown from 3.5 per cent of the total automobile sales three years ago to 13 per cent now,” said an industry source. The segment that was made popular by Ford EcoSport has now several contenders starting with the Maruti Vitara Brezza, Tata Nexon, Hyundai Venue and now the Sonet and the Urban Cruiser. “With so many players in the segment, there is a good traction of demand,” said Shashank Srivastava, executive director, Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL). While the Brezza was initially launched in 2016 with just a diesel powertrain, the company changed strategy at the last Auto Expo with a 1.5 litre petrol engine. “With the introduction of BS-VI, the demand for diesel in this entry SUV segment has fallen dramatically,” said Srivastava whose company has stopped its diesel programme post BS-VI. That the segment is the fastest growing apart from the entry hatch is borne out by the numbers. Brezza has sold 1,48,000 units in 2017-18, 1,57,00 units in 2018-19. It then fell to 1,11,000 units in 2019-20 and this year it is selling 7,500 units per month on average. Last week, Toyota launched the cross-badged Brezza as the Urban Cruiser with no changes apart from the grille. The company is pinning its hopes on the Urban Cruiser to improve its sales. “The market is recovering in the entry SUV segment and this product will help us to get the numbers,” said Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, sales and service, Toyota Kirloskar Motors. Hyundai is upbeat on the Venue, the top selling SUV in the country for more than a year. The Venue became the best selling SUV in August 2019 pushing the Brezza from the top spot and has sold a tad less in August 2020 at 8,267 units against 9,342 units a year ago. The Breza has sold 6,903 units last month followed by the Tata Nexon which has doubled its sales of 5,179 units last month against 2,275 units a year ago. The segment also has the Mahindra XUV 300, the Ford EcoSport with the Honda WRV bringing up the rear. However, it remains to be seen how the two entrants, Kia Sonet and Toyota Urban Cruiser throw a challenge to the established leaders. Already, Hyundai has pipped Kia Sonet to the post with its launch of Venue’s iMT version right before Sonet’s launch. While Maruti pins its hopes on its petrol powered Brezza, the company is thinking of a CNG powertrain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
28-09-2020||Business||Passive investing seems to be set for an exponential growth||In investing, every little quirk can be explained with an analogy drawn from cricket. It would be perfectly normal, therefore, to brand passive investing as a leisurely test match spread over several days, and active investing as a high-energy T-20 match complete with sudden bursts of excitement every now and then. The former, typically discharged by mirroring an index, attempts not to beat the market, while the latter is all about outperforming it by as wide a margin as possible. That said, passive investing seems to be set for an exponential growth in India. Indexing has already drawn the attention of new investors and various market intermediaries are working out smarter ways to introduce index-based investing. Asset management companies, for instance, are really in a position to steer the trend — so much so that every fourth draft offer document for mutual funds, as released by Sebi these days, draws its core strength from one index or another. That brings a critical issue to the fore: the emerging diversity in the realm of index funds, aided by multiple indices, including new-generation ones, which blunts the edge of the traditionally popular benchmarks, the Sensex and the Nifty. Before we proceed, let’s assure ourselves that such diversity is quite healthy for the markets. Use of assorted indices is completely welcome as these help propagate brasher and smarter styles of asset allocation. No more mere plain-vanilla for newer sections of the investing populace; let the current generation know more about index-based strategies than the older lot. Incidentally, there is already far greater awareness of ETFs (exchange-traded funds) than before. The point, however, we wish to make is simple. Not every index is suitable for an investor. In a scenario marked by an ever-expanding range of indices, there would be a variety of choices on the table. The average investor, therefore, must choose carefully. His selection must be based on his needs. The match must be as perfect as possible — else, chances of under-performance would be higher and his ability to achieve his investment goals would be undermined. Asset allocation must be viewed as a function of risk appetite. A discerning investor would be aware of the realities he faces. There would be many opportunities, limitations, challenges for him; the investment products he selects would also be spurred by his risk profile. Products based on certain indices, therefore, would be more welcome than others. From a basket of nearly comparable index products, he would invariably choose a few, hesitate a bit about others and absolutely avoid some of them. In the early days, when the idea of index funds was still nascent in India, life was considerably simpler as the choice was essentially between the Nifty and the Sensex. That was then, and it just isn’t so right now. Indeed, there is a great diversity of options. Even thematic/sectoral indices are being taken up by fund houses. Gold ETFs have earned their reputation already. The pie is set to grow larger with the rollout of newer ETFs. The Indian index fund/ETF story is indeed being played out well and it can be argued that the domestic market is drawing lessons from the western world, including the US platform for indices. The latter has seen phenomenal growth in the last two decades, and players such as State Street, Vanguard and Fidelity are household names today. The popular S&P 500 is among the most well-known indices for the investing fraternity. Cut to India, investors must remember the following points: While indexing is a late starter in India, it is not for nothing that the concept has acquired its present day elevated status. An index fund, an extremely low-cost option, can capture the entire essence of the market (or its chosen universe) at one stroke. Diversification is instantly achieved if the preferred index is a broad-based one. A discerning investor would be able to appreciate the idea and use it to his/her advantage. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
28-09-2020||Business||Health cover premium to rise from October ||Health insurance premium is set to increase from October as companies factor in the changes mandated by regulator IRDAI on standardisation and a clutch of related regulations. The regulator in a bid to cut down on the complexities of health insurance policy documents and make certain aspects of coverage more easier for the policyholder to understand has come out with a set of guidelines, and products not in conformity with the rules cannot be offered and promoted from October 1, 2020. As a part of the changes, insurers can introduce EMI payment options in their health insurance products on a certification basis. Additionally, in a bid to standardise exclusions across all health insurance products, the regulator has come up with codes for each exclusion and the definition or wordings for these exclusions. Earlier the exclusions and their wordings were different across insurers. From October, there will be parity in terms of exclusions under health insurance products. Apart from the exclusions, the IRDAI has also defined ailments or treatments which are to be mandatorily covered by the insurers. There is also the standardisation of definition for pre-existing diseases with an intent to simplify it for the customers. All of these will be factored into when a policy is purchased next month or when it comes up for renewal. The industry estimates at least a 5 per cent rise in premium as these changes are incorporated. “There will be some impact on the premium. The regulator has allowed insurers to increase their premium by up to 5 per cent and launch their health insurance products on certification basis by October 1. If the increase is beyond 5 per cent, the insurers will have to follow the path of file and use,” said Rashmi Nandargi, head — retail health underwriting, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance. She said the standardisation was a positive move for the industry as the underlying terms and conditions for the claims decisions would be similar across insurers. It will also benefit customers, as the standardisation of terms and conditions will remove any ambiguity and they can opt for an appropriate health insurance policy based on the services provided by the insurer. Sanjay Datta, chief of underwriting, claims and reinsurance at ICICI Lombard, said since this is a regulatory mandate the industry has already incorporated the necessary changes and is prepared with the updated products. According to some insurers, the standardisation of health insurance could act as a gateway for insurers and preferred network partners (hospitals) to work in sync. “It is going to be the gateway for insurers and hospitals to come in alignment,” said S. Prakash, MD, Star Health Insurance. Deductions One of the critical components of health insurance coverage is hospitalisation cost and proportionate deductions of the associated medical expenses. When a policyholder upgrades his room and the room rent is higher than the one prescribed in the policy, the claims are subject to proportionate deductions. Now the regulator has asked insurance companies to define proportionate deductions and said that certain expenses such as cost of pharmacy and consumables, cost of implants and medical devices and cost of diagnostics are not allowed to be part of associated medical expenses. “There are a chunk of regulations that are coming into effect from October and changes related to proportionate deductions are part of that,” said Amit Chhabra, health insurance business head, Policybazaar.com. This change is aimed at curbing out-of-pocket expenses for policyholders and is also set to come into effect from next month along with the standardisation. “There are a chunk of regulations that are coming into effect from October and changes related to proportionate deductions are part of that,” said Amit Chhabra, health insurance business head, Policybazaar.com The impact of this change will be more for group policyholders who negotiate with insurance companies on room rents to reach a mutually agreeable premium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
28-09-2020||Business||Qatar Airways losses at $1.9bn||Long-haul carrier Qatar Airways on Sunday reported losses of $1.9 billion for the past year, blaming the coronavirus pandemic, its liquidation of shares in Air Italy and the ongoing boycott of Doha by four Arab nations for the drop. The energy-rich nation of Qatar itself needed to bail out the state-owned airline at the end of its financial year on March 31 with $2 billion to keep the airline operating, its annual report acknowledged. The carrier also blamed new accounting rules for further adding to losses for the past fiscal year. “If not for the exceptional circumstances of fiscal year 2020, our results would have been better than the year before,” Qatar Airways CEO Akbar al-Baker said in a statement. The airline carried 32.3 million passengers in the last financial year compared with  29.4 million the year before. But Qatar Airways finds itself in the same position of competing Gulf long-haul carriers Emirates and Etihad, slashing thousands of jobs while trying to expand its network as travel restrictions are lifted worldwide. The airline listed having over 50,000 employees on its payroll in the report. Qatar Airways, which operates some 250 aircraft out of Doha’s recently built Hamad International Airport, follows the model of other Gulf carriers by providing a link between the East and the West from its location on the Arabian Peninsula. But the lessened demand saw the carrier ground its double-decker Airbus A380s “as it is not commercially or environmentally justifiable to operate such a large aircraft in the current market”, the airline said in a statement. The coronavirus pandemic halted global aviation for months, which only has begun to pick back up. Qatar also has been targeted by Bahrain, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates in a boycott since June 2017. That boycott continues today despite efforts by other Gulf Arab nations and the US to reconcile the countries involved in the political dispute. Al-Baker said since the pandemic, Qatar Airways has flown over 2 million passengers and carried over 250,000 tons of medicine and aid to areas impacted by the coronavirus. “I have every confidence that the Qatar Airways Group will emerge stronger from this difficult period and continue to innovate and set the standards that our competitors can only hope to emulate,” he said. Further hurting the airline was the February collapse of Air Italy, a regional carrier it held a 49% ownership stake in at its launch in 2018. Air Italy had been trying to rename and become a national carrier with flights across Europe. Qatar Airways in its financials said it likely would lose nearly $400 million alone on Air Italy. Qatar Airways also restated its losses for the previous year in the financial report Sunday, putting it at close to $1.3 billion as opposed to the $639 million it earlier reported. It lost $69 million in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
