29-09-2020||Business||Select items score high on exports in April-August period||Some industrial commodities such as copper, zinc, iron and steel showed signs of recovery even as the export of engineering goods declined over 18 per cent to $26 billion in the April-August period of the current financial year. The export of iron and steel  jumped 43.7 per cent to $5.3 billion during April-August from $3.7 billion in the corresponding five-month period of 2019-20, EEPC India chairman Mahesh Desai said in a statement. Shipment of copper and its products soared 60.3 per cent to $501.7 million from $313 million during the same period a year ago. Similarly, the export of zinc and its products rose 43.6 per cent to $320.7 million from $223.3 million . However, the shipment of the value-added products of iron and steel witnessed a sharp drop of 29.7 per cent to $2.04 billion from $2.9 billion. “No doubt, the overall export market remains very challenging. However, the early signals point towards a pick-up in industrial activity in select countries, mostly in north Asia,” Desai said. Exports of engineering goods declined to $26 billion in the April- August period of the current fiscal compared to the shipment of such goods was at $31.9 billion in the first five months of the previous fiscal. According to the council, 28 of 33 product categories showed a year-on-year fall in exports. However, he cautioned that overall the engineering exports continue to remain in the negative territory, except the critical basic metals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||Vodafone UK tax arbitration win augurs well for Cairn ||The favourable verdict telecom giant Vodafone got in its UK arbitration case against the Indian government over its retrospective demand of Rs 22,000 crore in taxes has raised the hopes of Cairn Energy, which is also locked in a dispute with the revenue authorities over a tax demand. The tax demand was made on Vodafone over its $11.7-billion takover of the Indian assets of Hutchison Whampoa in 2007. Analysts said India’s stand in the Vodafone case would be keenly watched by international investors as they weigh options to shift from China. The merit of the two cases could be different, but the verdict going in favour of Vodafone could certainly have implications for Cairn Energy. They said the Modi government could send a positive signal to investors by not going in an appeal against Vodafone judgment. In 2014, former finance minister Arun Jaitley said the government will not go in for more retrospective taxation, a move taken by the previous UPA regime. But, the Modi government never withdrew the cases against Vodafone, which has been a cause for concern of international investors. “The government will consider all options and take a decision on further course of action including legal remedies before appropriate fora,” India’s finance ministry said in a statement. “This is the opportune time to send the right signal…if they go on appeal, it would clearly send the message the Modi government is no different on the issue of retrospective tax as it is keen to pursue it,” the analysts said. The UPA government had said that the Hutchison-Vodafone deal was liable for tax deduction at source under the Income Tax Act. While the Supreme Court subsequently quashed the demand in January 2012, the government amended the IT act retrospectively in the Union budget, putting the liability back on Vodafone Group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||Arcelor to sell US assets for $1.4bn||Cleveland-Cliffs Inc, the largest US producer of iron ore pellets, has agreed to buy the US assets of the world’s largest steel maker ArcelorMittal for about $1.4 billion in cash and shares. The deal, announced by the two companies on Monday, will make Cleveland-Cliffs the largest flat-rolled steel producer in North America and, for ArcelorMittal, give it up to a quarter share of Cleveland-Cliffs’ business and allow it to reward shareholders with a share buy-back. ArcelorMittal shares were up 8.3 per cent in early trading, although it had still not made up for losses last week, when markets tumbled over concerns that rising coronavirus cases would hinder the economic recovery. Reuters reported on Sunday, citing sources, that ArcelorMittal was in talks to merge its US operations with Cleveland-Cliffs, which bought US steel producer AK Steel for $3 billion in March. $505 million in cash ArcelorMittal will receive $505 million upfront in cash and the remaining roughly two-thirds in the form of equity. The equity arrangement will give ArcelorMittal an initial stake of 16 per cent in Cleveland-Cliffs, which could rise to 25.5 per cent. The deal will include $2 billion of liabilities, including linked to pensions, putting the overall deal value at $3.4 billion. ArcelorMittal said it had now passed its target of offloading $2 billion of assets to reduce its debt, allowing it to carry out a $500 million share buy-back. It has previously agreed to sell stakes in its shipping business and in Brazilian steelmaker Gerdau. Canada, Mexico units ArcelorMittal said it would continue to serve the North American market through operations in Canada and Mexico, which together made 9 million tonnes of steel last year, and its steel processing facility in Calvert, Alabama, a joint venture with Nippon Steel. ArcelorMittal’s US business has more than 18,000 employees and 25 facilities, including mines, steel-making facilities and finishing operations. They produced 12.9 million tonnes of steel in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||Coal India to set up coal-to-methanol unit in Bengal||Coal India has floated a global tender to set up a coal-to-methanol plant in Bengal. The project, with an estimated capital outlay of Rs 6,000 crore, will come up at the over three-decade-old coal carbonisation plant of Coal India at Dankuni in Hooghly district. The PSU plans to produce 6.76 lakh tonnes of methanol per annum that will be blended in the ratio of 15 per cent methanol and 85 per cent petrol. The plant will cater to the methanol requirement of four eastern states – Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand and Bihar. Coal India  said that it is in talks with IOC and other state-owned oil companies for a long-term tie-up to sell methanol. Coal India subsidiary South Eastern Coalfields Ltd, which operates the Dankuni Coal Complex, said  the project site has been identified for the proposed plant. The plant will run on a built, own and operate (BOO) model where Coal India would not invest but would allocate land, power, water and also supply low-ash high-calorific coal from  its Raniganj fields. The PSU miner has estimated an annual coal supply of around 1.5 million tonnes for the plant. The tender would select the operator for the life span of the plant which is expected to be 25 years. Government-owned consultancy and engineering firm Project Development India Ltd is the consultant to select the operator. While the mechanical set-up of the plant is expected to be completed in 36 months, the actual commissioning is envisaged in 41 months, Coal India said. The last date of submission of the bids is December 17, 2020. “This proposed plant is part of implementing the methanol economy programme of the government and is aimed at reducing the country’s oil import bill. It would also reposition coal as a chemical feedstock from that of a conventional energy product resulting in considerable decrease in carbon footprint,” said a Coal India official. Around 80 per cent of the coal produced by Coal India is used to generate thermal power. However, with the government stressing on expanding the renewable energy capacity of the country, Coal India is looking to diversify and expand the end of use of coal resources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||Harley Davidson dealers seek protection after its exit announcement||Harley Davidson’s exit from India — the fourth marquee brand to do so in three years — has brought into focus the plight of dealers who are left nursing huge finacial losses. Dealer associations feel the country needs legislation to protect dealers from financial losses as well as job cuts when original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) decide to shut shop in the country. Harley Davidson has said its 32 dealers across the country “will continue to serve customers through the contract term”. The company has annual contracts with its dealers that ends on December 31, 2020. “There is no law to protect the dealers from such completely one-sided, arbitrary act of OEMs. The contracts that are signed between the manufacturers and dealers are heavily tilted in favour of the manufacturer,” said Vinkesh Gulati, president of the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (FADA). The association is going to represent Harley dealers in any discussions with the company and the government. “Dealers have started writing to us to take up their case,” said Gulati. “We are going to write to the Prime Minister and the minister for heavy industries and public enterprises,” said Gulati. Before Harley, OEMs such as General Motors, MAN Trucks and UM Lohia shut shop in India. “We have successfully represented dealers and got compensation from GM and MAN Trucks. But the need of the hour is to have legislation to protect the interest of the dealers as well as customers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||Petrol sales cross pre-pandemic level in Bengal||Monthly sale of petrol in Bengal has shown growth for the first time after lockdown in September, industry leader Indian Oil Corporation has said, as more people are commuting on two-wheelers. The public sector oil marketing company, which has over 50 per cent share of the market in the state, sold 37,148 kilolitres (kl) of petrol as on Sunday (September 27) against 36,694kl in the same period last year, a growth of 1.2 per cent. “As far as petrol is concerned, we have surpassed the pre-pandemic level,” Pritish Bharat, executive director and state head of IOC in Bengal, said. Sales of diesel, used by commercial vehicles and public transport — a barometer of wider economic activity —  continue to remain subdued. Diesel sales are still down 20 per cent. Sales of aviation turbine fuel are  down because of the restrictions on domestic and international flights. IOC is selling just a quarter of what it used to in this year. Industry sources pointed out that retail outlets in the city are more affected than those on the outskirts and the highways. As many private buses remain off the road, taxis find it difficult to get passengers other than the rush hours in the morning and in the evening. Even the sale of auto LPG, used by auto rickshaws, are only 60-65 per cent of the pre-Covid level. It is a different story for the highway pumps, where sales of diesel have recovered better than the city outlets. “Petrol sales have gone up because many people are using two-wheelers to commute as local trains are not plying and there are not enough buses on the road either,” said a retail outlet owner. Bharat claimed that LPG sales have grown in the state mainly because it supplied three cylinders free of cost to beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Ujjala Yojna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||Pressure for second round of stimulus mounts on Centre||Chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian has indicated that the Union government is considering a second round of stimulus measures with the economy showing signs of exhaustion after initially rising with the lifting of lockdown. Experts have warned that the domestic economy will continue to perform poorly after contracting 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of this fiscal. However, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told the Indian Express newspaper in an interview that she will “time the stimulus’’. In an interview with Moneycontrol, Subramanian said the government is aware that this is the right time to spend and come out with another set of stimulus measures, though it will be up to the finance minister to decide when such a package will be announced. Though he did not give a specific timeframe for such a move, he hinted that the Centre was working on fiscal measures to kickstart the economy. He said while several indicators showed a recovery, the pace had slowed down compared with the spike in June and July. According to Subramanian, while manufacturing has recovered, services continue to remain a source of worry. He added that economic activity will also depend on people getting back to normal life, which will happen only after the vaccine hits the market. Meanwhile, domestic rating agency Icra has further cut its GDP estimate for the country and now expects the economy to contract 11 per cent this fiscal. The agency, which had earlier estimated a contraction of 9.5 per cent, said the revision has been done as the rate of new Covid-19 infections remains elevated. Some analysts have even forecast that the economy will contract by up to 14 per cent after the release of the official GDP data for the first quarter. Icra added that if the number for the first quarter is revised down based on data for small businesses and less formal sectors, the overall GDP outcome for this fiscal “could be even worse” than the estimated 11 per cent contraction. For the second quarter, it kept its earlier estimate of a contraction of 12.4 per cent. “With the pandemic continuing in India for over six months, we sense that economic agents are now adapting to the crisis, resulting in a graduated recovery to a new post-Covid normal. “Nevertheless, with rampant Covid-19 infections, we expect behaviours to remain altered for longer than what we had earlier presumed,” Icra’s principal economist Aditi Nayar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||RBI sets up panel for Lakshmi Vilas Bank ||Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) on Monday said the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has approved the appointment of a three-member committee of directors (CoD) to run its daily affairs. The development comes after its shareholders voted out seven directors at the annual general meeting (AGM) held last Friday that included its MD and CEO and statutory auditors. LVB said that this committee will exercise the discretionary powers of the MD and CEO in the ad-interim. The banking regulator on September 27 appointed the three independent directors who will be part of the committee — Meeta Makhan, Shakti Sinha, and Satish Kumar Kalra. LVB added that the committee will be headed by Meeta Makhan. In a statement on Monday, LVB again sought to comfort investors, stating that the bank’s liquidity situation was comfortable and assured the depositors that their money was safe. “With a liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) of about 262 per cent as on September 27, against a minimum 100 per cent required by the RBI, the deposit holders, bond holders, account holders and creditors are well safe guarded,” the statement said. The bank further pointed out that it will continue to share information on the developments in public domain as and when they materialise and as required under the applicable law. The bank’s announcement on the appointment of the three-member committee led to its shares ending in the positive territory on the bourses on Monday. After opening lower at Rs 19, the LVB share ended at Rs 20.20, a gain of 5.21 per cent over its previous close. LVB  is close to a merger with Clix Capital. With the merger, the networth of the bank is expected to more than double to Rs 3,100 crore from the present Rs 1,200 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||SBI rolls out festive offer for retail borrowers||The country’s largest lender — State Bank of India — on Monday announced a slew of festive offers for its retail borrowers, including 100 per cent waiver of processing fee for all customers applying for car, gold, and personal loans through Yono. Yono (You Only Need One App) is the mobile banking app of the lender. The bank has also completely waived processing fees on home loans for homebuyers in approved projects. It is giving concessions up to 10 basis points (bps) on the interest rate for the customers based on their credit score and home loan amount, a release said. Additionally, homebuyers can avail 5 bps interest concession if they apply through Yono. For car loan borrowers, it is offering the lowest interest rate starting from 7.5 per cent. They will also get 100 per cent on-road finance on select models. The lender is providing gold loans at an interest rate of 7.5 per cent, with flexible repayment options for up to 36 months. Customers can take personal loans at a lending rate as low as 9.6 per cent, it said. “With the economy recovering gradually, we hope to see a boost in consumer spends and at the same time ensure SBI’s helping hand to all those in addressing their financial needs to have a pleasant festive season,” the bank’s managing director (retail and digital banking) C. S. Setty said in the release. The bank said Yono is offering customers in-principal approval on the car and gold loan applications. Customers can also avail a pre-approved paperless personal loan on Yono from the comfort of their homes. The number of SBI customers using internet banking facilities is about 76 million and mobile banking services stand a little more than 17 million. Yono, which has 26 million registered users, witnesses 5.5 million logins per day along with over 4,000 daily disbursals of personal loans and 16,000 Yono Krishi Agri Gold loans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||Decision on interest waiver soon||The Centre informed the Supreme Court on Monday that a decision is likely in 2-3 days over the charging of interest on interest waivers by banks on instalments which were deferred during the moratorium period in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The top court asked the Centre to bring the decision on record and circulate the affidavit to the parties in a batch of pleas challenging the interest on deferred instalments. The Centre informed the top court that the matter has received very serious consideration and the decision making process is at an advanced stage. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said that it would hear the batch of pleas filed by various industries, trade associations and individuals on October 5. The apex court, while conceding the Centre’s request, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the government that no further adjournment would be entertained in the case. The court was dealing with a PIL filed by a UP-based businessman Gajendra Sharma seeking a waiver of interests  and also the interest on interest being sought to be levied by the banks. A large number of interveners have also sought an extension of the moratorium on loans that ended on August 31 to a further six months or a one-year period. The bench, also comprising Justices R.Subhash Reddy and M.R.Shahd, however, refrained from passing any order on a plea by an advocate appearing for an intervener to restrain banks from making any threatening calls to the customers to pay the loan with interest. The RBI has decided to extend by six months the enhanced borrowing facility provided to banks to meet liquidity shortage till March 31, 2021. The RBI had increased the borrowing limit forbanks under the marginal standing facility (MSF) scheme from 2 per cent to 3 per cent of their Net Demand and Time Liabilities (NDTL) with effect from March 27, 2020. The facility, which was initially available up to June 30, 2020 was later extended up to September 30, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
29-09-2020||Business||RBI defers meet amid curious government delay||The Reserve Bank of India on Monday postponed the three-day meeting of the monetary policy committee that was scheduled to begin on Tuesday but gave no reason for the unprecedented decision. One possible reason is that the committee lacked the quorum to meet after the government failed to name the replacements for the three independent members whose four-year term ended in August. The three independent members of the MPC — Chetan Ghate, Pami Dua and Ravindra Dholakia — had been appointed in 2016. Under the RBI Act, the independent members of the committee cannot be reappointed after their terms end. At the same time, the six-member MPC has to have a quorum of four with at least one of them being the RBI governor or the deputy governor. The three independent members of the MPC are appointed by the central government. It isn’t clear why the Narendra Modi government chose to drag its heels on the appointment of the new members. The failure to do so has turned the rump MPC of RBI governor Shaktikanta Das, deputy governor Michael Patra and executive director Mridul Saggar into a sort of lame-duck panel. The MPC principally sets the policy interest rates that determine the course of lending and deposit rates in the financial system. The MPC has a mandate to cap retail inflation within a tolerance band of 2 to 6 per cent. The inflation anchor for monetary policy has determined the trajectory of interest rates within the financial system. Retail inflation has been running far above the upper limit of 6 per cent since January, a key reason why the MPC decided at its meeting in early August to hit the pause button after cutting the policy interest rate — the repo — by 250 basis points since February 2019. If the rate stays above the 6 per cent level or below 2 per cent for three consecutive quarters, it will be deemed a failure on the MPC committee’s part to meet its mandate, making it obligatory to submit a report explaining the reasons for the failure and a remedial plan to bring it within the band. The committee has a small escape route to avoid such an ignominy: the pandemic forced the National Statistical Office to skip the number for April because of poor data collection during the lockdown. Banks have been tardy in passing on the rate cut benefit to their borrowers -- a situation that has boiled into a major concern for retail and corporate borrowers who have been struggling to deal with the crisis thrown up by the pandemic. The RBI was widely expected to skip a rate cut this time as well. At a recent videoconference, governor Das said he would not want to speculate how the new members of the MPC would vote. Each MPC has one vote on the panel. If there is a tie, the governor has a casting vote. The members representing the RBI have been fairly consistent in their stand and were widely expected to vote down a request from the government for a rate cut. The delay in appointment of the three independent members reflects an uncharacteristic lethargy within the Modi government in making the new appointments — an almost wilful indolence that contrasts sharply with the alacrity it has displayed in passing the contentious farm sector reform bills or disclaiming its responsibility to pay GST compensation to the states. Observers said the delay could have been easily averted since the government knew only too well that the three new members had to be appointed last month. The RBI waited till the last moment for a government announcement on the new members before announcing the decision to defer the MPC meeting. There is no word on when the MPC will be reconstituted or indeed when it will meet. “The meeting of the MPC during September 29, 20 and October 1, 2020 ...is being rescheduled. The dates of the MPC’s meeting will be announced shortly,” the RBI said in a terse media release on Monday morning. The RBI has been under pressure from the government to do the heavy lifting by deploying conventional and unconventional monetary policy tools to revive a floundering economy, which contracted by 23.9 per cent in the first quarter ended June 30 and is expected to shrink by anywhere between 12 and 14 per cent in the second quarter as well. All the well-known forecasters have reworked their projections and now expect the Indian economy to contract by at least 5 per cent this fiscal. With the Centre continuing to double speak on the prospects for a second stimulus package, there are worries that there isn’t enough demand in the economy to reignite the engines of growth. Several economists have advised the government to spend its way out of trouble but it chooses not to listen. “The economy is facing a serious challenge and the RBI has been leading from the front with quick responses through rate cuts, injecting liquidity through open market operations, long term repo operations (LTROs) and a variety of innovative tools to manage and ensure financial stability. In this hour of economic emergency, the MPC has to be in place to formulate its policy. This delay could have been avoided,” said V.K. Vijayakumar, chief investment strategist at Geojit Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
