30-09-2020||Business||Centre exploring possibility of reducing crude oil cess by half ||The Centre is exploring the possibility of reducing crude oil cess by half to 10 per cent in an effort to encourage investment and production in the sector Senior oil ministry officials said they were considering the industry’s demand to reduce the cess on domestic crude oil.  The industry has demanded the cess be reduced to 5- 8 per cent. The oil ministry is looking to take up the matter with the finance ministry. “We do not expect any immediate reduction in cess at this juncture, given the economic reality of the country. But, investment in the exploration is a long-term investment and a right signal needs to be sent to boost that,” the officials said. The reduction in the levy has huge revenue implications as ONGC alone pays cess in excess of Rs 10,000 crore annually. The changes would also provide a level playing field to domestic companies as imported crude does not attract the levy, industry sources said. In the 2016-17 budget, the then finance minister Arun Jaitley had changed the cess to 20 per cent ad valorem rate from the fixed rate of Rs 4,500 per tonne. The Association of Oil and Gas Operators (AOGO), an industry body representing nearly two dozen members, in a recent communication to the petroleum secretary sought the reduction in the cess to 5-8 per cent. Cess is a production tax which is not a pass-through and has to be borne by the oil producers. In ad valorem rate, the duty is linked to prices, meaning when prices rise tax collections are higher and lower when prices fall. The government is looking to reduce the tax burden on oil companies to push up domestic production that has stagnated for the past several years at around 30-34 million tonnes. The reduction would benefit upstream companies such as ONGC and Cairn India whose production is subject to an oil industry development cess levied on an ad valorem basis. State-owned ONGC and OIL pay a cess on the crude oil they produce from their allotted fields on a nomination basis. Cairn India has to pay the same cess for oil from the Rajasthan block. The government had levied a cess of Rs 2,500 a tonne in 2005-06 when crude was hovering around $60/barrel. The duty was hiked to Rs 4,500 a tonne in 2012 when crude oil prices skyrocketed to touch $100/barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
30-09-2020||Business||Williamson Magor duo revival bid on track||The debt restructuring proposals of two of the listed companies of Williamson Magor Group are at an advanced stage with their bankers, the shareholders of Eveready Industries Ltd (EIL) were told on Tuesday. Speaking at the annual general meeting of EIL, chairman and promoter Aditya Khaitan said despite the pandemic delaying the process, “investors’ interest continues and possible opportunities for investment and restructuring are being examined and explored as we speak”. EIL itself is not being restructured: the storage cell battery maker has reduced its debt by the sale of land and generation of more cash from a higher operating margin. But the company will immensely benefit from a group-level restructuring as the funds it lent to the group entities would come back. The Khaitans have been in a dialogue with the banks to restructure the debts of bulk tea producer McLeod Russel India Ltd and McNally Bharat Engineering Co Ltd. “The group has assets of sizeable and marketable value, monetisation of which could not be crystallised due to the Covid disruptions and the lack of liquidity in the market. “I reassure that steps have been initiated to resolve the issue but due to the unforeseen circumstances related to Covid there has been a delay,” Khaitan informed the handful of shareholders who could participate in the virtual AGM. Eveready had given inter-corporate deposits and corporate guarantees to group entities and holding companies. Principal and interest on some of those ICDs have fallen due. With resolutions coming into effect at the operating company, their cash flows are expected to increase. When these operating companies pay back to the holding company, it will in turn be able to repay the dues to Eveready. The board has written to all entities to which it had lent asking for a repayment plan. Such a letter has been issued on September 24 and replies are expected in two weeks . Amritanshu Khaitan, managing director of EIL, said the company would expand capacity of AAA batteries by 50 per cent by adding a new line to the Tamilnadu plant. “There is strong demand for batteries and flashlights. Our factories are running full out,” he informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
30-09-2020||Business||Debt-GDP ratio forecast at 90% ||The debt to gross domestic product ratio could widen to around 85-90 per cent for India in a post Covid-19 period from around 70 per cent in the pre-Covid period. According to Sajjid Z. Chinoy, chief Indian economist of JP Morgan and member of the advisory council to the 15th Finance Commission, the central government must do the heavy lifting in terms of fiscal spending. “The approach I would prefer is to have a large infrastructure stimulus over the next 12-18 months. This will boost aggregate demand, crowd in private investment, create jobs and help medium term growth,” said Chinoy at an event organised by the Bengal Chamber or Commerce and Industry. He added that the stimulus could be financed through aggressive asset sale over the next two to three years so that it is fiscally neutral. Chinoy said the challenge for the government would be to maintain fiscal sustainability after the Covid-19 pandemic. “We expect debt to GDP ratio to go up to 85-90 per cent after the crisis and that will not be easy to control. The key point to realise is that medium term debt dynamics depend crucially on medium term growth. If India gets stuck in a 5 per cent growth trajectory, even if we are fiscally cautious, the debt to GDP ratio will keep rising,” he said, adding that a 7-10 per cent growth rate can stabilise the debt to GDP ratio. Motilal Oswal in a report had estimated that India’s general government (Centre + states) debt rose to 75 per cent of GDP in 2019-20 from 70 per cent in 2017-18. It is likely to reach 91 per cent of GDP in 2020-21 and stay at over 90 per cent of GDP up to 2022-23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
30-09-2020||Business||Lufthansa threatens to stop flights||Lufthansa on Tuesday said it would have to  cancel all flights  between September 30 and October 20, with  India and Germany failing to agree on the number of flights between them under the special air bubble arrangement. “Lufthansa had applied for the continuation of special flights it was granted to operate until the end of September. This application process is necessary since India has so far not accepted the invitation by the German government to discuss details regarding a temporary travel agreement between both countries,” the airline said in a statement. “Due to the Indian government’s rejection, Lufthansa will now have to cancel all planned flights between Germany and India between 30 September and 20 October,” it added. Aviation regulator DGCA said India formalised an air bubble with Germany in July this year. “However, there are restrictions in place for Indian nationals desiring to travel to Germany which was putting Indian carriers at a significant disadvantage resulting in inequitable distribution of traffic in favour of Lufthansa,” the DGCA stated. “As against Indian carriers operating 3-4 flights a week, Lufthansa operated 20 flights a week. In spite of this disparity we offered to clear 7 flights a week for Lufthansa which was not accepted by them. Negotiations continue,” it noted. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
30-09-2020||Business||Mukesh Ambani tops India rich list||Mukesh Ambani, chairman of Reliance Industries, continues to be the richest Indian for the ninth consecutive year on the IIFL Wealth Hurun India Rich List for 2020. Ambani has a total wealth of Rs 6,58,400 crore — there was a surge of 73 per cent in the last 12 months, propelling him to the rank of the richest individual in Asia. The London-based Hinduja brothers (SP Hinduja, along with his three brothers) with a joint wealth of Rs 1,43,700 crore bagged the second position. HCL founder Shiv Nadar with a wealth of Rs 1,41,700 crore ranked third, followed by Gautam Adani & family at fourth spot and Wipro’s Azim Premji at fifth spot. Radhakishan Damani, founder of Avenue Supermarts, debuted in the top 10 wealthiest individuals ranking for 2020. The list for 2020 identified a total of 828 individuals, including 40 women, with a wealth of at least Rs 1,000 crore, spread across 111 cities. The combined wealth of India’s richest is a staggering $823bn, equating to 1/3rd of India’s GDP. “A 28 per cent of the upswing in wealth on the list has been bestowed by Mukesh Ambani, speaking of Ambani’s meteoric success post diversifying from oil to telecom and retail. Ambani’s wealth is now bigger than the combined wealth of the next five in the list,” said Anas Rahman Junaid, MD and chief researcher, Hurun India. Other names in the top 10 were Cyrus S Poonawalla of Serum Institute of India, Uday Kotak of Kotak Mahindra Bank, Dilip Shanghvi of Sun Pharma and Cyrus Pallonji Mistry and Shapoorji Pallonji Mistry of Shapoorji Pallonji Group. Smitha V Crishna of the Godrej empire ranks as the richest woman in the list with a wealth of Rs 32,400 crore, followed by Biocon founder Kiran Mazumdar- Shaw at Rs 31,600 crore. Nearly 5 per cent of the list (40 individuals) are women; and 10 of them are self-made. The three founders of Indian unicorn Udaan became the highest gainers in terms of wealth since the 2019 edition — an increase of 274 per cent in wealth for each one. Founders of 11 unicorns made it to the rich list. With a wealth of Rs 4,500 crore, Ritesh Agarwal (26) of Oyo Rooms is the youngest person on the list while with Rs 5,400 crore wealth, Dharam Pal Gulati (96) of MDH is the oldest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
30-09-2020||Business||Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee critical of policies||Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee on Tuesday said India is among the worst performing economies in the world and the government’s economic stimulus was inadequate to tackle the problem. He, however, said that the country will see a revival in growth in the July-September quarter of the current fiscal. Speaking at a virtual event, Banerjee said the country’s economic growth was slowing down even before the Covid-19 pandemic hit as real GDP growth had moderated from 7 per cent in 2017-18 to 6.1 per cent in 2018-19 and 4.2 per cent in 2019-20. “Indian economy is among the worst performing in the world. The country’s economy will see revival in the current quarter (July-September),” the  Nobel winner said. Banerjee, a professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), said he does not think that India’s economic stimulus was adequate. “India’s economic stimulus was limited. It was a bank bailout. I think we could have done more,” he said. The stimulus measures “did not increase consumption spending of lower income people as the government was not willing to put money in the hands of the low income population”, he explained. Talking about inflation, Banerjee said India’s growth strategy was a closed economy with the government creating lots of demand, which resulted in high growth and inflation. “India had 20 years of high inflation and high growth. The country benefited a lot from stable high inflation in the last 20 years,” he observed. Replying to a query on monetisation of deficit by the RBI, the eminent economist said “deficit financing is a good idea”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
30-09-2020||Business||Kesoram Industries seeks new debt partner ||Kesoram Industries is likely to get a new debt partner soon with the aim to inject fresh liquidity in the company. Industry sources say the company has received term sheets from at least two potential partners and a deal may be inked as early as in October. Names of US-based financial behemoth Goldman Sachs and India’s Edelweiss Group are doing the rounds. The potential partner may also pick token equity — 2-3 per cent — in Kesoram. In the past, it held discussions with US-based fund Farallon Capital as well. The Manjushree Khaitan-led company, which earns almost the entire revenue from cement, has an outstanding debt of Rs 2,100 crore. The plan is to replace the existing legacy debt with the new debt, hoping that it would bring more flexibility to the management. “The first priority for the management is to run the plant efficiently, for which we need liquidity. With a new debt partner, this will be a reality and Kesoram can perform much better profitably,” P. Radhakrishnan, CEO of Kesoram, said. Going forward, the company plans to retire some of the debt by injecting fresh cash by way of equity and internal generation. “The debt level of Kesoram should be 4-4.5 times of EBIDTA,” Radhakrishnan added. The company also informed the bourses that subsidiary Cygnet Industries has entered into an agreement with Futamura Chemical of Japan, a global leader in the manufacturing of cellulose films. Kesoram has a unit which makes transparent paper products. The Japanese firm is expected to market Kesoram’s products. Birla Tyre may spin off its under-construction passenger car tyre business into a separate entity in its efforts to induct a strategic partner. The company, which was carved out of Kesoram last year, makes trucks and bus tyres. However, it is unable to perform well because of lack of liquidity. Also on the cards is contract manufacturing of OTR and other tyres in order to leverage the 25-year old Birla Tyre brand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
