01-06-2021||Editorials||Address inequity and demand||Fiscal year 2020-21 ended on a slightly better note than expected. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth in the quarter ending March 2021 increased to 1.6%. Tailwinds from the last quarter have moderated annual GDP contraction to 7.3%, lower than the earlier projection of 8%. All of this would have been good news and laid the foundations for recovery in 2021-22, if the second wave of Covid-19 infections had not derailed economic activity.And that is why the economic impact of the second wave, which peaked on May 9, will be key to assessing future prospects. Take some high- frequency indicators. The Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) did not go below the critical threshold of 50 — values above 50 signify expansion in economic activity — in April and May. This is reassuring news. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) seems to have bottomed out after a sharp fall. It recovered to 63.6 in the week ending May 30. NIBRI reached 99.3 in the week ending February 23, but then fell continuously in all weeks except one to reach 60.3 in the week ending May 23. This indicates loss of economic momentum (followed by, hopefully, some stabilisation). But the index of eight core sector industries suffered a month-on-month contraction of 15% in April. This is bad news. Clearly, the outlook is neither completely positive nor completely negative. But with most states still under lockdown, and the shock of the second wave increasing risk aversion, both among governments and individuals, the economic headwinds of the second wave may be more prolonged and increase the likelihood of 2021-22 GDP growth being lower than expected. What should the policy response be? The first priority is to minimise, if not prevent, the likelihood of a third wave. Vaccinations and vigilance are the only way to do this. However, there is another aspect which requires urgent attention. India’s post-pandemic recovery has bypassed the non-rich. Inequality and poverty have increased. Contact-intensive services have been badly hit by the second wave. Important sectors such as trade and hospitality remained in contraction zone even in the March quarter. Corporate profits have surged with companies cutting down on material and labour costs. All this will suppress mass incomes and, therefore, demand. This needs to change if India wants to preserve its long-term growth potential. Markets will not take care of this task. The government must step in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/address-inequity-and-demand-101622552458472.html
01-06-2021||Editorials||Review the sedition law, protect rights||The Supreme Court (SC)’s observation of the need to define what is or is not sedition will help minimise the misuse of the colonial-era provision to punish dissent. The apex court made this observation while restraining the Andhra Pradesh government from taking adverse action against two Telugu news channels, which have been booked under Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for allegedly promoting disaffection against the state government. The court’s dissatisfaction with this provision was also clear in April when it sought a response from the Centre on a plea challenging the constitutional validity of the law. Though the word sedition was dropped from the Constitution in 1949, Section 124A of IPC defines its scope as the intent or tendency to disturb law and order or words which seem to incite violence. The SC’s position should invite unqualified support. The State must safeguard its security and sovereignty, but it must also protect the fundamental rights of its citizens. Flimsy sedition charges are often invoked to intimidate and silence those who dissent. According to the National Crime Records Bureau, only 3% of the 93 cases filed in 2019 ended in convictions, suggesting that there was not enough evidence to uphold the charges. India has a legal architecture to deal with those trying to incite violence or threaten the integrity of the State. As India heads towards 75 years of Independence next year, it is only appropriate that SC has weighed in to distinguish between sedition and the democratic right of citizens to express dissent without being labelled enemies of the State.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/review-the-sedition-law-protect-rights-101622552398358.html
01-06-2021||Editorials||The battle in Bengal persists||The dispute between the Centre and the West Bengal government — with the former recalling the state chief secretary, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, with immediate effect and the state challenging the decision — is an outcome of four features. The first is political. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have just emerged from a bitter electoral battle. The BJP’s shock at the loss, and its decision to go on the offensive from day one, has translated into the pursuit of corruption cases against TMC leaders and an over-interventionist governor. The TMC’s complicity in post-poll violence and chief minister (CM) Mamata Banerjee’s assessment that she could be the leader of an anti- BJP front has seen the TMC double down. There is both trust deficit and political competition at play.The second element is the politics of natural disaster management. It was Ms Banerjee’s absence from a meeting called by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi on cyclone Yaas and her perceived lack of courtesy which triggered the new conflict. The CM said she met and took permission from the PM to leave, and has instead attacked the Centre for politicising the cyclone, by inviting leader of opposition (and her bête noire) Suvendu Adhikari to the meeting. The allegations have their roots in 2020 — the BJP made the issue of corruption in post-Amphan relief a key element of its campaign and believes it may have another opportunity to corner the government. The TMC is on its guard; it wants greater central funds, but also wants to insulate relief efforts from any BJP imprint.The third, critical, reason is the erosion of institutional integrity. The story of the politicisation of India’s bureaucracy is well established. But a sudden decision to recall the highest-ranking bureaucrat of the state sends a wrong message to the civil service that it must not defy political red lines imposed by the Centre. The Centre’s decision to summon the chief secretary, and CM’s decision to appoint Mr Bandopadhyaya as her chief adviser (he retired on May 31, though a three-month extension was on the table) is another pointer to the erosion of institutional norms. And finally, this controversy is a reflection of the fracture in the federal system. Both the Centre and state must respect each other’s authority and institutional procedures, and insulate governance during a time of crisis where the state is dealing with both a pandemic and the aftermath of a cyclone from day-to-day political battles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-battle-in-bengal-persists-101622471749741.html
