02-06-2021||Editorials||In Delhi, 11 unpredictable months||On Tuesday, Delhi’s minimum temperature was at 17.9 degrees Celsius (°C), the lowest minimum temperature ever recorded in June in the city. As this newspaper reported last week, even before the June record, the Capital had broken weather-related records every month for the last ten months. In August, it recorded 236.5mm rainfall, the highest for the month since 2013. September was the warmest month in almost two decades. In October, Delhi broke a 58-year-old record, clocking a mean minimum temperature of 17.2 degrees Celsius. November’s mean minimum temperature dropped to 10.2 degrees Celsius, a level last seen in 1949. December witnessed eight cold wave days, the highest since 1965. January recorded the highest number of cold wave days since 2008 (seven), and also broke the record for the highest rainfall for the month in 21 years (56.6mm). February was the second warmest in 120 years, with the mean maximum temperature touching 27.9 degrees Celsius. March recorded the hottest day in 76 years, with the mercury levels touching 40.1 degrees Celsius. The lowest minimum temperature in April in at least a decade was recorded on April 4, at 11.7 degrees Celsius. In May, Delhi broke the record for the highest single-day rainfall for the month ever, with 119.3mm of precipitation on May 19-20.Also Read | Key 1.5°C warming mark likely within 5 yearsMet officials and scientists have said that these extreme weather recordings are the immediate result of temporary atmospheric events, including the western disturbance, known to cause extreme weather events such as floods, flash floods, landslides, dust storms, hail storms and cold waves. The moot question, however, is whether these new records can be linked to the climate crisis. There are two views on it. The first school of thought among scientists views these changes as an “anomaly” and not representative of a “pattern change”; the second view sees the astonishing changes, month after month, as visible signs of the climate crisis. However, even those who subscribe to the first view agree that freak weather events could have been “supported” by global warming because it increased the moisture-holding capacity of wind, leading to intense rainfall.Both groups, however, agree on one point: There is no doubt that wind flow, average temperature, humidity pattern, ocean temperature, among other atmospheric metrics, have changed drastically. It is important to scientifically investigate the link between the freak weather events of the last 11 months and the climate crisis to prepare better.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-delhi-11-unpredictable-months-101622633165098.html
02-06-2021||Editorials||The State and the child: Care for the most vulnerable||The government recently announced long-term financial support through the PM Cares Fund for children left orphaned due to Covid-19 or for those who have lost one parent. This is welcome as is the Supreme Court directive on Tuesday to the Centre to provide details of the schemes it has announced for the over 1,742 orphans and 7,464 children left with only one parent. The adoption process in India is lengthy and tedious and these children need immediate help as they are in an extremely vulnerable state.Also Read | Address inequity and demandMany child experts believe that the best option for such children is kinship support. Many relatives are willing to take care of these children and the State should aim to support them at least financially before exploring other options. This would give the children some sort of continuity, care and stability at a time when they are traumatised by the loss of their parents. Single parents who do not have adequate resources must receive State support to take care of their children. The ministry of women and child development could consider engaging with the states to work out a suitable kinship care programme. This would require child protection units right from the district level to monitor orphans in the care of their relatives.Foster care is another option worth exploring further. It is permitted under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act 2015 and the Integrated Child Protection Scheme 2009. This will provide immediate relief, but foster care is considered a halfway house before adoption and the State must closely monitor the physical and mental well-being of the child at regular intervals. The State must work with all stakeholders to explore every care option for orphaned and vulnerable children and ensure that schemes meant to benefit them are implemented effectively. Long-term support is fine, but the urgency of the situation requires immediate measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-state-and-the-child-care-for-the-most-vulnerable-101622632447486.html
