03-06-2021||Editorials||A draconian gag order||On May 31, through an amendment to the Central Services (Pensions) Rules, the central government barred all retired officials in intelligence and security-related organisations from publishing any material “which falls within the domain of the organisation”, before clearing it with the current head of the organisation concerned. The move perilously overextends the scope of service and pension rules; deals a blow to the fundamental right to free speech of retired officials; and potentially weakens democratic discourse in India, where those who have the most experience on sensitive subjects are effectively barred from commenting on it, except with the government’s approval. It also reinforces the impression that the regime is not comfortable with distinctive and critical views, even when it comes from those who have served the Indian State with great distinction and patriotism. Retired officials of security organisations must exercise utmost responsibility. They must also comply with the existing legal framework, which entails them to be responsible with “sensitive information” that may imperil the “sovereignty and integrity of India” and “the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State”. But the current rules widen the scope of restrictions. If you are a former Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) officer, you cannot write about any external security-related issue without checking with the current secretary (r); if you are a former Intelligence Bureau (IB) official, you cannot write on any subject which is related to internal security-related issue unless the director (IB) clears it; and this extends to 16 other organisations. Given India’s generally opaque security set-up, the refusal to declassify files, rules of secrecy, and norms of access — those who know and serve can’t write; those who write are constrained because of the fear of losing access to those who know — retired officials are a key source of expertise. After years of being in a regimented bureaucracy, they finally can speak and share this expertise with other citizens. At a time when dissenting voices within the system find it hard to take positions, a distinctive view from outside the system only helps the State evolve a more considered policy approach. These officials have spent their entire professional lives safeguarding India’s security. Rather than threatening them with the stick of withdrawn pensions, trust them and allow the space for informed discourse, within the older framework.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-draconian-gag-order-101622730011656.html
03-06-2021||Editorials||India’s balancing act in West Asia||The recent Israel-Hamas conflict puts the spotlight on one of the dilemmas of India’s West Asia policy — the need to balance the country’s traditional and long-standing support for the Palestinian cause with the growing embrace of Israel as a strategic partner and supplier of hi-tech military hardware. India condemned the rocket fusillades of the Hamas, which resulted in the death of an Indian national, and described Israel’s military actions as retaliatory, even as it noted that both had caused immense suffering and led to deaths, including those of women and children. India’s abstention when the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) voted on May 27 to set up an inquiry into rights violations during the Israel-Hamas conflict has to be seen in the context of this balancing act.Also Read | Amid tension with Palestine, Israel appoints Isaac Herzog as new PresidentNew Delhi’s decision to abstain was possibly influenced by the fact that the resolution to institute an inquiry was introduced at UNHRC by Pakistan on behalf of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). But this cannot take away from the fact that there has been considerable global criticism of Israel’s military actions in the Gaza Strip, especially the targeting of civilian structures and even a building housing media organisations. Recent statements by India at the UN and its agencies have dropped references to the country’s traditional support to the “just Palestinian cause” and Palestinian foreign minister Riad Malki has expressed concern at India’s abstention at the UNHRC vote.The historic shifts in West Asia triggered by the Abraham Accords must be a factor in New Delhi’s evolving stance on the region. But while preserving its strategic relationship with Israel, India would do well to reiterate its long-standing values, and nudge the Israelis and Palestinians towards a meaningful dialogue. Take the best from the old principles, weave in the new reality, and carve out a balance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/indias-balancing-act-in-west-asia-101622720111135.html
