08-06-2021||Editorials||Franklin Templeton: A sordid saga||Many investors in mutual funds opt for debt funds because they believe them to be safe. But as the story of six Franklin Templeton India debt funds shows, it all depends on the risk appetite, assessment and integrity of the fund’s managers. To be sure, the pandemic’s impact on the economy was the factor that triggered the closure of the six funds last April, but as an order from stock market (and mutual fund) watchdog, Sebi, explained on Monday, there were other factors too. The order (which Franklin Templeton will challenge) points to the information asymmetry that allowed a senior executive at the company and his family to withdraw their investments in the six funds — shortly before they were closed. While investors have received around 27% of their investments in these funds, and will likely receive at least 60% in total (that’s the amount that’s come back to the funds), there are lessons in this sordid saga.The first lesson is for investors. Many may have been drawn to the generic safety of debt funds and the specific attractiveness of Franklin Templeton. This approach was clearly flawed because it ignored what the funds were investing in. The second is for the fund managers, with revelations of significant gaps in the due diligence process. The third is for regulators. Details of how Franklin Templeton ran its funds, and how its senior executive Vivek Kudva and his wife Roopa Kudva, who runs the impact investment firm Omidyar Network in India, exited the funds just before their closure point to possible areas that require monitoring, if not regulatory change. Sebi’s findings are also bound to raise questions of propriety and probity around the behaviour of the Kudvas, but that is beyond the regulator’s purview and a matter between them and their respective organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/franklin-templeton-a-sordid-saga-101623160725646.html
08-06-2021||Editorials||The dynastic turn in TMC||With the appointment of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, as the party’s all-India general secretary, yet another regional party in India has formally taken the dynastic route to political leadership. Mr Banerjee, a Member of Parliament, has been the de facto number two in the Trinamool Congress (TMC) for some years now; he also played a key role in the election campaign of 2021, bringing in consultant Prashant Kishor to the aid of the party after the 2019 Lok Sabha election debacle. But the de facto has now become de jure — and the line of succession in the TMC is clear. Ms Banerjee’s chosen heir is Mr Banerjee.The episode throws up a larger question about the resilience of dynastic politics — where the bloodline determines political leadership. This is not just true for the Congress nationally, but the entire gamut of regional parties. In the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, MK Stalin succeeded M Karunanidhi. In Shiv Sena, Uddhav Thackeray took forward Bal Thackeray’s legacy, though he has moved it in a different direction. In the Rashtriya Janata Dal, Tejashwi Yadav has emerged as the clear leader with his father, Lalu Prasad, out of political action due to corruption cases and ill health. In the Samajwadi Party, Akhilesh Yadav fought a bruising battle with his uncle and even engaged in shadow-boxing with his father, but established his control. In the Bahujan Samaj Party, Mayawati’s nephew is assuming a greater role. The Abdullahs control the National Conference, and in Peoples Democratic Party, the Mufti’s death saw his daughter Mehbooba Mufti take over the party. The Indian National Lok Dal is the party of the Chautalas; Chandrababu Naidu is grooming his son to take over the Telugu Desam Party; Jagan Mohan Reddy built on his father’s legacy to create the YSR Congress Party; the Pawar family runs the Nationalist Congress Party; and Chirag Paswan has taken over the Lok Janashakti Party.But what about regional parties where the leader does not have any immediate family? The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam struggled after J Jayalalithaa’s death. The future of Naveen Patnaik’s Biju Janata Dal and Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) is uncertain, after they fade. It appears that Ms Banerjee has looked at all these experiences and, unfortunately, instead of pioneering a democratic method of leadership selection, picked a family member. While there are complex factors behind the resilience of dynastic politics — the brand recall value of leaders, a quicker route to mass legitimacy, control over finances — it leaves Indian democracy poorer. Ms Banerjee has followed, rather than led, this time around.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-dynastic-turn-in-tmc-101622988090460.html
