09-06-2021||Editorials||The exodus from the Congress continues||To the list of high-profile defections from the Congress to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) since 2014, Himanta Biswa Sarma and Jyotiraditya Scindia, among others, former Union minister and Uttar Pradesh (UP) leader Jitin Prasada is the latest addition. Mr Prasada’s political switch reflects the diminished fortunes of the Congress and the persistent appeal of the BJP.The Congress’s problems are well-known. Those who belong to Rahul Gandhi’s generation linked their political fortunes to his rise. But they now stare at an uncertain future. The party’s leadership structure is unclear and internal conflict resolution mechanisms are weak. There remain doubts over Mr Gandhi’s leadership and electoral appeal. The prospect of returning to power at the Centre is limited. Despite the recent backlash against the Centre on its Covid-19 mismanagement, the BJP remains the favourite for 2024. In UP, the best-case scenario for the Congress is coming a respectable fourth. And individual leaders are getting restless. And that is when the BJP provides the pull factor. Conscious that these new entrants reinforce the optics of a strong BJP and a weak Congress, the party is more than open to outsiders. It would be a stretch to refer to Mr Prasada as a Brahmin leader, and with three successive electoral losses (2014, 2017 and 2019), there are serious questions about his mass base. But in UP, where Yogi Adityanath’s government is seen as pro-Thakur, having Mr Prasada is a signal to Brahmins that the party is sensitive to their aspirations for representation in the run-up to the polls. At a time when the BJP is defensive about its governance, the entry also helps shift the narrative back to its political appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-exodus-from-the-congress-continues-101623246308122.html
09-06-2021||Editorials||Talking to the Taliban||For more than two years, in the backdrop of America’s plans to draw down its military presence in Afghanistan, there has been an intense debate in India’s strategic community about the utility of engaging some elements of the Afghan Taliban. When the debate gained currency in early 2019, there was hesitation about engaging with a force which had been so hostile to Indian interests. But the reluctance was also linked to domestic political constraints. Engagement could well have triggered questions about the government’s anti-Pakistan, anti-terror hardline security stance and its unwillingness to engage with Kashmir’s local formations when it was willing to talk to Taliban. In fact, the Kabul-Kashmir link played out in a different way. One of the reasons the government pushed ahead with constitutional changes in Jammu and Kashmir was to preempt the possible impact of radicalised militants shifting focus to the valley. India also wanted to see how far the US would go with its plans.Also Read | India joins UN Economic and Social Council for 2022-24 termAs it became clear that the Joe Biden administration intended to push ahead with the withdrawal plans, the debate got renewed. As this newspaper reported, New Delhi has begun reaching out to Afghan Taliban factions and leaders, especially those who are outside Pakistan’s sphere of influence. There have also been positive feelers seeking engagement from within the Afghan Taliban leadership. The move is a reflection of the growing realisation in capitals around the world that Taliban will be part of the next ruling dispensation in Kabul. Retired diplomats and experts also pointed to the heterogeneity within Taliban, and that the Afghanistan of today was not the same country of the mid-1990s. Despite the precarious position of the elected government, there are elements in Kabul that strongly believe the post-2001 generation which won’t be willing to accept an authoritarian regime and that even the Taliban apparently realise this.For India, an outreach to the Taliban will be an intense game of playing catch-up as other players such as China, Russia and Iran have already started formal dialogue with the group. But despite the delay, the move is well-considered. It represents an opportunity for India to make it clear, directly to Taliban, that the gains of the past two decades cannot be squandered away, and convey its core security redlines. It is also a signal that Pakistan cannot be sole arbiter of Afghanistan’s future. India must continue to engage, cautiously, while the onus rests on Taliban to prove it is not the same inimical force of the past, beholden to Rawalpindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/talking-to-the-taliban-101623238747141.html
09-06-2021||Editorials||When a judge learns — and teaches||“I am the society, with all the misconceptions present. Now I’m working through it and engaging in the process of unlearning, so it is me who needs to convey this understanding to the rest of the society that stands where I once stood.” These are the words of Justice N. Anand Venkatesh of the Madras high court (HC), who underwent voluntary “psycho-education” on gender and sexuality related issues before passing interim orders on June 7 that directed various state and central agencies to ensure that persons belonging to the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Intersex, Asexual (LGBTQIA) communities do not face discrimination. The judge was hearing a case of a lesbian couple who moved court seeking protection from police action, based on complaints filed by the women’s parents, who felt ashamed by the sexual identities of their daughters. Not only did the court ask the police to close the case, it also issued a directive that police should close all such complaints if it finds that the person in question is of the LGBTQIA community in a consensual adult relationship.Also Read | ‘Change must take place...’: Madras HC interim order on LGBTQIA communityThe couple is neither the first nor will it be the last to move court seeking protection from families that misuse the law to harass queer persons. In a country where social norms trump the law and even heterosexual adults face immense violence for falling in love with a person of the “wrong” caste or faith, it is not hard to imagine how same-sex couples, particularly women, are doubly vulnerable, stigmatised on account of a barely legitimate love and subject to patriarchal control over their sexuality. Before Section 377 was read down by the Supreme Court in 2018, the colonial-era law that criminalised homosexuality was routinely weaponised to extort and threaten gay men and genders assigned male at birth. Other sections of the Indian Penal Code continue to be used for those assigned female gender at birth — usually, one partner is charged with kidnapping the other; parents file missing persons’ reports, prompting the police to conduct an investigation and bring the “charge” back, irrespective of age or consent.Justice Venkatesh’s order recognises that society changes incrementally. The sensitisation of the police, the judiciary, even medical professionals is essential, and they need to unlearn socially acceptable patriarchal notions that adult women are charges of parents till such time as they are wed. It would behove institutional authorities to remember what the judge wrote, “Ignorance is no justification for normalising any form of discrimination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/when-a-judge-learns-and-teaches-101623148964388.html
