28-06-2021||Editorials||The dangers of anti-science, anti-vaccine propaganda||India has a singular mission over the next year — vaccinating the population against Covid-19. Universal vaccination is the only way to save lives, prevent future waves, revive economic growth, send children to school, resume social interactions and defeat the pandemic. Eligible citizens, young and old, must take both jabs and encourage others as well.Unfortunately, scientific reality hasn’t deterred some public figures from acting irresponsibly. A primary example is lawyer, Prashant Bhushan, who has been consistently advising against vaccines on Twitter. With 2.2 million Twitter followers, his disregard for science can potentially sway fence-sitters who are hesitant to take vaccines to follow suit. Misinformation about the effectiveness of vaccines foments hesitancy at a time when various studies point to this being a significant barrier to the fight against Covid-19. There is little to distinguish Mr Bhushan and Ram Kisan Yadav (Baba Ramdev) who have both peddled misinformation about vaccines, revealing that the anti-science impulse in India makes strange bedfellows.Also Read | The message from JammuVaccination is not legally mandatory. Therefore, an individual can choose not to take the jab. But unless it is on medical advice, this would be self-defeating. Those actively campaigning against vaccination pose a threat to public health. Citizens should also remember that vaccination certificates will be crucial to return to a new normal, from accessing public spaces to travel. Not getting vaccinated would not only risk one’s life but also prevent returning to a pre-Covid-19 life. Influencers should take the jab, and if they don’t want to do so, at least stop commenting on issues they know little about.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-dangers-of-anti-science-anti-vaccine-propaganda-101624888573251.html
28-06-2021||Editorials||Assessing the Rao legacy||A hundred years ago, on June 28, a boy was born in present-day Telangana. Mahatma Gandhi had begun his non-cooperation movement. The Nizam ruled Hyderabad. Independence was distant. Born at such a tumultuous time and socialised in an agrarian setting, it is a test to his remarkable talent that the new-born of 1921 went on, exactly 70 years later, to become one of independent India’s most consequential prime ministers. At a critical time in the nation’s history, by reorienting India’s economic and foreign policy direction, in fundamental and arguably irreversible ways, PV Narasimha Rao played a transformative role.Rao had a long political career, spanning from legislator to Andhra Pradesh chief minister, parliamentarian to a senior minister in the Indira and Rajiv Gandhi government. But the defining legacy of Rao would be his years as PM between 1991 and 1996. Close to retirement, Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination brought him to power by accident. But Rao recognised the gravity of India’s economic crisis and used all his political skills to support and shepherd historic economic reforms. As articles to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the reforms in this paper have documented, it was Rao’s political skill, perhaps even more than Manmohan Singh’s economic grasp, that opened up India to the world, liberalised Indian industry, set the ground for growth and an expansion of the middle class, reduced the State’s stifling powers, legitimised the private sector, generated jobs, reduced poverty, and created the cushion for ambitious welfare schemes. He also ably negotiated a new post Cold-War reality.Rao was not flawless though. As home minister, his role in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots was dubious. Under his watch as PM, the Babri Masjid was demolished, dealing a blow to Indian secularism from which it is yet to recover. He failed to tackle the impact of Mandal and Mandir, and contributed to the weakening of the Congress in north India. He deployed his political cunning, using State agencies, against rivals. And his political career, towards the end, was mired in corruption allegations, including a charge of conspiracy to bribe parliamentarians. But despite this mixed record, Rao’s abiding legacy, as his finest biographer Vinay Sitapati argued, was his contribution in reshaping India’s trajectory. A hundred years after his birth, 30 years after his policy reforms, and 17 years after his death, Rao’s legacy lives on. He deserves more recognition, both from his old party and from the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/assessing-the-rao-legacy-101624887853307.html
