30-06-2021||Editorials||Living together, separately||The findings of the latest Pew survey on religion in India raise questions that lie at the heart of India’s contemporary political debates. The survey shows that while an overwhelming majority of Indians are believers, they also recognise the importance of respecting other religions as a religious virtue. This respect for other religions co-exists with a high support for religious segregation, not just on questions such as marriage but even in choosing neighbours and friends. Defying taboos related to food is among the biggest triggers for being considered an outcaste from one’s religion. If these findings are true, it confirms what is anecdotally known: Indians are largely conservative when it comes to religion.Also Read | On migrant workers, SC issues a stern reminderBut since this is the first such survey, and there is no comparative historical data, it is hard to know whether conservatism has increased or decreased over time. When seen with the tectonic shift in Indian polity since 2014, it raises other questions too. Is the BJP’s rise a reflection of this conservatism? Or has its rise made Indians, especially Hindus, more conservative, even intolerant, vis-à-vis other religions? Or have these two reinforced each other? The report indicates that Hindus who support the BJP are slightly more conservative than others. For example, 72% Hindus who favour the BJP think that it is very important to stop Hindu women from marrying into other religions. For Hindus who had an unfavourable view of the BJP, this number is just 57%. But the key factor is that even among the BJP’s opponents, segregation is a majority view. Regressive views span religions: 42% of Muslim men, compared to just 32% women, think that the practice of triple talaq should exist.While it is tempting to conclude that existing social barriers are insurmountable, it is also true that more Indians than at any point in history are defying caste and religion structures in making life choices, including marriage. The trend of voters flipping between the BJP and its opponents in national and state elections also shows political choices are complex, beyond the religious outlook of the party. The larger political message from the survey is that while the entrenched conservatism among Hindus might give the BJP an edge, it is not the only explanation for the party’s political rise. The larger social message is that India has a long way to go in becoming a truly harmonious society, where citizens don’t just live together, separately and peacefully, but coexist in all senses of the term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/living-together-separately-101625050101298.html
30-06-2021||Editorials||On migrant workers, SC issues a stern reminder||A two-judge bench of the Supreme Court (SC), on Tuesday, gave a slew of directives to the Centre, the states, and Union Territories (UTs) to provide relief to migrant workers, whose lives and livelihoods have been severely affected by the pandemic. Calling the Centre’s attitude towards the migrants “lackadaisical,” SC directed it to ensure that the proposed national database for unorganised workers (NDUW) is operational by July 31 so that welfare benefits can flow to the marginalised sections. It also ordered states and UTs to implement the One Nation One Ration Card (ONOR) scheme by July 31 to help beneficiaries, especially migrant workers, avail of subsidised food commodities anywhere, irrespective of their home location.Also Read | India’s vaccine strategy is neglecting the vulnerable, poor. There is a way outThe SC’s order can have far-reaching impact if appropriately implemented. It is also a reminder to the State that welfare of migrants must not be restricted to pandemic-related benefits; and that the failure to put in place a policy framework exacerbated the crisis of 2020. The directives also expose India’s low state capacity in providing effective interventions. For example, NDUW was supposed to be functional in 2018. There has been some progress on ONOR over the past year, but issues of accessibility need to be addressed. It is a smartphone-based app, works in select ration shops, and uses finger-based authentication, which has proved to be unreliable in some cases.Migrant workers form 94% (380 million) of India’s workforce. They come from the most disadvantaged sections of society and the poorest of the regions (primarily north and east India), and are often forced to migrate (primarily to west and south India and urban centres) to improve their socioeconomic status. Their long march home in 2020 highlighted their precarious existence, and the duty of the Indian State to provide relief. SC’s stern order is welcome.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/on-migrant-workers-sc-issues-a-stern-reminder-101625049321071.html
