01-05-2021||Mumbai||Emergency parole can’t be counted as part of sentence of convict: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday dismissed a petition filed by a murder convict seeking direction to the state government to count his Covid emergency parole leave as part of his sentence while considering his case for premature release.The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale dismissed the petition filed by Inden aka Mohiddin Sayyed Ali Shaikh, holding that in view of Rule 20 of the Prison (Bombay Parole and Furlough) Rules, 2020 parole leave cannot be counted as sentence undergone by a convict.Shaikh had moved the HC in December 2020 to include his parole leave in the sentence undergone by him. He was arrested on murder charges on November 8, 2002 and was subsequently convicted for murder and sentenced to life imprisonment. HC has since dismissed his appeal against conviction in 2011 and confined his life term.On February 22, 2018, the home department decided Shaikh’s plea for premature release, declaring that the Ambernath resident will have to undergo total imprisonment of 26 years, including remission.It was submitted before HC on his behalf that Shaikh would have completed the 26-year term in November 2020, but he was released on emergency Covid parole leave in May 10, 2020 and what remains now was a meagre term of five months. He therefore urged the HC to direct the authorities to include his emergency parole leave in the sentence undergone by him.Jail authorities opposed his plea contending that Rule 20 of the Prisons (Bombay Furlough and Parole) Rules, 2020 states that parole is not an incentive, and thus shall not be counted towards remission of the sentence.Besides, jail authorities also pointed out that after being released from jail in May 2020, Shaikh has joined a political party, creating tense atmosphere in Ambernath in view of ensuing civic elections. Besides, they claimed, Shaikh had failed to abide by a parole leave condition to report to local police station once a month.HC accepted the contention based on Rule 20 and dismissed the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/emergency-parole-can-t-be-counted-as-part-of-sentence-of-convict-bombay-hc-101619892834527.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: More takers for 5-year law course, despite delayed admissions||Admissions to law colleges in the state ended in the last week of April and surprisingly, five-year law courses have witnessed a dip in seat vacancies this year. Information shared by the state common entrance test (CET) cell showed how 6,864 of the total 10,440 available seats in state law colleges for the five-year LLB were taken this year (only 34.25% seats vacant), much better than the past few years when the seat vacancy stood between 48% to 60%.“Every year after admissions end, we [law colleges] witness a lot of shuffling among students who end up withdrawing admission from one institute and applying to another. This year since the entire process was delayed and extended over a period of two and a half months, students are not withdrawing admissions and this could’ve resulted in more admissions,” said the principal of a suburban law college.Nearly 16,200 students had appeared for the state entrance exam for the five-year law course in October 2020. Admissions to most professional courses, however, were delayed this year and law was the worst affected. Admissions that started only in January 2020 were marred by several errors, eventually extending the admissions process till April this year. While there is excitement among stakeholders to witness increase in admissions at law colleges, many feel the number is still very low compared to the registrations received this year.“If 16,000 students cleared the law entrance exam, how can only 6,800 confirm seats? Obviously, the delay in admissions pushed more students to opt for seats in neighbouring states where admissions were conducted without much delay,” said Sachin Pawar, president of the Student Law Council. He added that the state’s decision to keep extending law admissions dates has cost several aspirants their future.Last month, state minister for higher and technical education, Uday Samant, called for additional admission rounds for the three-year law course where over 767 seats remained vacant after online and offline admission rounds. These additional rounds were conducted by the state CET cell between April 23 and 29, but the final data on vacant seats in the three-year law course has not yet been made available by the admissions body.Despite verbal assurances by Samant, giving first-year law students and colleges extra time to complete their curriculum for the current academic year, students are worried if colleges will manage to complete the curriculum, even with extra time. “Instead of nine-10 months that colleges usually get to complete the entire year’s portion, our batch will get four or five months, if we are lucky. We are fearing the exams because in most cases, colleges have only now started online lectures for the first-year batch,” said Ashutosh Sairam, a first-year LLB (five years) student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-more-takers-for-5-year-law-course-despite-delayed-admissions-101619892775170.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||PhD applicants double at University of Mumbai; experts raise doubts over capacity||Nikesh Patil, 31, completed his masters in political science in 2018 and was all set to appear for the preliminary eligibility test (PET) in May 2020, but had to delay his plans by a year as the world was grappling with Covid-19. This year, he is one of the 11,000-odd candidates who appeared for the PET exam conducted by University of Mumbai (MU) for Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and has managed to successfully clear the exam as well.“Now that I’ve cleared the exam, I’m unsure if I’ll manage to pursue my PhD this year itself because most guides at the university are already managing a few students and cannot possibly take up more candidates,” said Patil, who now plans to continue working as a visiting faculty at various city colleges for another year before applying for PhD next year. The university considers PET results valid for three years, making it possible for people like Patil to pursue their dreams next or the year after that as well.Before 2021, MU had managed to hold its last PET exam in December 2018, and the number of applications made headlines with an almost 85% rise in PhD applicants. From 3,350 and 3,333 in 2016 and 2017 respectively, the varsity received 6,168 applications in 2018, which included maximum applications for the science and technology stream, followed by humanities and then the commerce and management stream.After not being able to hold the exam due to various reasons in 2019 and due to Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, MU was expecting an even bigger turnout for the entrance exam this year. “In 2018 itself we witnessed a rise in applications because the exam was held after a break of almost 16 months. This year, PET was held after over two years, so we were not surprised to receive 11,351 applications for PhD alone,” said a senior official from the MPhil and PhD department of the university.The varsity had originally planned to conduct PET in May 2020, for which registrations took place between February 27 and March 31 last year, but due to the national lockdown, MU could not conduct the exam. This year, registration began in January and was extended till March in order to accommodate students who cleared their postgraduate programmes in December 2020. The entrance exam was held between March 25 and 27.“The number of applications is almost double because applicants from last year and this year have applied together. We were also very happy to see that almost 55% of the applications were from female candidates,” said the MU official.Experts, however, feel that the rise in PhD applications will not materialise into rise in number of research scholars, due to the lack of appropriate number of guides across various departments of the varsity. At present, officials have confirmed that MU boasts of around 1,500 professors, associate professors as well as assistant professors who can work as guides with PhD as well as MPhil students. However, these guides are already working with enough number of students at present, making it impossible for them to mentor anymore.“This year, maximum applications have come for the chemistry department, where our teachers are already clearing a backlog of previous years’ research candidates. A professor is not allowed to mentor more than eight candidates at a time, and in our department, most professors are already working to the maximum capacity,” said an associate professor from the department of chemistry. She added that many students who could’ve cleared their PhD by now were delayed last year due to the lockdown that left them unable to continue field work or research to complete their thesis.To make matters worse, the university has, this year, decided to extend the validity of the December 2018 PET exam candidates by another year to December 2022. “This means that apart from the 4,304 candidates who cleared the exam this year, we will also see more students from the 2018 batch who could not pursue their research projects last year due to the lockdown. The varsity is not equipped with enough staff to mentor so many students,” added the associate professor.In 2020-21, the total number of PhD and MPhil degrees awarded at the annual convocation ceremony dropped by over 63% compared to 2019-20. Many blamed the lockdown for the small number of doctorates awarded by the varsity this year. Not only was the university and its various departments under complete shutdown for the first few months of the lockdown, candidates highlighted several other issues including lack of proper e-learning resources, unavailability of remote access to science labs and/or libraries, poor internet facility, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/phd-applicants-double-at-university-of-mumbai-experts-raise-doubts-over-capacity-101619892714525.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 68 cops died of Covid in April, second highest in a month||April 2021 has turned out to be the second deadliest month of Covid-19 pandemic for the Maharashtra Police, as the force lost 68 personnel to the infection. The police force saw the highest of 89 Covid deaths in September 2020, followed by 55 deaths in August. This year January, February and March together saw a total of 36 fatalities. The second wave of Covid-19 has led to more fatalities in the police department, despite nearly 85% of its personnel having received the first dose of vaccine and 50% having received both the doses. Last month, the police force recorded more than 6,000 new cases of Covid-19. In the past 24 hours, 165 new cases, including 25 officers and 140 constables, were reported.Cities where the police force saw maximum fatalities are Mumbai with 109 deaths, Thane (35), Pune (17), Nagpur (21), Navi Mumbai (12) and Nashik (11).So far, a total of 40,948 police personnel contracted the virus, of whom 422 (35 officers and 387 constables) have died since April 2020. Currently, there are 3,811 active cases. Around 36,715 police personnel have recovered, while around 11,129 are quarantined.Additional director general of police (administration) Sanjeev Singhal said it was unfortunate that 68 policemen lost their lives, but the fatality rate of police is less compared to the general public. The peak could be attributed to overall second wave, he said.“To bring effective check on this, we are aggressively pursuing vaccination of police personnel and have instructed all unit commanders to ensure strict adoption of Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Singhal said.According to Mumbai Police spokesperson deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Chaitanya Siriprolu, a total of 8,605 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 in the city. Of them, 109 succumbed to the infectious disease. Currently, there are 453 patients in the force who are undergoing treatment at various facilities. The city police force also expedited the vaccination drive for its personnel. The Mumbai Police has a strength of around 45,000 personnel, of whom 33,691 have received the first vaccine dose, while 21,915 have got both the doses. “Compared to the November-February period, daily cases of infection among police personnel in March and April have gone up. But due to vaccination, the number of serious patients is low,” said a senior officer from Mumbai Police.In the view of surge in Covid-19 cases, Mumbai Police also opened its dedicated Covid care centre at Kalina with a capacity of 720 beds. The other three Covid centres may also be reopened if need arises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-68-cops-died-of-covid-in-april-second-highest-in-a-month-101619892654014.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal place of sensitive origins: Maharashtra govt||In a bid to curb transmission of Covid-19 and to stop the “influx of other variants of coronavirus” from other states, Maharashtra on Saturday declared Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal as the places of “sensitive origin”.It means the travellers coming from these two states will have to carry negative RT-PCR tests within 48 hours of their train travel. They will also have to go through a mandatory 15 day home quarantine even if they are carrying a negative report. The order was issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on Saturday.Last month, the state had declared Kerala, Goa, Gujarat, Delhi and NCR region, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand as places of “sensitive origin”.The decision has been taken to curb the transmission of coronavirus in the state and also to stop the influx of other Covid-19 virus variants into the state from other locations, stated the order.“These places will be considered the places of ‘Sensitive Origin’ from the date of this order till the time it is retracted or till Covid-19 stays notified as a disaster,” it added.The passengers who are not carrying the RT-PCR negative report will have to undergo a rapid antigen test at the station. All the passengers without symptoms and without needing to be moved to quarantine centres by district management authority, without fail shall be stamped on their hands for compulsory home quarantine for 15 days. This is required for those passengers who are carrying the negative RT-PCR test as well as those who have tested negative in a rapid antigen test at the station or otherwise, said the standard operating procedure for the place of sensitive origins.Meanwhile, the state government clarified that shops selling meat, fish as well as mangoes will be allowed all seven days but they can be opened between 7am to 11am, according to a clarification issued by Aseem Gupta, principal secretary, relief and rehabilitation department.However, all these shops can send home delivery for customers after 11am personally or through e-commercial services. There are no restrictions on cargo movements, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uttar-pradesh-and-west-bengal-place-of-sensitive-origins-maharashtra-govt-101619892473901.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid second wave: April accounted for 39% of Maharashtra’s cases, 20.58% of deaths||The second wave of Covid-19 in Maharashtra has been massive with nearly 39% (38.88%) of the state’s total cases and 20.58% of its fatalities coming in April alone. Mumbai too saw a huge spike in its tally as it recorded 36% of its total cases and nearly 11% (10.93%) of its deaths in April alone.Maharashtra, on Saturday, reported 63,282 fresh cases and 802 fatalities, taking the total tally and death toll to 4,665,754 and 69,615. The state’s active case count stood at 663,758. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 3,897 new cases and 90 fatalities.Last month alone Maharashtra recorded 1.78 million (1,789,492) cases and 14,164 deaths.While Mumbai added 233,698 cases and 1,435 deaths in April, the number of cases is significantly higher from September 2020 when Maharashtra peaked its first wave. In the first wave, Maharashtra saw its peak on September 11 with 24,886 cases. The state added 591,905 and 12,079 deaths in September alone. The cases added in September were 42% of the total cases then. The deaths reported in September was nearly 33% (32.94%) of the total deaths. The state had tested 2,646,276 in September and a positivity rate of 22.36%In the previous wave, Mumbai had recorded 59,463 cases in September which were 29% of the city’s total cases then. It reported 1271 deaths in September, which was 14.23% of the city’s total fatalities then.The high numbers have also resulted due to ramped-up testing, including RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests. In April, the state tested 7,314,139 samples and had a positivity rate of 24.46%.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state’s Covid task force said, “The second wave has hit Maharashtra massively. It was predicted in October-November last year. The second wave was always anticipated to be ferocious and more lethal. However, the upside was that the positivity rate was under control even though the sheer number was high.”Meanwhile, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed authorities in Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad to become self-sufficient with regards to oxygen availability. Thackeray, during a meeting with officials from these municipal corporations, said that authorities must keep the health infrastructure ready to treat children, as it is suspected that the third wave could hit children. Thackeray, according to a statement from the chief minister’s office, said, “The first wave saw many senior citizens and people with comorbidities getting affected. In the second wave, people between the age of 30 and 50 were affected more, along with several cases of children contracting the virus. This could increase further in the possible third wave, therefore we need to prepare and plan. Hospitals should have treatment facilities for children.”The chief minister also said that a separate control room should be set up to ensure that patients with mild symptoms that isolated at their homes are admitted to the hospital at the right time to save their lives. He said that the responsibility of keeping in contact with such patients should be given to experienced and retired doctors. The decision was taken after it was observed the condition of people with mild symptoms suddenly grew critical.The cases are now declining in urban areas, while semi-urban and rural areas are stabilising. The deaths, however, are still high with the state adding over 800 fatalities for the past three days. Thackeray cautioned the corporations in Mumbai, MMR, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad and said, “Currently, many municipal corporations are seeing the daily figures stabilising, but the threat has not passed yet. Looking at the possibility of a third wave, we must make all corporations self-sufficient in terms of medical oxygen supply. They should not depend on others for oxygen in any situation. They should ensure that there is enough stock of drugs and ventilators.” Thackeray also asked corporations to be prepared for monsoon-related ailments. He said that immediate treatment should be given to patients coming in with monsoon-related ailments including fever, cholera, jaundice, leptospirosis, dengue etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-second-wave-april-accounted-for-39-of-maharashtra-s-cases-20-58-of-deaths-101619892293964.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Lockdown impact: Only 8 lakh passengers travel by Mumbai locals||After the Maharashtra government imposed strict lockdown measures under the BreakTheChain campaign on April 14, the number of passengers travelling by local trains have significantly reduced. On average 800,000 passengers are travelling daily by local trains on the Central and Western Railway lines.Nearly 500,000 passengers travel by local trains on Central Railway (CR) and 300,000 passengers travel by local trains on the Western Railway (WR) currently.Before the lockdown, 3.8 million passengers travelled by local trains on the Central and Western Railway, while two million travelled by trains on the CR and 1.8 million travelled by trains on the WR.“We are not allowing any unauthorised passenger to enter the station premises. There are limited entry and exit points to the railway stations and strict checking of identity cards and medical documents of passengers are being done at the entrance of the railway stations.” said a senior railway official.The Maharashtra government under its BreakTheChain measure to curb the spread of coronavirus did not suspend public transport services but has implemented restrictions including not allowing the general public to travel by local trains.Only the citizens working in essential services, travelling for medical purposes and people travelling to and from vaccination centres are permitted to commute by the local trains.Autorickshaws are allowed to have two passengers only, excluding the driver; taxis are allowed to operate with 50% of vehicle capacity, while Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses are not allowed to ferry any standees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lockdown-impact-only-8-lakh-passengers-travel-by-mumbai-locals-101619891993854.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Good Samaritans help weather the coronavirus storm||On May 6, 2020, as the first wave of Covid-19 hit Mumbai, Tabassum Dhorajiwala , 39, lost her husband, Ahmed. A positive Covid test report – no hospital admitted him without it – took too long to arrive due to the same backlog that Mumbai faces even now, and in the meantime, his condition deteriorated. Dhorajiwala was devastated, but of this loss, a resolve was born. “The struggle to find the right resources at the right time eventually cost me my husband’s life, so that very day I decided to help whomever I can with resources,” said Dhorajiwala, a resident of Mohammad Ali Road. On May 24 last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a national lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus. What followed was one of the world’s longest (68 days) and strictest lockdowns (even road transportation was not allowed in its initial phases) that epidemiologists largely agree went a long way to arrest the spread of the pandemic on the lockdown. However, millions of migrant workers were affected in Mumbai and other urban centres; many returned to their hometowns in northern India, as they lost earnings and homes. This year, as cases began to spike in Maharashtra – between 18-31 March, the state drove 60% of them - the city began to run short of oxygen and beds. Social media was replete with pleas of people seeking beds, as the city ran out of critical infrastructure.When Rajesh P (name changed) needed help with admission to a hospital and oxygen, a local volunteer group - Choti Si Asha group put together a list of doctor contacts from hospitals across South Mumbai. “The aim was to get in touch with a doctor whenever we need help. After my husband passed away, I stayed in touch with these doctors and now, whenever people need help with hospital beds or oxygen, we reach out to these doctors and other officials and find out how we can help those in need,” she said.In May last year, Dhorajiwala started working with Choti Si Asha to distribute ration kits to people in need. They called it NESH, or No one ever sleeps hungry and it catered to people across Mumbai whose income source had dried up due to the lockdown. Between May and July, the group distributed as many as 80,000 packages. This year, she is volunteering to find oxygen tanks for those affected with Covid-19.Ronita Ghosh, 40, moved to Pune in August last year and started a customised catering service called Jikoni Foods. In the past 10 days, Ghosh’s kitchen has been busy preparing khichdi to distribute to frontline workers, patients and relatives outside Sassoon General Hospital. Up at 7am, Ghosh soaks anywhere between 10 to 12 kilos of rice and lentils, cleans and cuts vegetables, assisted by a team of three staff members. By noon, 500 boxes of khichdi are ready. Around 20 volunteers, whom Ghosh met through social media, help with packing and delivering the food. What started as a small initiative with 50 boxes has now grown into a reliable food service network for those sitting in the waiting rooms of the hospital hopeful to get their relatives admitted. “The packets are for anyone hungry,” said Ghosh, who is now known as “dabba didi” by those at the hospital. All of her food boxes are biodegradable, and spices and rotis procured from home entrepreneurs. Social media has emerged as an important network for spreading information about available resources for those in need of testing facilities, or hospitals where beds, ventilators and oxygen supply are still available. A host of volunteers are helping people with the right leads. One among them is Shatakshi, a 20-year-old student from the Mithibai College in Vile Parle who only goes by one name, who is verifying leads and passing on information to people over social media platforms, Twitter and Instagram. When her grandmother was ill and needed immediate hospitalisation, the family couldn’t find a bed as the hospitals in Bihar, her home state, were full. The leads available on social media were too confusing and the family did not have the time to verify these leads. On April 15, Satakshi’s grandmother passed away. Satakshi and a group of friends from her college wanted to ensure that others wouldn’t have to go through the same thing. “I came up with this idea after I couldn’t do anything for my grandmother and we lost her. My friend and I call up hospitals in Mumbai, Gujarat, Bihar daily and prepare data in an excel sheet and upload it on our Twitter and Instagram accounts,” she said. “If I have verified it personally, then I upload the tweet mentioning my name and time and date of verification for people’s ease along with #SoS tag,” she said. Social media has also helped fund Ghosh’s khichdi dabba initiative: her customers send amounts ranging from ₹100 to ₹1,000 which she uses to buy raw materials for the food and eco-friendly packaging material. “I intend to continue this meal service to those at Sassoon Hospital even after the pandemic,” she said. Not everyone is on social media, but that hasn’t stopped them from helping out. When a close friend residing in the same residential complex tested positive for Covid-19 and struggled to manage the cooking all by themselves, Hemant Shah got together with his family and started a tiffin service for the neighbour. Now, they’re catering to 6 to 10 families in their locality of Goregaon west. The banking professional from Goregaon, his wife and daughter-in-law Krishna, deliver home-cooked food to people till 7.30pm every day. The meal includes chapatti, a vegetable, dal, rice, salad and buttermilk. Shah’s driver uses the family car to make deliveries and the Shahs don’t take any money for it. “As of now less traffic allows faster delivery, hence we can deliver the food in 10 minutes,” he said. Their volunteer efforts have spread through word of mouth, and the Shahs often get calls or texts seeking their help.As the pandemic takes a toll on the mental health of people, professionals are offering free counselling services online. A group of research scholars with a background in psychology, social work and medicine is one such volunteering initiative. Sanket Shirsat, an alumnus of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, who is currently pursuing a PhD from the Department of Social Work, Jamia Milia Islamia, New Delhi, launched a campaign last Saturday to provide free counselling services in vernacular languages such as Gujarati, Malayalam, Hindi and Marathi. “We’re living in a time of uncertainty, and many people are feeling stressed, anxious and panicked. We’ve received close to 20 calls so far. There’s distress over workload, anxiety over the new virus strain, people laid off from work are depressed. The pandemic has posed a variety of triggers; people unable to switch to new jobs; some are stuck in abusive households. We listen to people and help them develop coping mechanisms,” said Shirsat, founding member of the Affirmative Actions for Inclusive Foundation, which he started with PhD colleagues from various institutes. The Foundation was set up last August when Shirsat and his colleagues distributed dry ration, protective gear, food and clothes in many villages of Maharashtra. Even as this work continues, the foundation has brought together around 30 students (all from psychology and social work courses) from across the country to offer the free counselling service. Contact details have been shared on all social media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-good-samaritans-help-weather-the-coronavirus-storm-101619891933920.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Set up national committee under SC to tackle Covid crisis, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena on Saturday said that the Supreme Court (SC) must immediately form a national-level committee to tackle the Covid-19 management and distribution of vaccines. Sena leader and Rajya Sabha member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut said that time has come to keep politics aside and handle the second wave that has gripped the country, if not then the “country will be ruled by corpses”. In the suo moto proceedings on the Covid-19 crisis, SC on Friday had asked the Centre about its plans on implementing a lockdown, oxygen distribution to states, vaccine prices and availability of medicines. Last week, the Apex court took cognisance of the issues related to the oxygen supply, drug supply, and various other government policies and measures concerning the Covid-19 pandemic.Lauding the “interest” shown by the Apex court on the Covid-19 handling, Raut said, “SC should form a national committee to look into all these issues [of vaccination and Covid-19 management]. There are several states where even the government does not know what is happening. Now, politics should be kept aside… Everybody needs to come together. The country will only survive if we do work that is devoid of politics. If not, then the country will be ruled by corpses.”“A committee should be immediately formed with the help of the SC, which looks at the requirement of the state, that there is no discrimination, that there is no political interference,” Raut told reporters in Mumbai.The Sena chief spokesperson said that there is no “transparency or clarity” over the vaccination drive in the country. He also raised the inadequate supply of doses to Maharashtra. “Maharashtra is still awaiting the stock; CM said in his address, even Karnataka chief minister [BS] Yediyurappa ji has a similar opinion. Other states are also complaining. So, the question arises what is the Centre doing?” He added, “Maharashtra is not getting the vaccine stock it requires. The vaccination centres are shut for the last two-three days.” According to Raut, the Covid situation has gone out of hand in several states. He added that the Apex court-monitored committee should look at the equal and adequate distribution of drugs, vaccines and medical oxygen. “This is a national calamity and if the Centre is not handling it seriously or if they have lost control, then the Supreme Court should for a national-level committee, which can tackle the issue in conjunction with the central government. From oxygen to vaccination, from Remdesivir to other drugs, from [hospital] beds to other health infrastructure must be given as required.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-set-up-national-committee-under-sc-to-tackle-covid-crisis-says-sanjay-raut-101619891753898.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Palghar receives 23 rail coaches to treat Covid patients||Western Railway (WR) on Saturday morning provided 23 non-AC rail coaches parked at platform 3 at Palghar railway station to treat Covid patients. The coaches can treat up to 414 patients at a time. Rajendra Gavit, MP from Palghar, had written to railway minister Piyush Goyal last week after members of the Dahanu Vaitarna Pravasi Sevabhavi Sanstha (DVPSS) highlighted the shortage of Covid beds in Palghar hospitals. Goyal agreed to provide rail coaches. “On Friday GVL Satyakumar, deputy regional manager, WR, Mumbai signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Palghar district collector Dr Manik Gursal, and on Saturday, we provided the rail coaches,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR.The district collector had sought AC coaches in view of summer heat, but WR agreed to provide non-AC coaches. However, air coolers are to be installed in the coaches with around 9 big desert air coolers in each coach. Each coach can treat 18 patients, said Thakur. “We hope to start admitting Covid-19 patients on Sunday onwards,” he said adding,, “We will send more coaches as soon as the present 23 coaches are occupied at Palghar.”“There are more than 17,500 Covid patients in Palghar district and there is a paucity of hospital beds. Hence, rail coaches are the best option and we need more coaches to manage 2,000 patients — 500 each in Dahanu, Boisar, Palghar and Vasai,” said a government official.Earlier, Nandurbar and Nagpur districts had received such rail coaches to treat Covid-19 patients. In Nandurbar, 57 patients are currently admitted in the special Covid express coaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/palghar-receives-23-rail-coaches-to-treat-covid-patients-101619891693844.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s BMC to vaccinate 1,000 people in 18-44 age group today; all slots full||Mumbai took baby steps to launch the Covid-19 vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group on Saturday with 1,000 vaccines to be administered at five vaccination centres run by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), a symbolic start to coincide with the formation of the state in 1960 on May 1 which is observed as Maharashtra Day.In a tweet well past midnight, the BMC announced that the jabs would be given to 200 people each at five centres from 1pm on Saturday and asked people to get their appointment on the CoWIN app or website. BMC officials said the slots were full within hours.The 5 centres where vaccination begins at 1 pm are Nair Hospital, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar, Cooper Hospital in Vile Parle, Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri, and the BKC Jumbo facility. Each centre will have 200 doses.Maharashtra had initially indicated that it would miss the May 1 timeline announced by the Centre for the launch of the immunisation programme for all adults younger than 45 but was later nudged by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to start a limited drive to commemorate Maharashtra Day.Last evening, Thackeray said the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group will begin in a limited way. The slots would be opened up over the next few days and weeks as the state government procures more vaccine doses.In Mumbai alone, the BMC has estimated that 9 million people in the 18 to 44 age group would need vaccination through public and private centres.Many people who saw the BMC’s early morning tweet announcing the limited vaccination were disappointed. One person, Sanjay P, complained on Twitter that they were not able to see any vaccination slots for Mumbai but spotted open slots in other cities such as Pune and Nagpur.Another Twitter user Gunjan Lahiri said, “Why are the vaccination centres not being updated on the app? I heard there are 5 sites in Mumbai that are vaccinating the 18+ but when you search it says “no vaccination centres available for booking.”In line with the Centre’s guidelines, people in the 18-44 age group need an online appointment to get the jab. No walk-ins are allowed.Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar told reporters on Saturday morning that people should not rush to the vaccination centres unless they have an appointment. “If you have registered but have not received a message, don’t go to the centre and crowd for no reason,” she said.The civic body also appealed to people to wear double masks if they are going for the vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-bmc-to-vaccinate-1-000-people-in-18-44-age-group-today-all-slots-full-101619853532128.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai rolls out vaccine for 18+, mayor says ‘don’t go unless you get message’||The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive was rolled out in Mumbai at five centres on Saturday even as the Maharashtra government said it would begin the campaign only after receiving an ample number of vaccine doses for people in the 18 to 44 age group. As people eligible in this phase prepare to get inoculated, Mumbai’s mayor Kishori Pednekar asked them to not step out unless they receive a message on their phone number registered on the CoWin portal.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here “People who have registered on CoWin and received a message can go to vaccination centres. Don't go to centres until and unless you receive a message. If you have registered but have not received a message, don't go to the centre,” Kishori Pednekar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Good morning Mumbai. Registration for vaccination of our 18-44 year old Mumbaikars, at 5 centres, is now open on https://t.co/e3boNo2aRx . Please note that each centre can register 200 Mumbaikars each. #MyBMCVaccinationUpdate #MyBMCUpdates #WeShallOvercome https://t.co/LqSDVptBfeThe five centres in Mumbai where people can get themselves vaccinated are Nair Hospital, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar, Cooper Hospital in Vile Parle, Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri and the BKC Jumbo Facility between 1pm and 6pm on Saturday. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday night clarified that vaccination will be only be done on basis of appointment and that mere registration is not enough. No walk-ins are allowed too, the civic body said.The Mumbai mayor, however, said that priority will be given to those aged between 45 and 60 years who are coming in for their second dose. “Vaccines will be given to people between 18 to 44 years of age only after they have registered and received a message. Vaccine centres will function as and when we receive vaccines,” she added.Kishori Pednekar also urged the citizens to follow Covid-19 norms and wear double masks to prevent themselves from contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “I request everyone with folded hands to wear a mask, that too double masks. People are requested to not step out of their houses unnecessarily,” she said.The crucial phase of the vaccination drive in Mumbai kicks off a day after the city recorded a one-day jump of 3888 Covid-19 cases and 89 fatalities on Friday. BMC said that the city’s daily positivity rate, the number of Covid-19 cases as a percentage of the total tests done in the city, was 9.94%. The rate slipped to a single digital for the first time in 45 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rolls-out-vaccine-for-18-mayor-says-don-t-go-unless-you-get-message-101619850532656.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Not enough Covid-19 vaccines for people aged 45 and above: Maharashtra Deputy CM||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has said that the state had planned a big Covid-19 vaccination event for Saturday but has only received 3 lakh doses out of which 20,000 doses have been given to Pune district, adding that the state government does not even have the stock to vaccinate people aged 45 and above.Speaking to reporters, Pawar said, "We had planned a big event for today but we received only 3 lakh doses for today. Out of that 20,000 have been given to the Pune district. Today, we don't have vaccine stock to vaccinate people aged 45 and above hence vaccination centers in Pune district were closed."The third phase of the vaccination drive for those in the 18-44 age bracket started from Saturday in the country despite some of the states flagging the shortage of vaccines and expressing their inability to start vaccination of people aged above 18 years.Pawar further said, "We had taken a decision in a cabinet meeting that people aged 18 to 44 years will start getting vaccinated from May 1. 5.71 crore people are there in this age category in Maharashtra and we have to vaccinate around 12 crore people. 6.5 crore vaccine doses were supposed to be purchased and we had approved that purchase. The state finance department is ready to clear the payment in one go."He said that Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla had told Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray that it was difficult for them to provide vaccines in such a large amount, adding that to procure sufficient vaccine doses, the state government has also done bookings with Bharat Biotech."Adar Poonawala told the CM that it is difficult to give the vaccines in large stock. We have done booking with Bharat Biotech as well. We are trying to conduct the vaccination as early as possible. We are also trying to get the central government's permission for importing vaccines from other countries. The first lot of vaccines from Russia will be received today but its price is not yet clear," said the Deputy CM.Responding to the state government's action on fire incidents in hospitals, Pawar said, "Fire audit of the hospitals was ordered. Most of the government hospital's audit had been completed as well, some are remaining and they too shall be covered soon. For private hospitals also an inspection has been ordered which will start very soon."Further responding to a question on extended restrictions in Maharashtra amid rising cases, Pawar said, "Not only Maharashtra but many other states have imposed or extended lockdown."The state government had on Friday extended the ongoing restrictions till May 15. The restrictions imposed to curb the infections were initially in place till May 1.Maharashtra recorded 66,159 new Covid-19 cases on Friday and the state currently has 6,64,683 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/not-enough-covid-19-vaccines-for-people-aged-45-and-above-maharashtra-deputy-cm-101619848583350.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Limited vaccination for 18-44 age group to begin in Maharashtra today||The vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group will begin in the state in a limited way from today, depending on the availability of the stock, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced on Friday, in his live address from social media platforms. He said Maharashtra was capable of fulfilling the responsibility put by the Centre on it to inoculate all adults. He also said that the state is prepared to buy the entire stock of 120 million doses at one go and requested the Centre to help Maharashtra get maximum stock. “Maharashtra is starting its drive for the 18-44 age group from Saturday onwards, but it will be based on the availability of the stock as the production is limited. We have been told that the state will receive 18 lakh (1.8 million) doses in May, but have not got a specific date on which the stock will be delivered. We have received 300,000 doses which has been distributed based on the number of patients and population,” the CM said. Expanding the nationwide drive, the Centre threw open vaccination for all adults from May 1, asking the states to inoculate the 18-44 age group by procuring doses from the open market. To be sure, the Centre on Friday clarified the third phase of vaccination of 18-44 age group can only be executed using vaccines bought by the states and private hospitals directly from manufacturers. The Centre is providing the stock for vaccination of those above 45 and priority groups, which the states don’t have to pay for. While SII, the manufacturer of Covishield, has priced its vaccines at ₹300 for states, Bharat Biotech, the maker of Covaxin, has priced the vaccine at ₹400 for states. According to the state government figures, about 60 million of its population falls under the age group of 18-44 and will require 120 million doses to get them immunised from the virus. It has already declared to provide free doses of the vaccine for all adults at government-run centres. The decision was taken in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. For this, it has estimated a spending of ₹6500 crore. “The Centre has put the responsibility of inoculating all those who come under 18-44 age group and Maharashtra is capable of doing so. We are prepared to buy the entire stock in one go because we want to come out of this situation. The preparation has been made despite the financial crunch as life is more important for us. But limited production of vaccine doses is a problem,” Thackeray informed. “We have been told that by June-July, the production is going to be increased, but till then we have to show some restraint and avoid crowding the vaccination centres. We also want to request the central government to please provide us maximum stock and if that happens Maharashtra would be the first state to defeat this crisis.” He said that in the beginning, there may be some mess but it will become smooth with time. The chief minister also said 300,000 doses received for the 18-44 age group are too low compared to the vaccination capacity of the state. “We have set a record of vaccinating more than 500,000 beneficiaries in a day. We have the capacity to vaccinate one million in a day,” he said. Thackeray was keen on launching the drive on May 1 as the day is celebrated as Maharashtra’s foundation day, which the CM mentioned in his address saying it is also celebrated as Worker’s Day. “The chief minister intends to start the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group in a limited way. It is because we celebrate May 1 as Maharashtra Day and the Centre also wants it to be started on the same day. The CM will share more details,” Tope told reporters earlier in the day. Tope said the state may start the drive with one centre in a district as they have very limited stock of vaccine doses. “Serum Institute of India has informed us that they can provide 1,400,000 -1,500,000 vials in May whereas Bharat Biotech said they can provide between 400,000 and 450,000 doses next month. Together, we are expecting to get around 1.8 million doses in May. Based on this, the state can start the drive at limited centres which may be limited to one in each district,” the health minister said. The state has divided the stock of 300,000 vials among districts based on their population of adults and has also asked to limit the number of centres to five, said Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer. “The stock has already been dispatched to all districts, based on the population. We are trying to cover at least five days with this stock,” Dr Patil said.The chief minister requested PM Narendra Modi to give nod to the state to prepare apps for the process that can be linked with Centre’s Co-Win. Thackeray also said Maharashtra’s Covid-19 situation is better due to restraint shown by all and there is no need for stricter lockdown. “There were concerns that the tally of active cases will reach one million by May 1 but we could restrain them around 0.7 million cases because of the restraint shown by you...The entire world is facing a number of waves and experts have said that a third wave is going to come. We have started our preparations. We were preparing for the second wave as well but had not anticipated it would be so huge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/limited-vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-to-begin-in-maharashtra-today-101619812969122.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||CBI submits interim report in Anil Deshmukh case||Mumbai: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday filed an interim report of its preliminary enquiry into corruption allegations against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh made by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh.A senior CBI officer said the report is based on the evidence collected so far during various search operations and on the basis of statements of several witnesses. The agency moved an application before the special CBI court on Friday , seeking permission to submit the report. The court accepted the report filed in a sealed envelope.On April 21, the central agency registered a case against Deshmukh under sections 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and 120B of the Indian Penal Code.The first information report (FIR), based on Singh’s allegations, came after CBI was ordered to conduct a preliminary enquiry by the Bombay high court on April 5.Singh took legal recourse after his March 20 letter to the chief minister and the governor, alleging that Deshmukh ordered Mumbai police assistant inspector Sachin Vaze to extort money from restaurants and bars. His complaint came after he was removed as commissioner for his handling of the Antilla explosives case.An SUV laden with explosives (20 loose sticks of gelatin; no timer or detonator) was found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia, in south Mumbai on February 25. Vaze, who was part of the Mumbai crime branch, was initially lead investigator in the case. However, after a Thane-based businessman linked to the car, turned up dead, Vaze was transferred out of his department. He was later arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as prime suspect in the explosives case. He has also been named suspect in the murder investigation of the businessman, Mansukh Hiran.Deshmukh, a leader of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government sought to brazen out the issue initially as Singh approached the Supreme Court seeking a CBI investigation into the alleged extortion racket. The top court refused to intervene and said Singh could approach the high court. Deshmukh resigned citing moral grounds after the high court asked the CBI to conduct the preliminary inquiry within 15 days and left it to the discretion of the agency’s director to decide the further course of action.In its FIR, CBI claimed, “The preliminary enquiry prima facie revealed that a cognisable offence was made out in the matter, wherein the then home minister of Maharashtra Shri Anil Deshmukh and unknown others have attempted to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of their public duty.”“The enquiry has also revealed that Shri Sachin Vaze, assistant police inspector, Mumbai Police, had been reinstated into the police force after being out of the service for more than 15 years. The enquiry further revealed that Shri Vaze was entrusted with most of the sensational and important cases of Mumbai Police and at the then home minister’s knowledge,” read the FIR. It also mentioned the allegations made by Singh against Deshmukh.A day after registering the FIR, CBI conducted searches at Deshmukh’s premises in Mumbai and his home town Nagpur. CBI also obtained records of investigation and evidence gathered from Vaze by National Investigation Agency (NIA) which is probing the Antilia explosives case. The agency has also recorded statements of several people, including Deshmukh, his personal assistant, secretary and some police officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-submits-interim-report-in-anil-deshmukh-case-101619809887012.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Class 10 internal assessment: The hurdles ahead for Maharashtra board||A few days after the state government cancelled Class 10 (SSC) exams in the state, the education department is weighing in all its options to draw up a fair marking criterion for students. With the academic futures of nearly 17 lakh students at stake, the government needs to first address all the challenges concerning the options that are being considered in place of physical exams.Cancellation of examsOn April 20, the state government following a cabinet meeting decided to cancel Class 10 state board exams owing to growing Covid-19 infections and resultant lockdown. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that students will be marked based on internal assessments. Since then, the state education department has held numerous consultation meetings with various stakeholders including schools, teachers, parents, educationists and technology firms to assess and understand feasible ways of marking students.Anticipating future challengesSome suggestions that were discussed in a few of these meetings included promoting all students and conducting entrance tests for junior college admissions, marking students based on internal exams conducted at the school level, marking students based on their cumulative performance of two-three years etc. Experts who have been a part of these discussions said that while the specifics of each of these options can be worked out later, what also needs to be looked into is the challenges they are likely to pose in future and address them right away. “For instance, if we promote all students without giving them scores, these students might get a college seat because the state will look into it. But they might have problems when they apply for a job, for instance, where the requirement is 50% pass marks in Class 10 exams. These seem minor challenges but it is imperative to address them now to avoid future confusion,” said an expert on the condition of anonymity.Need mechanism for internal assessmentsWhile the education department is mulling the use of scores of internal assessments, experts said there needs to be a mechanism in place to identify and fix the possible inflation of scores. “Schools are likely to inflate marks when it’s left up to them. Hence, it will be better if their inputs are compared with data from the board over the years. The state board has data on school wise and subject wise performance of students across the state. For instance, if the number of distinction holders in a school has always been 10% of the total students and this year the number goes to 20 or 30%, then that deviation can be caught and identified,” said an official. The state board had not asked schools to conduct exams in a specified format this year. As a result of this, many worry that school data on internal assessments might not be consistent.Experts also said that the government needs to ensure that the solution that it comes up with is as fair as possible. “Conducting an entrance exam, for instance, will be unfair because students have not been informed about this in advance. Suddenly, we cannot ask students to write an exam which they are not prepared for. Also, there are various questions about who will set the papers, what the syllabus for these exams will be etc. which will add to the anxiety of students,” said Basanti Roy, former secretary of the Mumbai divisional board.The challenge of equivalenceRizwana Shaikh, a teacher from a government-aided school in Mumbai said, “The government needs to strike a right balance between equivalence and assessing the child’s performance in the best possible way at the moment. Our students should not lag behind their counterparts from other boards during admissions.” Some solutions the state board has come up with in the last few years to bring about a level playing field for state board students vis-a-vis other boards comprise best-of-five scores of six subjects are considered for calculating overall scores of students. The others include setting aside 20 of 100 marks for internal assessments such as orals and practicals, and between 3 and 25 bonus marks for excelling in areas such as sports, drawing and different performing artsOfficials from the education department said they are awaiting the assessment criteria from CBSE and ICSE before they can finalise their own. This year, the CBSE, ICSE, IGCSE and IB have all decided to cancel physical exams and go with internal assessments and predicted grades for Class 10 students.OPTIONS BEING EXPLORED BY THE BOARD- Internal assessments: Schools will be asked to submit data of internal scores. This data can then be cross verified with the trend for the last year/s and student scores can be calculated with the help of statistical tools.- Entrance exams at junior college level: Junior colleges where competition is fierce can conduct entrance tests at their level. In a recent meeting with principals of colleges, however, it was conveyed that colleges are not equipped to conduct such exams and hence the board will have to handle it if needed.- Calculating cumulative scores: An overall performance of a student over a period of time (2-3 years) will be assessed to arrive at his/her scores for the exam.Boardwise numbersClass 10 student data (2020)SSC: 17,54,367CBSE: 73,484ICSE: 23,336||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/class-10-internal-assessment-the-hurdles-ahead-for-maharashtra-board-101619808708904.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Case in cities decline, rural areas a concern||Till a week ago, five districts were contributing the greatest number of cases to Maharashtra’s daily infection and death tally: Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Thane. By April end, two of these districts – Mumbai and Pune -- have begun to record a decline in the numbers, though experts said it is still too early to see this as cause for cheer, as the state’s surge now seems to be driven from rural parts of the state and smaller districts with poorer health care infrastructure. Since mid-March, Maharashtra has seen a sharp uptick in the number of Covid-19 cases. In the week ending April 8, the daily average of new cases reported from Maharashtra was 51,469. In the week ending April 29 the average daily new cases were 63,652. According to Union health ministry figures, Maharashtra also led the surge in deaths reported over a 14-day period: 45.2% between February 18 to March 3; 42.7% in the first fortnight of April. Though it is no longer leading the surge in latter metric anymore, it continues to remain the most affected state in the country. “During the first wave, the virus spread from big cities to smaller ones and then to the peripheral/rural areas. This time it may not be exactly same this time, we expect the curve to tread on similar lines. The districts or the cities with weak health infrastructure and weaker tracking-testing fail to contain the spread effectively. In some districts like Sangli and Amravati which border neighbouring states, the spread become difficult to contain because of the inter-state mobility,” an official from state health department said on condition of anonymity. The surge is no longer coming from densely populated urbanized districts like Mumbai, Thane and Pune, but from smaller ones like Nashik, Ahmednagar, Hingoli and Yavatmal among others, where the tertiary infrastructure is not well developed. “Smaller districts like Hingoli, Parbhani, Ratnagiri do not have tertiary care facility. We have asked these district administrations to ramp up the infrastructure so that they can take on the extra load of cases and arrest the spread,” state health minister Rajesh Tope said. The numbers bear this out. In the week between April 22 and 29, Mumbai’s active cases dropped from 82,616 to 67,255; Thane’s dropped from 80,743 to 56,973; and Pune’s from 117,337 to 104,529. In the same time period, Nashik saw a spike from 46,706 to 52,954; Sangli from 9,600 to 13,095; Chandrapur from 18,388 to 26613; and Amaravati from 6,280 to 7,243. As on April 28, 23 districts reported more growth rate than state’s rate of 1.55%, while in districts like Yavatmal, Chandrapur, Ratnagiri, it was more than 3%. The weekly test positivity rate (TPR) of these districts was high too. Nashik, Ahmednagar, Osmanabad, Hingoli reported more than 34% positivity rate against state’s rate of 25.38%. Simply put, TPR rises when most of the people who are getting tested are positive anddeclines when most samples tested return negative. But this rate, experts say, has to be correlated to the number of tests. Trends across the pandemic show that when tests declined, TPR went up. Nagpur district has reported 50,000 cases and 638 deaths in the week between April 24 and 30. Of these, 19,002 cases and 239 deaths were recorded in rural areas of the district. The district continues to face an acute shortage of beds and oxygen, along with anti-viral drugs, like Remdesivir. Dr Pinak Dande of Dande Multi-Speciality Hospital said, “We are virtually helpless as we cannot provide beds to new patients as several infected persons are on the waiting list. Moreover, it’s very difficult to cope with the existing patients despite doing our best because of inadequate oxygen supply and life-saving drugs.” On Friday, Nagpur added 6461 new cases while Nasik added 4,696; by comparison, Mumbai added 3,888 and Pune 10,019 new cases to the state’s tally of 62919 new infections. The state now has a total of 4.6 million cases, and the death toll rose to 68813 after the addition of 828 fresh deaths on Friday. The recovery rate in the state is now 84.06%.Experts pointed out that the surge indicated that these districts are yet to reach the peak, which will continue to drive up the state figures. Falling numbers, TPR In the first week of April, Mumbai’s daily case average stood at 9737. In the following week, the daily average dropped slightly to 8879 and to 8074 in the third week. In the ongoing fourth week of the month, the daily case average has further declined to 5628. On the other hand, the number of deaths has shown a rise. There has been a steady downward trend in testing in the city: starting April 22, the number of tests has ranged from 41,826 to 30,428 (April 27). However, Mumbai’s daily Covid-19 test positivity rate – the percentage of tests that are positive, or TPR – has been on a steady decline, data shows. From 30% on April 4, when the city recorded the highest single-day surge of 11,206 cases, the test positivity rate came down to 10.79% on April 29, with cases dropping to 4,174. Maharashtra continued to report a daily caseload of more than 60,000 cases, by reporting 62,919 fresh cases on Friday taking the tally to 4,602,472 and the death toll to 68,813 after the addition of 828 fresh deaths. Mumbai saw a further drop in cases as there was an addition of 3888 new cases, pushing the tally to 648,471 and toll to 13,125 after the addition of 89 deaths.Pune district topped the chart of new cases with 10,019 cases, including 4,365 in Pune city. The district also logged the highest, 150 deaths on Friday, while it continues to have the highest, 106,019 active cases. State’s second capital Nagpur and Nashik district reported 7,170 and 4,696 cases and 44 and 34 deaths respectively.69,710 patients recovered against 62919 new infections on Friday resulting in an improvement in the recovery rate which stands at 84.06%. This also helped to reduce the number of active patients to 662,640.State’s daily test positivity rate dropped to 21.68% after conducting 290207 tests in the last 24 hours. “It is very difficult to predict virus behaviour, but I think, what Mumbai and MMR helped in reducing the number is curbs on local train travel. Major chunk of office too has been shut down helping in reducing the crowding. But in rural areas all activities at marketplaces, wedding ceremonies continue as usual making it difficult to bring cases under control. But I believe that these areas are reaching their peak and are likely to stabilise in next few days. It would help bringing down the overall state cases,” Dr Rahul Pandit, member of state-appointed task force said. Dr Kapil Aher, district health officer of Nashik said, “The spread of virus in Nashik is rapid because of the urbanisation and mobility due to the commercial, agricultural activities. The cases in the district have started stabilising though the downward trend may take a couple of weeks to begin.” Officials said that tracking-tracing and testing in smaller districts and rural areas have been poor. “Many of our backward districts are lagging in the tracing, which needs to be more than 20 people per infection, besides the low testing. Secondly the poor health infrastructure also causes rapid spread as the infected people are not properly isolated,” the official quoted above said. The case fatality rate (CFR) is high across the state: the weekly CFR rose to 0.94%, in the week ended on April 25, from less than 0.5% a month ago. In districts like Sindhudurg and Nanded, it is 3.66% and 3.46% respectively. Dr Avinash Supe, head of the death audit committee appointed by the state government said they expect the CFR to start dropping in next few weeks. “The rise of CFR always lags behind the rise in cases by 2-3 weeks and similarly its fall comes two weeks after the cases start falling. Secondly, the percentage of mortality is not as high as it was in the first wave, when it had crossed 6-7%. Yes, in numbers the deaths are more, but we have been doing our best to bring it down. We have been interacting with rural, district level doctors virtually on individual cases helping them in clinical and ICU management and medical protocol to reduce the mortality,” he said. “The police authorities have been told to pull all strings to ensure that strict implementation of the lockdown SOPs. The administrations have been directed to ramp up tracing and testing which will help them in reducing the cases,” another official from the health department said. (With inputs from Pradip Maitra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-case-in-cities-decline-rural-areas-a-concern-101619808528827.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||No response to Maharashtra’s global tender for O2, Remdesivir||Three days after the Maharashtra government floated a global tender to purchase liquid medical oxygen, Remdesivir injections and other essential items, it has not got any response from any company. Food and drugs administration (FDA) minister Rajendra Shingne said the state will again float the tenders, although the shortage is not as acute as before. The list of items to be purchased include 25,000 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen, 40,000 oxygen concentrators, 27 oxygen ISO tanks, a million Remdesivir vials and 132 pressure swing absorption plants. The tender was floated on Tuesday on the recommendation of a three-member committee. Officials said the three-day deadline was issued as the state needs to immediately procure these items. “No company has shown any interest in supplying so far... Global tenders usually take time. As there is no response yet, the state government is thinking about issuing a fresh tender,” said Shingne. Shingne also said there is still shortage of Remdesivir injections. He said the Centre did not provide 170,000 vials of the drug which were due to come to Maharashtra till April 30, as per the schedule made by the Centre. According to the minister, the lockdown has so far only decelerated the growth in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, while the rest of Maharashtra still continues to report over 60,000 cases. So, the need for Remdesivir is significant. The state needs 65,000 vials a day. “We have around 670,000 active cases so even today, we need around 65,000-70,000 injections daily. Barring Mumbai and its suburban areas, there is no sign of decline in daily cases in the rest of Maharashtra despite the lockdown. We will still need more Remdesivir. Between April 21 and April 30, the Centre has given 170,000 fewer injections. That backlog needs to be cleared and daily 65,000-70,000 shots should be provided.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-response-to-maharashtra-s-global-tender-for-o2-remdesivir-101619808469425.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Confusion over Centre’s directive on Covid vaccine supply to private hospitals||Even as the inoculation of those between the 18-44 age group is slated to start from today, there is still a lack of clarity on the supply of vaccination to private hospitals. Some private hospitals in Mumbai have claimed that they do not have any clarity over the supply of vaccination from the government, which could reduce the pace of the drive.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said that if the Centre directs the state to not sell vaccines to private hospitals for the inoculation of citizens over age 45, the state will follow it as the vaccination drive is a national programme.“The vaccination for above age 45 is a national programme which runs as per the rules of the Centre. Today, we are vaccinating people across 4,200 centres, which including both private and government-run hospitals. If they [Centre] say that it (vaccination) should not be done in private hospitals, we will follow it,” Tope told reporters on Friday.Private hospitals across the state purchase the vaccines, which it gets from the Centre, from the local authorities to carry out the vaccination of people over age 45. Though the exact number of how many people get vaccinated in private and government-run hospitals are not available, a significant number choose private hospitals to get vaccinated, especially in urban areas.The lack of clarity could impact the pace of vaccination of the people above age 45, which is considered a “vulnerable group”. Till April 29, Maharashtra had inoculated 10,964,761 people over age 45. Of these, 1,404,673 or only 12.81% had taken their second shot.Reeling under shortage of vaccines, the drive in Mumbai has already been suspended till May 2. Some private hospital in Mumbai said that there is no clarity over how the drive will proceed after Sunday. Dr S Narayani, zonal head of Fortis Hospital, Mumbai said, “We have no clarity on the drive. We have been hearing about it (purchase from open market). We are awaiting clarification on it. As of now, we do not have any stock left.”A representative of another private hospital in Mumbai, who did not wish to be named, also said that there was no clarity. “The stock was very less in this week. We have not heard anything formally from the government or the local administration on what happens after May 1,” he said. Another doctor involved in the vaccination management at a private hospital in Mumbai said, “The lack of planning and clarity could hurt the state further that is reeling under the second wave. The limited quantity of stock will delay the completion of vaccination for all. The herd immunity will not develop in the population at a stage where there is talk of a third wave later this year.”When asked if the vaccination of this age category will slow down, Tope said, “Whoever has not taken their second dose will have to take it. Whether to do it at a private [hospital] or take the record and take the second dose in the public hospital, will have to be seen. It is important to complete the vaccination process.” Apart from slowing down the drive, senior health department officials said that it will put an additional burden on government and municipal bodies. “So far, a considerable number of people gets vaccinated in private hospitals. If this decision is made by the Centre, the entire traffic will be diverted to government-run centres. It will add to the chaos there,” an official said requesting anonymity.Besides that, the minister said there is no clarity if the Centre will regulate the vaccine supply for the remaining 50% stock for the 18-44 vaccination. Tope sought clarity if the state government will be given preference over private hospitals if there is high demand and low supply.As per the Centre’s orders, the two manufacturers—Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech—have been told to give 50% of their monthly production to the Government of India. “The remaining 50% includes state governments, private hospitals, industrial private hospitals. There is a big question mark that if there is a huge demand with the two companies, then who will they give priority to? Will the Government of India have to regulate; this is a question [before us]. So far, there is no clarification on this,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-confusion-over-centre-s-directive-on-covid-vaccine-supply-to-private-hospitals-101619808468824.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees positivity rate in single digit after 45 days||After 45 days, the city’s daily positivity rate was down to a single digit – 9.01% – on Friday, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) data. Mumbai reported 3,888 cases on Friday. Of the 43,525 tested samples, 3,925 samples were positive. However, deaths continue to rise, with the city reporting 89 deaths on Friday, according to BMC data. The city’s case tally is 648,471 and toll 13,125, according to the state health department. Positivity rate is the number of positive Covid-19 cases in comparison to the total tests. On March 13, Mumbai’s daily positivity rate was 9.48%, which went up to 15% around March 20. In April, the positivity rate hovered around 11-27%, and it went down to 9.94% on Friday. The city’s highest ever positivity rate was 27.94%, reported on April 4. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 5,380,473 tests. The overall positivity rate is 11.9%. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “Our positivity in single-digit now with around 4,400 tests. Of these, 85% cases are asymptomatic today. Mumbai is perhaps the only city in India with single digit positive even with high testing.” The city’s recovery rate is 87% with 568,083 recoveries and the mortality rate is 2.02%. There are 65,670 active cases in the city. According to BMC’s data, Dahisar, Borivali, Kandivali, Malabar Hill, Grant Road, Churchgate and Colaba continue to contribute the most to the city’s daily average growth rate of 0.86%. The BMC has maintained that even though the cases are dipping, the lockdown announced by the state up to May 15 will remain in force in the city. In the past few days, the daily number of Covid-19 cases in the city has been on a decline. The highest number of cases reported in the city so far was 11,206, on April 4. By mid-April, Mumbai was reporting on 7,000-8,000 cases a day. On April 15, Mumbai reported 8,209 Covid-19 cases, which dropped to 5,867 cases on April 24. These further dropped to 3,840 cases on April 26. However, although the positivity rate has gone down, the number of deaths in the city is on the rise. A week-on-week death rise analysis of the state health department data reveals that between April 4 and April 10, 190 deaths were reported, 357 deaths in the next week between April 11 and April 17, followed by 425 deaths between April 18 and April 24. On the increasing deaths, Chahal had on April 20 said, “Mumbai had 953 deaths in the past 70 days since the second wave started with 2.66 lakh positive cases. Our death rate has been 0.03% (13.6 deaths per day). Delhi had 240 deaths in 1 day yesterday.” Dr Madhav Sathe, former microbiology professor at Nair Hospital, said, “Cases in Mumbai are going down slowly which shows that lockdown restrictions have helped in lowering Covid cases. Not only positive cases, but aggressive vaccination will also reduce fresh cases, which will result in reducing the deaths. Heavy load of active serious cases has put enormous pressure on the healthcare system, which has also resulted in increased mortality. Health infrastructure is unable to handle this sudden rise in active cases which has resulted in difficulty in getting life-saving drugs, oxygen, ICU beds for needy patients, even test reports are made available after three to four days after sample collection that is causing delay in treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-positivity-rate-in-single-digit-after-45-days-101619808409506.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra DMER extends residency of PG medical students||Days after the National Medical Commission (NMC) asked all postgraduate (PG) medical students to continue working as residents in hospitals as part of the Covid task force, the state Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) released a circular on Friday reinstating the decision.“We are bound by NMC rules and will have to follow it. DMER has informed all colleges in Maharashtra to ensure that NMC rules are followed,” said TP Lahane, director of DMER. He added that as of yet, there was no clarity on the period of extension from NMC.Final-year PG medical examinations have been stalled in most states due to the deterioration of Covid-19 situation. Similarly, no fresh admissions to PG medical and diploma courses were done due to the postponement of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET PG) exams. Students of most PG colleges were roped in last year to augment trained manpower for treatment of Covid and non-Covid patients. The fresh NMC directive seeks to ensure that the current batch continues to serve as resident doctors to help deal with the present crisis until fresh admissions are made to PG courses and final-year examinations are held. NEET-PG exams are generally conducted in the month of February every year and the final-year examinations are generally held between April-May in colleges in the state.“The start of the 2021-2022 academic session will be delayed and the new batch of first-year PG students will join only after NEET-PG examination is held, followed by counselling to allocate colleges,” the NMC circular released on April 27 said. It further stated that the students’ continued deployment as residents will help ensure there is no shortage of hands to deal with the surge of Covid-19 cases. NMC has also advised colleges to continue providing accommodation and stipend to PG students during this extended period.Meanwhile, a group of PG students approached state health minister Rajesh Tope and asked for at least a 45-day period to prepare for their exams. “We’ve been working nonstop for some months now, left with no time to prepare for the exams. We hope the state government considers this before scheduling our final exams,” said the letter addressed to Tope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-dmer-extends-residency-of-pg-medical-students-101619808289334.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Urgent need to streamline Remdesivir supply, say doctors||Proprietors of small to mid-sized hospitals and nursing homes said they are struggling to obtain adequate quantities of antiviral drug Remdesivir under the new allocation system introduced in the state 10 days ago. Where hospitals were earlier able to procure vials directly from manufacturers (through medical representatives of pharma companies), they now have to obtain them from district collectors, based on requests sanctioned by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).“This has made the supply extremely erratic. Our need is about 40 vials per day. Before FDA stepped in, we could buy between 200 to 300 vials at a time and that would keep us steady for a short period. Now we are on our toes every day wondering how many vials will come. We get about 20 vials every two days. In the past five days, we have received stock only on three days,” said Dr Prince Surana, proprietor of Surana Hospital in Chembur which has 70 Covid beds.Under the existing protocol, a particular hospital or nursing home is eligible to receive Remdesivir for 10% of the active Covid patients under treatment, on a day-to-day basis. Each hospital raises their daily requirement with the area’s concerned health officer, who then forwards the same to FDA, which makes the doses available at the collector’s office.“But this quota is not enough. In every hospital, more than 5% of admitted patients will need Remdesivir. After all, they are admitted because their oxygen saturation is low. Every patient whose oxygen level is less than 95 should get the injection. So yes, one consequence of this system is that the drug is not reaching the facilities as per their need,” said Dr Deepak Baid, former president of Medical Consultants Association.Another consequence, doctors said, is that relatives of patients are unnecessarily sent on treasure hunts to find the drug elsewhere (usually in the black market), which is exhausting and also puts them at risk of fraud. “If we don’t have enough doses, we have to give patients’ relatives prescriptions and ask them to find vials elsewhere. But we know this is futile given the demand,” said Surana.Nevertheless, doctors largely agreed that FDA’s active oversight in the matter is required so that smaller districts do not run out of supplies, as witnessed recently in Latur, Bhandara and Aurangabad. They also said the procurement system has improved over the past 10 days, but not enough to assuage their concerns. “Initially through FDA, we were only getting about 10% of the daily need. Now we are getting about 40% of the requirement, which is also not enough. The biggest worry is whether tomorrow’s stock will come or not,” said Dr Amit Thadani, director, Niramaya Hospital in Kharghar which has 60 Covid beds. “Some days you get five doses, some day six doses, and someday 20 doses. But our requirement is about 30 to 40. We are at the mercy of the collector’s office,” he added.“The Centre has kept the control of Remdesivir supply with itself. We have streamlined its distribution through district collector to curb black marketing. The supply of Remdesivir from the Centre is still less. Compared to the schedule given to Maharashtra till April 30, we have got 170,000 fewer injections. We need 65,000-70,000 injections on a daily basis,” said FDA minister Rajendra Shingne.Even though Remdesivir has been proven to have “little or no impact” on Covid mortality, it remains in high demand, with Maharashtra’s daily requirement of around 70,000 vials. The consensus among doctors is that while it may not be a “silver bullet”, it does cut down the patient’s hospital stay and reduce their viral load. “So not having adequate doses is, in fact, a strain on the system even though the drug has little impact on mortality. In my experience, it can play an important role in recovery, especially when used in the right combination with other drugs,” said Sandeep Kothari, a chemist at CritiCare Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-urgent-need-to-streamline-remdesivir-supply-say-doctors-101619808170439.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: What will it take to make work from home stick?||As the country enters its second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, work from home (WFH) has moved from being a lockdown trend to a signal that the future of work — and the open office — is no longer what we’re used to.Murat Erer, senior insights analyst, LinkedIn, pointed out in a blog post that globally the volume of job searches using the “remote” filter increased by 60% between March and May 2020. “India leads the pack in terms of remote job application growth,” Erer said. Even the ministry of commerce is considering making WFH a permanent solution for employees of IT companies working out of special economic zones, the Economic Times reported recently.The benefits outweigh the pain, professionals agree.When the lockdown was announced in 2020, Parveen Mahtani was just over a month into her new job as chief legal officer at Mahindra Lifespace Developers Ltd. She now believes that WFH is the ecologically-sound choice, not just because of the reduction in vehicular emissions, but also the reduced reliance on paper it necessitates.“It was tough to juggle between work and home discussions and have meetings with my kids doing their work in the background or the dog barking,” Mahtani said. But the return to WFH has one unique advantage: “Because we started relying more on document management software in 2020, it’s reduced the volume of paper we go through.”A few, like author and columnist Aparna Piramal Raje, saw productivity peak in the absence of distractions. “I could focus my complete attention towards writing my book, as there was no way to travel or do anything else,” she said.“In 2020, when the pandemic required us all to switch to remote work, it [wasn’t easy in the beginning]. Now, over a year into it, we’re looking at this as a possible new working model,” said Minakshi Achan, executive vice-president of network brand and creative head, Star & Disney India. In the pre-pandemic world, commuting between her apartment in Bandra (West) and her Parel office took an hour and a half. “Now, one isn’t stuck in traffic jams for hours.”However, WFH had its downsides. Anil Nair and Sheetal Parekh, partners in STEM card games company Pretty Geeky said their earnings dried up in 2020 as the restrictions on movement meant they couldn’t transport products from their Sion warehouse to buyers.So what will it take for WFH to become truly sustainable?Accentuating inequality According to Vivek Pandit, director, McKinsey & Co, a consultancy firm that helped its clients make the shift to WFH last year, a hybrid work model, which involves a combination of WFH and clocking in at an office would likely stay even after the second lockdown ends.He based his findings on a McKinsey survey — which built on research conducted by McKinsey Global Institute and looked at 800 jobs and 2,000 tasks carried out by working professionals in nine countries — which also pointed out that the potential for remote work is highly concentrated among “highly skilled, highly educated workers in a handful of industries, occupations and geographies”. “Remote work thus risks accentuating inequalities at a social level,” the report said.What’s more, the report stated, certain sectors lend themselves more readily to remote work. “Finance and insurance have the highest potential, with three-quarters of time spent on activities that can be done remotely without a loss of productivity. Management, business services, and information technology have the next highest potential, all with more than half of employee time spent on activities that could effectively be done remotely.”By comparison, sectors like agriculture and retail services — where a vast majority of India’s 464 million work force is employed — don’t lend themselves to remote work.All the same, the report found that globally, more than 20% of the workforce could work remotely three to five days a week as effectively as they did from an office, and if remote working took hold at that level, then at least three times as many people would be working from home than before the pandemic. This would have a profound impact on everything from transportation to consumer spending.Studies have shown that companies need to re-look at work flexibility more seriously, to enable their employees to work from their homes, as these often come with multiple demands: of space, time, and attention.“Last year, we realised that many in our team were experiencing inner turmoil. This time, we’ve been able to assure them on many levels – including on the issue of job security – and keep morale high. But a lot of organisations aren’t able to do the same,” Shobhan Kothari, partner at the award-winning architectural firm ADND, said.Recently, Columbia University looked at the experiences of 226,638 people across Asia, Europe and North America. The study found incidences of depression and anxiety across all regions on account of the deterioration of relationships and the distancing due to the pandemic. Other studies have shown how a lack of communication with employees results in anxiety, which is known to decrease work performance, reduce job satisfaction, and negatively affect interpersonal relationships at work.“A lack of vision for post-pandemic work puts talent at risk. Teams should share frequently what works and what doesn’t, and companies should listen actively,” Pandit said.Nair of Pretty Geeky believes his employees could be just as productive working from home, but Nair, himself, can’t wait to get back to an office. CEO and managing partner of advertising firm L&K Saatchi & Saatchi until 2019 – where his “office was like a lounge” -- Nair isn’t at all thrilled about going back to working at his dining table due to the second lockdown in Maharashtra. “At home, people will always talk to you when you’re on a business call.”Design solutions Space Matrix, a multinational design consultancy headquartered in Singapore, recently set up an experience centre in their Gurugram office to showcase new features that can be incorporated into the design of workspaces.“‘Work’ isn’t the operative word when it comes to designing office spaces now,” says Akshay Lakhanpal, CEO, Space Matrix, India. The beta lab – as this space is called -- also allows clients to get an idea of how a contactless design might work: with features like a café that employees need not queue up at (orders can be placed on phones), remote-parking access, touchless sign-ins and so on.Having got a taste of WFH, many executives now want to work in an environment that offers the sort of comfort that home does, he said. For those who cannot take work home, his company has found ways to bring a little touch of home to work: by introducing multisensory experiences like music and fragrance.“Over the past year many organisations have made design changes for better air circulation; placing acrylic partitions between individuals; positioning workspaces to allow for six-feet distance between individuals. But this is all so new, how efficiently it works, remains to be seen,” Kothari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-what-will-it-take-to-make-work-from-home-stick-101619808048808.html
01-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body assures HC of Covid preparedness||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in its affidavit filed in the Bombay high court (HC) has informed that it has more than 21,000 beds in dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH) and dedicated Covid healthcare centres (DCHC) in the city, of which more than 4,000 beds were vacant. The affidavit, filed in response to the allegations of mismanagement of Covid-19 treatment facilities during the second wave by state and civic authorities, also stated the civic body has sufficient supply of Remdesivir and oxygen for treating Covid-19 patients. BMC also said that it has floated tenders to install oxygen generation plants at 12 hospitals under it to resolve the issue of shortage. BMC added that the number of Covid-19 testing had gone down due to lockdown restrictions as there were lesser people outside. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by city-based lawyer Sneha Marjadi through advocates Simil Purohit and Arshil Shah, was informed by senior advocate Anil Sakhare for BMC that as per court directions, it had filed an affidavit enumerating the various measures initiated by it to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave. The affidavit filed by Dr Mangala Gomare, in-charge executive health officer, addressed the various issues pertaining to mismanagement raised in the PIL and stated it has listed the same under the heads of bed management, supply and availability of Remdesivir, supply and availability of oxygen, Covid-19 testing and crematoriums. With regards to beds, the affidavit states that BMC has full-time ward-wise war rooms to inform people of availability of beds in each ward. On receiving calls, a team visits the caller and if needed advices hospitalisation and calls for an ambulance. It further states that as on April 27, the total bed capacity in all DHC and DCHC was 21,706, of which 17,021 were occupied and 4,685 were vacant; thus, the civic body was well equipped for admission of Covid patients. The affidavit stated that it has sufficient supply of Remdesivir. BMC on April 27 had a stock of 13,110 vials of the antiviral drug whereas its requirement for a seven-day period was around 12,033, leading to some excess which was then sent to Pune (500 vials) and Thane civic bodies (1,100). BMC also said there are a total of 72 crematoriums for Hindus, 70 for Muslims and 8 for others. Among the 72 crematoriums, 14 are electric furnaces while 17 are PNG furnaces. The civic body also added that one of the PNG furnaces run by a private trust at Walkeshwar was not functional, and that it had asked the trust to get it functional soon. It also added that it will install air pollution control system in private crematoriums under its jurisdiction if the need arises. With regards to Covid-19 testing, the affidavit stated that 5.5 million tests were conducted since the beginning of last year, of which 3,816,386 (69%) were RT-PCR tests and 1,727,116 (31%) were antigen tests. BMC has submitted that in April, till the date of filing affidavit, 1,172,559 tests were conducted — the highest monthly testing count so far. “However, from the day of strict lockdown, from April 22, testing has gone down to some extent. Since testing at crowded places like malls, railway stations, markets etc. has gone down, this has affected average testing per day. Normally, the number of testing reported on every Monday is less than average, due to weekly off to the staff of testing labs and weekly maintenance of machinery used for testing in these labs,” stated the affidavit.While the HC on Thursday sought details from BMC about fire audits of hospitals and their compliances, it will hear the PIL next on May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-assures-hc-of-covid-preparedness-101619807868728.html
