02-05-2021||Mumbai||Online learning will have impact on students’ future, planning essential: Experts||At a zilla parishad school in Palghar, nearly 30% students have not been able to attend classes since the school moved online in March 2020. Lack of access to technology, poor connectivity and the trauma induced by pandemic-related pressures such as job losses, has meant that many students have remained in schools only on paper. “While the pandemic has left no scope for physical classes, in an area like this, it is a distant dream to see all students online. We have taken all efforts to ensure that their learning doesn’t stop. We call them on their phones, make routine visits to their homes, distribute physical worksheets and a lot more. So, we can say that we are teaching. But how much the students are learning, we really need to assess,” said the principal of the school on the condition of anonymity. As schools, colleges and universities in the state continue to remain online for over a year now, experts now worry about the future repercussions of this shift. While education boards and governments across the country cancelled exams, moved everything online and tried to tweak their teaching-learning process this year, many say that a more long-term solution is needed to plan for the coming years. Many suggest reworking the syllabus, slowing down the teaching-learning process to meet the needs of students and teachers, planning realistically for exams among other things. Francis Joseph, a city-based educationist and the co-founder of SLN Global Network said education boards need to start planning for the next year or two from now as the pandemic has had a huge impact on learning over the last one year. “Boards, schools and everyone needs to realise that this year has been exceptional. Both students and schools had to face a lot of uncertainties and have managed to somewhat sail through. However, there is a learning loss that has been caused during this time. Hence, boards need to slow down a bit, assess what needs to be done to tweak the syllabus a little while working around the challenges with schools,” he added. With rising cases and the resultant lockdown, the Maharashtra government had to cancel its Class 10 SSC exams this year. Other boards such as CBSE, ICSE, IGCSE and IB also took the same call. Experts said a similar decision might have to be taken again in the coming months and years because one cannot predict how the pandemic pans out later. “We need to prepare for the worst. This year, we only did firefighting. We cancelled exams, we moved schools online because it was the need of the hour. But now that we know this can be our state even in the coming years, we need to prepare ourselves better. Schools need to be taught to assess student performance throughout the year, colleges need to be equipped to move their theory and praxis based teaching online and make it more effective,” said Shubhada Mhatre, a civic body teacher in the city. While educational institutes are coming up with the short term and long term plans to address for the coming year, lack of clarity from the governments is turning out to be a hurdle in the process. For instance, in Maharashtra, school and college closures are extended by a few months now and then. In the month of November 2020, when Covid-19 cases in the state had substantially reduced, institutes were asked to ready for a physical reopening. While some schools and junior colleges in Maharashtra could open, many others in cities such as Pune and Mumbai could not. Even the ones that opened in the various districts across the state had to close again as cases rose in April 2021. Institutes said the government can now come up with a slightly longer strategy to indicate in advance whether learning will be online during the coming months. “A lot of investment is required to set up the infrastructure for online learning. During the first wave, we had all our basics in place with a smooth transition from offline to online. While we were planning to invest in more advanced technologies, however, institutes were asked to prepare for a physical reopening. And now we are back to our emphasis on the online mode. Even private institutes which are ready to invest will be able to plan better if the government comes up with a slightly longer plan,” said Hrridaysh Deshpande vice-chancellor DY Patil Group. At this point, most prominent boards are yet to lay down a formal strategy to address concerns around learning losses in the coming months. While the Maharashtra state board did release a set of guidelines for mitigating learning losses in February 2021, the specific details about what schools need to do to assess learning outcomes are yet to be released. “Right now, teaching has sadly remained a formality. We don’t know if the children have learnt what is taught and fear a lot of challenges in the coming years,” said a teacher from a suburban school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/online-learning-will-have-impact-on-students-future-planning-essential-experts-101619979417695.html
02-05-2021||Mumbai||Gram panchayat in Shahapur to pay for Covid-19 treatment of every villager||Khativali gram panchayat is going the extra-mile to ensure the villagers affected by Covid-19 get proper treatment. The gram panchayat has decided to pay for testing, hospitalisation, treatment and medicines of Covid-19 patients from the village. The administration has asked the families to send bill receipts to them which will be reimbursed. The panchayat said the initiative is to stand strong by the villagers to encourage people to get tested to ensure timely treatment to avoid fatalities.Khativali village in Shahapur taluka, Thane has a population of around 6,000 villagers; around 45% of them are tribals. There is only one Covid treatment centre in Shahapur taluka and it is 8kms away from the village. If the centre gets full, villagers do not have any other option but to get admitted in a private hospital, but as they could not pay such a huge amount they would avoid going there. Therefore, this administration has assured to pay the hospital bills. There are 6,660 cases of Covid-19 reported in Shahapur Taluka of which 241 are currently active. Around 170 people have died due to the infection. Devidas Jadhav, 43, member of Khativali gram panchayat, said, “Since last year, most of our villagers have lost their jobs. We completely banned the entry of outsiders, and still some people got infected. Twelve of our villagers succumbed to Covid in the first wave. Since the past one month, two to three villagers are testing positive every day. They had gone out mostly to look for jobs. They or their families do not have the proper resources to get tested or treated. So we have decided to help them for the same.”The panchayat also provides ration to the villagers who need them. Gajanan Shinde, a villager, said, “This announcement has provided relief to us as most of us have earned very little in the past one year, and we are using the same for daily groceries. To arrange money for treatment is really a task but now we are little relaxed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gram-panchayat-in-shahapur-to-pay-for-covid-19-treatment-of-every-villager-101619979418278.html
02-05-2021||Mumbai||SpiceJet air crew starts online petition against management over pay cut||A day after low-cost carrier SpiceJet deducted up to 50% salary for April for all its employees, citing the second wave of Covid-19 as reason, its air crew on Sunday started an online petition against the management. The online petition stated that despite risking their lives and doing their duties, the employees are underpaid and that some who worked full-time have received very small amounts as their salary. The airline has, however, stated that part of the salary was deferred and will be paid to the employees later. Airline sources said ground staff, cabin crew, commercial staff and pilots were paid only 10% to 50% of their April salary.The petition read, “We all who file this petition want to make a change in how an airline company in India sees their employees...as per the latest Covid-19 survey from Indian Central government, people aged less than 35 years (75% of Covid cases) are most like to get infected with this deadly virus. No matter what survey says or news channel telecasts, we (cabin crew) risked our life to go on-board. We quarantined ourselves, we followed guidelines, we took care of customers on-board...why wouldn’t we speak for ourselves now?... All employees of SpicJet received their salary with massive 50% deduction. Some employees who worked full-time received only ₹12,000…”The cabin crew said that the salary cuts by the airline were mentally affecting them.SpiceJet spokesperson said the airline chairman and managing director Ajay Singh has decided to forgo his entire salary and that the airline is ensuring that most of their colleagues, including those in the lowest pay grade, are not affected at all by this deferment and will be paid salaries in full. “The deadly Covid-19 second wave has resulted in the country’s worst-ever crisis with the aviation sector again bearing the biggest brunt. Unfortunately, we have been forced to implement certain tough measures to secure the long-term interest of the SpiceJet family. There will be no salary cut for any employee. However, under these extreme and unavoidable circumstances we are enduring, we are forced to implement a graded salary deferment for some of our employees. This is only a temporary measure and the deferred salary amount will be paid by the company in full once the condition improves,” the airline spokesperson added.In an internal communication to its pilots on Saturday, the airline said the domestic passenger traffic across all airlines, which had peaked at more than 300,000 passengers on a daily basis in mid-February, has now drastically dropped to less than 130,000 passengers per day. “..The salary deferment (of between 10% and 50%) in the higher pay grades is a temporary measure to survive this economic crisis and the deferred salaries will be paid by the company once the conditions improve,” read the internal mail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/spicejet-air-crew-starts-online-petition-against-management-over-pay-cut-101619979357658.html
02-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: NCB arrests two in separate ops, seize multiple drugs||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested one person each from Mumbai and Goa and allegedly seized multiple drugs like amphetamine, LSD, cocaine, heroin, mephedrone, ecstasy, also known as MDMA, from them.One of the arrested accused identified as Ranbir Singh is a caretaker of Negi Café situated in North Goa, from where a drug syndicate was being run by a Nigerian national Mustafa alias Tigar, a notorious drug trafficker. NCB officers said it turned out that Tiger was running his drug trade from Negi Café and therefore they have summoned the owner of the shack for further investigation. Acting on a tip-off, a joint team of Mumbai and Goa NCB raided Negi Café’ opposite Arambol Beach in North Goa and purportedly seized 58 grams of amphetamine (commercial quantity), 15 blots of LSD (commercial quantity), cocaine, mephedrone and heroin in intermediate quantity, 59 tablets of ecstasy/MDMA (commercial quantity) from café and nabbed Singh. Further investigation is going on, said zonal director Sameer Wankhede of the NCB.The agency received another input and a team from Mumbai intercepted one, Irfan Ansari, 24, at Lokhandwala Circle, Andheri (West), and during the search found 56 tablets of ecstasy, which is a commercial quantity. Two separate cases were registered and Singh and Ansari were arrested under the NDPS Act. Ecstasy or MDMA which also known as Methamphetamine is a party drug that alters mood and perception are chemically similar to both stimulants and hallucinogens and produce feelings of increased energy and pleasure, said NCB officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-ncb-arrests-two-in-separate-ops-seize-multiple-drugs-101619979298350.html
02-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 4 arrested four for duping auto dealers||The Dahisar police have arrested four members of a gang that cheated motorcycle dealers by taking a loan on someone else’s CIBIL score.According to the Dahisar police, the gang members also included the employee of a bank who smuggled documents of good CIBIL holders to the gang members who then purchased motorcycles on loan and sold them without paying a single instalment.Assistant inspector Chandrakant George had received a tip-off about four persons buying two-wheelers on loan and then selling them off for ₹50,000 to ₹55,000 in rural areas.After their loans were passed, the gang members picked up the bikes and sold them to unsuspecting buyers for a low rate.Police arrested the main accused from Pune and recovered at least 23 two-wheelers from him.“There are many cases registered against the gang members that include six people and bank employees,” said George. The police have arrested four men and are on the lookout for the other two.The arrested four have been identified as Pravin Khadakbaan, 31, Devendra Majhi, 41, Anil Navthale, 31 and Kiran Padnekar, 39.The police officers said that the gang have till now sold at least 28 two-wheelers. “We suspect that more people are a part of the gang except the six who have been identified,” said George.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-4-arrested-four-for-duping-auto-dealers-101619979117694.html
02-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees slight dip in cases, positivity rate up||Maharashtra witnessed a drop in the Covid-19 cases on Sunday to 56,647 from over 60,000 cases in the preceding six days. The state reported a further drop in weekly cases, establishing the government’s claim of stabilisation of the cases. The state tally stands at 4,722,401 and the death toll at 70,284 after the addition of 669 fresh deaths.The curve of the Covid-19 cases in the state appears to be stabilising as the daily average of cases dropped to 61,053 in the last one week from April 26 to May 2 by reporting 427,374 new cases.The previous week, April 19-April 25, reported a total of 460,689 new Covid-19 cases with a daily average of 65,812 cases per day. According to the state authorities, the lowering of figures has helped in reducing the load on the health infrastructure like hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, ventilators as well as various medicines which were scarce for the last couple of week. Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) said that cases have come down this week. “We have seen the new cases stabilising in 19 districts across the state. The numbers will come down further in the next 15 days. The stabilisation will be replicated across the other districts too in the coming days,” he added.“This trend has reduced the load on our medical infrastructure also. There is no problem now with the oxygen supply and people are the hospital beds are available to patients,” said Lahane. In the last few weeks, due to a surge in Covid-19 cases and the number of deaths was due to a shortage of beds, oxygen cylinders and ventilators as well as medicines like Remdesivir. State authorities have projected that as many as 28 districts will fall short of the required isolation beds, 25 in oxygen beds, 18 in intensive care units (ICU) beds by May 11 if the number of active cases rose as per the prediction. As many as 13 districts will face shortage of ventilators if the active cases rose. Meanwhile, Mumbai on Sunday reported 3,629 new Covid-19 cases, and 79 deaths, taking the tally to 655,997, and the toll to 13,294. There are 61,436 active Covid-19 cases in the city. In the last 24 hours, Mumbai has conducted 28,636 tests. The daily positivity rate for Sunday is 12.67%. So far, Mumbai has conducted 5,490,241 tests, with an average positivity rate of 11.9%. On Sunday, 5,542 Covid patients recovered and were discharged. The present recovery rate is 89%. Mumbai’s doubling rate has now increased to 103 days, from as low as 45 days reported in the first two weeks of April. The overall growth rate of Covid-19 cases in the city is 0.66%.Dr Amin Kaba, who is associated with several hospitals, said, “In urban pockets, we have sufficient infrastructure, but this is not the case with rural areas where even basic medical care is very hard to find.” He said there is an acute shortage of medical professionals which has contributed to the rise. “We have noticed that by the time the patient is shifted to a far-flung urban centre, he has lost precious time. This needs to be rectified,” said Kaba. The state has currently 6,68,353 active Covid-19 patients in which Pune leads the tally with 1,09,254 cases followed by 72,503 cases. Similarly, the state has recorded 70,284 deaths of which 13,294 deaths followed by 9,709 in Pune. There were 2,57,470 tests conducted in the last 24 hours in the state with a positivity rate of 22%. Pune city recorded 4,194 new cases while other cities like Nashik and Nagpur saw 1,879 and 2,859 new cases respectively. The state also saw 51,356 patients who were discharged from Covid-19 on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-slight-dip-in-cases-positivity-rate-up-101619978997752.html
02-05-2021||Mumbai||Increase allocation of Remdesivir to Maharashtra: HC tells Centre||The Bombay High Court here on Sunday asked the Central government to increase the supply of Remdesivir injections to Maharashtra observing the current reduction in the allocation of the crucial drug is not consistent with the number of active Covid-19 cases as of May 1.In a special hearing, the bench of Justices SB Shukre and Avinash Gharote heard a bunch of petitions on the shortage of medical oxygen and Remdesivir, which is in high demand for treating Covid-19 patients.The bench said the high court came to know about the reduction in the allocation of Remdesivir to Maharashtra from May 1 to May 9."For the earlier period of ten days, the allocation was 4,30,000 vials, and the same for the next 10 days is 3,74,500. This means a reduction of 60,500 vials of Remdesivir for Maharashtra," the judges said.The bench observed that such a reduction in the allocation of Remdesivir vials to Maharashtra is not consistent with the number of active cases in the state."On April 30, the number of active cases in Maharashtra was 6,72,000 while the same is 6,64,000 as of May 1, which means active cases reduced hardly by about 1.2 per cent, whereas the reduction in the allocation of vials to Maharashtra for the aforesaid period is by 14.5 per cent."This mismatch needs to be reconsidered and removed by the Central government,"the bench said.The high court also said that the Additional Solicitor General of India Ulhas Aurangabadkar would take instructions from the Union government on this issue and apprise the bench.In the same vein, the bench asked the Centre to reconsider its decision regarding the state-wise allocation of Remdesivir for the aforesaid period of ten days (from May 1 to 9) and increase the quota for Maharashtra to make it consistent with the reduced number of active cases.Maharashtra FDA Commissioner Parimal Singh submitted in the HC that they will issue new orders ensuring that the districts affected by Remdesivir shortage will get the supply and the backlog is cleared.Singh told the HC the FDA will meet representatives of pharma companies and ensure they follow the directions at the district level.The bench directed that no pharmaceutical company, which is duty-bound to supply Remdesivir vials as per the Centre's orders dated April 24 and May 1 to different states and Maharashtra, shall supply the drug to private purchasers unless the daily quota of the supply allocated to each of these companies is fulfilled."Only after that and in case of any remaining balance of Remdesivir vials, the pharma company concerned shall supply the vials to private purchasers till the fulfilment of orders received by them," the bench said.The bench directed the health secretary of Maharashtra and state FDA commissioner to ensure that these directions are followed by pharmaceutical companies concerned.The HC also directed the pharma firms to send their daily production figures to the state FDA commissioner and also upload them on respective websites.The bench warned of strict legal action for violation of its orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/increase-allocation-of-remdesivir-to-maharashtra-hc-tells-centre-101619967709712.html
02-05-2021||Mumbai||Antilia scare: Mumbai cop Sunil Mane remanded in judicial custody in Mansukh Hiran murder probe||A special court on Saturday remanded Mumbai Police officer Sunil Mane, arrested in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, in judicial custody till May 13.Mane was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on April 23, following a lengthy interrogation in connection with the two inter-connected cases and then remanded in the federal agency’s custody.Mane was produced before the special court on Saturday as his earlier remand came to an end. NIA did not seek an extension of his custody and urged the court to remand him to judicial custody, to which the special court agreed.On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence Antilia with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note. A case was then registered with Gamdevi police station on the same day.Suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, who too has been arrested in the case, was originally in charge of the investigation, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV, and had reported it stolen on February 17, 2021. Hiran was found dead on March 5, a day after he had gone missing. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the SUV in November and returned it in early February.NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and Vaze was arrested by NIA on March 13. The murder case was also transferred to the federal agency on March 24 and Vaze was named the main accused in both the cases.According to NIA, Mane has played a role in Hiran murder case. He was present at the criminal intelligence unit of the Mumbai crime branch on March 2 and 3, when Vaze purportedly tried to convince Hiran to take the blame for placing the explosives-laden SUV near Antilia.NIA officers claimed that Vaze had assured the trader that he will get him out on bail in a few days. The plan to eliminate Hiran was allegedly hatched after he refused to take the blame and get arrested in the case.NIA has also claimed that it was Mane who had made the last call to the victim around 8.30pm on March 4, and had drawn him out of his Thane home on the pretext of a meeting along Ghodbunder Road. The next day, Hiran’s body was found in a creek at Retibunder near Mumbra, Thane, with six handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth and his face covered by a scarf.While seeking an extension for Mane’s custody, NIA had on April 28 informed the special court that on March 4, Mane had picked up Vaze from Kalwa railway station, and later, the duo had picked up Hiran in a four-wheeler. Mane then snatched Hiran’s phone and dropped him along Ghodbunder Road with Vaze.It is, however, not yet clear as to who killed the Thane trader or how he was killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-cop-sunil-mane-remanded-in-judicial-custody-in-mansukh-hiran-murder-probe-101619896434334.html
02-05-2021||Mumbai||1,004 in 18-44 age group get the shot in Mumbai||A total of 1,004 citizens in the 18-44 age group were vaccinated in Mumbai, the first day of the third phase of the Covid-19 inoculation drive, according to state health department data.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, 2,500 people in the 18-44 age group will be vaccinated on Sunday. The 2,500 slots were open for booking from 7pm and were filled by 8pm, said the officials. Vaccination for the 45+ age group stays suspended owing to shortage of doses and will resume only after getting vaccines from the Central government, confirmed the officials. Late on Friday, the BMC had announced it would open five centres from Saturday for the 18-44 age group with limited doses (all Covishield) available, even as the ongoing vaccination drive for those above 45 years was suspended for three days in Mumbai due to inadequate supply. The 1,004 doses were made available to the BMC by state government. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had on Friday announced that vaccination for the 18-44 age group will begin from May 1, as scheduled, but with limited slots due to scarcity of doses and it would be gradually increased after the state government manages to procure more doses. In Mumbai alone, the BMC has an estimated 9 million people between the ages of 18 and 44, who would need vaccination through public and private vaccination centres. Expectedly, people were keen to get themselves vaccinated as early as possible. According to BMC officials, within 90 minutes after its announcement on Friday night, all slots were booked. The five centres where vaccination began at 1pm are Nair Hospital, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar, Cooper Hospital in Vile Parle, SevenHills Hospital in Andheri, and the BKC’s jumbo facility. Each centre vaccinated 200 beneficiaries each. Vaccination in the 18-44 age group is being done only at these five centres due to shortage of doses, BMC said in a statement on Saturday. The statement said, “BMC is making all arrangements to vaccinate maximum beneficiaries.” According to BMC officials, vaccination for 18-44 years of age group will be done only on basis of appointment through the Centre’s Cowin portal, and no walk-in vaccination will be conducted. The vaccination duration will be from 1pm to 6pm. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “We will start vaccination for 45+ age group only after getting at least 100,000 vaccine doses. On the other hand, the vaccination for 18-44 age group for now will continue with the available vaccine stock.” According to BMC officials, it has around 19,000 doses of Covidshield in its stock for vaccinating 18-44 age group, and this will be used for vaccinating on an appointment basis only. 43-year-old Ajay Maurya, an IT professional from Kandivli who took the vaccine at Cooper Hospita,l said, “I came to know last night at around 11.30 pm that vaccination is going to start from tomorrow, and this is when I started to try for getting an appointment. I was continuously trying to get appointment for two hours after which I got one at around 1.45 am. My experience was very good, and the arrangements were very good at Cooper Hospital as people are allowed only with appointments.” Maurya added, “There was not much rush as compared to the rush there for 45+ age group vaccination. There were around 50 people in the queue, which is bearable. I along with my wife both got vaccinated. I wanted to get the vaccine since I wish to start going to my office soon. I know the vaccine will not be 100% helpful, but it will at least protect me from getting severely infected, and hence I feel all should get the vaccine.” Another, 34-year-old Ambika Poojary, a teacher, received the jab at Rajawadi Hospital on Saturday. Poojary, a resident of Sion, said, “Though my work is going to be online for next few months I was waiting to get vaccinated since long. This was one of the reasons I stayed up and booked my appointment at around 2.15am.” Poojary added, “My experience at the vaccination centre was good and we reached the centre at 7.45am, considering my husband had got a slot of 10am, that was cancelled later. There was a long queue for the vaccination, but I feel the overall experience was good, and I have not experienced any complications post vaccination. I also urge all citizens who are eligible to go and get vaccinated.” While all appointments got booked within hours after giving appointments was started, several citizens took to social media expressing their displeasure over not being able to book appointment for vaccine. A user, Sanjay P, said: “Unable to see any vaccination slots in Mumbai, for all other cities like Pune, Nagpur, slots are available. Not sure what’s the problem with Cowin app for only Mumbai city specifically.” Another Twitter user Gunjan Lahiri said, “Why are the vaccination centres not being updated on the app? I heard there are five sites in Mumbai that are vaccinating the 18+ but when you search, it says “no vaccination centres available for booking.” However, BMC officials said today was a token start of the vaccination drive. It will start in full fledged manner once adequate stock arrives. Meanwhile, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar told reporters on Saturday morning that citizens should not rush to the vaccination centres unless they have been given a slot. “If you have registered but have not received a message, don’t go to the centre and crowd for no reason,” she said. The civic body has also appealed to citizens to wear double masks if they are going for vaccination. 22 year old Andheri resident, Priyanka Minda who got vaccinated at BKC said, “My experience with getting an appointment and getting vaccinated both was very smooth. I managed to get the appointment within five minutes and also during vaccination there was no queue or crowding. It was done with proper Covid protocols and social distancing.” Minda added, “The reason for taking it on the first day is because earlier when vaccination started for 45+ age group, there was no rush earlier, and later everyone started flocking. I wanted to avoid getting vaccinated in rush and so opted for it. Today or tomorrow everyone has to get vaccinated.” Another 34-year-old Andheri resident Pankaj Ahuja said, “My work nature is such that I have to meet a lot of people and hence it is better I take the vaccine soonest. We have been doing testing, tracing and treating since a year now and it cannot be the solution ultimately we all should get vaccinated. My experience at Cooper Hospital was very good and there was not much crowding too A 22-year- old Andheri resident, Priyanka Minda, who got vaccinated at BKC, said, “My experience with getting an appointment and getting vaccinated both was very smooth. I managed to get the appointment within five minutes and also during vaccination there was no queue or crowding. It was done with proper Covid protocols and social distancing.” Minda added, “The reason for taking it on the first day is because earlier when vaccination started for 45+ age group, there was no rush earlier, and later everyone started flocking. I wanted to avoid getting vaccinated during the rush and so opted for it. Today or tomorrow, everyone has to get vaccinated.” Another 34-year-old Andheri resident, Pankaj Ahuja, said, “My work nature is such that I have to meet a lot of people and hence it is better I take the vaccine as soon as possible. We have been doing testing, tracing and treating since a year now and it cannot be the solution. Ultimately we all should get vaccinated. My experience at Cooper Hospital was very good and there was not much crowding too.” Meanwhile, vaccination for 45 years and above could not be held across the state for the second day as the state is yet to get supply of vaccine doses from the Centre. In a release issued by the ministry of health and family welfare informed on Saturday that they have allocated around 2,327,510 doses for the first fortnight of this month.“We have received the allocation letter from the Centre but don’t know when we are going to receive the stock, said a senior official privy to the development.“No centre across the state has the stock and thus the drive could not be conducted on Saturday. We are waiting for the supply and will resume the drive in no time,” health minister Rajesh Tope told HT.(with inputs from Faisal Malik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1004-in-18-44-age-group-get-the-shot-in-mumbai-101619895654198.html
02-05-2021||Mumbai||Vax drive for 18-44 age group begins in 27 districts in Maharashtra||Maharashtra government on Saturday kicked off its vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group on a limited scale due to a shortage of vaccine. It was a symbolic start as it coincided with the formation of the state in 1960 on May 1, which is observed as Maharashtra Day. The vaccination drive was launched in 27 districts across the state. Rest nine districts will start from Sunday.The state vaccinated a total of 11,492 beneficiaries till 6pm at 132 centres, officials said. All vaccination centres were run by the state government or municipal bodies and vaccination were free.In Mumbai, 1,004 doses were administered at five vaccination centres.The nine districts where the drive could not be started are — Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sundhudurg, Osmanabad, Akola, Washim, Wardha, Chandrapur and Gondia.The state government has planned to cover seven days with over 300,000 doses. It has directed district administrations to open a maximum of five centres and vaccinate a limited number of beneficiaries daily so that a week can be covered and the next stock can be arranged by that time to continue the drive.The drive was started after the Serum Institute of India (SII) provided a stock of 300,000 Covishield vaccine doses on Friday. The state is looking to get more stock from SII as it has assured to provide a stock of around 1.4 million doses this month. Similarly, Bharat Biotech has assured to supply 400,000 doses of Covaxin for May, officials said.Expanding the nationwide drive, the Centre threw open vaccination for all adults from May 1, asking the states to inoculate the 18-44 age group by procuring doses from the open market.Around 60 million population of Maharashtra comes under the age group of 18-44 that will require 120 million doses to get them immunized from the virus. The state has already declared to provide free doses of the vaccine for all adults up to 44 years of age at government-run centres. It will cost the state exchequer ₹6,500 crore. The decision was taken in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday.On Friday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced starting the drive from May 1. He was keen on launching it considering the foundation of the state.“We had issued a purchase order for 300,000 doses for Covishield to SII against which the stock was received on Friday. It was distributed among all the districts to launch the drive. The firm has provided the stock for ₹300 per dose and the state has spent ₹9 crore for it,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that they have received around 300,000 doses with the help of which the drive was started at limited centres across all the districts of the state. “We have directed the district administration to ensure the stock will last for seven days. To ensure this, we have divided all the 36 districts into three categories based on their population — major, medium and small. The districts coming under the major category were given 20,000 doses, medium — 7,500 doses and the districts that came under the small category were provided stock of 5,000 doses. The local administration has been asked to open a maximum of five centres where the drive should be conducted,” he said.However, the state is not aware when they are going to get another stock of doses either by SII or Bharat Biotech. “We have yet to receive any communication either from SII or Bharat Biotech on when they are going to send the next stock,” the official said.On Friday, Tope has said SII has informed them that they can provide 1,400,000 -1,500,000 doses in May whereas Bharat Biotech has assured to provide between 400,000 and 450,000 doses in the next month. “Together, we are expecting to get around 1.8 million doses in May based on which the state can start the drive at limited centres in each district,” the health minister said.On Saturday, the health minister also said that their discussion with other manufacturers is also going on. “The stock of Sputnik doses arrived in the country and we are in talks with them for supply. We are also exploring options for importing other vaccines such as Johnson and Johnson and Zydus Cadila,” he apprised.Meanwhile, people reached vaccination centres in large numbers to get vaccinated which led to crowding at many places across the state including Mumbai. At Ratnagiri, people gathered outside the vaccination centre early morning at 5, only to return without being vaccinated as the drive could not be started due to technical reasons, the officials said.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that the chief minister has spoken with Prime Minister Narendra Modi about importing the vaccine. “We are not dependent only on Covishield and have booked the stock with Covaxin. We also want to import Johnson and Johnson and Pfizer. CM Thackeray has spoken with the PM and is waiting for his approval. If the Centre allows us to import then things will become smooth,” Pawar told reporters in Pune.He also criticized the Centre for importing vaccine doses to many countries saying that the country may have not been facing a shortage of Covid vaccine if it was not exported to other countries. “There was no need to send the vaccine doses manufactured in the country in the beginning. If that stock of vaccine doses was provided to the people in the country then we may have avoided the shortage of vaccine doses the entire country is reeling with at present,” he slammed.Of the total 11,942 beneficiaries, maximum 1,316 beneficiaries were inoculated in Pune, while 1,004 people were immunised in Mumbai. Parbhani too vaccinated 846 beneficiaries, stated a release issued by the state health department.Meanwhile, vaccination for 45 years and above could not be held across the state for the second day as the state is yet to get supply of vaccine doses from the Centre. In a release issued by the ministry of health and family welfare informed on Saturday that they have allocated around 2,327,510 doses for the first fortnight of this month.“We have received the allocation letter from the Centre but don’t know when we are going to receive the stock, said a senior official privy to the development.“No centre across the state has the stock and thus the drive could not be conducted on Saturday. We are waiting for the supply and will resume the drive in no time,” Tope told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vax-drive-for-18-44-age-group-begins-in-27-districts-in-maharashtra-101619892233928.html
