03-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai's oxygen quota being diverted to Thane, Navi Mumbai, says BMC||The diversion of Mumbai's quota of liquid medical oxygen, currently in high demand for Covid-19 patients, to neighbouring Navi Mumbal and Thane has led to its "short supply" in some hospitals here, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has claimed.BMC's Additional Commissioner P Velrasu has demanded that local administration officials be deployed at the refilling facilities of two companies in Navi Mumbai to monitor and ensure smooth supply of the life-saving gas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).He wrote a letter last week to Konkan divisional commissioner Annasaheb Misal, claiming that the diversion of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) had led to multiple distress calls of its "short supply" in some hospitals and on one occasion, patients were shifted to other medical facilities.The Maharashtra government has fixed a quota of the liquid medical oxygen for Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and other areas in the MMR, considering the huge increase in its demand due to a surge in Covid-19-19 cases, the letter said."It has been observed that the supply of LMO received for Mumbai quota has been diverted to Navi Mumbal and Thane region from common suppliers," the BMC said in the letter, which was also marked to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) commissioner.In spite of the allocation of LMO quota, its availability at re-fillers is decreased for the BMC by more than 50 per cent of the available quota, it said.The BMC said the the supply of LMO should be as per the quota fixed for a particular region.It also requested to deploy adeputy collector and a tehsildar (revenue officer) at the refilling facilities of two companies in Navi Mumbai area, to monitor the supply and ensure smooth delivery of LMO, as per the allocated quota."This will certainly help in reducing the distress calls from hospitals and also avoid forceful transfer of patients or loss of human life due to unavailability of medical oxygen," the civic body said in the letter.The letter said the BMC-run hospitals receive some liquid medical oxygen in jumbo tanks and a part of the LMO is diverted to re fillers, who in-turn provide filled cylinders to the civic medical facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-oxygen-quota-being-diverted-to-thane-navi-mumbai-says-bmc-101620039087312.html
03-05-2021||Mumbai||2,427 from 18-44 age group get vaccinated in Mumbai||A total of 2,427 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years were vaccinated across five centres in Mumbai on Sunday, the second day of the third phase of the Covid-19 inoculation drive. According to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), 3,419 beneficiaries in this age group have been vaccinated over two days – Saturday and Sunday. The vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 years will continue on Monday between 9am and 5pm, only for citizens who have registered and have been allotted a slot by BMC. It will take place at Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central, SevenHills hospital in Andheri, Rajawadi hospital in Ghatkopar, Cooper Hospital in Vile Parle, and BKC’s jumbo Covid-19 facility. Each of the five centres has 500 doses available for Monday’s drive.Owing to a shortage in doses, the drive for beneficiaries above the age of 45 will remain suspended on Monday. BMC said it will resume the drive for this age group only after receiving adequate stock from the Centre. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, in-charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “We have approximately 20,000 vaccine doses available, which are being utilised for vaccinating beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group. On Monday, BMC is expected to receive some more doses. Depending on availability, BMC will take a call on when to resume the drive for citizens in the age group of 45 years and above. It will remain suspended on Monday.” In Mumbai, the BMC has an estimated 9 million people between the ages of 18 and 44 qualify for vaccination. At 7.30pm on Sunday, BMC opened booking for slots for the age group of 18-44. Within 20 minutes, all slots were booked. At 7.50pm, BMC tweeted, “All slots taken! That was really quick dear 18-44s. Looking forward to see the ones who booked slots for tomorrow & we look forward to hosting the remaining some time soon too.It’s a just a matter of time. It will soon be time for you to #TakeTheJab #YoungAndVaccinated”. A statement from BMC on Sunday said, “Presently, people of all ages are visiting vaccination centres. Considering the prevalence of Covid-19, citizens should not come out of their house and visit the vaccination centres without an appointment and an allotted slot.” Presently, Mumbai has 136 vaccination centres, of which 73 are private, 50 are BMC-owned, and 18 are state or central government owned. BMC’s statement also said, “Appropriate decision will be taken from time to time regarding keeping these centres operational, based on availability of stock. All citizens will be informed in advance.” In a tweet on Sunday evening, BMC said, “Dear 45 and above, we know some of you are due for the second jab & some have not even got their first yet. But please rest assured that we will keep you constantly updated & each & every Mumbaikar will be vaccinated. All in good time.Thank you for your patience.” While vaccination in 27 districts from Maharashtra took place on May 1, the state government had announced that vaccination will start in all the remaining nine districts on Sunday. However, information regarding Sunday’s vaccination drive for citizens in the age group of 18-44 years was awaited on Sunday. The Maharashtra government had 300,000 vaccine doses distributed across the state , with a plan to cover seven days. It has instructed all districts to keep a maximum of five centres open so that the stock can last for seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2427-from-18-44-age-group-get-vaccinated-in-mumbai-101619983017956.html
03-05-2021||Mumbai||Experts urge govt to review data on out-of-school students in Maharashtra||A few days after the state education department released data revealing that 25,000 students in Maharashtra were found out of school during a survey conducted in the pandemic, educationists urged authorities to redo the survey later as the current figures as per them are grossly underreported. Experts said the numbers need serious reconsideration and hence the survey is not trustworthy. “The number of cane cutters in the state is itself 150,000 and then there are workers in brick kilns, quarry workers, construction workers, etc. The number of students who have migrated, haven’t been into schools and who might have been put in child labour is likely to be way higher than what the government has found. It is imperative to get a more realistic picture if the government wishes to act on it,” said Heramb Kulkarni, a Pune-based educationist. In 2015, the then Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government held an out-of-school survey to identify students who had never attended school or who were on the rolls but were not attending. The survey had identified around 50,000 such students. Multiple such surveys were conducted after that; the most recent one was conducted in March 2021 wherein only 25,000 students were found out of school while only 288 students were found engaged in child labour. Experts said every year, the outcome of these surveys remain a mere formality. “The government needs to first come up with a realistic figure and then act. It is not enough to identify the problem, but it is crucial to be consistent and ensure that the found out-of-school students remain in schools over time,” said Ghanshyam Sonar, convenor of the All-India RTE forum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/experts-urge-govt-to-review-data-on-out-of-school-students-in-maharashtra-101619981398348.html
03-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man kills wife over suspicion of affair, arrested||Kurar police on Sunday arrested a 54-year-old man for killing his wife with a kitchen knife after he suspected her of having an extramarital affair. According to the police, a 22-year-old man approached the Kurar police on Saturday night after his father allegedly killed his mother after an argument in Kandivli (East). The complainant, Shiva Soni, a resident of Kranti Nagar, came home after work. Police said that his father opened the door, took him inside and seconds later ran out himself.In his complaint to the police, Soni said that his father, Mahesh Soni, 54, a diamond polishing worker, used to fight with his mother Poonam, 45, often suspecting her of having an extramarital affair.Soni said that he would witness his father beating his mother on multiple occasions. However, on Saturday the fight between the two got violent after which his father picked up a kitchen knife and slit his mother’s throat.The officers said that after Soni saw his mother’s body, he ran after his father and tried to stop him, but could not as he was overpowered. Soni then alerted the neighbours who called up the police emergency number and informed them about the attack.The victim Poonam Soni was rushed to the hospital but was declared dead on arrival. “After searching the locality, we intercepted Mahesh near the Poisar drain and arrested him,” said Prakash Vasant, senior police inspector of Kurar police station.The police arrested Mahesh after registering a case of murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiman-kills-wife-over-suspicion-of-affair-arrested-101619981397777.html
03-05-2021||Mumbai||300 citizens write to BMC, seek second public hearing for Deonar WTE plant||Over 300 citizens have written to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) solid waste management department in the past five days, voicing objections against its proposed waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at Deonar landfill. A public hearing organised on April 27 had seen several attendees criticise the project and the manner in which the public consultation process was being carried out.Citizens have sought an outright suspension of “all matters requiring public consultations until such time that normalcy can return”. Public consultations are an essential part of the environmental clearance process under the Centre’s Environment Impact Assessment Notification, 2006.“Not to do so would result in the citizenry unable to voice their concerns and participate in any meaningful way in matters that require their attention. The WTE plant proposal is one such example,” the letter continues, which was signed by at least 301 citizens at the time of going to press.Citizens pointed out that around 900,000 people, who inhabit the areas around Deonar dumping ground, would be immediately impacted by the WTE project, which apart from incentivising the production of waste, also is a potential source of harmful emissions such a dioxins, toxins, furans and particulate matter pollution.In the broader central Mumbai area, it has been alleged, the project will also impact people in living in Deonar-Mankhurd-Govandi, Powai, Pirojshah Nagar and even near the international and domestic airports. “After the experiences of the communities living in Mahul, it would be an extremely negligent exercise to not work along with this community before giving a go-ahead to a potentially harmful project,” states the letter. Hindustan Times had, on April 28, reported that the Environment Impact Assessment report for the 4MW WTE plant had not been made publicly available by BMC (as per the Centre’s EIA Notification, 2006) at the time of virtual public hearing. Responding to citizens’ demands for the same, BMC shared a copy on their website, and has given until May 4 for any comments or inquiries.“The hurried way in which the EIA was conducted and the public hearing was held has not given the larger public the time required to independently assess the project. The public was not adequately informed about this project; we say this because the newspapers in which the notice was provided are not publications that are read extensively. The onus of making sure that the members of the civil society are properly informed about such matters falls on the government and in this case, the same was not carried out. The MCGM, therefore, must provide the people with adequate time, 30-60 days, to properly go through the EIA and articulate their suggestions/objections to this project,” petitioners have demanded.Officials from BMC’s solid waste department could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/300-citizens-write-to-bmc-seek-second-public-hearing-for-deonar-wte-plant-101619981337916.html
03-05-2021||Mumbai||West Bengal, Tamil Nadu poll results boost morale of MVA||Assembly election results in five states, especially in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, have given a boost to regional parties after Mamata Banerjee’s All India Trinamool Congress (TMC) and MK Stalin’s Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) emerged as undoubted winners in their respective states. Experts and observers believe that this has given a moral boost to Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, which comprises of two regional parties and has always been under the threat of getting dislodged. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis had, during his campaign rally for Pandharpur bypolls, said that bringing a change in the state leadership was his responsibility and that the steps for the same would be taken at appropriate time. Other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders had also been hinting that West Bengal election result would add momentum to a change in the reign in Maharashtra. The leaders had said the focus of the party’s central leadership would shift to Maharashtra after the results.MVA, comprising of the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, formed government in Maharashtra in November 2019 after the alliance between the Sena and BJP was broken.Leaders from the three ruling parties in the state believe that the victory of the two regional parties in those states has given buoyancy to MVA government in the state. “Leaders from NCP and Sena share good relations with both Banerjee and Stalin and his family members. Both the parties had given open support to Banerjee in the Assembly polls by not contesting the elections. (NCP chief Sharad) Pawar saheb had planned to hold campaign rallies for TMC candidates in West Bengal, but could not go due to his health problems. Banerjee’s victory gives more power to regional parties while fighting against the mammoth strength of BJP,” said a Sena leader.“It has been proved by today’s results that if you have the courage and desire to fight against communal forces, people stand with you. We had exercised it in Maharashtra in 2019 and later replicated elsewhere at regional levels,” said NCP spokesperson and state minister Nawab Malik.On August 26 last year, during the meeting of chief ministers of all non-BJP ruled states with Congress’s interim president Sonia Gandhi, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray had praised Mamata Banerjee for her fight against the Centre. He had also said all non-BJP parties should come together and fight unitedly to ensure that their voice was not suppressed (by the BJP and the Central government led by it) in the federal structure of the democracy. “It is time to decide whether to fight back or seat idle out of fear,” he had said.Later in December, NCP chief Sharad Pawar had floated the idea of strengthening the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) to create a combative combine that could fight the BJP. In an interview with a local newspaper he had also said that the front and Congress should extend its support to regional leaders like TMC in their respective states by keeping differences aside.After West Bengal poll results, Pawar tweeted, “Congratulations @MamataOfficial on your stupendous victory! Let us continue our work towards the welfare of people and tackling the pandemic collectively.”Reacting to the controversial Nandigram constituency results, Pawar tweeted, “The voters of Bengal have overwhelmingly supported Mamata and endorsed her for a third term. This result has to be accepted with a large heart. But the manner in which attempts are being made to revoke her win can only be called pettiness.”Leaders from Maharashtra feel that the ‘Maharashtra model’ of fighting out the BJP aggression has given strength to smaller parties at regional level. “RJD’s Yashaswi Yadav gave run to ruling JD(U) and BJP for their money in Assembly polls last year. Now, TMC and DMK have replicated it in their respective states. If any leader of regional parties like Mamata emerges as national leader against Narendra Modi, it will give more power to regional parties to fight against BJP’s political power,” a Congress leader said requesting anonymity.Political analyst Hemant Desai said after the setback in West Bengal, the BJP would not go for any attempt of toppling the Maharashtra government at least in immediate future. “BJP is a party which senses the waves very quickly. It has realised that using central agencies against regional parties boomerangs against them, and same may be witnessed in Maharashtra in probes by CBI and NIA. The BJP will resort to course correction in Maharashtra and would not go for any attempt to dislodge the government. But at the same time, the NCP or Sena too should take a firm stand and show courage to fight against BJP, like Mamata did,” he said.Fadnavis on Sunday said they would take steps against MVA at appropriate time. “This is the time to fight against Covid-19 pandemic and we are devoting our time for it. But yes, we will take steps (to dislodge the government) at appropriate time,” he said. Sena MP and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said if the BJP tried to topple the government in Maharashtra, its tremors will be felt at the national level.While the MVA partners are elated with the result of elections in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, closer home they received a setback with the defeat of MVA candidate and NCP leader Bhagirath Bhalke in Pandharpur bypolls. BJP’s Samadhan Autade defeated Bhalke by 3,733 votes. The defeat was more significant for MVA as it was a battle of three ruling parties against the BJP. It has also given a boost to the BJP in Maharashtra. NCP state chief Jayant Patil said, “Our candidate lost the seat by a narrow margin. We failed in proper coordination of workers and leaders in two tehsils, Pandharpur and Mangalvedha, and it resulted in the defeat.”Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said, “We accept the mandate given by the electorate very politely. The defeat of the MVA candidate was a result of local issues and unpaid bills to farmers by Vitthal sugar factory.”Fadnavis said, “The mandate is against the corrupt, failed governance of the MVA government. Voters are upset as the government could not extend them any help during Covid-19 pandemic, electricity connections were rampantly disconnected for non-payment of bills. The ruling parties resorted to ill practices, despite of which the electorate stood by us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/west-bengal-tamil-nadu-poll-results-boost-morale-of-mva-101619981277865.html
