04-05-2021||Mumbai||JEE Mains exam postponed: Students, parents raise concerns||Weeks after the National Testing Agency (NTA) postponed the third session of Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains originally scheduled to take place in the last week for April, it has now indefinitely postponed the fourth and final session of the same exam on Tuesday. The news was not received well by affected students and parents, most of whom shared their displeasure on various social media platforms.“Instead of conducting online exams and putting students out of their misery, the Central and state governments are repeatedly delaying exams which is only making the situation worse for students, who consider this their most important year academically,” said Anupama Rai, mother of a JEE aspirant. She added that many JEE aspirants had not appeared for the February and March sessions of the exam because they wanted to focus on their Class 12 exam, and were waiting for the upcoming sessions to appear for their exam.This year, to give JEE aspirants a better chance at bettering their performance, the Union human resource development (HRD) ministry had announced that JEE Mains will be held in four sessions and students will get the choice to pick the highest score. As per information shared by NTA, 6.20 lakh and 5.56 lakh students appeared for the first two sessions held across India in the months of February and March. Rising Covid-19 cases, however, pushed NTA authorities to decide to postpone the April and now the May session indefinitely. “The rescheduling of April and May sessions of JEE Mains will be announced subsequently. Registrations for the May session will also be announced at a later date,” said the statement released by the NTA.Advait Parmar, 17, could not appear for the second session of JEE Mains in March as he was in quarantine after his father tested positive for Covid-19. “I re-registered for the April session of the exam and wanted to tick-off at least one exam of my list but now, the April, as well as the May sessions, have been postponed and I am unable to focus on studies anymore,” said Advait, who is also preparing for his Class 12 exam which remains postponed across school education boards in the country.Many also took to Twitter to share their concern with the state and Central government. “In the peak of the second wave of Covid, the government was busy holding election rallies and allowing religious festivals but are delaying exams which affect lives of lakhs of students across country. This is unacceptable,” said Ashutosh Singh, parent of another aspirant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jee-mains-exam-postponed-students-parents-raise-concerns-101620152958314.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid positivity rate on decline, says health minister after state reports fall in new cases||Amid a decline in Maharashtra’s daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases from the past two days, health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said that the positivity rate in the worst-hit state has come down from 27 per cent to 22 per cent. Speaking to news agency ANI, Tope said Maharashtra is conducting tests on 280,000 samples on a daily basis and there has been no shortage in testing.“From 63,000, the tally of Covid-19 patients has come down to 61,000. At 84.07 per cent, our recovery rate is the highest in the country,” the health minister added.On Monday, the daily Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra dipped below the 50,000-mark for the first time in almost a month after 48,621 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 4,771,022, according to the state health department’s bulletin. On Sunday, the state had reported 56,647 new cases.However, the decrease in cases may be attributed to the lower number of tests done during the weekend. As many as 211,668 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Monday, 45,802 less than those tested on Sunday. While on Saturday, nearly 289,000 tests were conducted.The state capital Mumbai also saw a dip in daily cases on Monday at 2,624, the lowest single-day figure since March 17. The city’s caseload has now climbed to 658,621. On April 30, the daily cases went below the 4,000-mark in Mumbai and have not increased since then.As Hindustan Times had reported earlier, Maharashtra has managed to control the surge in cases from the last two weeks. The active cases as of Monday stood at 656,870 which were earlier projected to go over 1 million. The lockdown-like restrictions, which have been extended till May 15, helped the state in controlling the spread of Covid-19.The Union health ministry, meanwhile, on Monday said that Maharashtra along with states such as Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, is showing early signs of plateauing or decrease in daily infections. The peak of 65,000 Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra has come down to around 62,000, Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said during a press briefing, urging Maharashtra and other states to continue with their containment efforts to ensure the number of cases can come down further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-positivity-rate-on-decline-says-health-minister-rajesh-tope-101620136676137.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s first drive-in vaccination centre opens in Dadar today||Mumbai first drive-in vaccination centre started operations today. The multi-storey Kohinoor parking lot on JK Sawant Marg, near Shivaji Park in Dadar West, which has been turned into a vaccination centre, offers drive-in facility to senior citizens and specially abled citizens. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward, with jurisdiction over this area said, “The facility has the capacity to inoculate 5,000 beneficiaries per day across seven booths. Two of these booths are reserved for drive-ins.” Also Read | BMC resumes inoculation of 45+ today; only for those needing 2nd doseThe parking lot has enough space for 60 to 70 vehicles to queue up for the two booths, Dighavkar said. A registration stall will also be set up, but beneficiaries will be registered by staff at the centre as they wait in the queue. BMC tweeted on Monday evening, “Drive In Facility For 45+ specially-abled. @mybmcWardGN has started a new vaccination centre at Kohinoor Parking Lot, JK Sawant Marg, Dadar(W), for 45+ citizens coming for their 2nd dose of #Covishield Starts at 10 am tomorrow & has 7 vaccination rooms. #VaccinationForAll.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-first-drive-in-vaccination-centre-opens-in-dadar-today-101620111136229.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: BMC resumes inoculation of 45+ today; only for those needing 2nd dose||After halting Covid vaccination for 45+ age group past Friday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is restarting it today, but only for those in need of their second dose.The vaccination drive was suspended for those above 45 years of age until Monday due to shortage of stock. With more stock now, BMC is resuming vaccination. Keeping it only for those seeking their second dose will help avert crowding.From Tuesday, city’s first drive-in vaccination centre is also expected to start in Dadar. As of now, only the second dose will be administered there. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC, on Monday said, “The parking lot has enough space for 60 to 70 vehicles. A registration stall will also be set up, but beneficiaries will be registered by the staff at the centre while waiting in the queue.”Also Read | At 36.1°C, Monday Mumbai’s hottest day in May in decadeBMC also explained why it had decided to inoculate only those eligible for their second doses. In a tweet on Monday night, the civic body said, “Due to limited stock, it is important to provide second dose to beneficiaries on time, to ensure vaccine efficacy. Once sufficient stock is available, vaccination can be made open for all, for both doses.”This means overall 60 vaccination centre in the city will be functional on Tuesday administrating second dose in the city. These all 60 centes will be government and civic-run centres.In case of private hospitals, the BMC has maintained that, “ As per government of India guidelines, private hospitals have to procure vaccine from manufacturers and not BMC. For 45+, list of private hospitals which have procured vaccine and their slots available are visible on Co-WIN portal along with price per dose and vaccine type.”Meanwhile, vaccination for 18-44 age group will continue at five vaccination centres in the city wherein 2,500 slots have been booked. In Mumbai, overall 5,813 citizens in age group of 18-44 have been vaccinated followed by 862,560 in age group of 45 to 59 and 980,546 in the above 60 years of age group. If we include healthcare and frontline workers, Mumbai has vaccinated 2,459,883 people since January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-bmc-resumes-inoculation-of-45-today-only-for-those-needing-2nd-dose-101620108256174.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Adverse foreign court orders do not disentitle woman to minor kids’ custody: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court has rejected a Sri Lankan national’s plea saying his estranged wife has lost the right to retain custody of their minor children because of her “improper conduct” of keeping them in India in defiance of the order of a Sri Lanka court and refusing to accept its summons.The couple got married in March 2010 and lived in the US, where their first child was born in 2013. The second child was born in 2014 in India. The discord started after the couple shifted to Sri Lanka in 2015. The husband said the woman brought the children to India (Thane) on the basis of a district court order of October 3, 2017, ostensibly for two weeks, and did not return to Sri Lanka thereafter. He said the district court order was stayed by a Sri Lankan high court on October 10.Also Read | Pharma firms must supply Remdesivir vials to Maharashtra on time: Bombay HCThe Bombay high court said its focus, as per settled law, was on the best interest of the children. “We find the children appear to be comfortable with their mother in India. Their progress report appears to be satisfactory and merely because there are orders passed by a foreign court against their mother, according to us, that would not disentitle her from continuing with their custody.”The court rejected the petitioner’s emphasis on the question of the identity of the children as Sri Lankan nationals. It said the Supreme Court has held that factors such as citizenship of children pale into insignificance while determining what is in their best interest for the purpose of custody. “...the fact that children are Sri Lankan citizens, and the elder child is also an American citizen cannot be a deciding factor insofar as the relief sought in the petition is concerned.”The Bombay high court noted the two children have been admitted to a school in Thane. It added they “appeared to have developed roots” and have also become conversant with the local language and adjusted to the school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/adverse-foreign-court-orders-do-not-disentitle-woman-to-minor-kids-custody-bombay-hc-101620104115682.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Board data likely to act as reference point for Class 10 marking||While the state education department is yet to declare a formula for marking students of Class 10 after the state government cancelled board exams, authorities are now mulling options to include data of schools and subject-wise performance as a reference point for marking. Experts, who are part of consultation meetings, said while schools are likely to be asked to send the data of student performance in internal assessments, data on school-wise and subject-wise performance for the previous years can be used as an indicator to ensure accuracy in scoring. “When schools send scores, they are most likely to be inflated and this is a fear across boards and schools. But the state board does have data on how each of the schools performed during all these years. Data sent by schools can thus be cross referenced with these details. If a school has had 100 students scoring distinction, it will be questionable if the number suddenly becomes 200. Similarly, there is data on subject-wise performance of students, which can be used to check their performance this year,” sad an expert on the condition of anonymity. On May 1, CBSE announced its marking criteria for Class 10 students in an 18-page document. Students will be marked on the basis of their pre-boards, midterm and unit test exams for Class 10. Similarly, ICSE released its assessment criteria to schools on the same day wherein students will be marked on the basis of their average performance in classes 9 and 10. The state education department is yet to come up with its own assessment criteria 1.7 million students. While an official from the education department said a decision is yet to be made, he added that details are being worked out. “The number of students is quite high as compared to other boards, hence the decision is taking longer,” he added. On April 20, the state government, in a cabinet meeting held that day, decided to cancel Class 10 exams to the state board owing to the growing Covid-19 infections in the state and the resultant lockdown. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced that students of Class 10 will be marked on the basis of internal assessments. Since then, the state education department has held numerous consultation meetings with various stakeholders including schools, teachers, parents, educationists and technology firms to assess and understand feasible ways of marking students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-board-data-likely-to-act-as-reference-point-for-class-10-marking-101620071831495.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||At 36.1°C, Monday Mumbai’s hottest day in May in decade||On Monday, the city recorded its highest daytime temperature in May at 36.1 degrees Celsius, matching that in May 2016. Monday’s reading was 3 degrees Celsius above normal, and marks the highest daytime maximum recorded in May in 10 years, as per data with the India Meteorological Department (IMD). On May 31, 2016, the mercury had climbed to 36.1 degrees Celsius as well, as per the automatic weather station in Santacruz.After a relatively cooler April which saw a near normal average daytime temperature of 33.8 degrees Celsius, days have been growing hotter in May, in line with IMD forecasts. Since April 30, both minimum and maximum temperatures have shown an upward departure from normal, showed IMD data.However, Monday’s temperature isn’t the hottest that Mumbai has been this pre-monsoon season, which runs from March to May every year. On March 27, the city sizzled at 40.7 degrees Celsius, the highest of the season. “As we have already conveyed in our long-term forecast, it is going to be a hotter than normal summer season in Mumbai this year. April was cooler due to the formation of rain bearing weather systems over Central India. But as we go further into the summer season, their cooling impact on the Konkan coast will diminish,” said a spokesperson with IMD’s regional centre in the city.As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, there will not be any respite from heat in coming days, with maximum daytime temperature expected to hover between 35 and 36 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature, which was 26.5 degrees on Monday, is also set to rise slightly and remain at around 27 degrees Celsius in the next week.Meanwhile, rain, thunderstorms and even hail continued to lash parts of central and western Maharashtra on Monday, affecting parts of Jalgaon, Dhule, Pune, Ahmednagar, Nasik, Nandurbar, Satara, Aurangabad, Jalna, Beed and Osmanabad districts. IMD on Monday issued a severe weather warning for parts of Madhya Maharashtra, Vidarhbha and Marathwada. Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli and Solapur were placed under ‘orange’ alert, indicating a high possibility of severe weather over the next 20 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-36-1-c-monday-mumbai-s-hottest-day-in-may-in-decade-101620071771337.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||NEET-PG delayed: Students unhappy||Hours after the Prime Minister’s office’s announcement that the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test for Post Graduate courses (NEET-PG) will be postponed by at least four months in order to boost availability of medical personnel to fight Covid-19, the reaction of parents and students. This decision comes less than a week after the National Medical Commission (NMC) in its circular requested medical colleges to continue the residency period of PG medical students as part of the Covid task force, especially at a time when the country is witnessing the second wave of the pandemic. “Medical personnel completing hundred days of Covid duty will be given priority in the forthcoming regular government recruitment programs. While medical interns shall be deployed in covid management duties under the supervision of their faculty, final-year MBBS students can be utilised for tele-consultation and monitoring of mild covid cases under supervision of senior faculty,” said a statement released by the PMO on Monday. Final-year PG medical examinations have been stalled in most states due to the deterioration of Covid situation. Similarly, no fresh admissions to PG medical and diploma courses were done due to the postponement of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-PG) exams. NEET-PG exams are generally conducted in February every year and the final year examinations are generally held between April-May in Maharashtra colleges. Students of most PG colleges were roped in last year to augment trained manpower for treatment of Covid and non-Covid patients. “When medical and nursing students are being roped in for Covid task force, why are students and interns from other branches of medicine including physiotherapy, ayurveda spared,” asked Sudha Shenoy, parent of an MBBS student. Many students took to various social media sites to share their unhappiness with the decision to postpone NEET-PG. Many felt this delay will severely affect the plans of higher studies of PG medical students. “We’ve been working non-stop for several months now and the government needs to understand that if they conduct exams on time, they will still have more students/manpower to join the Covid task force,” said Anukriti Thakur, a final year PG resident doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/neetpg-delayed-students-unhappy-101620071712032.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 48,621 new Covid-19 infections||Maharashtra on Monday added 48,621 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the tally of infections to 4,771,022. The slight dip in cases is however due to a drop in tests conducted in the past 24 hours owing to the weekend. The state tested 211,668 samples in the past 24 hours. Mumbai reported its lowest single-day figures since March 17 (2,377 cases), with 2,624 fresh infections. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) tested 23,542 samples in the past 24 hours—lower than what it tested on Saturday (28,636) and Friday (37,607). On Monday, the areas that constitute the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) added 4,056 new cases. Pune district added 7,718 new cases. Maharashtra added 567 fatalities, to push its toll to 70,851. Mumbai added 78 deaths. The state has managed to control the rise of cases in the state over the past two weeks. The state was projected to have an active case count of 1.1 million (1,094,996) by May 2. However, the state managed to keep the growth of cases under control. The active cases in the state on Monday stood at 656,870. Over the past few days, the active case count has remained around 650,000. Of the projected 1.1 million active cases, 300,000 cases are expected to be from Mumbai and its surrounding districts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad. The region now has 137,688 active cases. State health department officials said the numbers are under control due to the tightening of restrictions on the movement of people by the government. Since mid-April, the state enforced a complete curfew, followed by a near lockdown from April 22. “These are mathematical projections; they are sometimes accurate and often not. The idea of these projections is to understand the magnitude of the outbreak and what to prepare for. Having said that, the manner in which we were seeing cases in mid-April, if not 1.1 million, we would have reached 800,000-900,000 by now had the government not intervened with restrictions and imposing a lockdown,” said a senior health department official, who did not wish to be named. Pune district continued to remain at the top in terms of the active case count with 108,915 cases, followed by Nagpur district with 70,186 active cases. Mumbai’s active caseload stood at 59,970, while Nashik remained at 51195. The high number of daily deaths remains a concern for state health department and district authorities. Of the 567 deaths reported on Monday, 283 occurred in the past 48 hours and 146 in the past week. The remaining 138 deaths are from the period before last week. Thane rural areas reported 56 deaths on Monday. Ahmednagar district reported 48 deaths followed by Satara district with 47 deaths. Kolhapur district recorded 31 fatalities, while Solapur district reported 29 deaths. As the number of cases is showing signs of stabilising in urban areas, the tier two cities, mainly rural areas, continue to report cases burdening its health infrastructure. On Monday, Ahmednagar district reported 2,002 fresh cases, while Nashik district saw 3,673 new cases. Satara added 2,429 fresh cases, while Kolhapur and Sangli rural areas reported 1,402 and 1,157 fresh cases, respectively. Jalna and Parbhani districts added 880 and 868 fresh cases. Beed district saw 1,262 new cases, Yavatmal added 1,383 new cases, Buldhana added 1,409 cases. Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia and Chandrapur added 545, 551, 228, and 832 cases, respectively. Chandrapur has an active case count of 27,640, while Bhandara has 10,235 active cases. Buldhana has 11,884 active cases. Latur and Beed districts have active case count of 12,365 and 12,657, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-48-621-new-covid-19-infections-101620071711364.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: AAP accuses Chandrakant Patil of influencing bail for Chhagan Bhujbal||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has demanded the arrest of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former minister Chandrakant Patil, alleging that he had confessed to having influenced the bail of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) minister Chhagan Bhujbal. AAP sought an investigation in the matter. Bhujbal was in prison from March 2016 to March 2018 for allegedly laundering the kickbacks he allegedly received as the public works minister.The controversy began when Bhujbal criticised Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi for losing West Bengal elections. Bhujbal said that barring Assam, the BJP has been vanquished all across, indicating that an anti-BJP wave is sweeping across the nation. He said if elections were held now, BJP would face a crushing defeat. In response to this, Patil warned Bhujbal, reminding that he was out on bail and would face the music if he indulged in such rhetoric again. Patil also said that Bhujbal’s nephew Sameer used to come to his bungalow (during BJP rule in state when Patil was a minister) to plead his case. According to AAP leader Priti Sharma Menon, Patil had claimed in his interview to news channel ABP Majha that the then BJP government had favoured Bhujbal. “Chandrakant Patil said the then government had gone out of their way and ensured bail for Chhagan Bhujbal. Patil should be arrested and a probe should be ordered,” said Menon. The BJP denied that Patil made any such remarks about influencing the judiciary. “There was no way we could have interfered with the judicial process against Bhujbal in the first place. Patil said that Sameer was going everywhere regarding bail for his uncle and even met Patil in his bungalow. The interviewer asked whether this was the reason how Bhujbal got bail since his nephew used to come to him. Priti Menon picked this part and is unjustly attacking Patil,” said BJP spokesperson Madhav Bhandari.Bhujbal was not available for comment despite several attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-aap-accuses-chandrakant-patil-of-influencing-bail-for-chhagan-bhujbal-101620071651376.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Those with ailments not given priority for Covid jabs, live in fear||As the civic body’s vaccination drive remains way behind its target owing to shortage of vials, patients with immunocompromised diseases, who are the most vulnerable. but are still to get the jab, remain the most hit. Pratik Soni, 30, has been on dialysis for the past 13 years. In March, when the state started the mass inoculation programme for those above 45 years with co-morbidities, he went to Tunga Hospital in Malad with the hope of getting the jab. But with a heavy heart, he had to return home without vaccination due to age restriction. On March 31, Soni, a patient living with chronic kidney ailment, started developing a fever with breathlessness. Next day, he immediately rushed to the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo centre for Covid-19 testing. He was quarantined in a separate ward and on April 1, his report came positive for the infection. Patients on dialysis are the most vulnerable as they have to undergo dialysis on alternate days, which not only weakens their immunity, but exposes them to other possible Covid-19 infected patients. “I wanted to get the vaccine, but due to the age restrictions, I couldn’t. I got discharged within six days on April 6, but I remained positive for the next 20 days. Every alternate day, I have to travel to BKC from Borivli for dialysis. I am glad I survived the infection, but many don’t,” said Soni. Vasundhara Raghavan, chief executive officer (CEO) of Kidney Warriors Foundation, had written to the Central government requesting to include kidney patients for universal vaccination. She said, “Earlier, the government didn’t include patients on dialysis, and now when the age limit for vaccination has been increased to 18 years, vaccines aren’t available. The vaccination slots are getting filled within seconds. This is similar to booking Tatkal railway tickets.” Similar demands have been raised by patients who suffer from other chronic ailments such as tuberculosis, HIV and cancer, who are equally vulnerable to the infection. A 44-year-old Malad resident, who has been living with HIV, is running from pillar to post for the vaccine. Talking to HT, she said, “In the third phase, the government didn’t include vulnerable groups. I even wrote a letter to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to include HIV patients in the list of beneficiaries, but nothing happened. I stay with my two children and elderly in-laws. If I contract the Covid-19 infection and spread it to my family, who will be responsible for that?” The patient lost her husband to HIV in 2018. Since then, she has been earning her living by working with a non-government organisation (NGO) as a counsellor for people living with HIV. Social activists believe such delay can further increase the fatality rate in Mumbai, which already stands at 2%. Ganesh Acharya, a person living with HIV, said, “The government should have prioritised the vulnerable group. With the second wave, as the cases have doubled and every second person is getting infected, we are now living in fear.” As per data provided by the BMC, unlike last year, the highest number of infections is visible among people in the age group of 20 to 40 years. “Last year, due to lack of awareness, people above the age of 60 years were contracting the highest number of infections. But this year, the infection rate is the highest in young adults, so it is essential to vaccinate them at the earliest to control the ongoing second wave,” said Dr Avinash Supe, in-charge of the BMC Covid-19 death committee.  “We have 136 centres which are capable of vaccinating 75,000 daily. But if we don’t get the vaccines, we can’t do anything. In fact, until the Centre gives us the nod to include patients with chronic illness in the priority list, we can’t immunise them,” said a senior officer from the BMC health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/those-with-ailments-not-given-priority-for-covid-jabs-live-in-fear-101620071531339.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Kin of 104 cops who died of Covid this year await compensation||None of the families of the 104 policemen, who lost their lives to Covid-19 this year, have received any compensation from the state government, as the state scheme for providing financial aid of ₹50 lakh to each of the families of such policemen has not been renewed after December 2020. As a result, some of the families of deceased cops are facing serious issues. Kavita Mahale, 30, wife of Sanjay Mahale, a constable posted with Nardana police station in Dhule, is now at the mercy of her parents, as she was finding it difficult to provide basic necessities for her two children after her husband’s demise. Sanjay succumbed to the disease on March 25 and his father passed away after eight days. Sanjay’s mother had already died six months ago due to a prolonged illness. “In just six months, I lost my husband and both in-laws. I moved back to my parent’s place in Nandurbar as there is none left in my late husband’s family who would take care of us. Now, my children and I are completely dependent on my parents. I haven’t received a single penny from the government yet. How am I supposed to feed my children and raise them? I have also applied for a job on behalf of my husband, but by the time I get the job I still have to feed my children. The solatium could be very helpful,” said Kavita in tears. Gaurav Wani, an engineering student and son of head constable Sanjay Wani, who was posted with Kolshewadi police station in Kalyan, is equally perplexed. Three months have passed since his father’s death due to Covid, but the family hasn’t yet received any compensation from the state.“My father died of Covid-19 on January 19 at Vedanta Hospital in Thane, and now the responsibility of the family is on my shoulders,” said Gaurav, a third-year engineering student. His sister is also a college student.Similar is the case of the family of head constable Ramesh Survase from Chunabhatti police station who died last month due to Covid. Survase’s brother Vishnu said the compensation money would help his brother’s wife take care of her two children aged 17 and 12 years. A senior IPS officer said the scheme for financial aid to families of deceased policemen has ended in December 2020 and hasn’t been renewed thereafter. Sanjeev Singhal, additional director general of police (administration) said, “We have written to the government requesting that funds be released so that the grieving families of deceased policemen could get much needed financial aid.”During the initial days of the pandemic, many police personnel pressed into Covid-related work had contracted the virus and were falling sick. The disease was spreading among the police force rapidly, and thus there was a sense fear and panic among the men in khaki. Later, the state government announced a financial help to the families of deceased policemen with ₹50 lakh solatium and a government job to one family member. Mumbai Police went a step ahead and announced an additional ₹10 lakh fund for each family from police welfare funds. So far, hundreds of families got benefits and many family members even got jobs in the police force.Though the fatalities in police department remained limited to 12 a month from January to March this year, in April more than 6,000 personnel contracted the disease and 68 of them succumbed, making April the second-deadliest month after September 2020 for the police department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-kin-of-104-cops-who-died-of-covid-this-year-await-compensation-101620071412712.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Doctor lives in Covid care centre to care for patients||For the past six months, Mohhamed Fahim Nakade, a 32-year-old doctor from Panvel, has not met his family as he is staying at a Covid healthcare centre in Badlapur to care for Covid patients. All his duty hours and free time is spend with the patients, and seeing his dedication, various other doctors have joined him at Gauri Hall ICU Covid-19 Centre in Badlapur. The humble doctor, an intensivist, is too shy to speak of his dedication and instead claimed, “I am merely performing my duty as a doctor. This recent wave is difficult for everyone, and all of us need to do whatever we can to help people. I am also trying to tell people not to delay treatment and ignore even a single symptom.” Nakade is the doctor in charge of the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital and has increased ICU beds from 30 to 50 for the second wave and also managed to add a few more for emergency. He works over 22 hours a day and at times even the entire 24 hours without a wink of sleep, said his colleagues. His family includes parents and his three brothers. More than 250 patients have been discharged from this centre in the past four months. Dr Pooja Ghodwinde, his colleague, said, “We have joined this centre in September, and since then Nakade has never been to his house in Panvel. He increased the ICU beds to accommodate more patients. However, these days none of the beds are vacant. He not only treats the patient but also feeds them if anyone is in need to be fed. His level of dedication is completely difficult to attain.” Ghodwinde who stays at Titwala visits her house once in a month. Jaideep Shivre, 65, a senior citizen admitted there, said, “I was admitted in this centre in March. All my family members were tensed as I am diabetic and a heart patient. For the 15 days I was admitted there, I haven’t seen Dr Nakade rest. He will perform the work assigned to someone else without minding it. I have seen him cleaning urine and stool of patients, feeding them. He gave me so much positive energy and shared positive thoughts when I was feeling low. I am really thankful to him that I am fine because of his continued care, day and night.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/doctor-lives-in-covid-care-centre-to-care-for-patients-101620071352740.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination for 45+ age group to resume in Mumbai on Tuesday||Vaccination for citizens above the age of 45 years, who are to receive their second dose only, will resume in Mumbai at select municipal and government vaccination centres on Tuesday, after being suspended for three days since Saturday due to shortage in stock. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will separately issue a list of vaccine centres operational on Tuesday for this age group. Meanwhile, vaccination for the age group 18-44 years will continue on Tuesday as well, for the fourth day since the drive started on May 1. It will take place at five vaccine centres for the beneficiaries who have registered on the CoWin application and have received a slot from BMC. It will take place at BYL Nair Hospital at Mumbai Central, SevenHills Hospital at Andheri, BKC Jumbo Facility, Rajawadi Hospital at Ghatkopar, and Cooper Hospital at Vile Parle. BMC will vaccinate 2,500 people in this age group on Tuesday. Slots for bookings were opened by the civic body on Monday evening at 7.30pm and all slots were booked within seven minutes. At 7.37pm, BMC tweeted, “All the 500 slots each at all the 5 centres have been booked in Mumbai. We look forward to vaccinate those who have booked their slots. Please carry the ID with which you registered.” On Monday, BMC vaccinated 2,394 beneficiaries from the age group of 18-44 years. In the past three days, a total of 5,813 beneficiaries from this age group have been vaccinated. Since this phase of the drive started on May 1, BMC had kept aside 20,000 doses as a separate stock to facilitate vaccinations for this age group which are being utilised. On Monday, eight beneficiaries aged 45 years and above were vaccinated at the BKC jumbo facility. Apart from this, 30 healthcare workers, two frontline workers, 410 citizens aged above 60, and 375 citizens between age 45 years and 59 years were vaccinated at HN Reliance Hospital and Mallika Hospital.Drive-in vaccination centreMumbai’s first-of-its-kind drive-in vaccination centre will start at Kohinoor Parking Lot on JK Sawant Marg near Shivaji Park in Dadar (West) on Tuesday, to cater to senior citizens and specially-abled citizens. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of G-North ward which has jurisdiction over this area, said, “It is the largest vaccination facility with capacity to vaccinate 5,000 beneficiaries per day across seven booths. Two of these booths are reserved for drive-ins.” The parking lot has enough space for 60 to 70 vehicles queuing up, leading to the two booths, Dighavkar said. A registration stall will also be set up, but beneficiaries will be registered by the staff at the centre as they are waiting in queue. BMC tweeted on Monday evening, “Drive-in facility for 45+ specially-abled. @mybmcWardGN has started a new vaccination centre at Kohinoor Parking Lot, JK Sawant Marg, Dadar (W), for 45+ citizens coming for their 2nd dose of Covishield, starts at 10 am tomorrow & has 7 vaccination rooms. #VaccinationForAll.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-for-45-age-group-to-resume-in-mumbai-on-tuesday-101620071291212.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s plans to tackle third wave of Covid-19||A week after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray struck a note of caution, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has come up with a plan to scale up infrastructure which will enable the city to tackle 2,500 moderate to severely symptomatic patients daily by setting up a 400-bed facility catering solely to children within a month, additional oxygen plants and oxygen refilling plants, and new Covid jumbo centres in anticipation of a possible third wave between July and September. In all, 6,000 oxygenated beds will be added to the current capacity of 11,200 and 1500 ICU beds will be added to the city’s current 2,900 beds. The focus will be on children’s well-being, civic officials said. The BMC will build a 400-bed Covid facility for children at the NESCO jumbo centre in Goregaon, which is expected to be ready within a month. It also plans to create crèches for children in Covid facilities to cater to families where both parents are infected and admitted. Apart from that, the BMC is planning to build four oxygen plants as well as stock up on medicines like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab injections, officials added. However, the officials did not give any timeline for when the oxygen plants or the crèches would be available, as yet. “We have decided to have at least 400- bed pediatric Covid-19 ward for children. We will also have a crèche where children will be taken care of in case both their parents are infected due to Covid-19. We are also considering having separate Covid wards for senior citizens. We want to be in a position to handle around 2,500 symptomatic patients who need hospitalisation daily, up from the 1,500 such patients [who needed hospitalization in] the second wave,” Sanjeev Jaiswal, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, said. “There may or may not be a third wave, but we need to prepare for it. Also, with mutations we also need to change our focus. In the first wave it was the elderly [who were most affected], [in the] second wave, [it was the] above 30-age group, and [in the] third wave it may be children [who could be affected]. Hence, we need to strategise accordingly,” Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra Covid-19 task force said.The CM and Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray have held meetings with civic officials for preparations for a third wave since Saturday. As part of the BMC’s scale up, 1,500 beds were added to the NESCO centre, of which 1,000 beds are oxygenated. The NESCO jumbo centre, which was set up last year, will now have 3,700 beds. The city currently has six jumbo centres with 8,000 beds. Four more jumbo centres are expected to come up in next two months at Kanjurmarg, Malad, Sion and Mahalaxmi which will add another 7,000 beds.“If at all we announce any relaxation in lockdown by June 2021, there are several models that suggest a third wave might come between July to September 2021. We need to understand that these are just predictions and there is no surety about the third wave, but we need to be prepared for handling it, and hence we are constantly ramping up our health infrastructure,” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, said. The state is under an effective lockdown which began on April 23, and it is expected to end on May 15. Experts argue that the lockdown is the most effective time to scale up infrastructure to tackle a spike in cases, which is likely to occur once the current restrictions on movement are relaxed.“Mumbai saw a massive spike last month and sustained it because of constant capacity increase in beds & facilities. As the virus mutates and targets different age groups, our response to it must actively mutate as well,” Aaditya Thackeray tweeted on Monday. “Historically about such scenarios there is a trend that the second wave is more damaging than the first wave, but the third wave is less damaging than the second wave. However, our preparations have to be obviously for more damage than the second wave,” state task force member Joshi said.Meanwhile, BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal on Monday appealed to more and more citizens to get tested as the city’s daily testing figures are falling down. “Our testing was more than doubled and had touched 56,000 tests on a single day in April but now it has been observed that the testing figures have fallen to around 28,000 on Sunday. It is likely to fall further during weekends. Our aggressive testing policy has resulted in reduction of positivity rate. This might have reduced the natural demand for home collection of swabs by our citizens in the last few days. We need to increase the testing to 40,000 per day, at least, if not more. I request you to appeal to our eminent citizens to come forward and test themselves to increase Covid testing to maximum possible level,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-plans-to-tackle-third-wave-of-covid19-101620071171184.html
04-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s vaccination drive slows down for want of doses||For a third day in a row, Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 vaccinations went below the 100,000 mark owing to the unavailability of doses, resulting in fewer inoculation sessions across the state.There is uncertainty over the full-fledged resumption of the drive from Tuesday, as the state is yet to get its fresh stock of 1.05 million doses, promised to be delivered in the next three days by the Centre. From 534,228 doses, the state’s highest one-day inoculation figures, administered on April 26, Maharashtra’s daily numbers dropped to 47,613 on May 2 and 78,759 on May 3, according to figures on the CoWIN portal. After keeping the number of daily inoculations over 100,000 doses throughout April, it dropped below the mark for the past three days. In April alone, 10 million doses were administered in Maharashtra. Even after launching the third phase for beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group on May 1, the day’s count stood at 95,240. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said the state will get 1,050,000 more doses in three days. The ministry has stated that as of 8am on Monday, the state has administered 16,338,923 of the 16,362,470 doses supplied by the Centre. The state government has merely 23,547 doses with it, as of Monday.State authorities said many centres were shut on Monday for both the 18-44 and above 45 age groups, owing to the non-availability of doses.“After supplying about 16 million doses in 110 days of the drive for the beneficiaries above 45 years, the supply has now come down by half from May 1, as per the changed policy. This means the vaccination rate will dwindle to half of its pace in April henceforth for 45-plus beneficiaries because of reduction in the supply by the Centre. The pace of the vaccination for the age groups of 18-44 years cannot pick up unless we procure the stock from two domestic manufacturers — Serum Institute of India (Covishield) and Bharat Biotech (Covaxin),” said an official from the health department.According to the changed policy by the Centre, half of the vaccines manufactured by these two players, will go to the government of India, while the remaining half will be available for procurement by state governments, private hospitals and industrial sector. Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer, said they expect a fresh stock of about 450,000 doses of Covaxin in the next couple of days for the age group of 18-44 years. “After we received 300,000 doses of Covishield, we rolled out the third phase from May 1 with 3 to 10 centres per district for the age group. We will add similar number of centres after getting a fresh stock of Covaxin,” he said.The state government has placed a demand for 120 million doses at the rate of 20 million a month as it wishes to complete vaccination of 57.1 million people in the age group of 18-44 years in six months. According to the officials, though the state is ready to import the doses of other vaccines from manufacturers like Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson , there is no stock available in the international market. The officials feel that the pace of vaccination is expected to be low through the entire month of May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-vaccination-drive-slows-down-for-want-of-doses-101620068170412.html
