05-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra preparing for third wave of Covid-19, Uddhav Thackeray announces||Having witnessed the brunt of the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said that the third wave is imminent and urged the people to be careful. The chief minister said that the state government has started ‘Mission Oxygen’ to avoid any scarcity."We have started the preparations for the third wave. We have directed to increase oxygen production by 3,000 metric tonnes from the current 1,200 metric tonnes," Thackeray told media persons.Also read: Citizens in several nations keen to get shots but govts fail to cater to demandsThe chief minister also noted that the Covid-19 cases in some districts have started declining while in some other districts they are still witnessing a rise.On the preparations by the state to combat the inevitable third wave Thackeray said the task force members have started speaking with family doctors to tell them what to do if a Covid-19 positive patient comes and what line of treatment to follow etc.The health ministry also warned about the predestined third wave of Covid-19, considering the high level of virus circulation. While the time when the third phase of the deadly virus has not been determined, the government urged everyone to be prepared."Phase 3 is inevitable, given the high level of circulating virus. Though not clear on what time scale Phase 3 will occur. We should be prepared for new waves; previous infections/vaccines will cause pressure on the virus for changes to escape; need scientific solutions, "principal advisor to the government K Vijay Raghavan said during a press briefing on Wednesday.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19India is currently reeling under the weight of the second wave of Covid-19 that has overwhelmed the underprepared healthcare infrastructure of the country.Maharashtra is the major contributor to the number of new infections as well as to the active caseload of the country. The state reported over 57,000 new Covid-19 infections and 920 deaths in the last 24 hours, data updated by the state health department on Wednesday showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-preparing-for-third-wave-of-covid-19-uddhav-thackeray-announces-101620229754391.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Disappointed by verdict on Maratha reservation, says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray in address to state||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday termed the Supreme Court's verdict of quashing the reservation to the Maratha community as 'disappointing'."It is a disappointing verdict on Maratha reservation. We have been fighting for it for the last many years. All the parties unanimously cleared it in the state legislature," the chief minister said.Also read: Maratha youth fear for future with reservation gone"It was challenged in the high court, and received a clearance. It was challenged in the Supreme Court again and here came the decision today. The SC has shown us a way. It has said the right is with the Centre and the President," Thackeray added.Speaking on the verdict Thackeray said the demand for reservations is not just of a community but of the entire state. Exuding confidence in the Centre he said that the demand will not be disrespected by the Prime Minister or the government."This demand is not of just a community but of the entire Maharashtra. I am of the view that it will not be disrespected by the PM or the Centre," said Thackeray.Earlier in the day, Thackeray said that he will send an official letter in this regard to the Centre on Thursday. Citing the examples of the central government taking a stand on the Shah Bano case or the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, Thackeray appealed to the government with 'folded hands' to intervene in the matter."Please be calm and patient as we are in the middle of a pandemic. We will continue to fight until we succeed," Thackeray assured the people of the state.Also read | Maratha quota: Maharashtra to approach Centre; BJP blames MVA for SC verdictThe apex court on Wednesday rejected reservation in government jobs and educational institutions for Marathas, introduced by the state government in 2018, on the grounds that it breached the 50% cap on reservations.In the judgment, the court termed it 'unexceptional' said that there was no valid reason to exceed the 50% reservation while granting affirmative action to the Maratha community.State minister Ashok Chavan also criticised the former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on the reservation row as he said the Fadnavis passed the Socially and Educationally Backward Communities (SEBC) Act in 2018 without “due rights”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/disappointed-by-sc-verdict-on-maratha-reservation-says-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-in-address-to-state-101620225686487.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||HC strikes down doctor’s prosecution for failing to report child sexual abuse||The Bombay high court’s Nagpur bench last week struck down the prosecution of a doctor from Chandrapur district for failing to report child sexual abuse to the authorities after treating two minor rape survivors. It said the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act obliges reporting of child sexual abuse only if one has knowledge of such offences. It does require a person to investigate and gather knowledge, it added.A division bench of justices ZA Haq and Amit Borkar said it was clear from the wording of the law that it imposes a legal obligation on a person to inform the authorities in case of knowledge that an offence under it has been committed. It said the expression used is “knowledge” which means some information received by such person about the commission of a crime, and that is when it is required to report the authorities. “There is no obligation on such person to investigate and gather knowledge,” said the bench.Also Read | 26/11 Mumbai attacks’ key witness to be rendered homelessMaroti Pimpalkar was booked in connection with abuse of the schoolgirls at a hostel in 2019. During the investigation, the police found the two girls were first treated by the 72-year-old doctor, but he did not report the matter to the police and was named an accused.The court said the material on record did not indicate the doctor was informed about sexual assault when they were taken to him for treatment. It added the crime came to light only when the girls were shifted to the hospital as their condition deteriorated. “There is no material on record to show that the applicant [doctor] was made aware about the sexual assault...,” the court said. “On the contrary, from the statement of the teacher of victims, it appears that the sexual assault was detected only in General Hospital, Chandrapur.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-strikes-down-doctor-s-prosecution-for-failing-to-report-child-sexual-abuse-101620201924771.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination for those above 45 yrs of age resumes in Mumbai today||Vaccination for those above 45 years is set to start in Mumbai on Wednesday after five days. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) received 100,000 vaccine doses on Tuesday night, facilitating vaccination for the first and second dose for beneficiaries in the 45 years and above age group from Wednesday. However, for these beneficiaries, vaccination will take place only between 12noon and 5pm, BMC said in a statement on Tuesday. Due to shortage of vaccine, the Mumbai civic body had suspended vaccination for those above 45 for four days till May 2. Later, only those who needed the second dose were allowed. Now, even the first dose will be given from Wednesday noon. While registration on the Co-WIN application is compulsory for beneficiaries of the first dose of vaccine, walk-ins are allowed for the second dose. Also Read | Busting the myths on Covid-19 medicationVaccination for those in the age group of 18 - 44 years is also taking place on Wednesday, for the fifth day in a row since it started on May 1. It is taking place at five vaccination centres where 2,500 beneficiaries will be vaccinated.Meanwhile, the first drive-in vaccination centre at Kohinoor Parking Lot began functioning on Tuesday for senior citizens, and for differently abled citizens. Responding to a fake message circulating on social media that this centre was operational for vaccinating beneficiaries in the 18 - 44 years age group, BMC on Wednesday urged citizens in this age group not to rush to the centre. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward, with jurisdiction over the area, said, “Many 18-44 age group beneficiaries gathered at Kohinoor insisting for vaccination. I urge all to please spread this message: vaccination at this centre is only for people in the age group of 45 years and above, getting first or second dose. Drive-in is only for senior citizens and specially abled citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-for-those-above-45-yrs-of-age-resumes-in-mumbai-today-101620197123734.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||20,000 oxygen concentrators, 350k Remdesivir doses expected soon in Maharashtra||After receiving a good response for the expression of interest for oxygen concentrators, pressure swing absorption (PSA) plants, oxygen storage tanks and liquid medical oxygen, the state government is expecting the delivery of the medical equipment to begin by the end of the week. The procurement is expected to cost the state government ₹700 crore.Amid the acute shortage of the oxygen and Remdesivir injections during the pandemic, the state government had floated global bids last week for the procurement of 25,000 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen (LMO), 4,000 oxygen concentrators, 250 PSA plants, 20 liquid oxygen storage tanks and anti-viral drug Remdesivir. The international players were given three days to respond, to which Indian suppliers dealing in international products have responded.“We have received 38 bidders for oxygen concentrators, nine for PSA plants, one for LMO supply and a good number of bidders for the storage tanks. We have been talking with the players day-and-night and expect the delivery in three days. We are evaluating products by the doctors and have also been keeping our embassies in various countries in the loop,” said Aseem Kumar Gupta, principal secretary, relief and rehabilitation.Public health department minster Rajesh Tope said that the state is expecting delivery of 20,000 oxygen concentrators, 27 storage tanks and 350,000 Remdesivir doses shortly.Another official from the relief and rehabilitation department has been put the bidding process on war footing for procuring the oxygen-related equipment amid the acute shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/20000-oxygen-concentrators-350k-remdesivir-doses-expected-soon-in-maharashtra-101620155718482.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Messages on Covid adoption illegal; follow due legal process for adoption: Experts||Responding to multiple viral social media messages, concerning the adoption of children whose parents have allegedly died of Covid-19, the state government on Monday issued a clarification stating that such attempts at adoption are illegal and can attract punitive action under the Indian Penal Code, the Care and Protection of Children Act (2015) as well as the Centre’s Adoption Rules (2017). The Maharashtra Women and Child Development Department also urged citizens to follow the due legal process for adoption in such cases and to report matters to the Centre’s 1098 helpline or the State Adoption Resource Agency’s helpline at 8329041531.“Deaths of both the parents due to Covid-19 are causing serious problems... which are exacerbated by the fact that such children are sometimes not accepted by relatives. On the one hand, the issue of such children is taking a serious turn and the picture on social media shows that some miscreants are using this issue as an opportunity to sell each other’s children. For this, various emotional posts are being posted on social media like Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram, Twitter etc. and a picture is being created that children are available for adoption,” the Women and Child Development Department said in a statement issued Tuesday.For example, one such widely circulated message read, “If anyone wishes to adopt a girl, please feel free to contact 09711104773 (Priyanka). One girl is 3 days old and another is 6 months old, they have lost their parents recently due to covid. Please help these kids get a new life, spread the word.” HT tried to reach out to the number but was met with a constant busy tone.Commenting on the matter, IA Kundan, secretary, Women and Child Development Department, said, “We are aware of such messages going around on social media platforms. But, so far we haven’t received any official complaint. To raise awareness among people, we have posted about the guidelines on the website and social media pages of women and child development. It is punishable offence to indulge in such illegal adoptions.”Yashomati Thakur, woman and child welfare minister said that the state government has taken suo motu cognisance of the cases of the children becoming orphans by losing their parents due to the pandemic. “The cases of children becoming orphans have gone up during the pandemic. We have asked the district collectors and Child Welfare Committees (CWCs) at the district level to look into them immediately to extend their support. Legal adoption is a must, otherwise, it may be very dangerous for the future of the child. We have appealed to the relatives of such children to come forward and bring it to our notice so that all kind of help is provided to them,” she said.The minister said that she has convened a meeting this week to discuss this issue and discourage people from directly adopting such children without following the legal process. “Some people may have knowingly or unknowingly resorted to illegal ways of adoption, it would not be tolerated. There are legal, psychological issues involved with the parenting of such children that need to be addressed accordingly,” she said.Thakur said that the orphanages in Maharashtra are in very good condition and every care is taken to through dedicated welfare officers for these institutions.Manisha Birasis, assistant commissioner, woman and child development department, said that legal adoption was very important to give the child its right of biological parents and legal powers coming therewith. “The direct adoption may lead to trafficking. We have witnessed such cases in the past and have registered criminal cases under the Indian Penal Code and Juvenile Justice Act. We have initiated action through cybercrime cell after we came across such an attempt through a Facebook post for the adoption of two children who had lost their parents of Covid-19. The adoption should be done only through CARA and by following the legal process,” she said.Birasis said that at least 20,000 genuine applicants are waiting in Maharashtra for adoption. “The applicants go through the procedure of the home study, ability to adopt, review by the expert panel before they are made eligible for the adoption. The illegal adoptions also deprive the children from these eligible parents who are scrutinized through a set procedure,” she said.The department has also launched a helpline (8308992222 and 7400015518) with the help of Save The Children India for counselling and helping orphan children. The helpline will also extend support to the children whose parents have tested positive for Covid-19 and need help for time being.Birasis said that besides the adoption, the department has a scheme called Balsangopan Yojana which financially helps the parents, single parents, relatives looking after orphan children with the monthly assistance of ₹1,125. “The children are thus maintained in the family without going to the orphanage or adoption and it’s the basic principle of the JJ Act,” she said. The issue isn’t isolated to Mumbai alone. Earlier this week, Delhi’s Commission for Protection of Child Right (DCPCR) appealed to people on social media to call on their helpline number and report cases where children need essential supplies, have lost their parent(s), or are struggling to support themselves due to the illness. The Delhi child rights body said that requests for adopting children orphaned amid the pandemic have also started pouring in.“The DCPCR has come across many instances on social media (Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp), where the people who have information about the orphan children are encouraging people to adopt these children. In some cases, they post updates that the child or children have been adopted. I am sure that some of these are out of innocence and ignorance of the law governing adoption. However, they may also be cases of trafficking and sale-purchase of children. Either way, deserve to be inquired into to get to the depth of the matter,” DCPCR chairperson Anurag Kundu wrote to the Delhi police this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/messages-on-covid-adoption-illegal-follow-due-legal-process-for-adoption-experts-101620155538561.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Vaccination for second dose for 45+ restarts amid confusion||After a gap of four days, vaccination drive for the second dose for those in the 45+ age group restarted on Tuesday, leading to chaos and long queues as thousands rushed to several centres. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will continue to vaccinate the 45+ age group for the second dose and 18-44 age group for the first dose on Wednesday too. There is a possibility that the vaccination for the first dose for above 45+ may start from Thursday, however, nothing is finalised, said BMC officials. Vaccination centres, including BKC centre, Shatabdi Govandi, ESIS Mulund, BARC, Kurla Bhabha, ran out of stock before noon, which the BMC officials claimed, was because they did not receive any stock from the Central government. They said vaccine doses from the reserve quota were used for the 18-44 age group. The BMC expects to have a substantial amount of vaccine doses by Tuesday midnight. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We are likely to get 150,000 vaccine doses by Tuesday night and they will be used for the vaccination drive on Wednesday. However, we will continue vaccinating citizens above the age of 45+ for the second dose on Wednesday and first dose for the 18-44 age group.” Several citizens above the age of 45 also went to get their first dose but were sent back by the authorities. Firuza Dastoor, an Andheri resident, said, “My parents and I were scheduled for a second dose. My parents have been eligible for the second dose for the past one week, but have not been getting it despite going to the vaccination centre thrice. Finally, on Tuesday we went to SevenHills hospital for the fourth time and got the doses. Our experience at SevenHills was good.” Another Andheri resident Vicckey Ajwani said, “I had taken my first dose of Covaxin a month ago and my second dose was scheduled 28 days later in the last week of April. However, I had to go to Cooper Hospital multiple times to figure out when and how I will get my second dose. This is not the experience one would want for vaccination. Also, there is always a risk of getting exposed to the virus considering the long queues and large crowds at the vaccination centres. It was only after a lot of struggle and multiple calls that I got my second dose.” Meanwhile civic authorities made operational the first drive-in vaccination centres in the city at Dadar in a parking lot. According to BMC officials, it got good response there. Senior citizens and specially abled will be vaccinated at the centre. According to BMC’s data, 417 citizens were vaccinated in 227 cars on Tuesday at the drive-in vaccination centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-vaccination-for-second-dose-for-45-restarts-amid-confusion-101620155358475.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Oxygen tankers to be fitted with GPS to monitor their movement||All tankers being used to carrying liquid medical oxygen in Maharashtra will be fitted with Global Positioning System (GPS) devices for monitoring their movement. Nearly 250 tankers are presently being used to transport medical oxygen in the state. Of them, 125 tankers have GPS installed in them. GPS will enable the transport authorities and the Food and Drug Administration(FDA) to track the movement of liquid oxygen in the state. It will help them in better management of oxygen supply to the hospitals. Maharashtra transport commissioner Avinash Dhakane stated on Tuesday that all the tankers will be fitted with GPS systems in a few days.Further, a control room for the monitoring of movement of liquid oxygen in the state has been set up and will be used to track the tankers after GPS is installed.“We have nearly 250 tankers that are used for transporting medical oxygen. The installation process in half of the tankers have been completed and the process is on. The control room is already set up and will be used to track all movements of tankers after GPS has been fitted in all vehicles,” said a senior transport department official. The GPS devices are being installed in the tankers by the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (FADA). The organisation has raised ₹10 lakhs for the installation. “We have tried to do our best as this is a small contribution towards enabling the transport department to monitor oxygen tankers movement on a single dashboard. This will help save the lives of patients by providing them lifesaving oxygen on time,” said Vinkesh Gulati, president, FADA.Liquid medical oxygen in tankers is being moved by road and railways in the state. The Central and Western Railway have transported liquid oxygen tankers by Roll On Roll Off (RORO) flat wagons from Visakhapatnam and Gujarat to Nagpur, Nashik and Kalamboli in Navi Mumbai. The tankers were then transported to oxygen plants in Nagpur and Nashik and moved to government and private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-oxygen-tankers-to-be-fitted-with-gps-to-monitor-their-movement-101620155178478.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s vaccine wastage 0.22%: Cong demands apology from Javadekar||After the figures released by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare revealed that Maharashtra’s rate of vaccine wastage was one of the lowest, the Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant demanded an apology from the Union minister Prakash Javadekar over his claims that the state wasted more than 500,000 vaccines.Maharashtra’s vaccine wastage rate has dropped to 0.22% while some other states have reported it as high as 7-8%.In its press release on Monday, the Union ministry stated that out of 16.36 million doses of vaccines supplied to Maharashtra, the wastage was 0.22%. Against it, other states and Union territories like Haryana (5.72%), Assam (7.7%), Lakshadweep (9.71%), Tamil Nadu (8.83%), Uttar Pradesh (3.54%), Gujarat (3.61%) reported high wastage of the vaccine. Six of the states have also reported it in minus, but the state authorities have contested computing saying it is because of errors in keeping account of the received stock.On April 7, Union minister Prakash Javadekar had said that the Maharashtra government was playing politics over the allotment of vaccine stock. He also alleged that it should first reply about the high wastage of vaccine. “Maharashtra Govt should not play politics over-vaccination. Here are the facts: Total number of COVID vaccine supplied to State till date - 1,06,19,190 ; Consumption - 905,3,523 (of which 6% wastage - over 5L) Vaccine in pipeline - 7,43,280. Dosage available - nearly 23 lakhs,” he had tweeted.His remarks had sparked the political slugfest and Congress and Nationalist Congress Party leaders had said that in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states the wastage was more than that reported in Maharashtra.On Tuesday, Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that Javadeklar should apologise to the people of Maharashtra for his lie. “Javadekarji’s falsehood has been exposed by the Central government’s press note as the wastage is not 6% and is just 0.22%. The Union minister has insulted Maharashtra by spreading wrong information for the sake of politics,” he said.Sawant also cited a report prepared by Ashok University on Covid-19 in which it has been stated that the vaccine given to the state by the Centre were in not in the proportion of the population and the cases.BJP’s media cell chief Vishwas Pathak said, “On one hand public health minister Rajesh Tope says that Maharashtra has trained manpower in the healthcare sector and they can ramp up daily inoculation to 1.2 million doses, why there was the wastage of 600,000 doses. In percentage, it may be less, but the wastage of such a huge stock when there was an acute shortage, is not acceptable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-vaccine-wastage-0-22-cong-demands-apology-from-javadekar-101620155119163.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid oxygen clinics for hsg societies?||To provide quick and timely care to symptomatic patients with oxygen requirements, the public health department has recommended setting up of Covid oxygen clinics in large housing societies, which can be manned by neighbourhood doctors. Adult residents, who are mostly home owing to the state-wide lockdown, can also volunteer. The idea is stabilising home-isolated patients in need of oxygen, until they get a bed in a hospital. The public health department has observed that only 9-10% infected patients require hospitalisation. The remaining patients can be provided care in home isolation or nearby Covid Care Centres (CCC). With most facilities having run out of beds, the public health department has mooted a unique concept of a ‘community model’ that will help reduce the burden on the already overwhelmed healthcare facilities. Currently, over 650,000 active Covid-19 patients are under treatment. To provide care and timely treatment, there is a need to establish one Covid-19 clinic per 25,000 people. Along with this, there would be a need for oxygen supply under a medical personnel. With this in mind, Dr Pradip Awate, state surveillance officer of the department, has submitted a ‘macro management’ proposal to the state health ministry for better handling of Covid-19 patients with local help. “These centres can run around-the-clock with the help of nearby doctors or members from the Indian Medical Association. Many college-going students, teachers and retired persons who are mostly home owing to the state-wide lockdown can work as volunteers. As this clinic will be established per 25,000-30,000 people at the level of electoral wards, home-isolated patients who will need oxygen, will be greatly benefitted until they get their bed,” said Dr Awate. The decision about admission in this clinic will be taken based on the minimum required tests done of all home-isolated patients. Suggestions have also been put forward to convert two-four-bedded small hospitals, day care and clinics to such make-shift centres. Citizens can be informed about it through social media. “When the infection burden is low, these teams can be trained online, and their doubts and difficulties can be addressed. Various local organisations such as Rotary and Lions clubs among others, local doctors’ organisations, police officers, business persons and locally influential people can be involved in the management of these centres. The management will help reduce the current burden on hospitals significantly,” he added. Dr Awate has also suggested establishing village CCC for mildly symptomatic patients, who don’t have the space for isolation. “Village CCC can be established at the level of sub-centre or other central locations of bigger villages such as marketplace and gram panchayat building, among others. This way, 30-50 CCCs of 10-20 beds each can be started in each block,” he said. These centres can be run by local private doctors, staff nurses, anganwadi and ASHA workers. “We have submitted the proposals to the health ministry. We are waiting for the final approval,” he added. Dr Deepak Baid, former president, Association of Medical Consultants, didn’t agree with the suggestion. He claimed a similar suggestion was made last year by the BMC, but the doctors opposed the concept. “A patient with low oxygen saturation doesn’t only need oxygen, but depending on their health, there are other requirements too. Who will provide such medication to patients? This is not a medically fit suggestion and should be avoided,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-oxygen-clinics-for-hsg-societies-101620153138990.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 2,554 new cases; active cases dip||Mumbai on Tuesday reported 2,554 covid-19 cases and 62 deaths, taking the tally to 661,175, and toll to 13,434. For the second day in a row, Mumbai reported less than 3,000 cases. On Monday, Mumbai had recorded 2,624 cases, lowest since March 17, when it reported 2,377 cases. The testing was much low compared to previous days. Mumbai on Monday conducted 29,706 tests, lower than the average number of tests it conducted daily in April, at around 50,000. The active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai are down by 38.9% since mid-April. Over the past week, Mumbai has reported an average of 3,500 Covid-19 cases per day. Active cases have now dropped to 56,465, from the highest of 92,464 in mid-April, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The decline in number of cases has also improved availability of Covid beds in Mumbai. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday said, “Our city has 7,409 Covid beds vacant today, including 100 ICU at 6:13pm.” Of the 12,183 oxygen beds, 2,428 are available; of the 7,082 non-oxygen beds, 4,348 are available; 14 ventilator beds are available out of 1,467 total ventilator beds, and 86 ICU beds are available out of 1,423 available ICU beds, Chahal said. The daily positivity rate has decreased by more than half. On Tuesday, it was 8.5% as opposed to 18-19% reported mid-April. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 5,542,859 tests with an overall positivity rate of 11.89%. Positivity rate is the number of positive cases reported as a per cent of total number of tests done. The growth rate of Covid cases in Mumbai is 0.58%, and the doubling rate has increased to 116 days, up from as low as 35 days reported in April. Doubling rate is the number of days hypothetically needed for the present number of cases to double, based on the growth rate of cases over seven days. The highest growth rate in Covid cases has been reported in North Mumbai, in wards corresponding to Borivli, Andheri East, Bandra East, and Kandivali. The lowest growth rate has been reported in Marine lines and Girgaum area of South Mumbai, Chembur, Mulund and Vikhroli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-2-554-new-cases-active-cases-dip-101620153078934.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||21 Maha dists a worry; strict curbs in six||The state on Tuesday recorded 51,880 new Covid-19 cases, even as 15 districts, including Mumbai and Thane, showed a drop in the number of cases, while 21 continued to record a high number of cases. The state reported 891 deaths; 240,956 people were tested. The state government in order to contain the Covid-19 virus has imposed a strict lockdown in six districts where the cases are increasing. In this lockdown, everything, except medical facilities, will remain closed and people can only venture out for medical emergencies. Health minister Rajesh Tope said, “If we compare today’s situation to that of two weeks ago, we have witnessed a decline in the number of cases. We have been able to bring down the numbers in 15 districts, but the cases continue to rise in 21 districts. Our main target is to bring down these numbers.” The state government has imposed a stricter curfew in six districts—Baramati, Sangli, Satara, Ahmednagar, Kolhapur and Beed – which have been witnessing an increase in Covid-19 cases. Tope justified stricter lockdown saying it was needed to bring down the cases. “There is definitely a lockdown in place, but this will be stricter,” said Tope. Due to the spike, these districts have been facing a shortage of hospital beds, ventilators as well as medicines like Remdesivir. Currently, the state needs approximately 40,000 oxygen concentrators, of which 20,000 will be provided to the state. Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said the problem is twofold in these 24 districts. “It has been observed that people there are very casual and some even don’t wear masks. For them, even lockdowns don’t matter. The second factor is this current mutant is highly infectious and it has been transmitting at a breakneck speed,” said Gilada. Tope also said the positivity rate dropped to 22% from 27%. “Our recovery rate of 84.07 % has been the highest in the country and better than that of the country which stands at 81%,” said Tope. The state has demanded an additional 200 metric tonnes supply of oxygen as 78,884 patients were occupying oxygen beds, while 24,787 were in intensive care units (ICU). The state procured 900,000 vaccines from the Central government on Tuesday which were used to vaccinate citizens above the age of 45 years, while the state has issued orders for purchasing 1,800,000 vaccine doses for those in the 18-44 years age group. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 641,910, while the total number of deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 71,742. There are currently 641,910 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 109,531 patients, followed by Nagpur with 64,554 active patients. The death toll has now reached 71,742, with Mumbai leading with 13,434 deaths, followed by Pune with 9,770.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/21-maha-dists-a-worry-strict-curbs-in-six-101620153078324.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Man stopped for flouting lockdown norms, kidnaps cop in his car, arrested||A 21-year-old student of Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) from Sewri has been arrested by the police as he allegedly kidnapped a policeman in his car after he was stopped at a nakabandi for not wearing a mask and stepping out of home unnecessarily during the lockdown. The incident took place when the student, Cyrus Saldhana, had stepped out in the wee hours of Monday and was returning home.The police stopped his car during the nakabandi at the Milan Junction on the freeway as he was not wearing a mask. When constable Kundansingh Thakar, 41, asked him why has he ventured out during lockdown, Saldhana could not give a satisfactory answer.Following this, the police decided to take action against him. Thakar sat in his car and asked him to drive the vehicle to the police station.“The accused instead of driving the vehicle to Govandi police station took the freeway bridge and stopped the car only near Wadala station, covering a distance of almost 8 kilometres. Thakar informed his colleague and Saldhana was arrested on charges of kidnapping,” said Balasaheb Kedare, senior inspector of Govandi police station. The police have booked Saldhana under sections 365 (kidnapping a person with intent to cause that person to be secretly and wrongfully confined), 353 (obstructing public servant from discharging his duty) 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. Saldhana was produced before a court and remanded in magistrate custody, said Kedare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-stopped-for-flouting-lockdown-norms-kidnaps-cop-in-his-car-arrested-101620153018345.html
05-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha to resume vaccination for 45+||After three days of vaccinating fewer than 100,000 adults, including the newly-added category of 18-44 years, Maharashtra received 900,000 doses of vaccines on Tuesday afternoon from the Centre and is set to resume its vaccination for 45 years and above starting today.“Till Monday we were left with only 25,000 to 30,000 doses under the national vaccination drive being run by the Centre for 45 years and above population and hence most of the centres were shut. This is despite Maharashtra’s capacity of vaccinating up to 800,000 beneficiaries a day. Only this afternoon, we have got around 900,000 doses of Covishield from the Centre, which will now be distributed across districts to resume the drive again,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday.Maharashtra also hit a milestone of administering the first jab of 100,000 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group whose vaccination began from May 1. The state has vaccinated 45% of the 45+ age group, since the inoculation began from April 1, the health minister said. “We have also covered 100,000 beneficiaries under the 18-44 age group in four days and covered 45% of the total population that comes under 45 years and above the age group. Till date, the state has vaccinated 16.5 million of beneficiaries from 45 years and above age group,” Tope said on Tuesday.Maharashtra is also one the states with the lowest vaccine wastage in the country, according to figures released by the union ministry on Tuesday. Out of the 16.36 million doses of vaccines supplied to state till date, its wastage was only 0.22%. Compared to Maharashtra, Haryana had a wastage rate of 5.72%, Assam of 7.7%, Lakshadweep of 9.71%, Tamil Nadu of 8.83%, Uttar Pradesh of 3.54% and Gujarat of 3.61%. The national vaccination drive was started on January 16 among priority categories which initially included health care and frontline workers and was extended to include senior citizens above 60 years. In all, 2.4 million citizens have been vaccinated in Mumbai alone.Several centres across the state were shut for the third day in a row causing worry among senior citizens who are up for their second jab of either Covishield or Covaxin. On Tuesday, only 26,944 were vaccinated in Mumbai, for instance. The state’s highest one-day inoculation figure was 534,228 doses, administered on April 26. Since then, its numbers have steadily dropped to 47,613 on May 2 and 78,759 on May 3, according to figures on the CoWIN portal.According to a release issued by the ministry of health and family welfare on May 1, the state would receive 2,327,510 doses (1,750,620 of Covishield and 576,890 of Covaxin) from the Centre for the first fortnight in May.In addition, it will receive 1.8 million doses from Serum Institute of India (which manufactures Covishield) and Bharat Biotech (which has made and produces Covaxin) and has received only 300,000, with which it was able to begin the third phase of the inoculation drive (18- 44 years) in a limited way (five centres in each district).“We have also issued purchase orders of over 1.87 million doses (1,381,581 doses of Covishield and 489,150 of Covaxin) for this month for the drive started for 18-44 group. With 300,000 doses the drive was started on May 1 and district administrations have been asked to cover seven days with the existing stock. By that time, we are expecting to get the rest of the stock ordered by the state,” Tope said.“As the stock is received, we immediately dispatch them to the respective districts so that the drive need not be discontinued. From tomorrow, the drive is expected to be resumed at most of the centres,” a senior official, privy to the development, said.The government set a target of completing the drive for all adults in six months and wanted to procure 15 million every month but both the firms — SII and Bharat Biotech — have said that their production will increase in the next two months, after which the supply to the state will be more regular. “They have said that their production is expected to increase in June and July and they will be able to increase the supply of the state subsequently,” said a senior official, privy to the development.Tope said, “The state government wants to buy the entire stock of 120 million doses in one go but are struggling to get the doses due to its unavailability in the market.”Expanding the nationwide drive, the Centre threw open vaccination for all adults from May 1, asking the states to inoculate the 18-44 age group by procuring doses from the open market.According to the state government figures, 60 million of its population comes under the age group of 18-44 and thus will require 120 million doses to get them immunized from the virus. It has already declared to provide free doses of the vaccine for all the adults at government run centres. The decision was taken in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. For this, it has estimated a spending of ₹6,500 crore.“Vaccination drive of the state got a setback as the Centre is unable to supply vaccines in adequate quantity. We had prepared and ramped up the drive to inoculate over 500,000 a day and wanted to increase it further but going by the supply getting from the Centre it may not happen in the near future,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.Last month, union minister Prakash Javadekar had said that Maharashtra government was playing politics over the allotment of vaccine stock. “Maharashtra Govt should not play politics over vaccination. Here are the facts: Total number of COVID vaccine supplied to State till date - 1,06,19,190; Consumption - 90,53,523 (of which 6% wastage - over 5L) Vaccine in pipeline - 7,43,280. Dosage available - nearly 23 lakh,” he tweeted on April 7.As per the Central government’s figures, Maharashtra’s wastage of vaccines – which could occur on account of multiple factors such as not having access to a beneficiary after a vial has been opened (once opened, vials need to be used immediately given the temperature requirements) – comes to 35,992 doses.On Tuesday, Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that Javadekar should apologize for his earlier claims. “Javadekarji’s falsehood has been exposed by the central government’s press note as the wastage is not 6% and is just 0.22%. The union minister has insulted Maharashtra by spreading wrong information for the sake of politics,” he said.BJP’s media cell chief Vishwas Pathak said, “Public health minister Rajesh Tope says that Maharashtra has trained manpower in healthcare sector, and they can ramp up daily inoculation to 1.2 million doses. Then why is there wastage of 600,000 doses? In percentage it may be less, but the wastage of such a huge stock when there was acute shortage, is not acceptable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-to-resume-vaccination-for-45-101620151938291.html
