06-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra health minister says city-dwellers going to rural areas to get Covid-19 jab||To get around shortages of vaccine doses in cities, some urban residents are reportedly booking slots at inoculation centers in rural areas, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday."I have received some complaints from rural areas that tech-savvy people in cities are entering rural pin-codes to register themselves for Covid-19 vaccination," he told reporters here."It is injustice to rural people who are being deprived of opportunity to get inoculated. City people should not do this. There is no need to panic over limited supply of vaccine doses," he added.The minister, however, also said that the vaccine supply was not enough."The state is ready to purchase 12 crore vials of vaccine but suppliers do not have such a huge stock," Tope said.If the vaccine supply does not improve, the government will have to divert the second doses meant for 18-44 age group to administer second doses to those above 45 years, Tope said.The government will have to ensure that those in the above 45 years category who have received first dose of Covaxin get their second dose within 42 days, he said.For Covishield there is no such requirement, Tope added."The decision of diversion of vials will be taken in the next two days," the health minister said.He also claimed that Maharashtra was not getting the required number of Remdesivir vials from the Centre."We have been told that the seven Remdesivir-making companies in the country are expanding their production capacity. Once the extra production commences, the state will get enough supply," Tope said.He also said that some pharma companies are selling Remdesivir for ₹3,000 while others are selling it at ₹900 per vial, and the Center must look into this issue.The Centre has informed the state government about the possibility of the third wave of the pandemic by August end or September first week and the state was making preparations to tackle the situation, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-health-minister-says-city-dwellers-going-to-rural-areas-to-get-covid-19-jab-101620324369406.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Plane with Covid-19 patient onboard makes belly landing at Mumbai airport||A medical flight which was on its way to Mumbai from Bagdogra with a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient onboard made an emergency belly landing in Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai after a wheel of the aircraft separated from its body and fell on the ground at Nagpur airport during takeoff after it had made a stopped for refueling.This video captures the crucial moments after belly landing of the ambulance flight on foam carpet in Mumbai after it lost a wheel during takeoff from Nagpur.All onboard are safe.Kudos to the crew & ground professionals.⁦@DGCAIndia⁩ ⁦@CSMIA_Official⁩ pic.twitter.com/b7fgBef1x4Mumbai airport officials were seen spraying foam on the runway to prevent fire as the pilot made a belly landing and did not use the landing gear in the flight, an official familiar with the developments told HT. There were no reports of any injuries or casualties. The flight was carrying 2 crew members, 1 relative and 1 doctor along with the Covid-19 patient.Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri lauded the airport officials for their quick response and shared the video via a tweet. "This video captures the crucial moments after belly landing of the ambulance flight on foam carpet in Mumbai after it lost a wheel during takeoff from Nagpur. All onboard are safe. Kudos to the crew & ground professionals," Puri said. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport authorities in a statement said that the officials reacted fast and foamed the runway where the flight had landed. “A full emergency was declared for a non-scheduled Beechcraft VT-JIL aircraft on route from Nagpur to Mumbai. The flight carrying 02 crew members, 01 patient, 01 relative and 01 doctor did a belly-landing at CSMIA at 21:09 hrs,” airport authorities said in a statement.“The airport's emergency response team including the fire and rescue responders, follow-me vehicles, CISF, medical team amongst many others was activated instantly and on standby to provide immediate assistance to ensure the safe evacuation of the passengers. As a precautionary method, CSMIA also foamed RWY 27 in order to avoid the aircraft catching fire,” the statement further said. The main runway 27 at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport will remain unavailable till 2am on Friday due to this incident. Following the landing airport authorities were also seen spraying coolants onto the aircraft to prevent any untoward incident. The Covid-19 patient was later taken to Nanavati hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/plane-with-covid-19-patient-onboard-makes-belly-landing-at-mumbai-airport-101620322135228.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 62,194 Covid-19 cases, Mumbai's daily caseload falls to 3,028||Maharashtra's tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose to 4,942,736 on Thursday as 62,194 more people tested positive on the day, making it for the first time since May 1, that more than 60,000 people were found positive for Covid-19 in a single day, a health department bulletin showed. The related death toll, meanwhile, increased by 853, taking the total death toll to 73,515.On Wednesday, the western state saw 57,640 fresh infections and 920 fatalities, the second-highest death toll in a single day. On April 28, 985 deaths were reported.Also Read | Maharashtra breaches 900-death mark for second timeIn terms of recoveries, 63,842 more people defeated the virus on Thursday, taking total recovered cases to 4,227,940, the bulletin showed. The number of active cases, meanwhile, has risen to 639,075. Number of samples tested for the day witnessed a marginal fall, as 277,086 tests were conducted on the day as against 279,200 on May 5. The total number of samples tested thus far stands at 28,661,668.The state's capital city of Mumbai, meanwhile, registered a sharp fall in its new cases, with 3,028 more people testing positive, down from 3,882 on Wednesday. The death toll reached 13,580 with 69 more fatalities in the metropolis. Thus far, 668,085 residents of the city have tested positive for the viral disease.Among other worst-hit districts, Pune's infection tally stands at 899,360 while that of Nagpur is at 452,434. The respective death tolls of the two districts are at 9,942 and 5,439.Maharashtra, whose caseload is the highest in the country, is among 12 states with more than one lakh active cases, among five with more than 1.5 lakh active cases. In his address to the state on Wednesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned that a "third wave is coming" and hence, people need to be more careful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-62-194-new-covid-19-cases-and-853-deaths-101620312966534.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Centre reduced Maharashtra's oxygen supply by 50 MT, claims health minister Tope||The Centre has reduced the supply of liquid medical oxygen to Maharashtra from Karnataka by 50 metric tonnes (MT), a move which will have severe impact on treatment of Covid-19 patients in the state, health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday.He said the issue of reduction in liquid medical oxygen supply to Maharashtra, which has the maximum number of active cases in the country, should be raised with the Union health ministry.Speaking to reporters here, Tope said, The Union government today reduced the allocation of liquid medical oxygen from Karnataka by 50 metric tonnes."It will have severe impact on the ongoing treatment of Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra. It is necessary to raise the issue with the Union health ministry and other officials concerned."He said the state government is setting up Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen plants to increase production of the life-saving gas used in treatment of serious coronavirus patients."Maharashtra is currently consuming 1,750 MT of (medical) oxygen, he said.The only ray of hope for the state is installation of 28 PSA plants. The state has given orders for 150 PSA plants which will commence in the coming days, he said.Tope said liquid medical oxygen is among the key tools needed to deal with the pandemic.If oxygen supply is not resumed, we will face serious shortage. We will have to get more oxygen from the Centre in this period (till PSA plants start functioning), he said.PSA is a technology that is used to separate gas species from a mixture of gases under pressure.A fortnight ago, 22 Covid-19 patients died in a civic hospital in Nashik after oxygen supply to them was disrupted due to a leakage in the storage tank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centre-reduced-maharashtra-s-oxygen-supply-by-50-mt-claims-health-minister-tope-101620308276416.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Over 7 kg radioactive uranium, worth ₹21.3 crore, seized in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra ATS has seized over 7 kg of natural uranium worth about ₹21.30 crore and arrested two persons in this connection, an official said on Thursday.The substance is "highly radioactive and dangerous to human life", the ATS official said quoting a report of an analysis conducted by the BARC.Acting on specific information, the Nagpada unit of the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) had apprehended a 27-year-old Thane resident, Jigar Pandya, with some small pieces of the valuable substance on February 14 this year, he said.Pandya was allegedly trying to sell it illegally and was in search of a possible customer, he said.During his interrogation, the ATS team got information that the uranium pieces were given to him by one Abu Tahir Afzal Husain Choudhary (31), a resident of Mankhurd in the eastern suburbs here, the official said.The ATS subsequently nabbed Choudhary from the premises of Kurla Scrap Association in Mankhurd and seized 7.100 kg of natural uranium from his possession, he said.The seized uranium was sent to the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) at Trombay for analysis, he said.The report received from the research center mentioned that the substance was natural uranium, which is "highly radioactive and dangerous to human life", he said.The ATS on Wednesday registered a case under provisions of the Atomic Energy Act-1962, based on a complaint by the regional director, central region, Atomic Minerals Directorate of Exploration of Research, Nagpur, he said.The two accused were on Wednesday produced before a local court which remanded them in the custody of the ATS till May 12, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-7-kg-radioactive-uranium-worth-rs-21-3-crore-seized-in-maharashtra-101620294608922.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Created war room to monitor Covid-19 situation: Mumbai mayor||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Thursday said the current death rate of Covid-19 in Mumbai is lower than the previous year, adding that a war room has been created to monitor the coronavirus situation in the city. "The current death rate is lower than the last year. We have created a war room to monitor the Covid-19 situation in the city. We're informing people about the availability of hospital beds through the war room," said Pednekar.Earlier on Tuesday, the Mumbai mayor stressed the importance of getting more and more people vaccinated to equip them to deal with a potential third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).She has also appealed to the citizens not to crowd at vaccination centres, saying social distancing norms must be followed. "For the third wave, it is essential to vaccinate more and more people. I thank PM Modi for opening vaccination for people between 18-44 years of age," she added.Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) received a fresh stock of one lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses on Tuesday night. "Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation received a fresh stock of one lakh vaccine doses last night and it will resume vaccination of people above 45 years at BMC's and government vaccination centres," the BMC informed.Mumbai on Wednesday reported 3,879 fresh Covid-19 cases and 77 deaths, taking the count of daily infections in the city to 6,65,299 and the death toll to 13,547, a BMC official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/created-war-room-to-monitor-covid-19-situation-mumbai-mayor-101620284930017.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC declines Deshmukh's plea for interim protection from CBI||The Bombay high court on Thursday declined to give any interim protection to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh from any coercive action by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The Court directed the former minister to move the vacation bench of the high court on the basis of the urgency of the case if needed, reported news agency ANI.Adjourning Deshmukh's petition challenging the CBI FIR against him in the corruption row, the Court asked CBI to file a reply to the plea in four weeks. The next hearing in the matter will be after the summer vacation of the court, reported the news agency.Also read: Mumbai cop Sunil Mane remanded in judicial custody in Mansukh Hiran murder probeAllegations of corruption and misconduct were levelled against Deshmukh by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh accused Deshkmukh of "malpractices and "malpractices". He said that the minister also asked suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from Mumbai restaurants and bars.The allegations against Deshmukh came to the surface during the probe into the security breach incident that took place in February near Antilia. Following the allegations and the Bombay high court's direction to CBI to start an inquiry, the minister resigned from his post within 15 days of the allegations. The court also directed the agency to register an FIR in case of discovery of any cognizable offence.CBI conducted raids at four premises of Deshmukh on April 24 after registering an FIR against him in the corruption matter. The agency found incriminating documents and digital devices during the searches, ANI quoted sources as saying.Also read| Allegations against ex-Maharashtra min: CBI submits interim probe report to courtDeshmukh on Monday moved the Bombay high court to quash an FIR registered against him by the central investigation agency over the corruption row and also pleaded for interim protection from any coercive action taken by the agency.The Maharashtra government also filed a petition before the Court seeking to remove some portions from the FIR registered by the CBI. The state government said that some portions of the FIR registered by the agency against Deshmukh were intended to "destabilise" the Shiv Sena-led ruling coalition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-declines-deshmukh-s-plea-for-interim-protection-from-cbi-101620284993519.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Low on vaccine stock, Mumbai’s BKC centre inoculating only 18-44yr olds today||A day after it reported crowding and many senior citizens had to be turned away, Mumbai’s Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) Jumbo Vaccination Centre stopped inoculation for 45+ age group and said it will only give first doses to those in the 18-44 age group, with prior appointment.BMC officials confirmed that vaccination for 45+ age group will remain shut at the centre as it has already slotted beneficiaries as per the availability of vaccine doses. In fact, availability of vaccine has remained an issue despite BMC receiving more than 100,000 vaccine doses in the past 48 hours.Dr Rajesh Dere, dean of BKC vaccination centre, said, “Vaccination for 45+ is shut as there is inadequate supply. Yesterday, we got 8,000 doses and it is not enough.”The BMC put up a board outside BKC Jumbo centre on Thursday saying, “Vaccination will only be available for beneficiaries with today’s appointment for Covishield in the age group of 18 years to 44 years between 9am and 5pm.”Also Read | Maharashtra breaches 900-death mark for second timeTechnical glitches also stalled work elsewhere. In a tweet on Thursday, the BMC said, “The new vaccination centre at Transit Camp in Dharavi could not be activated today due to technical glitches. Citizens with slots booked there are requested to go to Urban Health Centre. It will be taken up on priority.”Long queues were observed at several other vaccination centres in the city, including Dahisar Jumbo Centre, NESCO jumbo centre, Rajawadi Hospital, and KEM Hospital. The BMC has issued a list of 75 vaccination centres where vaccination for 45+ is being done for first and second dose on Thursday. However, Covaxin is being given only to those requiring second dose. Vaccination of 18-44 age group is on at five vaccination centres where 2,500 citizens will be vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/low-on-vaccine-stock-mumbai-s-bkc-centre-inoculating-only-18-44yr-olds-today-101620286251458.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai lawyer couple who opposed Maratha reservation||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed with a batch of pleas and found that there were no exceptional circumstances justifying the grant of reservation to Marathas in excess of 50% ceiling limit as a socially and economically backward class. Among the petitioners was Mumbai advocate couple, Gunratan Sadavarte (47) and Jayashree Patil (43), who filed a petition in 2020 in the Bombay High Court (HC) shortly after the state passed a bill granting 16% reservation to Marathas in government jobs and education. The Bombay HC upheld the Maratha quota provided by the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act 2018 but said that 16% reservation provided by the new law was not justifiable; the reservation should not exceed 12% in employment and 13% in education. Sadavarte, on behalf of Patil, then approached the Supreme Court in 2019 challenging the Bombay HC decision. The going has not been easy for the petitioner couple: in 2018, Sadavarte informed the Bombay HC, which was hearing Patil’s petition challenging the state law, that he would receive threats routinely, and on one occasion, he was assaulted outside the court by a mob that supported the reservation. “They can shoot me. But I won’t stop my fight,” Sadavarte said at his Parel residence, minutes after the SC judgment was pronounced. The two had consistently argued that the breach of the 50% ceiling on reservation laid down by a previous SC judgement, was “discriminatory and against the Constitution.” “The latest verdict by Supreme Court is in accordance with the Constitution which does not discriminate,” he said in a phone interview to Hindustan Times. This isn’t the couple’s first big legal battle. In 2014, when the then Congress-Nationalist Congress Party government issued an ordinance to reserve 16% seats to Marathas in education and jobs, months before the assembly polls were to be held in Maharashtra, Sadavarte on behalf of his father-in-law Laxman Patil approached Bombay HC against it. When the couple started getting threats, the Maharashtra government provided them security cover in 2016. Despite this, Sadavarte was attacked in December 2018 by a worker affiliated to Maratha outfit Sambhaji Brigade. “I don’t believe in caste. Don’t even ask me which one I belong to,” Sadavarte said. Born in 1974 in a small village Hivra in Nanded district, bordering Maharashtra and Telangana states, Sadavarte first trained as a dentist and later, studied law in Mumbai. His mother was a state government employee in the health department, while his father was a wrestler, who later became a corporator in the Nanded Municipal Corporation. Born at Mahurgaon, Patil studied law in Aurangabad and attained a Master’s degree in law in Mumbai. She later pursued a doctorate in criminology. Her father Laxman Patil, was also involved in the Goa liberation movement. Both husband and wife are also doctorate holders. “She is an independent woman and I have always taken her counsel in various cases,” said Sadavarte. “We both counsel each other. That too without fees,” Patil said. “We are not against a person or caste or any community. We want Constitution to be followed and injustice to be opposed,” said Patil when asked about her stand in moving Supreme Court against Maratha reservation. In April, Patil also filed a petition in the Bombay HC seeking an investigation into former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh’s allegations of corruption against former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. The Bombay HC directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary investigation within 15 days. The couple has two daughters, 12-year-old Zen and a four-month-old who is yet to be named. A class eight student, Zen won the National Bravery Award in 2020 by President Ram Nath Kovind Prime Minister Narendra Modi for saving the lives of 10 people when her building caught fire in August 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-lawyer-couple-who-opposed-maratha-reservation-101620243698503.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Maratha quota scrapped: We are not averse to need-based reservation, says lawyer||“We are not against Maratha or any other community for that matter. We are opposed to the very idea of caste-based reservation,” said Sanjeet Rammilan Shukla, lawyer and activist who has played an important role in the successful challenge to Maharashtra government’s decision to provide 16% reservation for Maratha community in public employment and education. “We are not averse to need-based reservation for economically backward sections of the society, for the ground reality is that majority of those in actual need of social support are still out of the mainstream because even education is beyond their reach,” he clarified.The 36-year-old represents a non-profit organisation, Youth for Equality Foundation, a body of educated like-minded professionals opposed to the idea of caste-based reservation. The organisation, having pan-India presence, was formed in 2006, immediately after the Mandal Commission controversy after the reservation in public employment and education nearly doubled, from 26% to 50%.In 2014, advocate Shukla petitioned the Bombay high court (HC) as a representative of the non-profit organisation when the state government came up with June 25, 2014 decision to provide reservation to the Maratha community. He fought the legal battle with other petitioners, resulting in the HC staying the decision on November 14, 2014.He again approached the HC after the then BJP-led government in Maharashtra came out with a new legislation to ride over the HC stay order and introduce the same decision to extend the benefit of reservation to Maratha community. This time, HC held the reservation law constitutionally valid, prompting petitioners like the lawyer-activist to move the Supreme Court.Shukla said that in the earlier round the state government had relied on the Narayan Rane committee report on social status of Maratha community in Maharashtra to provide the reservation. In the second round, it was the report of justice (retired) MG Gaikwad committee which provided the much-needed support to the second legislation. With regards to the legal battle before the Supreme Court, he said, “Apart from the legal aspects of breach of limit of 50% reservation in Maharashtra, we also pointed out that sample survey data placed before the Gaikwad Committee was not only grossly inadequate — barely 10% of what Range Committee took in to consideration — but was also obtained with the aid of tweaked format of the sample survey questionnaire required to be used for social surveys.” Besides, he said, the petitioners also pointed out that Maratha community was appropriately represented in public employment, and therefore there was no need to provide reservation to the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-quota-scrapped-we-are-not-averse-to-need-based-reservation-says-lawyer-101620243638484.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||SC strikes down Maratha quota: MVA’s setback, Opposition’s advantage||The striking down of the quota for the Maratha community in Maharashtra could be a major setback for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government. Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has blamed the MVA government for failing to secure the reservation provided by the former government, could use the unrest in the community against the ruling coalition, say political experts. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will be writing a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting them to take a decision on Maratha reservation. “I am requesting the Prime Minister and President to take a decision on Maratha reservation as the Supreme Court has also acknowledged that it comes under their authority. Tomorrow, I will be writing a letter to them on the same and also ready to meet them, if required,” Thackeray said in his address on social media platforms on Wednesday evening. Taking serious cognizance of the issue, the chief minister decided to address the state especially the Maratha community and requested them to exercise peace and restraint as the state is in the midst of a pandemic and the state is fighting in their support. He asked them not to get provoked as some forces may try to take advantage of the situation. “The SC verdict is disappointing as it has said that the state doesn’t have powers to give reservation… But it has also shown us a way by saying that the Centre and President has powers to grant reservation to a community. I am sure that the PM or the Centre will not disrespect this demand as it is not of just a community but of entire Maharashtra,” he pointed out. The community Marathas, who make up nearly 30-32% of the state population, including Kunbi-Marathas, who come under the other backward class (OBC), are a strong force in the state both politically and socially. The community has a strong presence in agriculture, rural economy, cooperative sector (sugar, bank and milk cooperative units) as well as state bureaucracy. The community has a decisive influence on nearly 75 of the 288 constituencies. The Marathas traditionally rallied with the Congress-NCP, but that changed in the 2014 Assembly polls. The BJP and Sena dominated the western and central Maharashtra (which has strong presence of Marathas) even though they contested separately. It is assumed that in 2019 Assembly elections, the community helped the NCP bounce back as the party won a majority of its 56 assembly seats in western Maharashtra and adjoining areas that are politically dominated by Marathas. The party could also capitalise on ‘Maratha community pride’ after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, currently the most prominent Maratha politician, was targeted by the then BJP-led state government and its leaders. The Congress too has been dominated by Maratha community leaders for decades. The community strongly supported the party. The Shiv Sena has a mix voter base, including the Marathas. Following the Kopardi rape incident (see box), the Maratha mobilisation took place and the reservation issue was put forth strongly by the community. Subsequently, the community stages over 50 marches, first silent and later violent ones, to get quota for the community. Towards the 2019 Assembly polls, many Maratha leaders from Congress-NCP switched to greener pastures of the BJP. However, the NCP-Congress turned the tables in 2019 by winning over 30 from the 58 Assembly seats in Western Maharashtra. The three parties now face the risk of losing some of this support base, if they fail to find a solution to retain the quota granted by Fadnavis government to the community. The blame game State minister Ashok Chavan, who heads the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, said that then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis misled the people on quota issues by passing it without due right. He said that Solicitor General of India had clearly told the SC that the state’s right to provide quota had not been taken away. “While setting the reservation aside, the apex court has opined that the states have no right to pass such law for reservation in the wake of the 102th constitutional amendment and the powers have been given to the Centre. The Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018, was enacted in state legislature in November 2018 by then Fadnavis government, after the 102th Constitutional amendment in August that year. The state BJP leaders have been trying to put blame on us, but they have misguided the people of Maharashtra by keeping a faultline in the constitution of the Act,” Chavan said. Chavan said as the powers to give reservation to any community lie with the Centre, the MVA will send the proposal to National Commission for Backward Classes to give reservation to Marathas in “exceptional and extraordinary circumstances”. Fadnavis and other BJP leaders held the MVA government responsible for quashing of the reservation. Fadnavis said the state government under Uddhav Thackeray could not even effectively plead the case in the Apex court. “The Maratha quota law was enacted by our government taking Uddhav Thackeray into confidence as the Shiv Sena was part of our government then. When it was challenged in the Bombay high court and the Supreme Court, our government effectively pleaded the case. As a result, the high court upheld the reservation, while the SC had denied a stay on it. Later, during the MVA government regime, the case was referred to another bench where it was stayed. The Solicitor General of India had clearly told the SC that states’ right to provide quota had not been taken away,” Fadnavis said. Fadnavis said the MVA government failed to convince the court about the sanctity of the Gaikwad report and as a result of it the reservation was struck down, when reservations in other states were intact. Political repercussions Political analysts and observers said the BJP will use it to its advantage to corner the MVA politically. Pratap Asbe, a political analyst, said, “The Bill and subsequent law were passed during their government, but still they will make the argument emotional to fire up the Maratha youths. Whether there is any major election or not, the unrest will be engineered. We have seen what happens when a community as powerful as Marathas comes on the streets.” Another analyst Surendra Jondhale said that although the BJP enjoys support of many Maratha leaders, unlike before 2014, it needs to be seen if the Maratha youths come under their influence. “The BJP will attempt to mobilise the Marathas and make an issue out of it. Fadnavis has played an ambiguous role in the quota issue. Interestingly, [BJP MP] Sambhaji Maharaj has taken a stand that both governments pursued the matter and he accepted the verdict. The response of Maratha youths to the BJP will be important now,” Jondhale, who was a former professor of political science at the Mumbai University. According to a Congress leader, the SC verdict may have long-standing political repercussions. “The BJP has been painting a picture that they had given the reservation to the community, but the three-party government could not safeguard it. It is now very difficult to regain it by filing a review petition and next to impossible to include them in other backward classes. The conclusion is the reservation was struck down, when the parties with strong Maratha base are at helm of affairs. The effect may be felt in the upcoming local body elections,” said a senior Congress leader requesting anonymity. Political analyst Hemant Desai said that the three ruling parties may have to face a setback if they do not handle the issue smartly. “All three ruling parties enjoy political support of the community and may not afford to lose it. Poor people in the community are upset with their leaders for the suppression for years,” he said. Balasaheb Sarate Patil, a Maratha leader involved in the legal battle, said the BJP may not get advantage of the decision. “The Act which has been quashed was enacted by the Fadnavis government and even the Gaikwad commission report was submitted during his government. So the BJP cannot just blame the ruling parties,” he said. Political analyst Prakash Bal said, “The political impact depends on how the perception is created by both the sides. The reservation given to the Marathas was never tenable and this was said by Justice PB Sawant who was member of the bench that delivered the Indra Sawhney case judgment. The politics of allegations and counter allegations will continue and is likely to be utilised as an election issue in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sc-strikes-down-maratha-quota-mva-s-setback-opposition-s-advantage-101620243579577.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Maratha quota scrapped: Fight for merit prevails, say students, parents||The Supreme Court’s (SC) decision to quash reservations for students from Maratha community in educational institutes has been hailed by students seeking admissions to professional courses and their parents. Dr Uday Dhoble, one of the petitioners in the case that was heard in the Apex court, said, “Along with other parents of medical aspirants, we had filed a case challenging the government rule of reservations exceeding 50%. We have nothing against the Marathas. Our contention was that if more than 50% seats are reserved, open category students will be forced to be admitted in private and deemed universities. The biggest impact of the reservations was on medical students.”“It’s a winning moment for all of us in open category. Finally merit prevails. The fight that we at Team Mumbai began at the Bombay high court (HC) in December of 2018 finally succeeded at the Supreme Court (SC) today. We are not against any caste or religion, but are against reservation going beyond 50%. Let everyone get it on economic grounds within the stipulated 50%,” said education activist and parent Sudha Shenoy, who is a part of Save Merit, Save Nation group. Shenoy is a part of a group of medical aspirants and parents protesting the 12% reservation of seats for Maratha category students. Those seeking admission to other professional courses, too, have been against the Maratha reservations. They had filed public interest litigations challenging the Maratha reservation in HC and SC. In September last year, SC had stayed all recruitment and admissions in education institutes under the socially and economically backward classes (SEBC) quota for the 2020-21 academic year, with exception to postgraduate medical admissions. On September 21, Maharastra government had filed a petition in the Apex court to vacate the stay on admissions. The court, however, had adjourned the hearing by four weeks. On November 24, the state released a government resolution clarifying that all admissions, for that time being, would be conducted without the inclusion of the quota, until there’s clarity from SC on the matter. In line with SC’s interim stay on the Maratha quota in jobs and education, the state education department had stayed the admission process for first-year junior college (FYJC) in September 2020. Admissions under the Socially and Educationally Backward Class (SEBC) quota were conducted in the first round, but the remaining rounds took place without the reservation after the state government decided to do so. The overall demand for seats under the quota was low as only 20% seats had takers. This confusion over SEBC quota had led to an unprecedented delay last year in admissions to junior colleges as well as professional courses such as medical, law, management, architecture and engineering. With SC now quashing the reservations and providing clarity, students hope that the admission process is streamlined this year. “Now that there’s no confusion over the quota, the state common entrance test (CET) cell can conduct the admission process as per schedule,” said a law aspirant on the condition of anonymity. However, CET cell officials said they will wait for directions from the state government before they can act on the reservations issue. “We are aware of the SC decision. However, CET cell is an executing body. We will wait for directions from the state government on how to hold admissions and what reservations to apply,” said CD Joshi, commissioner, CET Cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-quota-scrapped-fight-for-merit-prevails-say-students-parents-101620243518367.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||SC scraps Maratha quota: What’s next for Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi govt||Various Maratha outfit leaders met virtually late Wednesday evening to decide over the future course of action even as Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in a webcast on Wednesday assured the community that the state would fight for their reservation which was struck down by the Supreme Court earlier in the day. Thackeray said that the state was dealing with the pandemic crisis, and “some forces may try to take advantage of the situation” but that they should not get provoked and resume their agitation. “The Supreme Court verdict is disappointing as it has said that the state doesn’t have powers to give reservation… But it has also shown us a way by saying that the Centre and President has powers to grant reservation to a community. I am sure that the PM or the Centre will not disrespect this demand as it is not of just a community but of the entire Maharashtra,” Thackeray said. The Maratha agitation for reservation in government jobs and education has been a long-standing demand of the community and goes back to the 1980s. It culminated in the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act 2018 which introduced 16% reservation for the community. The law was challenged in the Bombay HC, which brought down the reservation to 12% and 13% for education and jobs, respectively. Leaders of the Maratha community held a discussion on the basis on which the law was scrapped by the Supreme Court on Wednesday evening, which was attended by legal experts as well. On Thursday, a virtual meeting of state coordinators of Maratha Kranti Morcha, an apex body of various organisations of the Maratha community, has been called to discuss the next line of action. “We are evaluating the points based on which SEBC act was struck down. It has come to light that no point-to-point arguments were held in the apex court over findings of Maharashtra State Commission for Backward Classes (MSCBC) report but while giving its verdict the apex court rejected some of the findings of the report. We have decided to call a meeting to discuss the matter in detail and decide the next course of action on Thursday evening, said Virendra Pawar, a leader from Maratha Mahasangh. Mansing Pawar, one of the organisers of Maratha Kranti Morcha, said there were two options: increase the ceiling of reservation quota which the Central government can do, or the state government incorporate Marathas in OBC category. “The Central government will have to think of making an amendment to increase reservation quota from 50% and above to grant reservation to the Maratha community. The other option is that the state government can make Maratha community part of OBC category to grant reservation,” he said. “If the state government is unable to provide us reservation benefits then they should incorporate Maratha community in the OBC category to get us reservation benefits. We have yet to discuss the option declared by the state government of approaching NCBC,” Pawar added.Bharatiya Janata Party Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, a descendant of Chhatrapati Shivaji, a 17th century Maratha king, said that the state government was now left with the only option of announcing a supernumerary quota for the community. “I feel that the supernumerary quota method is the only option left before the state government. I would not like to blame any particular government, be it past or present. The erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis led BJP government had tried hard and passed the reservation law, the present Thackeray government too tried its best but failed to convince the Supreme Court,” he said. The state said that it would approach the National Commission on Backward Classes, with a 2018 report submitted by the Maharashtra State Backward Class Commission, which attested to the need for reservation for the Maratha community. “As directed by the Supreme Court, we will approach the National Commission on Backward Classes with our report on the backwardness of the Maratha community. We will establish the ‘exception and extraordinary circumstances’ to show the backwardness of the community and send the proposal to the Centre. Now it is the responsibility of the Centre to accord the reservation to the community,” Ashok Chavan, PWD minister said. “In today’s verdict, the apex court clearly stated the state can approach NCBC for granting reservation. If the Commission makes a recommendation and the President approves it, then reservation can be granted. We have decided to approach NCBC and will present our side on why it is necessary to be given,” Nawab Malik, minority affairs minister said. State officials also discussed the possibility of filing a review petition against the Supreme Court verdict. “Once our legal experts study the verdict, we will discuss the pros and cons of approaching the apex court for review of the verdict by a larger bench. The law and judiciary department is looking into this possibility,” an official who did not want to be named said. “Our team of lawyers is studying the verdict. They will advise us on what to do next,” Thackeray said in his late evening address. “The 102nd amendment was notified in August 2018 whereas the SEBC Act was passed in November 2018. The argument made before the apex court is that the state government passed the act only after the 102nd amendment which makes SEBC act invalid. The previous government should have approached the Centre for clarity before enacting the act,” Shreehari Aney, former advocate general of the state told a news channel. The only alternative before the state was to bring the Maratha community within the OBC category to ensure continued reservation. “Apart from 22% reservation granted to Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Vimukta Jati/Nomadic Tribes, the rest of the reservation quota is generally within the OBC category. If the Maratha caste would be able to bring Marathas under OBC category, then it will work and will also not exceed 50% cap. But that would require consensus from other OBC, but that is the only legal solution. For that, a lot of groundwork needs to be done for making a consensus,” he said. The reservation granted to Scheduled Caste is 13%, Scheduled Tribe — 7% and Vimukta Jati/Nomadic Tribe is 2%. He said the other legal solution could be giving the rights to the states to declare who is a socially and educationally backward class. “But that will also not fully resolve the problem because even if the state gets the right, breaching the 50% cap is not something within their capacity,” Aney said. Anant Kalse, former state legislature secretary said, “The verdict of the supreme court is the law of the land. The state government can now go for a review as the issue of states having powers for granting reservation to a community is still debatable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sc-scraps-maratha-quota-what-s-next-for-maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-govt-101620243398367.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Jobs, admissions already granted under Maratha quota safeguarded||More than 3,000 Maratha youths who have completed the recruitment process and hundreds of medical admissions secured before the Supreme Court put an interim stay on Maratha quota on September 9, 2020, have been safeguarded by the top court while quashing reservation for the community.Maharashtra government, after opening up recruitment process, which was frozen for years ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, had recruited more than 3,000 youth under 13% Maratha reservation in jobs. Some of them had not received appointment letters though the recruitment process was completed when the Supreme Court announced the interim stay last year. The state government had sought the clarity on it from the top court.Similarly, many college admissions were stalled halfway due to the interim order but during the first round of admission, students were admitted under the quota.“The SC on Wednesday clarified that the admissions and jobs secured before the interim stay have been safeguarded. We will have to check about the cases in which the appointment orders were not issued due to the interim order. Today’s order has also cleared the air on the recruitment done under quota in 2014 under law enacted by the then Congress government,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jobs-admissions-already-granted-under-maratha-quota-safeguarded-101620243278337.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Regulate prices for Covid vaccines at private hospitals, say experts||Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) in April priced Covishield at ₹600 per dose to private hospitals. After adding service charges, few private hospitals that have started inoculating citizens between the age groups of 18 and 44 years are charging between ₹700 and ₹900 per dose. While the extra charge is not illegal, the uneven and unregulated pricing of Covid-19 vaccines has raised concerns among doctors and health activists who are calling for a price cap on the vials. From May 1, the Central government allowed the vaccination of the public between the age group of 18 and 44 years. Amidst shortages of vials, only three private hospitals—HL Reliance, (Girgaum), Nanavati (Vile Parle) and Apollo (Navi Mumbai), who had placed their order for vials to SII months ago, have been able to start the inoculation programme. These hospitals are charging ₹700, ₹900 and ₹850 respectively after including charges for transportation, procurement, storage and service. A section of doctors, however, fear that hospitals in the absence of guidelines or a price cap may use the opportunity to “unethically” charge a higher price range for vials.“While all major and smaller private hospitals are struggling to get hold of the vials, a few hospitals have turned into major providers of the vaccines. This gives them the upper hand to decide on the pricing as per their wish in the absence of regulation and a cap. This may lead to unethical overcharging,” said Dr Prince Surana, chief executive officer at Surana Group of Hospitals.Santosh Marathe, chief operating officer at Apollo Hospital said their cost for a jab includes the cost of transportation, maintaining the cold chain and service charges. Nanavati Hospital was unavailable for a comment, and HL Reliance Hospital refused to comment. N Ramaswamy, commissioner of the National Health Commission, said they haven’t received any official complaint from the public on the price issue as yet. “The Central government has instructed private hospitals to procure vials directly from the manufacturers. As there are no specific guidelines, the hospitals decide their own vaccine prices. But they have to upload the price on Co-WIN for the public to decide. So far, the state health department hasn’t personally decided to put any price cap,” said Ramaswamy.Charging a higher price for vaccines will render them unaffordable for many which can become a hurdle in the mass immunisation programme, said, health experts.“Firstly, the procurement process should be centralised which will help bring better regulation on the pricing of vaccines. Also, with a cap on pricing, private hospitals won’t be able to able use it to exploit the public. Otherwise, more underprivileged people would fall prey to the infection,” said Brinelle D’Souza, senior faculty, Tata Institute and co-convener, Jan Swasthya Abhiyan-Mumbai.Dr Deepak Baid, former president of the Association of Medical Consultants (AMC) said, “At the beginning of the pandemic, some hospitals overcharged patients when there were no regulations on beds pricing. Similarly, if a cap isn’t imposed on vaccines, there is a possibility that hospitals may charge a higher amount of money from the public.” Meanwhile, amidst the ongoing shortage of vials in the city, SII has informed a few private hospitals that it would take five-six months to supply Covishield. In response to an email sent by Dr Surana, SII replied, “...Due to our current obligation to meet the government’s existing requirements and to meet the additional demand emanating from state governments under liberated and accelerated vaccination, it is challenging to meet independently the requirement across from a large number of private hospitals. Therefore, we urge you to access the vaccine when it becomes available in the private market supply chain channels which will take about 5-6 months from now.” SII, however, refused to comment on the issue. This delay in the procurement process has upset doctors who are planning to seek help from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Dr Gautam Bhansali, general physician, Bombay Hospital said, “To control the second wave, we need to fasten the vaccination process. If private hospitals don’t get the vials, the mass immunisation programme will get further delayed. So, we have plans to hold a meeting with BMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-regulate-prices-for-covid-vaccines-at-private-hospitals-say-experts-101620241478136.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Admissions for PG dental students yet to commence||Dr Pratima Pandey, 24 is among at least 30,000 postgraduate (PG) dental aspirants who cleared the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test-Masters in Dental Surgery (NEET-MDS) in December 2020 but are still waiting for admissions to begin.What’s worse is that directives from the Medical Counseling Committee (MCC), which handles all-India admissions for MDS aspirants state that admissions to the course can only begin once NEET-PG for medical and diploma students is conducted and results are announced. “This means we will have to wait another four months minimum for admissions to begin because the Central government recently postponed NEET-PG by four months,” said Pandey, one of many students affected by this decision.While all BDS students who graduated this year have been roped in for Covid-19 duty, these MDS aspirants are waiting at home wanting to join the task force. “Most students are already working eight-hour shifts daily with various hospitals, but those of us who cleared BDS earlier and are eligible for MDS are waiting to be called on the field, but with admissions stalled we can be of no help,” said Dr Balasubramniam Shankar, another aspirant. MDS aspirants have to clear their BDS degree and complete at least one year of internship before they are eligible for admissions to the master’s course. While the all-Inda quota seats are conducted by the MCC, state quota seats are filled by the state common entrance test (CET) cell. “We can see that at present the burden of work on the medical faculty is large, and we are ready to participate in the covid task force. Most of us have cleared our BDS in the last two-three years are, however, waiting for a word from the authorities,” added Shankar. Final year PG medical examinations have been stalled in most states due to the deterioration of Covid situation. Similarly, no fresh admissions to PG medical, dental and diploma courses were done due to the postponement of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-PG) exams. NEET-PG exams are generally conducted in the month of December along with NEET-MDS, but while the MDS entrance exam was conducted as per schedule, NEET-PG for medical and diploma candidates was postponed.After receiving queries from students from across the country, a statement from the MCC stating the reason for the delay was shared. “NEET-PG 2021 for postgraduate medical, dental and diploma has not been conducted yet, but counselling for MDS seats is also supposed to be done with MD/MS and diploma seats. Hence, the tentative counselling schedule for NEET-PG medical/dental seats has not been made yet. Students are advised to visit the official website of the MCC regularly for further updates,” said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/admissions-for-pg-dental-students-yet-to-commence-101620241298656.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Five years on, wetlands yet to be declared as bird sanctuaries||More than five years have passed since former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis, acting as the chairman of the State Board for Wildlife (SBWL), approved a proposal to declare three wetlands in Mumbai, Raigad and Thane districts as bird sanctuaries. However, the respective water area — including wetlands of Mahul-Shivdi, Panje-Funde and TSC-NRI wetlands in Navi Mumbai — are yet to be notified as such, as per provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.Activists earlier this week wrote to CM Uddhav Thackeray, drawing his attention to this delay, and urged him to expedite protection for these ecologically sensitive areas, which support a rich biodiversity of migratory birds during winter months. The Fadnavis government had, on December 4, 2015, proposed to declare nearly 1,600 hectares of wetland as bird sanctuary while approving the Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link project.The same day, via the official Facebook page of the Chief Minister’s office, it had been announced, “CM Devendra Fadnavis chaired the 10th meeting of the State Wildlife Board at Mumbai, in presence of forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar. The board approved three bird sanctuaries in Mumbai region (Mahul-Shivdi, TSC land near Palm Beach and Panje Funde), which will help in conservation of flamingos.” Mitigation measures suggested by Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) were taken into consideration before giving approval to the MTHL project, the post read.BN Kumar, director of NatConnect NGO which has been campaigning to protect wetlands in Navi Mumbai, said, “This move is in line with what environmentalists have been demanding for years. But despite filing multiple Right to Information (RTI) queries in the recent past as to the status of Panje bird sanctuary, it was not mentioned in the responses that approval had already been granted to declare these wetlands as sanctuaries. We have now requested CM Thackeray to go ahead with his predecessor’s decision and make this announcement on World Migratory Bird Day, on May 8, as a gift to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.”Recently, migratory birds (namely greater sandplovers) which had been tagged by BNHS at Panje in September 2018 were found to have returned to the area after a supermoon event caused tidal water to flow into the parched wetland which, Kumar said, has been dry for close to a year now. Local birder Parag Gharat who ventured out with his camera after seeing the waterflow spotted the tagged birds. Kumar quickly cross-checked the photos with BNHS which confirmed it had done the tagging. “Looks like the birds are using the Mumbai coast as a stopover or refuelling site,” said BNHS director Dr Bivash Pandav.Meanwhile, wetlands in Mahul-Shivdi in Mumbai and TSC-NRI in Navi Mumbai also continue to support a large number of resident and migratory bird populations, including flamingos. “These areas are not just important for birds; they act as urban sponges and prevent flooding as well. Since the state government had already expressed their desire to grant them legal sanctity as bird sanctuaries, there should be no further delay in the same. To have waited for over five years since then is already a serious lapse in governance,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/five-years-after-wildlife-board-nod-wetlands-yet-to-declared-as-bird-sanctuaries-101620241122064.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Private schools must submit documents on fees: Maharashtra edu dept||With several complaints concerning private schools charging indiscriminate fees coming to light, the state education department has directed its officials to ensure that schools across boards and managements submit documents with reference to fees to the department. In a letter addressed to officials at the education department, the director of primary education in the state has ordered that documents on fee- such as papers of PTA approvals, finances of school etc be sent to the department. The move came after CAPS student organisation requested the government to look into fee-related complaints of parents. “Several schools are charging students indiscriminately and are not following norms concerning fee hikes. In many places, the Parent Teacher Association is not formed as per the due process and fee hikes are still approved without following norms. We thus hope that the government acts in this regard and keeps a tab on fees across schools,” stated the letter given by the student organisation. As per the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011, it is binding on schools to submit records of fee hikes and fee-related decisions to education authorities regularly. However, in the past, despite requests from parent bodies, the department has seldom acted against schools that fail to submit their records and still hike fees indiscriminately. The state government recently formed an expert committee to suggest changes and revisions in the fee act and had also invited suggestions from various stakeholders for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/private-schools-must-submit-documents-on-fees-maharashtra-edu-dept-101620241119890.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Age of contactless customers: Drones to replace traditional delivery executives||Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), popularly known as drones, could well replace traditional delivery executives in the country in times to come as the ministry of civic aviation (MoCA) on Tuesday granted conditional exemption from Unmanned Aircraft System Rules, 2021 to 20 entities, including Dunzo and Swiggy, to conduct Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) experimental flights of drones. Taking a step towards making home delivery by drones a reality, MoCA said BVLOS trials will help create a framework for future drone deliveries and other major applications using drones. Senior MoCA officials told HT that draft guidelines for BVLOS drone operations will be open for public scrutiny by the end of the year.In April, MoCA also granted conditional approval to Telangana government for delivering Covid-19 vaccines using drones on an experimental basis. Similar permission was granted to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting feasibility study of Covid-19 vaccine delivery using drones, in collaboration with Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur. MoCA had constituted BVLOS Experiment Assessment and Monitoring Committee (BEAM) with an aim to undertake BVLOS experimental drone flights, following which the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had in May 2019 issued an expression of interest (EOI).Among 34 EOIs evaluated by the committee, 20 were selected for experimental flights. As a result of which, MoCA on Tuesday issued an order granting permission (or conditional exemption) to these selected consortia to conduct experiment flights for one year or until further orders, whichever is earlier. The concept of drone delivery has, however, already taken roots in some countries with self-flying drones, from delivering Covid-19 vaccines in Ghana, a country in West Africa, to global e-commerce platforms (such as Amazon) planning to complete their deliveries by unmanned machines in the sky. Back home, in 2014, a local eatery in Mumbai, as a test flight, used a drone for delivering a pizza, making it the first city in the country to adopt high-technology in food delivery. Soon after the unlocking of the economy in June last year, DGCA granted approvals to food start-ups such as Zomato, Swiggy and Dunzo to start testing BVLOS operation drones for deliveries. In such operations, drones fly without a pilot maintaining visual line of sight on the aircraft at all times. Instead, the pilot operates the UAV using Remote Pilot Station (RPS) / Ground Control Station (GCS) instruments. A Dunzo spokesperson said they were working with local authorities in Telangana to commence drone trials for medicine delivery. A comment from Swiggy is awaited.Ministry officials said use of drones in last-mile deliveries will grow larger in the pandemic-hit world.Though, in the recently announced norms for drone operations in the country, BVLOS operations for delivery of goods has not been permitted, a senior MoCA official early in March had said that as drones become the new normal, traditional air cargo movement has to dovetail itself with last-mile or first-mile connectivity.“There are some areas of aviation, particularly in cargo, that need to grow as drones become the new normal. The civil aviation ministry may very shortly put in place a platform and rules, which will make air cargo grow as well,” Vandana Aggarwal, senior economic advisor in MoCA, had said. The Unmanned Aircraft System Rules, 2021, notified on March 12, spells out the terms of usage of drones by individuals and businesses. It also lays down rules for terms of research, testing, production, and import of such vehicles. The rule allows drones to be used to conduct surveys, for photography, security, information gathering purposes, disaster management, and surveillance operations.However, MoCA joint secretary and head of the drones division Amber Dubey said draft guidelines for BVLOS operations are expected to come by the end of this year. “After test flights are conducted, test results and proof of concept submitted by consortia will be scrutinised by DGCA. Post which, draft guidelines will be issued and will be open for public feedback before issuing the notification,” said Dubey adding, “Thereafter guidelines are expected to be issued by year-end.”A DGCA official said, “Trial flights will be affected by upcoming monsoon season and winter fog in certain parts of India. One cannot rush the trials since it has safety, national security, data security and privacy concerns.”Chirag Sharma, co-founder and chief executive officer of Delhi-based Drone Destination Pvt Ltd, said drones, owing to its autonomous capabilities, will play a key role in last-mile logistics, especially in hard-to-access areas. “Heavy lift drones with payload carrying capacity of over 5kg can be used to transport essential food and supplies, medicines and blood samples,” said Sharma, adding that a restaurant-to-home food delivery is still some time away from an Indian UAS operations perspective. “We will need drone ports in the future to enable large-scale drone powered logistics. Certain delivery companies like Zomato, Swiggy, Dunzo will be conducting government-approved trials in the next two to three months. Once learnings from the trials have been adopted and standard operating procedures (SOPs) are in place, we could see real-time implementation in the coming two to three years,” Sharma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/age-of-contactless-customers-drones-to-replace-traditional-delivery-executives-101620241058705.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Different viewpoint is not hate speech, says Bombay high court||A different viewpoint does not become “hate speech” merely because it is harsh or extreme, the Bombay high court observed on Wednesday while striking down a first information report (FIR) registered against a Vashi resident for allegedly trying to created hatred between two religious groups by reposting a video on her Twitter handle along with her view.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik said the right to express your view is a protected and cherished right in our democracy. “Merely because the point of view of the petitioner is extreme or harsh does not make it a hate speech, as it is only expressing a different point of view,” the bench added, striking down an FIR registered by Azad Maidan police against Vashi resident Sunaina Holey, accusing the 39-year-old of creating hatred between different religions. On April 15, she was booked after she reposted on her Twitter handle a video of an individual addressing the huge crowd of migrant labourers who had gathered outside Bandra railway station on April 14, 2020, amid nationwide lockdown along with a purportedly objectionable message.On April 14, a rumour that trains were restarted was spread, attracting huge crowd of migrants who were desperate to return to their native places.As the atmosphere become tense, the police requested a man to pacify the crowd and he started to say that the pandemic was an act of God. When he was speaking, one person in the crowd shouted that Covid-19 pandemic was not an act of God but had been brought out by the Prime Minister of India. Someone shot the entire sequence on video and circulated it on social media. Holey retweeted the video with a message critical of the authorities The HC said the prime intent of the petitioner was obviously to criticize and counter the view point of the person in the video who was blaming the Prime Minister of India for the spread of virus. “Reading of the contents of the tweet would reveal that neither any community nor any religion is named. Nothing substantial has been brought on record by the prosecution to hold that because of the said tweet, hatred or enmity was created in between two communities,” said the bench. “Upon reading of the contents of the said tweet, it is difficult to arrive at the conclusion that the Petitioner has mens rea to commit alleged offence under section 153A of the IPC.”The HC added that the concern of the state police machinery to control the situation though justified, but the approach in registering the FIR for the comments made on the Twitter feed by the petitioner on the apprehension that the same may lead to promoting hatred or enmity between different groups was “too far-fetched and remote”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/different-viewpoint-is-not-hate-speech-says-bombay-high-court-101620241058110.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||FIR against comedian Sunil Pal for derogatory comment on doctors||The Andheri police on Tuesday booked stand-up comedian Sunil Pal for allegedly making “derogatory and obnoxious” comments on doctors working in Covid management and treatment. The video on the same had gone viral on social media.Association of Medical Consultants (Mumbai), which represents 12,000 doctors and 811 hospitals in Maharashtra and Karnataka, had complained against Pal.Dr Sushmita Bhatnagar, the association president, in the first information report (FIR) has stated that the accused, stand-up comedian in an interview with a YouTube channel had made false accusations against doctors claiming their involvement in fraudulent deeds, comparing doctors to evil creatures of the society and also spread lies about Covid-19.The video of the interview later went viral on social media and was widely shared on WhatsApp and other platforms. Various doctor’s bodies from across the country had objected to it, ultimately forcing the comedian to tender an apology for his comments. “The content of the video incites anger and hatred against doctors among the general public and also creates panic and fear about Covid in people’s minds. Pal’s video spreads rumours. It incites negative notions to defame doctors. The video could also trigger violence against doctors across the country and the comedian will be solely responsible for it,” stated Dr Bhatnagar in the FIR (of which HT has a copy). The complaint regarding the objectionable video was submitted to the police by the association’s chairman Dr Sudhir Naik on April 22, but the Andheri police registered an FIR in the matter only on Tuesday. Pal has been booked under sections 500 (defamation) and 505-2 (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) of the Indian Penal Code. He would soon be summoned to record his statement, said a police officer.When contacted Pal’s spokesperson she said that the comedian had already apologised for his comments which a section of doctors found objectionable. Like the first video, the doctors should also see the second video in which he has stated that his comments were meant for the bad people and not the genuine doctors who are doing great work and serving the nation. Pal hasn’t yet received any intimation from the police regarding the FIR, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fir-against-comedian-sunil-pal-for-derogatory-comment-on-doctors-101620240998577.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Bandra society opposes Mumbai civic body’s plan to set up Covid vaccination centre inside complex||Two housing societies in Rizvi Complex area of Bandra (West) have opposed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s plan to set up a vaccination centre inside their premises.The BMC owns a structure inside the complex, however, the housing societies, consisting of 56 flats, have written to the civic body expressing fear of crowding and spreading of Covid-19 among residents.The BMC, to scale up vaccination drives for 18 to 44 age groups is in the process of having 227 vaccination centres across the city in 24 wards, and one such is inside the compound of Harmony and Rocky housing society. The BMC’s H West ward had written to the societies on April 29, informing them about the plan to set up the vaccination centre at the welfare centre owned by the civic body. The BMC, in its letter, had sought cooperation from the society regarding the same.However, the members of both societies have opposed the plan citing that vaccination centre should not come up in residential areas. Jasmine Divekar, a resident said, “We are told to stay home and stay safe, but with the BMC planning to come up with a vaccination centre, I do not feel residents in our society will be able to remain safe. With vaccination centre, there might be crowding, and this can result in spreading of Covid-19 among residents of society.”Masud Ahmed, chairman of Harmony society said, “We are not against vaccination or vaccination centres, but we are just requesting them to not set up the same in our society premises. Senior citizens are residing in our society and we fear they might be infected. We have written to the BMC and are expecting a positive reply from them.”The residents also took to social media expressing their displeasure.Vinayak Vispute, assistant municipal commissioner of the BMC’s H West ward said, “The premises herein is located inside Harmony society and is a welfare centre owned by the BMC. There is a separate gate and parking available for us, which we do not regularly use. But now we want to use it for vaccination, considering it is the most feasible and suitable location.”He added, “I expect the citizens to cooperate considering vaccination is the need of the hour. We cannot set up vaccination centres in schools and colleges considering they might reopen any time, after which, vaccination drive might get affected.”However, the residents claim there is no individual gate for the BMC premises and there are only two common gates. The entrance to the BMC’s premises is through the main gate and compound of the society which is common for all three. In the two housing societies where 60% of the occupants are senior citizens, the vaccination centre could be a huge health hazard,” added Divekar.Meanwhile, local BJP corporator Swapna Mhatre said, “I had already informed BMC that there will be opposition if we select residential society premises for vaccination. I had already suggested schools in nearby areas, but BMC says it does not want to go ahead with schools or colleges fearing they may restart in the coming month. I feel if alternative options are available, we should avoid disturbing residential housing societies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bandra-society-opposes-mumbai-civic-body-s-plan-to-set-up-covid-vaccination-centre-inside-complex-101620240937984.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: 33,807 get the jab in Mumbai on Wednesday||Vaccination for those above 45 years of age began in Mumbai on Wednesday after the civic body received a fresh stock of vaccine on Tuesday. A total of 33,807 citizens were vaccinated. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also vaccinated 2,294 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years across five centres in Mumbai on Wednesday. Of the 33,807 beneficiaries, 26,806 received their second doses. Among the beneficiaries 17,356 were senior citizens, 11,009 were citizens in the age group of 45-59 years, 2,017 were frontline workers, and 1,131 were healthcare workers. From Tuesday, vaccination in the age group of 45 years and above restarted across Mumbai, after it was suspended for three days since Saturday due to a shortage in doses. Vaccination at the five centres that are now catering to the age group of 18-44 years, alongside vaccination for those in the age group of 45 years and above, took place amid reports of overcrowding at BKC jumbo facility and Rajawadi Hospital. By Wednesday night, photographs circulated on social media of overcrowding and a stampede like situation at the BKC Jumbo facility. However, Dr Rajesh Dere, the dean of BKC jumbo facility said, “There was only some crowding at BKC jumbo facility in the morning before we opened the vaccination centre at noon. Despite BMC’s request to beneficiaries on Tuesday, that vaccination would start post noon, people started gathering at the centre at 6am itself. Once doses arrived and gates of the vaccination centre opened at noon, everything went smoothly.” In a statement on Wednesday night, BMC’s public relations management department said, “There was no mismanagement at BKC. On the contrary, the citizens were requested to come after 12pm as doses were to come in the morning. Local administration and police also appealed to the citizens. However, people started crowding the centre in the morning hours. Once the doses arrived, vaccination was carried out smoothly.” Responding to a fake message circulating on social media, that this centre was operational for vaccinating beneficiaries in the 18-44 years age group, BMC on Wednesday morning urged citizens not to rush to the centre. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward, with jurisdiction over the area, said, “Many 18 to 44 age group beneficiaries gathered at Kohinoor insisting for vaccination. I urge all to please spread this message: vaccination at this centre is only for people in the age group of 45 years and above, getting a first or second dose. Drive-in is only for senior citizens and specially-abled citizens.”Vaccination will take place for beneficiaries between the age group of 18-44 years at five vaccination centres on Thursday. No walk-ins will be permitted, BMC tweeted on Wednesday. Only those who have registered on the Co-WIN application and received a slot from BMC will get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid1933807-get-the-jab-in-mumbai-on-wednesday-101620240818034.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra sees 920 deaths in a day||Maharashtra on Wednesday breached the 900 death mark for the second time, since the outbreak of the Covid-19 virus last year.On Wednesday, the state recorded 57,640 new Covid-19 cases with 920 deaths. The highest number of deaths in a single day was on April 28 when 985 people had succumbed to Covid-19.The total number of deaths in the state has now reached 72,662, with Mumbai topping the list with 13,511 deaths, followed by 9,863 in Pune.The state currently has 6,41,596 active cases in which Pune tops with 1,14,254 cases followed by Nagpur with 58,944 cases.Deaths may come downDr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said the deaths will stabilise in the coming days. “Most of these patients have been ill for over two weeks and the treatment was delayed. In addition, many of them had already been suffering from medical complications and the virus made it worse,” said Lahane. “However, the death rate will come down in the coming days as even the new cases are coming down,” he added.According to Dr Jeevan Jain, a leading physician from Lalbaug, the current strain of Covid-19 is highly infective and lethal compared to the first wave. “In the second wave, we are seeing the new variant of Covid-19 directly affecting the lungs, which was not the case last year. This is proving to be fatal. Last year, the fever hardly exceeded 100 degree Fahrenheit but this time, the fever is not coming down for a long time, despite administering various medicines. The range of fever now goes up to 103-104 degree Fahrenheit,” said Jain, who has treated more than 15,000 Covid-19 patients to date.Commotion over vaccineThe police personnel lathi-charged at the agitated citizens who had come to vaccinate themselves at Parli in Beed district. There were 30 doses of vaccine available, while hundreds of citizens had lined up outside the centre. The shortage of doses infuriated people. They even pushed the deputy superintendent of police (DYSP) Santosh Walke who had gone to pacify the crowd. This act infuriated the policemen who took to lathi charging. Police have also arrested six people.Oxygen leakage in tankerA leakage was reported in the oxygen tanker along the Pune-Bengaluru highway. This tanker was proceeding towards Kolhapur and the leakages continued for more than half an hour before officials stepped in to plug the same. In Nagpur, 25 minibuses are converted to ambulances.‘Become self-reliant in oxygen supply’Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said he has asked the administration to ensure that the state becomes self-reliant in oxygen supply by increasing the manufacturing to 1,800 metric tones. Maharashtra daily needs 1,800 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen. The state has been able to get 1,848 MT of oxygen, of which 1,295 MT is being arranged by the state, while 500 MT is procured from outside. The rest 53 MT is being produced from the 38 pressure swing absorbing (PSA) plants. The state has given a go-ahead to start 382 PSA plants which would produce 240 MT of oxygen informed the CMO.These plants are being constructed on a war footing and would be operational by June end. The state would also enhance the production of liquid medical oxygen and installation of such plants will also be given a green signal. This will boost the oxygen supply by another 300 MT. The state has asked the centre to hike its allocation by 200 MT from outside the state from Jamnagar in Gujarat and Bhilai in Chhatisgarh.Meanwhile, the CMO also said that the Central government has from April 21 to May 4 has dispatched 4,74,791 doses of Remdesivir injection which is 59% of its agreed quota. The state is distributing the same across all regions. The state has also floated global tenders to procure them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-maharashtra-sees-920-deaths-in-a-day-101620240697959.html
06-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra gets 479,000 Covaxin doses; in talks for Sputnik V||The Covid-19 inoculation drive for people between the ages of 18 and 44 is set for a boost as the state government has received nearly 500,000 doses. Currently, the inoculation drive in the third phase is going on at limited centres and with limited doses across the state. Meanwhile, the state government is still deliberating global tenders to procure vaccines from foreign manufacturers to boost the vaccination of the young people. The state government is in talks with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to procure Sputnik V doses. On Tuesday night, health department officials said the state received 479,000 doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech. Officials added that the state will continue to keep the drive at limited centres to keep it sustained for a longer period. “We have received 479,000 doses from Bharat Biotech. The vaccination centres for 18-44 will continue to be five per district, as it has to be a sustained drive with minimum wastage,” said DN Patil, state immunisation officer. Patil added that the fresh stock of Covaxin has been dispatched to all the districts and it will be used in the coming day. In Pune district, the stock was used on Wednesday to vaccinate people in the 18-44 category. On April 30, the state had received 300,000 vaccines from Serum Institute of India, which helped state to start vaccination for 18-44 category from May 1.In the state Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, the ministers deliberated on procuring vaccines from foreign manufacturers, including Russia-made Sputnik V. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the state will hold consultations with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to procure Sputnik V.However, in absence of a go-ahead from the Centre and low manufacturing capabilities of these companies, the state will depend on Indian manufacturers. A senior official who was present in the meeting said, “The issue of permission from Government of India still remains in place. Besides that, the production of Sputnik V is also not as fast. So, for the time-being we will have to depend on Indian vaccines,” he said, requesting anonymity. On Wednesday, the state inoculated over 250,000 beneficiaries in 5,038 centres across the state. The state’s numbers saw a jump on Wednesday as the state vaccinated around 79,491 and 98,150 on Monday and Tuesday, respectively, owing to less stock. Of the 253,031 beneficiaries vaccinated on Wednesday, 50,796 were from Mumbai and 59,081 were from Pune district. The state has, so far, vaccinated 16,793,770 beneficiaries, of which 2,863,037 have taken their second shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-gets-479-000-covaxin-doses-in-talks-for-sputnik-v-101620240457932.html
