07-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records dip of more than 8,000 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours||Maharashtra recorded 54,022 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday reporting a dip of nearly 8,172 cases recorded on Thursday taking the total tally to 4,996,758. The state also reported 898 deaths taking the death toll to 74,413. The decrease in number of cases amid a drop in the number of tests. Maharashtra tested 268,912 people in the last 24 hours compared to the 277,086 tests conducted between May 5 and May 6, according to a health bulletin released by the state government.Pune and Nagpur were among the worst affected districts along with Mumbai as they reported high active caseload. Pune with 120,512 active cases has the highest number of active cases in the state followed by Nagpur which has 61,680 active cases. Mumbai (54,162) and Nashik (40,434) also reported a high number of active cases. Maharashtra currently has 654,788 active Covid-19 cases.Mumbai also saw a dip in the number of active cases. The financial hub recorded 3,040 new cases which took its tally to 671,125. The death toll in Mumbai reached 13,651 with 71 fresh fatalities. The recovery rate stood at 85.36% as the state discharged 37,386 people pushing the tally of recovered people to 4,265,326.Maharashtra is among the top 10 states which has reported a large number of cases as well as deaths. The state has requested the Centre for more medical oxygen, remdesivir and Covid-19 vaccines in order to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-dip-of-more-than-8-000-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hours-101620406279831.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||No responsibility towards themselves or family: Court asks citizens to mask up||The Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court on Friday said it was unfortunate that people have to be penalised to get them to wear masks.A division bench of Justices R V Ghuge and B U Debadwar, hearing a bunch of petitions related to the COVID-19 pandemic, said the problem with citizens was that they were unable to discipline themselves.The bench noted that people wear masks below their chin leaving the nose and mouth open."It is unfortunate people have to be advised to protect themselves and, at times, have to be penalised so as to make it compulsory for them to protect themselves, as if they have no responsibility towards themselves and their family members," the court said.The court said, despite this, each citizen likes to blame the police and administration for the rise in COVID-19 cases."It is quite shameful that we are unable to discipline ourselves and find it very easy to blame the administration," it said.The court said it was compelled to pass orders making the use of masks and helmets (for two wheelers) compulsory as if it is only the government's duty to protect citizens and that citizens owe no duty towards themselves or their family members.The court directed the administration, including the police, to strictly implement COVID-19 instructions and ensure that any person found in public streets not wearing a mask is penalised.The bench also took note of media reports of a former mayor of Aurangabad, Nandkumar Ghodele, celebrating his birthday by violating restrictions and said the photographs published in newspapers show the mayor being fed with sweets by several persons who were not wearing masks.The court was informed by the chief public prosecutor D R Kale that an offence was registered in this connection.Kale said a case was also registered against MLA Sanjay Shirsath for organising a 'bhoomi pujan'."We are surprised that people's representatives, who are expected to lead from the front and should aspire to become ideal leaders and role models, are taking pride in celebrating bhoomi pujan and their birthdays publicly by violating COVID-19 restrictions," the court said.It posted the matter for further hearing on May 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/people-unable-to-discipline-themselves-bombay-hc-on-masks-101620401229642.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Resident doctors in Mumbai demand arrears, start social media campaign||Resident doctors at Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)-run hospitals in Mumbai have threatened to stop treating Covid-19 services if their arrears are not cleared soon. They have not received additional stipends for almost nine months. On Friday, #BMCbetrayedus and #BetrayedStillWorking trended on Twitter as resident doctors took to social media to register their protest against the non-payment of stipends and arrears.In a statement on Wednesday, the Mumbai chapter of the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) said that doctors will shut down Covid services in the next seven days if the BMC does not release the stipends.“We do not want to stop our services to Covid-19 patients. We are hoping and trying that it does not come to that. We are putting up posters at the hospitals and making our voices heard as we continue our work,” said Arun Ghule, president, MARD, Mumbai.From May 2020 till January, over 3,000 resident doctors at the four BMC-run hospitals—KEM, Sion, Nair and Cooper—were paid ₹10,000 a month. It was then discontinued as Covid-19 cases started to go down. In September, the government announced an increase of ₹10,000 in the stipend for resident doctors. The BMC only released a circular regarding it in March.Also Read | War rooms, field hospitals helped Mumbai in battle of second wave: OfficialsWhen doctors demanded the arrears for the stipend increase, they said the BMC informed them that the arrears were adjusted against the ₹10,000 paid to them last year during the first Covid-19 wave. “This is unfair, especially since doctors have been working non-stop, risking their lives in the pandemic,” said Ghule.MARD said the arrears for each doctor amount to ₹1.2 lakh. Despite repeated attempts, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, health, and TP Lahane, medical education director, were unavailable for comments.The Maharashtra State Association of Resident Doctors has also extended its support to the doctors in Mumbai. “This tragedy is greater than the pandemic Itself for the resident doctors. The government has finally found scapegoats to hide their failures in the resident doctors,” said the association in a statement on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/resident-doctors-in-mumbai-demand-arrears-start-social-media-campaign-101620390060989.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||War rooms, field hospitals helped Mumbai in battle of second wave: Officials||A system of ward-level `war rooms' where hospital beds are allocated by civic officials and the decision not to dismantle field hospitals were key to Mumbai's success in tackling the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, officials believe.As much of the country is reeling under an unprecedented surge in cases, the "Mumbai model" has drawn appreciation even from the Supreme Court.Since May 1, Mumbai is reporting less than 4,000 cases every day, a significant fall from over 8,500 cases a day in the first week of April. On April 4, the city logged 11,163 cases, the highest so far. On May 6, it recorded 3,056 cases.To be sure, the financial capital of the country is still reporting more cases daily than the peak of 2,848 cases recorded on October 7 during the first wave last year.But there is no shortage of hospital beds and oxygen for patients, civic officials claimed.On Wednesday, the Supreme Court lauded the efforts of authorities to ensure adequate oxygen supply in Mumbai."Bombay Municipal Corporation is doing some great work, with no disrespect to Delhi. What they are doing, how they are managing, we can learn from them."I also understand that Maharashtra also produces oxygen which Delhi cannot do," said a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud, hearing pleas on the dire situation in Delhi.As the second wave began, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation focused on testing, contact tracing and treatment besides ensuring that people followed guidelines.But the decision not to take down the infrastructure put in place during the first wave proved to be more crucial."There would have been chaos if we hadn't kept jumbo COVID centres (field hospitals), oxygen beds, ICU beds ready before the start of second wave," said Mayor Kishori Pednekar.Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani, who insisted that jumbo centres should not be dismantled till March 31, said the BMC was ready for a new surge."The whole system -- oxygen, catering, house keeping, doctors and nurses -- was in place at jumbo centres," he said.The civic body continued to augment availability of oxygen and ICU beds and medicine stocks, he said."This is why the BMC had sufficient stock of Remdesivir when everywhere there was a shortage," Kakani said.The number of beds was doubled from around 12,000 to 24,000 within a month when cases began to rise in February. At present, Mumbai has 31,695 Covid-19 beds, including 12,754 oxygen beds and 2,929 ICU ones.There is no shortage of medical oxygen in the city now, but there were some scary moments when on the night of April 16-17 the BMC had to shift 168 Covid-19 patients from six civic hospitals as oxygen supply ran out.Learning a lesson, it started monitoring the movement of oxygen cylinders from plants to hospitals in real time."We have now deputed six officers at control rooms to ensure seamless supply of oxygen. There is also a monitoring committee headed by a deputy commissioner," Kakani added.During the first wave, the BMC set up a `war room' in each of the 24 wards to guide patients. Thanks to this system, people are not needed to run from one hospital to another in search of beds, as allocation of beds is done by war room officials.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said during a recent interview to the Indian Express that war rooms, dashboards for bed management, prohibition of release of test report directly to patients and the decision not to dismantle jumbo Covid facilities proved useful.The system is on "auto pilot" now, he said."When I joined, we did not have a dashboard, our control room operators used to check with individual hospitals if a bed is available," he said.After the April 17 incident when oxygen in six hospitals ran out, the BMC sought a protocol for oxygen consumption from the Maharashtra government's Covid-19 task force.It was decided that oxygen saturation level need not be maintained beyond 94 per cent, high-flow nasal oxygen should not be used indiscriminately, and there should be an oxygen consumption audit, Chahal said. The protocol was conveyed to all 176 hospitals in the city.Mayor Pednekar said the BMC also focused on setting up oxygen plants. "We didn't rely only on oxygen cylinders, but we set up liquid oxygen plants. Because of this, not a single person died due to lack of oxygen," she said.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's decision to enforce fresh lockdownalso helped, she noted.The civic body has already started preparing for the possible third wave of the pandemic, she said.The number of jumbo Covid facilities will be increased from nine to 15, including dedicated facilities for children and the disabled, Pednekar said."Jumbo centres, dashboard, oxygen supply and all other things worked effectively. Their effectiveness was visible in last three-four weeks. This infrastructure needs to be maintained because one can not predict if Covid-19 has run its course or not," said Dr Om Shrivastava,an infectious diseases expert who is a member of the state task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/war-rooms-field-hospitals-helped-mumbai-in-battle-of-second-wave-officials-101620388210971.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: NCB arrests drug peddler in Goa||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested a drug peddler in Goa in connection with the drugs case linked to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, an official said on Friday.The accused, Hemal Shah, was nabbed by a team of the anti-drug agency, he said."Shah's alleged involvement came to light during the investigation of a drugs case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput's death," he said.Accordingly a trap was laid and Shah was apprehended in Goa, he said, adding that he will be produced before a court later in the day.The NCB had launched a probe into the alleged use of drugs in the film and entertainment industry after Rajput was found dead at his home in Mumbai in June last year.The central agency had earlier arrested Rajput's girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and a few others under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.Rhea and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-ncb-arrests-drug-peddler-in-goa-101620366664445.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||What is the Mumbai 02 model and how it cracked the code||When the worst surge in infections amid the second Covid-19 wave triggered oxygen shortage across the country, Mumbai fell back upon 15 big and 11 smaller Liquid Medical Oxygen [LMO] tanks installed at six hospitals and as many jumbo Covid-19 centres between May and June last year. The tanks helped meet the daily demand for medical oxygen that went up from 210 metric tonnes (MT) in the first wave to 270 (MT) last month.“Building the additional LMO tanks helped us cope during the second wave,” additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said.The success in coping prompted the Supreme Court on Wednesday to ask the Centre and the Delhi government to examine the “Mumbai model” of optimal utilisation of oxygen. It said the Delhi government should consider replicating this model as Mumbai has also made arrangements for buffer storage.Velrasu said the tanks, their construction, fitting, and piping, cost them over ₹14 crore. “At that point, we did not know if they would be utilised, but we still went ahead and created that infrastructure.”LMO tanks are highly pressurised and installed on reinforced concrete structures. They require certification by the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation under the ministry of commerce and industry, which has been overseeing the supply and distribution of oxygen during the crisis.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai’s civic body, plans to build 10 more LMOs in preparation for a possible third wave expected anytime between July and September.Also Read | 414,188 new Covid cases recorded in India in biggest daily spike, 3,915 deathsIn April, when the city’s daily average cases touched 7,786, many patients were shifted from one hospital to another due to a shortfall of oxygen. For instance, 168 patients were alone moved out of six government hospitals to jumbo centres on April 17 after oxygen supply was affected.The BMC has announced the appointment of six officials for coordination between oxygen suppliers, assistant municipal commissioners of the 24 civic wards, and the Food and Drug Administration. The officials will be responsible for maintaining the existing oxygen supplies and ensuring they are used sparingly.Civic officials said they have also ensured the safe transportation of oxygen cylinders. Only two BMC-run hospitals, Kasturba Hospital and HBT Trauma Care, have oxygen generation plants. Other big hospitals have LMO tanks, which are refilled at least once daily. Other hospitals rely on oxygen cylinders. All hospitals are mandated to keep cylinders as a backup. When the crisis hit, the civic body deployed six quick response vehicles to ferry cylinders and concentrators to hospitals in need.“Ward-level teams were formed to coordinate and move surplus oxygen from one site to another...,” said Krishna H Perekar, BMC’s chief engineer.Officials said a resource inventory of oxygen use and infrastructure at hospitals proved helpful. Oxygen was often supplied to suburbs such as Navi Mumbai and Thane. “Our inventory has micro-details like the number of jumbo oxygen cylinders, dura cylinders, and capacity of the LMO tanks at all hospitals. We also have exact details of the oxygen usage at each hospital,” Velrasu said. “We formed crack teams to ensure that the LMO tanks reach Mumbai smoothly. These teams were also deployed at the cylinder refilling plant at Navi Mumbai to ensure that Mumbai gets its quota of cylinders.”At the peak of the oxygen demand, Mumbai faced a shortfall of 15 to 20MT oxygen. This was managed by moving surplus stock from one place to another and seeking oxygen from Gujarat.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force also recommended that doctors should stop the use of High Flow Nasal Cannula (HNFC) to deliver oxygen (up to 80 litres/min) when the demand increased last month. Hospitals were encouraged to use Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP) machines, which deliver oxygen either through a flowmeter (up to 15 litres/min) or a non-invasive ventilator (up to 30 litres/min), and with lower pressure.“Soon after the advisory, we completely stopped use of HNFC and alternatively started using non-invasive ventilation such as BiPAP,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BMC-run Nair Hospital.Dr Gautam Bhansali of the Bombay Hospital said that they reduced the use of HNFC too. “It is hard to completely stop its use because most patients are comfortable with the nasal cannula. With the BiPAP, we have to use a face mask which some patients find uncomfortable.”The BMC plans to set up 16 oxygen generation plants at 12 hospitals to reduce the dependence on LMO and cylinders. “We may still require LMOs as they provide better pressure, mainly for patients in the Intensive Care Units,” said Velrasu. “But having oxygen plants at all facilities will reduce the dependency to a large extent.”On Thursday, the Bombay high court said BMC chief Iqbal Chahal should hold a video conference with other municipal bodies and explain how the city managed the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/whats-the-mumbai-model-sc-has-asked-delhi-to-emulate-to-deal-with-o2-crisis-101620362397320.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||O2 storage tanks to task force: Detailing the ‘Mumbai model’||In a span of 40 days between May and June last year, Mumbai civic body installed 15 Liquid Medical Oxygen [LMO] tanks with a capacity of 13 kilolitres each and 11 smaller tanks with a capacity of up to six kilolitres each in the city’s six civic-run hospitals and six jumbo Covid-19 centres. These oxygen storage tanks played a crucial role for Mumbai, which saw its daily demand for medical oxygen go up from 210 metric tonnes (MT) in the first wave to 270 (MT) in the past month alone.The “Mumbai model” has won praise from both the Supreme Court and the Bombay High Court. The apex court on Wednesday appreciated Mumbai’s efforts and recommended that the Centre and Delhi take a cue on how to handle oxygen supply in the face of the severe shortage that the Capital city has been facing for the past three weeks.So what did Mumbai do to control the crisis?“Building the additional LMO tanks helped us cope during the second wave,” additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said.Also read | Air ambulance lands on belly in Mumbai as wheel falls off in NagpurIn April, the city’s daily average cases had touched 7,786 and this is when the oxygen crisis was felt most keenly. That’s when the BMC announced that it would appoint six civic officials to act as coordinators between oxygen suppliers, assistant municipal commissioners of the 24 civic wards and the Food and Drug Administration. The officials will be responsible for maintaining the existing oxygen supply and also ensuring that the same is used sparingly.Part of Mumbai’s oxygen supply model evolved to ensure the safe transportation of oxygen cylinders.“Ward-level teams were formed to coordinate and move surplus oxygen from one site to another where there was a shortfall,” said Krishna H Perekar, BMC’s chief engineer (Mechanical and Electrical).A resource inventory of oxygen use and infrastructure of the city’s public as well as private hospitals proved helpful, as Mumbai’s oxygen often needed to go to far-flung suburbs in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, like Navi Mumbai and Thane, which also faced severe shortage of supply.The civic body now plans to construct an oxygen generation plant at each hospital, so that the dependency of LMO and cylinders reduces. “We may still require LMO as they provide better pressure, mainly for patients in the Intensive Care Units,” said Velrasu. “But having oxygen plants at all facilities will reduce the dependency to a large extent,” he said. The BMC has announced that it would set up 16 oxygen generation plants in 12 hospitals across the city, each of which will produce an estimated 43MT of oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/o2-storage-tanks-to-task-force-detailing-the-mumbai-model-101620339650048.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Reservations over relief for Marathas remain||A day after the Supreme Court scrapped the reservation given to Marathas by the Maharashtra government in 2018, the state has started deliberating on legal options and ways to pacify the upset community. Marathas were given 12% and 13% quota in education and government jobs, respectively, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018. The Supreme Court on Wednesday quashed it, saying people from the community can’t be declared educationally and socially backward just to bring them in the reserved category. The five-judge bench also refused to refer the 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment, setting a 50-% cap on reservation, to a larger bench for reconsideration. As chief minister Uddhav Thackeray hinted on Wednesday, the state is expected to approach the Centre for intervention to establish the backwardness of the community and hence, inclusion in the reserved quota. The Centre may also be requested for a legislation to restore the state’s powers to enact a law to accord reservation to any community. The government is also looking into the option of filing a review petition in the top court. “Our legal team and counsels have been studying the 569-page order by the SC, after which the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation will have a meeting with them. We are requesting the Central government for intervention, after the SC categorically said the powers to notify any caste as backward class lies with the National Commission of Backward Classes (NCBC). The Centre can also reinforce its stand that the 102nd Constitutional amendment has not suppressed states’ powers to give reservation. There are legalities related to these options as the report by State Backward Class Commission headed by MG Gaikwad, too, has been struck down by the court. The option of a review petition is being considered, but we will need to put forth a strong base for it,” said public works department minister and head of cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation Ashok Chavan. According to legal experts and counsels representing the state, there is a limited scope for restoration of the reservation. “The SC order has clarified that there was no need to approach the 11-judge bench for a review of Indra Sawhney judgment. It also questioned the findings of the Gaikwad Commission report, which was the basis of the reservation given in “extraordinary and exceptional circumstances” of backwardness. Even if we decide to approach the NCBC, the question on the basis of backwardness of the community remains,” said one of the counsels, on condition of anonymity. A state official said they don’t have any immediate remedy. He said the state could go for a new law by addressing the flaws pointed out by the SC, but only if the Centre takes the legal recourse to empower the state to do so. “The state can now follow it up with the President of India and the Central government. Simultaneously, the state should ensure the community gets the benefits and schemes they would have got from the quota. A large chunk of Marathas is poor and needs the benefits,” said Balkrishna Renke, former chairman of the National Commission for Denotified, Nomadic and Semi Nomadic Tribes. The state is also planning a meeting with Maratha outfits later next week to take them into confidence. The government has already announced that the community will continue to get benefits such as hostels for youths, funding to SARTHI (Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research, Training and Human Development Institute), the institute established for educational, social and financial development of the community and scholarships for higher education of the students from the community. The state government is also open to extending the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) quota of 10% reservation to the community. Chavan said they have already announced various schemes for the community and will soon have a meeting with the outfits. Rajendra Date Patil, one of the petitioners in the SC, said, “The Centre had tabled a bill to expand the scope of reservation beyond 50% about a decade ago, as 28 states have crossed the limit. The Centre can take a comprehensive view and get the law enacted to give respite to communities such as Jats, Gujjars and Marathas. The Central government has said in the top court and in Parliament that the 102nd constitutional amendment does not suppress the states’ powers of giving reservation. It will have to make the necessary amendment for it,” he said. A leader closely associated with the developments said they had anticipated the SC verdict and so had requested the SC to transfer it to the 11-member constitution bench. “We also ensured that similar petitions of other states pending in the SC are clubbed with ours. Had it been referred to the larger bench, the verdict could have been different,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reservations-over-relief-for-marathas-remain-101620329273784.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Air ambulance lands on belly in Mumbai as wheel falls off in Nagpur||A Jet Serve Aviation’s Beechcraft C-90 aircraft, VT-JIL, was forced to make an emergency belly landing at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Thursday evening. The non-scheduled medical flight with five people, including a Covid patient, on-board had taken off from Bagdogra to land in Mumbai. It, however, had to land on its belly, as its left rear wheel got separated and fell off at Nagpur, where it had a halt for refuelling.CSMIA spokesperson confirmed the full emergency and said the flight safely landed at 9.09pm as all passengers were safely evacuated.The flight had one patient and his relative, a doctor and two crew members on board.Airports sources confirmed the aircraft’s pilot had contacted the Mumbai air traffic control (ATC) at around 7.20 to inform about the issue as a result of which the ATC declared a full emergency and informed all the stakeholders at CSMIA. “As preparations for the crash landing had to be made, the aircraft was on hold until the runway was foamed, so that the aircraft did not catch fire. It finally approached and landed runway 27 at 9.09pm,” said an airport official.Sources from the airport added that the aircraft had sufficient fuel to hold and hence the crew decided to land on belly after the airport prepared for the landing. Aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted, ‘A Jet Serve Ambulance with a patient onboard lost a wheel during takeoff from Nagpur. Showing immense presence of mind Capt Kesari Singh belly landed the aircraft on foam carpeting in Mumbai. All onboard are safe. Commendable effort by @DGCAIndia @CSMIA_Official & other agencies.’The airport’s emergency response team including the fire and rescue responders, follow-me vehicles, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), firefighting team immediately got into action and were on standby to provide immediate assistance to ensure the safe evacuation of the passengers. “As a precautionary method, CSMIA also foamed RWY 27 in order to avoid the aircraft catching fire. All passengers were evacuated safely and flights operating in and out of CSMIA remain on schedule,” CSMIA spokesperson added. Airport officials said that the onboard patient- fighting Covid-19, was immediately rushed to Nanavati hospital. Runway 27 was unavailable till 2am due to this incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/air-ambulance-lands-on-belly-in-mumbai-as-wheel-falls-off-in-nagpur-101620329215233.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Private schools must waive fees: Parents write to Maharashtra govt||A few days after the Supreme Court (SC) ordered private unaided schools in Rajasthan to waive 15% fees from 2019 to 2021, parents from Maharashtra have now written to the state government with the same demand.In a letter addressed to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and state education minister Varsha Gaikwad, the Indiawide Parents Association has urged the government to grant some relief to parents of private schools in the state. “Many schools are profiteering even in pandemic which is a serious concern and must be addressed immediately. Parents have been approaching the education minister and the education department but nothing happened in the past one year and schools are still exploiting parents by demanding 100% fees. In line with the Supreme Court decision, we demand a similar waiver for parents in the state,” read the letter.Anubha Sahai, president of the association said that if schools oppose the waiver, they should be audited and their income accounts should be checked “to keep a check on the profiteering and surplus fees collected.” Officials from the education department refused to comment on the issue. On May 3, the apex court ordered a reduction of fees of private unaided schools by 15% in lieu of unutilised facilities by students. The court also said that schools should not debar students on account of non-payment of fees or outstanding fees. On May 4, the director of primary education in Maharashtra ordered that documents pertaining to fees of private schools- such as papers of PTA approvals, finances of school etc be sent to the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/private-schools-must-waive-fees-parents-write-to-maharashtra-govt-101620329213786.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Endless challenges for Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Ever since chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray took up the job, his government has been stumbling from one crisis to another. Three-and-a-half months into his tenure, Maharashtra was hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. For the second year in a row, a tired Thackeray government is battling the raging pandemic. With Supreme Court striking down the quota for Maratha community on Wednesday, Thackeray now has fresh crisis to deal with. Sixteen months into office, Thackeray has battled on various fronts including tackling Covid-19 outbreak with empty coffers, natural calamity, political crisis leading to resignation of two cabinet ministers. The tussle with Maharashtra Raj Bhavan played out elaborately last year with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari not recommending Thackeray to the Upper House of the state Legislature to keep his chief ministership; ultimately, forcing him to dial Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The strong opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is getting more aggressive and he’s under constant threat of MLAs being poached by BJP. Besides this, Thackeray is dealing with a hostile government at the Centre, but he’s carefully manoeuvring through it without antagonising those in power in New Delhi. The challengesMaharashtra continues to be the most-affected state due to Covid-19 outbreak. While the state government somehow managed to tackle the epidemic in the first wave, the second wave has become a bigger problem with more than 50,000-60,000 cases being reported daily along with a high number of deaths. While Thackeray government is battling with the massive second wave with limited resources, the vaccination too is not taking off well due to shortage in supply of vaccine. On the other hand, Antilia bomb scare-Sachin Vaze episode followed by allegations and resignation of home minister Anil Deshmukh has damaged the reputation of the Thackeray government. Earlier, Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod had to quit his post after his name was linked to the suicide of a young woman in Pune. Before he took over as chief minister in November 2019, Thackeray had no experience in handling the administration. As such, his ability is put to test in every crisis for which he is getting appreciation and also brickbats. Covid crisisPolitical analysts say the onset of health crisis in early days of his chief ministership made it easier for him to strengthen his government. He compensated his lack of administrative experience with emotional connect with the people of the state, they add. Surendra Jondhale, political analyst and former professor of political science at Mumbai University, said Thackeray was sailing the troubled water right since the outset, adding that his initial challenge was to consolidate, strengthen and keep his flock together. “His initial task was to see there is no in-fighting or internal friction, because he was dealing with two ideologically opposite parties.”Political analyst Prakash Bal said, “He had only led a political party and had absolutely no experience in running the state government. Within three months of him coming to power, Covid-19 outbreak shut down the state and nation. But if you look at the larger view and compare it with CMs of neighbouring Karnataka and Gujarat, Maharashtra has done well under him. The state and Mumbai have dealt with the pandemic well so far.”According to Jondhale, the two strengths of Thackeray as CM were his “resilience” and the move to “establish a dialogue with the people”. “Covid-19 has been testing for Thackeray, but his resilience and his addresses to the state have helped him establish a dialogue with the people and build a rapport. He would tell everybody the challenges and give solutions. If the Centre is not giving vaccines or oxygen, he would tell it to the people,” he said. ControversiesThe political challenges faced by Thackeray and the three-party government have damaged the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s (MVA) reputation. Allegations of crime against a woman forced Thackeray to seek resignation of Rathod in February-end. Subsequently, allegations against NCP minister Anil Deshmukh rattled MVA. Many Sena leaders privately maintain that the Rathod and Deshmukh crisis should have been managed better by the MVA and the party. Jondhale said, “From the point of view of the voter, the allegations against Rathod and Deshmukh were not unheard of. People have seen and heard what happened in the BJP government with Chikki scam, allegations Prakash Mehta, etc. These allegations definitely cast a negative shadow but nothing politically detrimental which would lead to a collapse.” Both Jondhale and Bal added that Thackeray had the able backing of NCP chief Sharad Pawar when MVA went through any crisis.“Not just CM, but like family member”Sena MP and chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant took a mythological reference from the epic Mahabharata and said Thackeray is not the one who will be caught in the chakravyuh. “Uddhav ji is not Abhimanyu who cannot escape the chakravyuh; he can break it. Natural calamity happened last year [Nisarg cyclone], Covid-19 outbreak happened, social issues erupted over the Maratha reservation issue and political crisis also came on him, but he has overcome them calmly and with patience... No CM has faced so many challenges one after another,” Sawant said.He claimed Thackeray’s addresses to the people “inculcated calmness”.“The manner in which he speaks to the people, they consider him a family member who is advising them. He just doesn’t advise but has the onus of delivering. He is the man who thought of building a field hospital when nobody in the country did. The man who was not in electoral politics, had never seen the Assembly house or a civic house, he is now steering Maharashtra,” Sawant added. Opposition speaksAccording to Bal, the BJP is making shrill noises on Covid-19 management but it is not backed with unrest among people. “Only BJP leaders are making a noise. Even when people were not getting hospital beds and oxygen, there was no negative atmosphere or sense of failure of the Thackeray government.”The BJP, however, says Thackeray government is nothing but a complete failure. Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said there has been complete “lack of administrative leadership” in Maharashtra since November 2019. “This government does not have any kind of direction or will, consequences of which have to be borne by the people of Maharashtra. The Sena-led MVA government has given the people more than one reason to complain about its incompetence in dealing with crisis situations. It completely failed to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak last year. Maharashtra found itself reeling under the pandemic, un-kept promises to farmers affected due to unseasonal rainfall and cyclone, people facing electricity supply cuts for defaulting payment of hiked bills by the state’s power supplier, rising atrocities against women, the unresolved issue of reservation for OBCs and Marathas, the Sachin Vaze episode, etc,” he said.If 2020 was a tough year for him, 2021 is going to be a bigger battle for the “accidental chief minister”. As the state is still battling to control the second wave of Covid-19, there have been projections of a third wave towards the latter half of the year. Following which, Thackeray will gear up for his next major political challenge—the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation election in February 2022, in which the BJP will try to wrest control of India’s richest civic body that has been Sena’s source of strength for decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/endless-challenges-for-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-101620329154346.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Reply to Anil Deshmukh’s plea in 4 weeks: Bombay HC to CBI||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday heard a clutch of petitions including one filed by former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh seeking interim protection from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which recently completed a preliminary enquiry (PE) on allegations of corruption against him, as well as those filed by senior Indian Police Service officer Rashmi Shukla and former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh which sought protection against coercive action in two separate FIRs filed against them by the Mumbai Police.A division bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale directed the CBI to respond to Deshmukh’s petition in four weeks and told the counsel representing the former cabinet minister to move the vacation bench in case of “extreme urgency”.The petitions are the fallout of a letter that Singh wrote on March 20 alleging Deshmukh ran an extortion racket. The letter, addressed to the chief minister also referred to an August 2020 report by Shukla, who was commissioner of the State Intelligence Department at the time, on a purported “money for transfer” scam involving police officers, middlemen and politicians.The HC on Thursday extracted a promise from the Maharashtra state that it would not arrest Shukla, who is on central deputation in Hyderabad, till the next date of hearing her plea, and directed Singh to move the vacation bench for relief as it could not hear his petition due to a paucity of time.Deshmukh, who initially brazened out the allegations of corruption, resigned on April 5 citing moral grounds after the Bombay HC directed the CBI to probe Singh’s allegations. The CBI lodged an FIR on April 21 against Deshmukh under section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act [which pertains to illegal gratification obtained by a public servant] and section 120(b) [criminal conspiracy] of the Indian Penal Code and submitted the findings of it PE in a sealed envelope to the court on April 30.The politician filed a petition on May 3 which claimed that the FIR was filed with a “biased, dubious and ulterior motive at the behest of those having political or other vendetta” against him and sought interim protection from the CBI.“We cannot pass any orders without hearing the parties concerned. If there is extreme urgency, then you (Deshmukh) can move the vacation bench of the HC. You (Deshmukh) have that liberty,” the court told Deshmukh’s counsel Amit Desai. It asked the CBI to file an affidavit in response to the plea.Senior advocate Darius Khambata appearing for the state told the bench on Thursday that Shukla would not be arrested till the next date of hearing her plea challenging the FIR registered by the Mumbai cybercrime police for alleged illegal phone tapping and alleged leaking of sensitive documents related to police postings.Shukla, who is currently in Hyderabad serving as the additional director general of Central Reserve Police Force, South Zone, moved the court on May 3 after she received a summons from Mumbai cyber police asking her to appear before the investigation officer on the following day. She had also failed to appear at two previous summons -- on April 26 and 28.The Mumbai police filed an FIR against unidentified persons on March 26 under the Official Secrets Act, the Information Technology Act and the Indian Telegraph Act, which are punishable up to three years only, for allegedly illegally tapping phones and leaking confidential documents, based on a complaint filed by the Maharashtra intelligence department.The IPS officer sought the quashing of the FIR or its transfer to the CBI for further investigation.In her petition, Shukla said that she had “exposed the nexus between ministers and politicians” narrated the events during her posting in the state between October 11, 2018, and September 3, 2020, in which time between July 17-29, 2020, she had intercepted the calls of six men who were acting as middlemen in a purported “money for transfer” scam.Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte however had said in March that the interception was done under the guise of “public safety” and “misguided the authorities”, and that there was no evidence of such a scam.“We will hear this petition after the summer vacation. Until then it will be graceful on the state government’s part to make a statement that it would not take any coercive action,” Justice Shinde said.“It is a fairly important investigation. We don’t know when the COVID-19 pandemic will end. Hence, the police are willing to send a team to Hyderabad where they could record the petitioner’s statement,” Khambata said.Shukla’s counsel Mahesh Jethmalani said the IPS officer is willing to cooperate with the investigation.Singh’s petition sought quashing of an FIR registered against him under the Prevention of Atrocities Act last month based on a complaint by police inspector Bhimrao Ghadge posted at Akola in Maharashtra.Ghadge made a series of allegations of corruption against Singh and other officers when Singh was posted with the Thane police.The bench asked Singh to move the vacation bench in case there was any urgency and did not hear a fresh petition filed by Singh challenging the state government’s decision to entrust two enquiries against him to DGP Sanjay Pandey.The bench also did not hear the petition filed by the Maharashtra government seeking direction to the CBI to delete two topics from the purview of their investigation into corruption charges against Deshmukh: the reinstatement of controversial Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze, arrested in connection with the Antilia bomb scare and subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, and the purported corruption in police transfers and postings of senior police officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/reply-to-anil-deshmukh-s-plea-in-4-weeks-bombay-hc-to-cbi-101620329093767.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Maratha quota scrapped: Community gears up for agitations||The Maratha community is unhappy with the recent Supreme Court (SC) order in which it has struck down the provision of reservation to the community under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018. Various organisations representing the community have decided to hold a series of agitations to put pressure on the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to take steps for restoring the reservation.In a statewide meeting of convenors of Maratha Kranti Morcha, an apex body of various organisations of the Maratha community, they have decided to hold virtual agitations by starting social media campaigns against leaders from across the political spectrum. On the other hand, some outfits decided to stage protests at various places in the state. The convenors said they do not want to risk the lives of the people by asking them to come out on roads in this pandemic. At the same time, they want to build pressure, compelling the governments to take necessary steps to get reservation for the community, be it the state or Centre. They have also roped in experts to examine the SC judgement and help them in determining alternatives, based on which the next course of action will be decided.On Wednesday, SC struck down the SEBC Act, which was enacted to grant 16% reservation to the Maratha community in government jobs and education in November 2018. In June 2019, while upholding the reservation, the Bombay high court (HC) had reduced the reservation limit to 12% and 13% in government jobs and admissions, respectively, as recommended by Maharashtra State Commission for Backward Classes (MSCBC) in its report submitted to the state government in 2018.“We have decided to hold digital (virtual) agitation as we cannot allow the people to endanger their lives by taking to the streets, considering the pandemic situation. We will be holding social media campaigns and target leaders from all the political parties in the state,” said Virendra Pawar, a convenor, who also represents Maratha Mahasangh.Pawar said they already have a social media team, with the help of which the entire agitation demanding reservation was successfully conducted in 2017. The team will now launch online campaigns and devise other ways to target the politicians.“We have several pages on Facebook having lakhs of members in each of them. We also have thousands of WhatsApp groups formed for better coordination which will also be used for the agitation. In the meantime, our team of experts will examine the judgement and help in finalising alternatives, on the basis on which further decision will be taken,” he added.Meanwhile, offices of the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in Satara district were attacked by unknown people on Thursday morning. In two different incidents, a group of people hurled stones at the offices leading to damage of windowpane and other accessories. Local police are probing both the incidents, according to Lokmat, a Marathi daily.In another meeting held by Maratha Kranti Thok Marcha (MKTM) in Beed district, it was decided to start agitation for reservation on the lines of guerrilla warfare that was adopted by Maratha warriors during the regime of Maratha king Chhatrapati Shivaji.Abasaheb Patil, convenor of MKTM, said, “We are not going to disclose our plans on how agitations are going to be held. We have lost all the faith in this government because it has failed in the legal battle, and the community is at the receiving end. We want reservation to be restored; that’s it.”Sanjiv Bhor Patil, president of Shiv Prahar Sangathana, said they were examining the SC order and are yet to decide on the next step. “We have asked experts and researchers, who have studied the case, to give their opinion after examining the judgement copy. We will find out the root cause of this judgement and then decide whether we have to continue the legal battle, fight a political battle or hit the roads,” Patil said.Vinayak Mete, who heads the political outfit Shiv Sangram, declared that they will start an agitation from Beed district and subsequently hold them in other districts from May 16. He demanded that the state file a review petition in the Apex court against the order. He will also be seeking time from the chief minister in this regard. Mete had contested the state Assembly elections in 2014 from Beed constituency as a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate and had extended his support to the erstwhile BJP government.“We want justice which was snatched from us because of negligence of the state government. It is now the responsibility of the chief minister to provide reservation benefits to the Maratha community. We have decided to start the agitation from Beed,” Mete said.He further suggested that the government should constitute a study and rectify the findings of the MSCBC that were rejected by the Apex court. “The state government should consider providing reservation to the community in the existing quota of other communities. It should also look into providing benefits to Marathas under the 10% reservation of economically weaker section (EWS) passed by the Centre last year,” Mete said.The Centre has decided to provide 10% reservation to all those under EWS category who are not covered under the existing scheme of reservations for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes. The amendment to the act was cleared by the Parliament in 2019.Meanwhile, public works department minister and head of state cabinet’s sub-committee on Maratha reservation Ashok Chavan alleged that some people have been inciting Maratha community which could endanger lives of the people during the pandemic. “People should keep in mind that the safety of the citizens is important as we are in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic. Nobody should incite the Maratha community just for the purpose of cornering the MVA government politically,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-quota-scrapped-community-gears-up-for-agitations-101620329033753.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||IIT-B researchers design a surface that makes coronavirus evaporate faster||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) have designed a surface that can expedite the evaporation of residual droplets carrying Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, from surfaces. According to the World Health Organisation, Covid 19 primarily spreads when small liquid particles are released into the air when a person infected with the virus coughs, speaks, sings or sneezes. The disease can also transmit via droplets settled on surfaces of objects, often known as fomite transmission. However, fomite transmission is now widely regarded as the least transmissible mode of spread of the virus.When a person infected with Covid-19 coughs or sneezes, respiratory droplets containing the virus are released into the air. This is primarily how Covid-19 spreads. However, the disease can also transmit via droplets settled on surfaces of objects, often known as fomite transmission. IIT-B researchers have proposed a way of designing surfaces for accelerating the evaporation of the residual droplets on surfaces by tuning surfaces’ wettability and creating geometric microtextures on them. Their paper titled— Designing antiviral surfaces to suppress the spread of Covid-19—was published in the Physics of Fluids letter of the peer-reviewed journal AIP Publishing on Wednesday.The lifespan of the respiratory droplet on the surface determines how likely the surface is to spread the virus. While 99.9% of the droplet’s liquid content evaporates within a few minutes, a residual thin film that allows the virus to survive can be left behind. On some surfaces such as glass, the film can last up to four days and on plastic or stainless steel up to seven days.Sanghamitro Chatterjee, Janani Srree Muralidharan, Amit Agrawal, and Rajneesh Bhardwaj — all researchers from IIT-B — had in the past shown that the survival time of the Covid-19 virus was correlated to the drying time of a respiratory droplet on an impermeable (non-porous) surface along with a residual film left on it by the droplet. In a follow-up study in February, they demonstrated how the mass loss of a respiratory droplet and the evaporation mechanism of a thin liquid film is different for porous and non-porous surfaces. In their new study, they’ve found that an optimally designed surface will make a viral load decay rapidly, rendering it less likely to contribute to the spread of viruses.“We’ve extended our findings from the previous studies to design a surface that can make droplets evaporate faster. It works just like a lotus leaf. The surface of a lotus leaf has microscopic pillars on them that make the water droplets roll-off. Bioinspired from lotus leaf, the proposed antiviral surface has microscopic pillars on them,” said co-author of the study Rajneesh Bhardwaj, associate professor of Mechanical Engineering, IIT-B. They designed microtextures or microscopic pillars on surfaces to accelerate the evaporation of liquid.“In terms of physics, the solid-liquid interfacial energy is enhanced by a combination of our proposed surface engineering. The pressure inside the liquid film increases and helps it to dry quickly,” said Chatterjee, lead author and a postdoctoral fellow in the mechanical engineering department. The researchers tried a combination of surface microtextures to determine the most optimal one. “Continuously tailoring any one of these parameters wouldn’t achieve the best results,” said Agrawal, institute chair professor at the department of mechanical engineering and co-author of the paper. “We also propose a design methodology and provide parameters needed to engineer surfaces with the shortest virus survival times,” said Muralidharan, an assistant professor in the department of mechanical engineering. The researchers discovered that surfaces with taller and closely packed pillars, with a contact angle of around 60 degrees, show the strongest antiviral effect or shortest drying time. “This study lays the foundation for fabricating antiviral surfaces that will be useful in designing hospital equipment, medical or pathology equipment, as well as frequently touched surfaces, like door handles, smartphone screens, or surfaces within areas prone to outbreaks,” said Bharadwaj.“Since we analysed antiviral effects by a generic model independent of the specific geometry of texture, it’s possible to fabricate any geometric structures based on different fabrication techniques — focused ion beams or chemical etching — to achieve the same outcome,” Bharadwaj added.“This study helps understand how nanosurfaces work and how they can be used to prevent the spread of Covid-19. These surfaces can be used at healthcare facilities,” said Shyamprasad Karagadde, associate professor, department of mechanical engineering, IIT-B, who was not a part of the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitb-researchers-design-a-surface-that-makes-coronavirus-evaporate-faster-101620328973713.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: IIT-B’s O2 generator model gets 1,000 queries in a week||A week after the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay ((IIT-B), set up a demonstration unit converting nitrogen generators into oxygen generators, the institute has been receiving requests from policymakers, industry and hospitals for adopting the technology.So far the institute, along with its industry partner Tata Consulting Engineers Limited (TCE), has received over 1,000 inquiries from across the country for implementing the technology to beat the severe oxygen shortage for Covid-19 patients. On April 29, IIT-B and TCE demonstrated a simple method of converting nitrogen generators, which are found in all parts of India, into oxygen generators by fine-tuning the existing nitrogen plant set up. Milind Atrey, institute chair professor, department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT-B, along with TCE demonstrated a proof of concept using a model nitrogen plant available on campus.“Along with TCE, we have set up a helpline for helping people use this technology in an existing nitrogen plant. The helpline has been flooded since the announcements We’ve received interest from government bodies, hospitals and even industry bodies that want to convert an existing nitrogen plant into oxygen generators. We are providing handholding support for easy adoption of the technology,” said Atrey, who is also the dean, research and development of IIT-B.The institute has made all technical specifications available in the public domain. “Those interested can write to us at tceconnect@tce.co.in,” Atrey added.Nitrogen generation plants, which take in air from the atmosphere and separate oxygen and nitrogen to give out liquid nitrogen, can be found in various industries such as oil and gas, food and beverages. Nitrogen is dry in nature and is used commonly for purging and cleaning oil and gas tankers. Most nitrogen plants work on pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technology, where air from the atmosphere is sucked in, filtered of impurities and nitrogen is extracted. The team has proposed to switch the filter used for nitrogen extraction in the PSA unit with one that can extract oxygen instead.The team replaced the carbon molecular sieves, used in nitrogen plants, with zeolite molecular sieves in the PSA nitrogen plant in the Refrigeration and Cryogenics Laboratory of IIT-B. Zeolite molecular sieves are used for separating oxygen from the air. By controlling the flow rates of the containers, the researchers were able to convert the nitrogen plant on campus into an oxygen generating plant. Spantech Engineers, a city-based company that deals with PSA nitrogen and oxygen plant production, partnered on this pilot project and installed the required plant components as a skid at IIT-B for evaluation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-iit-b-s-o2-generator-model-gets-1-000-queries-in-a-week-101620328434203.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Nair hospital launches mental health helpline for its Covid patients||Mumbai Central-based BYL Nair Hospital has become the first civic-run medical college to start a mental health helpline wherein in-house Covid patients and their relatives can call exclusively for counselling. The helpline number —8828315805 — was launched on Thursday in association with Naraindas Morbai Budhrani Trust. Nair hospital’s ‘Virtual Counselling and Mental Health support for Covid-19 patients and caregivers’ will be functional between 9am and 7pm everyday. It will be manned by six psychologists from the trust who have been trained by the psychiatry team of the hospital.“Our psychiatry department has started this helpline with Budhrani Trust. During the training, we provide them [patients and their relatives] reading materials to acquire knowledge about Covid-19. Any infected patient who gets admitted to the hospital or any suspected patient with Covid-19 symptoms who visit the out-patient department (OPD) for check-ups can call at the helpline number for counselling. This helpline number is dedicated only to the hospital’s patients and their relatives,” said Dr Henal Shah, head of the department, psychiatry, Nair Hospital. However, in case anyone who is not associated with the hospital calls on the helpline, the psychologists will not refuse them help. A poster near the emergency ward and OPD, with the helpline number, reads, ‘It’s normal to feel sad, stressed, fearful or angry during a situation crisis. Talk to people you trust and get relieved.”Speaking to HT, Tushar Yarmal, programme manager of the trust, said, “The number of Covid-19 cases has doubled in the second wave, which has increased anxiety and fear among people. In the first wave, we had started a helpline number focusing on the dissemination of authentic information to the public. Now, with this new helpline number, we want to focus only on counselling.”Amid the pandemic, several psychiatrists and non-government organisations (NGOs) have started various helpline numbers. King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, along with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), also runs two Covid-19 helpline numbers. But unlike Nair hospital, staff at KEM make calls to the patients to check on their health and callers can’t ring them. “We have an in-house helpline number where we call the kin of the admitted patients at KEM Hospital for counselling. We maintain the data bank of all the admitted patients. Then the second helpline is run in association with BMC where we call the recovered Covid-19 patients for counselling outside KEM,” Dr Ajita S Nayak, head of psychiatry department, KEM Hospital, said.Lokmanya Tilak General and RN Cooper hospitals do not have any helpline solely dedicated for patients suffering from Covid-19.A psychiatrist at Cooper Hospital said, “We are managing the department with four-five doctors. With this strength, we have to attend Covid-19 patients, counsel them and also handle the department. We don’t have the manpower to launch such a helpline number.”Doctors have said that Covid-19 not only affects patients’ physical health but takes a toll on their mental well-being. Patients who are kept in isolation and intensive care units (ICU) often develop mental ailments such as anxiety and depression, which continue to linger long after they are discharged from the hospital. Recently, urban development minister Eknath Shinde also suggested that psychiatric help should be provided to patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-nair-hospital-launches-mental-health-helpline-for-its-covid-patients-kin-101620328374143.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Three naval ships to bring in oxygen from Persian Gulf||The Indian Navy’s three warships INS Kochi, INS Tabar and INS Trikand, ferrying liquid medical oxygen (LMO) and associated medical equipment from the Persian Gulf, are currently on their way to Mumbai as part of the mission Samudra Setu-II.The Indian Navy had launched ‘Samudra Setu-II’ last month to meet the country’s oxygen requirement amid the surge in Covid-19 cases. As part of the mission, seven ships - INS (Indian Navy Ship) Kolkata, Kochi, Talwar, Tabar, Trikand, Jalashwa and Airavat have been deployed for shipment of oxygen-filled cryogenic containers and associated medical equipment from various countries. INS Kochi and INS Tabar departed Kuwait and INS Trikand departed Doha on May 6 with a total of seven tanks, each of 20 tonnes (total 140 tonnes) liquid oxygen tanks and 14,000 oxygen cylinders, said Navy official.INS Kolkata and INS Airavat are already en route from Kuwait and Singapore respectively with more than 4,000 oxygen cylinders, two containers each have 20 MT (40 tonnes) oxygen-filled containers and eight oxygen tanks. Earlier, Indian Naval Ship Talwar arrived at the port of New Mangalore in Karnataka on May 5 with the first consignment of 54 tons liquid oxygen tanks from Bahrain, said chief public relation officer (CPRO) and commander Mehul Karnik. Also, a 26 member medical team including seven doctors, two nursing officers, two paramedics and 15 battlefield nursing assistants (BFNA) have been deputed from Eastern Naval Command (ENC) to augment the frontline medical team at Dhanvantari Covid hospital in Ahmedabad, added Karnik.The medical personnel from various units of ENC were airlifted from Visakhapatnam to Ahmedabad on May 6. The 26 member team is in addition to 58 doctors, 30 nursing officers, 64 medical assistance and 62 Battle Field Nursing Assistance (BFNAs) deputed earlier by the Indian Navy for duties at Covid hospitals established at New Delhi, Patna, Ahmedabad and Kavaratti island for providing aid to the civil population, said Karnik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-three-naval-ships-to-bring-in-oxygen-from-persian-gulf-101620327413516.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 853 deaths, 62,194 new Covid-19 cases||With 853 deaths on Thursday, Maharashtra recorded a total of 4,702 deaths in the first six days of April, bringing the average number of deaths to 783 per day. The number is almost three times higher as compared to last month’s 1,402 deaths from April 1 to 6, which averaged 233 deaths per day. From March 1 to 6, 286 deaths were recorded, which averaged 47 deaths per day.The total number of deaths in the state since the outbreak of the virus has now touched 73,515. On Wednesday, the state recorded 920 deaths which was the second-highest one day toll in the state. The highest toll was 985 on April 28 last month.On Thursday, the state recorded 62,194 new Covid-19 cases, as 2,77,086 citizens were tested for the virus.There are currently 6,39,075 active patients across the state of which Pune tops with 1,15,182 patients followed by Nagpur with 61,178 active patients. The death toll has now reached 73,515 with Mumbai leading with 13,580 deaths followed by Pune with 9,942 patients.According to Dr Tatrarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), the deaths have increased corresponding with the surge of the virus. “We saw increasing deaths due to the second wave which was more lethal than the first one. The current deaths are of those who have been affected mostly two weeks ago. Due to the lockdown, we will see the deaths stabilising and even coming down in the coming days,” said Lahane.Dr Satyendra Nath Mehra, director, Masina Hospital at Byculla, attributes the increase in the death rates to two main factors. “The younger generation is suffering from ‘Happy Hypoxia’ a condition where the patient does not realise that his oxygen level is low and is happily continuing his normal activities. This results in the progression of the disease and are causing deaths,” said Mehra.“The second is that whole families are getting infected and the worst sufferers are the elderly family members who are already suffering from other diseases. Their condition is deteriorating faster due to this new strain,” he added.As the Covid-19 virus continues to rage in many places, the state government has now decided to enforce an eight-day strict lockdown at Badlapur city in Thane district from Saturday onwards. Badlapur now follows six districts like Ahmednagar, Baramati, Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur and Beed where a strict lockdown is already in place due to the surge in Covid-19 cases.Meanwhile, a company, Genetek Lifesciences located at Wardha has started its operations of producing Remdesivir injections. Union minister Nitin Gadkari was able to procure licenses for this company within three days as it will be producing 30,000 vials of the injections daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-853-deaths-62-194-new-covid-19-cases-101620327353477.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body installs 15 LMO tanks in 40 days||In a span of 40 days between May and June last year, Mumbai civic body installed 15 Liquid Medical Oxygen [LMO] tanks with a capacity of 13 kilolitres each and 11 smaller tanks with a capacity of up to six kilolitres each in the city’s six civic-run hospitals and six jumbo Covid-19 centres. These oxygen storage tanks played a crucial role for Mumbai, which saw its daily demand for medical oxygen go up from 210 metric tonnes (MT) in the first wave to 270 (MT) in the past month alone. The “Mumbai model” has won praise from both the Supreme Court and the Bombay High Court. The apex court on Wednesday appreciated Mumbai’s efforts and recommended that the Centre and Delhi take a cue on how to handle oxygen supply in the face of the severe shortage that the Capital city has been facing for the past three weeks. On Thursday, the HC said that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation chief Iqbal Chahal should hold a video conference with other municipal bodies and explain how the city managed the second wave. So what did Mumbai do to control the crisis? “Building the additional LMO tanks helped us cope during the second wave,” additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said. “The tanks, construction, fitting, and piping altogether cost us over ₹14 crore. At that point, we didn’t know if they would be utilised, but we still went ahead and created that infrastructure,” he said. That’s barely 0.32% of the BMC’s total budgetary allocation for healthcare in 2020-2021. LMO tanks are highly pressurised tanks that are installed on reinforced concrete structures and require certification by the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO), a department under the ministry of commerce and industry, which has also been overseeing the supply and distribution of oxygen during this crisis. The tanks were installed in facilities with greater bed capacity. For instance, NESCO’s jumbo centre in Goregaon which was opened last June and currently has 2015 beds was fitted with two LMO tanks, but only one was used last year. The BMC plans to construct 10 more LMOs across the city in preparation for a possible third wave expected anytime between July and September, civic officials said. Crack teams and quick response vehicles In April, the city’s daily average cases had touched 7,786 and this is when the oxygen crisis was felt most keenly: many patients were shifted from one hospital to another due to a shortfall of oxygen [for instance, 168 patients were moved out of six government hospitals to jumbo centres on April 17 after oxygen supply was affected], hospital staff struggled with getting supplies and often left with only a few hours of oxygen, some facilities had to refuse admissions. By mid-April, the city had only 41 ICU beds and 15 ventilator beds out of a total of 2,664 and 1,339 respectively. That’s when the BMC announced that it would appoint six civic officials to act as coordinators between oxygen suppliers, assistant municipal commissioners of the 24 civic wards and the Food and Drug Administration. The officials will be responsible for maintaining the existing oxygen supply and also ensuring that the same is used sparingly. Part of Mumbai’s oxygen supply model evolved to ensure the safe transportation of oxygen cylinders. Only two civic-run hospitals, Kasturba in Arthur Road and HBT Trauma Care in Jogeshwari, have oxygen generation plants. Other big hospitals, like civic run KEM, Sion, Nair, Cooper hospitals and private-run Bombay Hospital, have large capacity LMO tanks which are refilled at least once daily. Other hospitals rely on cylinders; in fact, all hospitals are mandated to keep cylinders as backup. When the crisis hit, the civic body deployed six quick response vehicles [tempos] that would ferry oxygen cylinders and concentrators to hospitals in crisis. “Ward-level teams were formed to coordinate and move surplus oxygen from one site to another where there was a shortfall,” said Krishna H Perekar, BMC’s chief engineer (Mechanical and Electrical). A resource inventory of oxygen use and infrastructure of the city’s public as well as private hospitals proved helpful, as Mumbai’s oxygen often needed to go to far-flung suburbs in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, like Navi Mumbai and Thane, which also faced severe shortage of supply. “Our inventory has micro-details like the number of jumbo oxygen cylinders, dura cylinders, and capacity of the LMO tanks at all hospitals. We also have exact details of the oxygen usage at each hospital,” Velrasu said. This inventory came in handy when oxygen had to be transported from one hospital to another or in instances where patients had to be moved. “We formed crack teams to ensure that the LMO tanks reach Mumbai smoothly. These teams were also deployed at the cylinder refilling plant at Navi Mumbai to ensure that Mumbai gets its quota of cylinders,” he said. The civic body has a contract with a private agency, Satramdas Gases Pvt Ltd, whose refilling station is located in Navi Mumbai. When a train carrying three liquid medical oxygen tanks arrived from Gujarat to Kalamboli in Navi Mumbai last month, a crack team consisting of engineers, staff, and guards from the BMC was already waiting on the platform of the goods yard of Kalamboli station. The tankers were swiftly offloaded and routed to Mumbai. At the peak of the crisis, the city still faced a shortfall of 15 to 20MT despite all these efforts: this was managed by moving surplus stock from one place to another, and seeking oxygen from Gujarat. Medical protocolLast month, as the demand for medical oxygen, began to rise, the Maharashtra Covid-19 task force recommended that doctors should stop the use of High Flow Nasal Cannula to deliver oxygen (up to 80 litres/ min) due to the high pressure in the machine. Hospitals were encouraged to use the Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP) machine, which delivers oxygen either through a flowmeter (up to 15 litres/min) or a non-invasive ventilator (up to 30 litres/min), and with lower pressure. “Soon after the advisory, we completely stopped use of HNFC and alternatively started using non-invasive ventilation such as BiPAP,” said Dr. Ramesh Bharmal, dean of civic-run Nair Hospital. Dr. Gautam Bhansali, who consults at the Bombay Hospital said that they reduced the use of HNFC too. “It is hard to completely stop its use because most patients are comfortable with the nasal cannula. With the BiPAP, we have to use a face mask which some patients find uncomfortable,” he said. As the cases in the city have also decreased, the city’s daily requirement of oxygen has now come down to 240MT per day. The civic body now plans to construct an oxygen generation plant at each hospital, so that the dependency of LMO and cylinders reduces. “We may still require LMO as they provide better pressure, mainly for patients in the Intensive Care Units,” said Velrasu. “But having oxygen plants at all facilities will reduce the dependency to a large extent,” he said. The BMC has announced that it would set up 16 oxygen generation plants in 12 hospitals across the city, each of which will produce an estimated 43MT of oxygen. The project will cost ₹90 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-installs-15-lmo-tanks-in-40-days-101620327293482.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Second Covid-19 wave: 13.05% of Maharashtra’s cases from Mumbai||During the second wave of Covid-19, in April 2021, Mumbai has contributed to 13.05% of Maharashtra’s total Covid-19 cases, and 10.1% to Maharashtra’s total deaths, showing a decrease from figures reported in October last year, when cases in the city also peaked. In October 2020, Mumbai contributed to 17.76% of Maharashtra’s cases and 18% of deaths. Since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out, Maharashtra has experienced two waves, one until October last year, and the second since March his year, according to experts. Mumbai’s cases during these two waves peaked on October 7 at 2,484 cases, and on April 4 at 11,206. While the number of daily cases in Mumbai during the second wave was much higher than the first wave, its share in Maharashtra’s overall cases has declined. In October 2020, Maharashtra reported a total of 293,960 Covid-19 cases and 7,249 deaths, whereas Mumbai reported 52,229 Covid-19 cases, and 1,271 deaths. In April this year, Maharashtra reported a total of 1,789,492 Covid-19 cases and 14,182 deaths, whereas Mumbai reported 233,698 cases and 1,435 deaths. Experts have attributed this to other cities and rural parts of Maharashtra catching up in terms of Covid cases and deaths, migration. Dr Rahul Pandit, who is a member of the Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 taskforce said, “This is a relative thing. Now rural Maharashtra and other cities are also reporting a higher number of Covid-19 cases.” In May 2020, Mumbai contributed to 57% of Maharashtra’s cases and to 54% of its deaths. Dr Pandit said, “Now cases are not concentrated to Mumbai alone. Our share in deaths has decreased because of better infrastructure, and policies and protocols Mumbai put in place to reduce mortality. We are effectively utilising our resources such as general practitioners, small nursing homes and clinics as well.” In June last year, the BMC devised it’s Mission Save Lives - a nine-point strategy to reduce Covid-19 fatality. Effectively, Mumbai’s overall case fatality rate dropped from as high as 6% in the first half of 2020, to 3.5% in the second half, to under 2% now. Mumbai’s CFR for the month of October alone was 2.6%, which has dropped to 0.6% in the month of April 2021, even as cases have increased. However, experts point that even though this second wave has recorded fewer deaths due to Covid-19, it is more intense in terms of post-recovery complications. Dr Harish Chafle, senior consultant of pulmonology and critical care at Global Hospital in Parel, said, “Independently, Mumbai has recorded higher cases in this wave as compared to the last wave, as the new variants of Covid-19 are more infectious. But in the first wave, patients did not need as many days of ICU care as now. Now patients are recovering more slowly. Moreover, within 21-30 days, patients are developing fibrosis due to Covid-19, which has serious effects on mortality in the long run, post recovery.” On Thursday, Mumbai reported 3,028 covid-19 cases and 69 deaths, taking the tally to 668,085 and toll to 13,580. However, deaths per day in Mumbai were in single digits in the first week of March. On Wednesday, Mumbai conducted 30,942 tests, with a daily positivity rate of 9.7%, down from 18%-20% recorded last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-covid-19-wave-13-05-of-maharashtra-s-cases-from-mumbai-101620327233432.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MLAs must talk about Centre’s work during Covid-19 pandemic, says BJP||While Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government is drawing flak over handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and its alleged non-cooperation with the non-BJP governments, the Maharashtra unit of the party has asked its legislators to educate people about the Central government’s performance.While addressing the legislators of the party May 1, leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis narrated the steps taken by the Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi government to manage the second wave of pandemic witnessed across the country and told them to put the same in front of the people.Fadnavis also slammed Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra and said it was blaming the Centre to cover its failures. “The second wave has indeed hit India very badly and our healthcare system has been badly affected. But it is because 15% of the infected patients need oxygen and hospital care. To address this emergency (PM) Modi government imported a fair amount of oxygen, invoked special powers to give loan licences for the production of Remdesivir. This has helped in meeting the rising demands for oxygen and life-saving drugs,” he said during his recent virtual interaction with the MLAs. BJP released the videos of the meeting on Thursday.Fadnavis said, “Maharashtra has been the largest beneficiary of Remdesivir injections, liquid medical oxygen and even the vaccines. Maharashtra has got an allocation of 475,000 Remdesivir in 10 days, 1,800 metric tonnes per day and it is the highest allocation among other states. Maharashtra government has failed to install 10 centrally sponsored PSA (pressure swing adsorption) oxygen plants for which the fund of ₹402 crore was allocated by the Centre in January. Similarly, MVA leaders have been blaming the (PM) Modi government for the export of vaccines to other countries, but it was part of international diplomacy. The Maharashtra government has been boasting of having done the highest vaccination in the country. It should answer who provided the vaccines for it,” he said.In a recent meeting with the party legislators, he also asked them to explain these facts to the people of Maharashtra.Fadnavis also said that a few ‘leftist liberals’ were trying to defame India with the help of international media. “But all of you should take the reality to the people with pride as there were honest steps taken by the Centre to fight back the situation,” he said.BJP’s damage control initiative comes in the wake of a blame game between non-BJP state governments and the Centre over supplies of medical equipment and cooperation. Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leaders in Maharashtra slammed the Centre for the disruption in supply again.Maharashtra’s public health minister Rajesh Tope has blamed the Centre for the delay in granting clearance for the import of the medical equipment and drugs. The department of pharmaceuticals is not giving the expected cooperation for the import from other states, he said. Tope said that they were expecting 3.5 lakh Remdesivir from other countries in the next couple of days.Maharashtra has floated a global tender for the import of Remdesivir, liquid medical oxygen, oxygen storage tanks, oxygen concentrators amid the shortage during the second wave of the pandemic.Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant has criticised the Central government for its negligence in dispatching the medical material to states. “(PM) Modi government sent 60 ventilators to Nashik corporation 10 days ago from the PM Cares funds, but they did not have connectors with them. The ventilators are lying unused even when there is a dire need. How can such negligence be accepted? It is an example of laxity in planning and management of the Modi government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mlas-must-talk-about-centre-s-work-during-covid-19-pandemic-says-bjp-101620327113497.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai is a model for entire country in Covid management: HC||charul.shah@htlive.com “Mumbai is a model for the entire country for its efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 and the government should consider emulating in other parts of the state,” said a division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni of the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday, praising the efforts taken by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The HC was hearing public interest litigations concerning treatment, shortage of facilities and drugs across the state.The court said the BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal should hold a video conference with commissioners of other municipal corporations in the state and share the details of the model adopted by the civic body. During the hearing, the counsel for BMC had submitted a data sheet detailing the ground position of the facilities and availability of medicine, oxygen and beds at the various Covid centres. Looking at the data the court noticed that Mumbai’s Covid facilities have availability of more beds. The court hence asked the BMC to share the data regarding the availability of extra beds and check if patients from nearby districts can be shifted to facilities in Mumbai for treatment. During the course of the hearing, the bench expressed concern over a considerable increase in cases and a huge number of active cases in Pune district and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) area. The court suggested that the state government and PMC should consider imposing drastic measures to contain the spread of the deadly infection in the area. HC said, if required, PMC should take help from BMC, which according to the court managed to control the numbers and situation in the city. HC has now directed the PMC commissioner to file a detailed affidavit listing the steps being taken to control the spread of Covid-19. “Don’t wait for our orders. We don’t want to pass any directions crossing our boundaries. But you start taking immediate actions. You may take help from the BMC commissioner about their model,” the court said to the counsel representing PMC. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted a note containing a detailed status report on Covid management across Maharashtra. Taking note of reports suggesting the impending third Covid wave, HC asked the state government to set up a group that would study the data to prepare for the state machinery for the third wave. The court asked the government if there was any group of expert set up to analyse the area-wise data, as to which areas have recorded a surge in cases and why. You should try to find out as to why there was a surge in only one particular part, the judges said. Observing that the data would be of great use to prepare for a future crisis, the judges said “we must be prepared for the third wave.” “There needs a scientific approach to understand this,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-is-a-model-for-entire-country-in-covid-management-hc-101620326634001.html
07-05-2021||Mumbai||Walk-in vaccinations suspended in Mumbai||Amid reports of crowding in several Covid-19 vaccination centres across the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday announced that no walk-in vaccination will be conducted in Mumbai from Friday across all age groups. The BMC has made it mandatory for every citizen to get a prior appointment on the Cowin portal in order to get vaccinated. The civic body also plans to start drive-in vaccination centres in all seven zones of the city for citizens above 60 years of age and the specially abled.According to the BMC, drive-in vaccination centres have been proposed in the following open grounds — Wankhede stadium, Oval Maidan, Brabourne stadium, Reliance Jio Garden, Andheri sports club, Cooperage Maidan, Shivaji Stadium, MIG Ground (Bandra), MCA Ground (BKC), Sambhaji Udyan (Mulund), Subash Nagar Ground (Chembur), Tilak Nagar Ground (Chembur), Ghatkopar Police Ground and Shivaji Maidan (Chunnabhatti).The above decisions were taken by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal after a meeting with guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray on the issue of crowding across several vaccination centres in the city. On Wednesday, a stampede-like situation was reported outside the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo vaccination centre. Thackeray took to Twitter on Thursday saying, “With regards to the crowding at some of the Vaccination centres and the opening up of more “drive in” vaccination centres across the city,@mybmc Commissioner Chahal ji and I had a discussion this morning and new guidelines would be released soon.”Post this meeting, in a circular issued by him, Chahal stated, “Covid-19 vaccination centres are getting overcrowded, and it becomes difficult to maintain social distancing and Covid appropriate behaviour at the vaccination centres. Therefore, it is hereby directed that all citizens who wish to get vaccinated against COVID-19 shall in advance register themselves on the Cowin portal and also book the appointment slot at the vaccination centre of their choice on the same portal before proceeding to the vaccination centre.”The civic body however has given exceptions for appointment on three grounds. “All citizens above 45 years of age who are due for the second dose of Covaxin only are subject to production of the provisional certificate of 1st dose in either soft or hard copy followed by health care workers and front-line workers due for 2nd dose and 1st dose.”Further, in context of coming up with drive-in vaccination centres across the city, BMC, in a circular, stated citizens above the age of 60 years will be vaccinated at drive-in vaccination centres. Only Covishield vaccine will be administered at these drive-in vaccination centres. “The beneficiary citizen to be vaccinated shall not self-drive and he/she shall be accompanied by an attendant or a driver in each vehicle to deal with AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunization), if any,” read the circular signed by Chahal.It adds, “The arrangements such as proper single lane barricades for manoeuvring of vehicles, inlet/outlet control etc. shall be done inside the ground/ stadium so that there will not be any traffic jam on the adjoining roads.”The BMC officials are also ordered to make adequate and proper temporary shelter for vaccination area to accommodate vaccination staff, the order also directs to make necessary arrangements for patients of AEFI, ambulance parking, mobile toilets and drinking water facilities. The concept of drive-in vaccination centres is being adopted after good response to the BMC’s first such centre.On Tuesday, BMC set up the first drive-in vaccination centre, where people can visit in their cars to get jabs, at a public parking lot of Kohinoor Square building at Dadar. Hundreds of beneficiaries queued in their cars at the centre to get vaccines in the past three days, according to BMC officials.Meanwhile, on Thursday, vaccination was conducted between 9am and 5 pm across all age groups. However, the BKC jumbo vaccination centre turned down several citizens in the age group of 45+. The BKC centre said it is only vaccinating the first dose for those within the 18-44 age group with prior appointment. Dr Rajesh Dere, dean of BKC vaccination centre, said, “The vaccination for 45+ is shut as there is inadequate supply. Yesterday we got 8,000 doses and it is not sufficient for our requirement.” Further, long queues were also observed across several vaccination centres in the city including Dahisar Jumbo Centre, NESCO jumbo centre, Rajawadi Hospital, KEM Hospital in the city.On Thursday, the BMC added three new centres for the vaccination drive of the 18-44 age group. Starting Friday, first dose of Covaxin will be given to 18-44 age group at these three centres — Maa Saheb Meenatai Maternity Home in Chunnabhatti, PWD Community Hall in Bandra east and The World Tower Parking in Lower Parel. Apart from these three centres, age group of 18-44 will also be vaccinated with Covishield vaccine at five vaccination centres — Cooper Hospital, BKC Jumbo Centre, Rajawadi Hospital, Seven Hills and Nair Hospital.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, said, “We have got around 31,000 Covaxin doses from which we will vaccinate 18-44 age group at new three centres from Friday, followed by second dose for 45+ age group. Overall, we have 100,000 vaccine doses, which will be enough for the next two days at least. Additionally, we are getting around 75,000 doses on Thursday night.”On Thursday, 60,153 citizens were vaccinated — 2,835 were between 18-44 age group, 21,561 were between 45 and 59 years of age , 28,619 were above 60 years of age, followed by 5,085 frontline workers and 2,052 health care workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/walkin-vaccinations-suspended-in-mumbai-101620326573530.html
