08-05-2021||Mumbai||Aaditya Thackeray reviews Kham river rejuvenation project in Aurangabad||Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray reviewed the Kham river rejuvenation project in Aurangabad and said the detailed project report should include the history and changing structure of the river, an official said on Saturday.The minister for environment and tourism reviewed the project undertaken by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) through video-conferencing with civic chief Astik Kumar Pandey on Friday.The AMC commissioner explained about cleaning, greening and beautification of the riverside, which is being carried out with public participation, while the chief of the civic solid waste management cell spoke about the cleaning of nullahs joining the river, the official said.Thackeray outlined the points that should be included in the DPR based on his experience of working on the restoration of Mithi and Panchganga rivers, he said.The minister said the DPR should cover the history of the river, its relationship with different sections of the community and its changing structure, the official said.He also proposed a common platform for people working on river restoration projects across the state, he added.The Kham river, which originates in the Jatwada hills near the city, flows through parts of the Aurangabad city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aaditya-thackeray-reviews-kham-river-rejuvenation-project-in-aurangabad-101620478709145.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Despite curbs daily average of cases over 50,000 in Maharashtra: Rajesh Tope||Over three weeks have passed since the Maharashtra government imposed strict restrictions to check the spread of coronavirus but the daily average of cases is still over 50,000 which is a matter of concern, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday.Citing the Union government, Tope said Covid-19 cases have dipped in 12 out of the total 36 districts in Maharashtra, but in some other districts, the cases are on a higher side.The lockdown-like curbs announced by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray came into effect on April 14 that included the ban on inter-city as well as inter-district travel and the closure of non-essential services in the state.These measures, including the weekend restrictions on the movement of people, were later extended till May 15.The state government had allowed groceries, vegetable shops and dairies to remain open only for four hours, between 7 am and 11 am from Monday to Friday and banned home delivery after 8 pm till May 1."The government had introduced lockdown-like measures but the average number of daily cases is still hovering between 50,000 and 60,000. The positivity rate, which is the key factor in deciding the (extent of) outbreak of the pandemic, is still on a higher side," Tope told reporters.The health minister said the government will review the situation and decide on whether to extend these lockdown-like measures or not."The state government is stressing on tracking, tracing and treating Covid-19 patients to curb the outbreak," he added.As of May 7, Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally stood at 49,96,758 while the overall death toll is 74,413. The state had tested 2,89,30,580 samples so far, the health department had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/despite-curbs-daily-average-of-cases-over-50-000-in-maharashtra-rajesh-tope-101620466290327.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||PM Modi speaks to Maharashtra CM Thackeray over Covid-19 situation in state||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray about the coronavirus disease situation (Covid-19) in the state. According to a statement by the chief minister's office (CMO), PM Modi lauded Maharashtra's efforts in combating the second wave of the pandemic. Thackeray, meanwhile, informed the Prime Minister about the steps taken by the Maharashtra government in view of the potential third wave of the pandemic. "He (Thackeray) also requested for more supply of oxygen to Maharashtra," the CMO statement said. "The Prime Minister and the Centre have been guiding us in this battle since the beginning and it has been proven beneficial. We are thankful to the Centre for accepting some of our suggestions and demands," the statement added. Earlier on Saturday, Thackeray wrote a letter to the Centre seeking permission to develop a separate application for the vaccination against the coronavirus disease in the state after he received several complaints of frequent glitches in the CoWin platform, according to news agency ANI.Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit state from the pandemic across India, has so far added 4,996,758 cases, 74,413 deaths and 4,265,326 recoveries, according to the state health department’s bulletin. On Friday, the state saw a dip in its daily Covid-19 disease tally after 54,022 cases were reported.Maharashtra is currently placed under lockdown-like restrictions till May 15. These restrictions were first imposed from April 14 to May 1 banning movement of people, closure of movie halls, auditoriums etc. On April 22, a fresh series of restrictions were introduced by the state government on inter-city and inter-district travel, office attendance, and weddings.It is being observed that adherence to these restrictions has led to an improvement in the overall coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state. According to the Union health ministry, Maharashtra along with Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Uttarakhand etc is showing early signs of plateauing or decrease in daily cases.On Saturday, PM Modi also spoke to Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the state. While on Thursday, Modi had spoken to the CMs of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-over-covid-19-situation-in-state-101620458871158.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||From cradling a baby to monitoring Covid: This Mumbai doctor does it all||The mask digs deep furrows into his face, the shield fogs up his glasses and the PPE suit weighs him down in the humidity. The hours run into one another, uncomfortable and difficult at various levels, but it’s all in a day’s work for Dr Amol Pawar. As the second wave of the pandemic ravages large parts of India, it’s about sweat and tears - quite literally - for millions of healthcare workers at the frontline of the war against Covid-19. They have walked the tightrope between looking after patients and trying to dodge infection for more than a year. And it isn’t ending anytime soon. Pawar, obstetrician and gynaecologist at the Nowrosjee Wadia Maternity Hospital in Mumbai’s Parel locality, is but one face of India’s gravest health crisis yet. Sometimes gently cradling a newborn baby and comforting a patient and other times conferring with colleagues on a particularly difficult case or counselling relatives, the 44-year-old is a familiar figure for regulars at the 450-bed hospital. There are 35 beds in the Covid ward and 15 in the isolation ward. Hundreds of Covid patients have passed through the maternity hospital, which had to include a Covid ward last year in May when cases began rising. “The first case came in mid-April but we transferred the case to the Nair hospital nearby as there were no facilities in our hospital. On May 10, we started a Covid-19 ward. Since then, we’ve seen around 513 cases in this hospital,” Pawar told PTI. Working at least eight hours a day, six days a week and on call 24X7, he wears his discomfort and his responsibilities lightly.  “The eight hours are really packed at the hospital… new admissions, discharges, rounds and monitoring medicines for patients, and now even the vaccination drive. We have to do all this while ensuring we don’t contract the virus,” he said. In September last year, he did. He was admitted to the Seven Hills hospital in Andheri and was there for three weeks. He was on oxygen support for four days and after that got back to work through calls and guidance to his assistant.Pawar, like many of his colleagues, has now been vaccinated. But doctors don’t have the luxury of work-from-home and have to come to work every day. With reports of mutant strains, the tension of the infection is ever present, even for those like Pawar who have had the infection and been inoculated. The day begins with rounds, checking up on patients, visiting the vaccination centre and recording the doses used and stocks left. Sometimes, he lectures students over Zoom as well.In what would a year ago be a scene from some imagined reality or a futuristic sci-fi film and is now par for the course, he and his colleagues don PPE suits, masks and shields for much of the workday. Pawar, like the others, wears the PPE kit over his scrubs for more than three-four hours at a time. “We can’t eat, drink or use the restroom as long as we are wearing it. Add to that the irritation caused by sweat and glasses fogging up,” he said.Watching the coronavirus infection extract its toll on the country, the city and his own patients has been emotionally and physically exhausting and challenging. But also rewarding when patients get well and return home.  “Even if we still have a long way to go in the battle against Covid-19, the gratitude on the faces of those leaving the hospital keeps us going,” said Pawar. “It’s depressing for us doctors to still see that some people are still not following safety precautions. We don’t want to see a rise in the number of patients anymore,” he said. Before the second wave, Wadia Hospital saw only about four to five Covid-19 cases a day. But the numbers spiked this March. “Suddenly in March, there were as many as 52 cases. In April, we had 78 cases. Therefore, we were forced to cancel the study leaves of our resident medical officers (RMOs), some whom have to study in the restroom because their exams are in June,” he said. In addition to his regular duties, Pawar is also the nodal officer of the Covid Vaccination Centre at Wadia. He is involved with procuring, implementing and monitoring of the vaccination programme for Covid-19.Sometimes, in between his various responsibilities of dealing with deliveries, obstetric complications, Covid complexities and updating his case sheets, Pawar takes a short break. And then, when the work day ends he heads home to Thane, 26 km away. There have been days he has to drive back to the hospital in case of an emergency. Otherwise, it’s an evening spent at home before duty beckons again the next morning. Though Mumbai’s cases have dipped in the last few days, Covid cases continue their relentless rise. On Saturday, India recorded 4,187 fatalities and 4.01 lakh cases.Clearly, for Pawar and other healthcare workers across the country, there is no getting off the Covid treadmill yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/from-cradling-a-baby-to-monitoring-covid-this-mumbai-doctor-does-it-all-101620458978655.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Minor fire breaks out on INS Vikramaditya, no major damage||A minor fire broke out on-board aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya on Saturday. The crew on duty noticed smoke emanating from a part of the ship meant for sailors and acted promptly to douse it.No major damage was done, said commander Mehul Karnik, the chief public relations officer of the Indian Navy. The ship is at Karwar Harbour in Karnataka.All personnel on-board have been accounted for and an inquiry into the incident is being ordered, Karnik added.This is the second incident of fire on INS Vikramaditya. Earlier, in April 2019, a naval officer of the rank of Lt Commander died during a firefighting operation on the aircraft carrier when it was entering the Karwar Harbour.The aircraft carrier completed sea trials in July 2013 and aviation trials in September 2013. On June 14, 2014, INS Vikramaditya was inducted into the Indian Navy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/minor-fire-breaks-out-on-ins-vikramaditya-no-major-damage-101620449046076.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Bhandup mall fire: Hospital group’s executive, fire agency staffer held||Bhandup police have arrested two persons in connection with the HDIL Dreams Mall fire that had resulted in the death of 11 patients admitted in Sunrise Hospital, located on the mall’s third floor.A massive fire broke out on the first floor of the Bhandup mall late on March 25, which spread to the third floor, housing the Covid-19 hospital.Police officers said that during the course of investigation, they found that George Puthhu Seri, the chief executive officer of the Privilege Healthcare (which owns Sunrise Hospital), had in connivance with Haresh Dayalal Joshi of fire safety inspection firm Pona Corporation, had obtained a fire NOC (no-objection certificate) for the mall by certifying that its fire safety system was functional, despite the fact that it was not.Assistant commissioner of police Priya Dhakane of Bhandup division said that Seri and Joshi were arrested on Thursday. A metropolitan magistrate at Mulund remanded them in police custody till May 10.“During investigation, we learnt that the water pumps and smoke detectors were not functional at the mall. Pona Corporation is a BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation)-authorised licenced agency, which claimed to have tested the fire-fighting system in the mall and submitted bogus fitness certificate. Based on it, the fire department issued an NOC to the mall, said Dhakane.Bhandup police have also booked several people, including HDIL directors Rakeshkumar Wadhawan and his son Sarang, Nikita Amitsingh Trehan and Deepak Shirke, as well as Amitsingh Trehan and Sweetie Jain who are the directors of Privilege Health Care Services Private Limited, for culpable homicide not amounting to murder.Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust), 465 (forgery) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of the Indian Penal Code have been added to the crime on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhandup-mall-fire-hospital-group-s-executive-fire-agency-staffer-held-101620415921966.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccines for 18+: Maharashtra to give priority to 35-44 age group||Amid limited stock for the third phase for the 18-44 age group and to control crowding at vaccination centres, the Maharashtra government plans to first give the shot to those in the 35-44 age group, with preference to people with comorbidities. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to take a decision on it, said state health minister Rajesh Tope, adding the inoculation of those in the 18-34 age group would start once adequate doses are available.Currently, the state is inoculating citizens in the 18-44 age group only at five centres in a district, as the number of doses is limited. The state started the drive with 300,000 Covishield doses and later purchased 479,000 Covaxin doses. So far, 215,284 citizens in the 18-44 category have been inoculated since May 1. The move is prompted amid instances of people from urban areas taking an appointment at vaccination centres in rural areas. Tope said such incidents have caused “unrest” among locals in rural areas. “Till we have abundant supply of vaccines, we will have to make slots as per the age group and comorbidities. If 100% people from the 18-44 category are allowed to go, there can be crowding. We plan to have an age bracket of 35 to 44, with preference to people with comorbidities. I will discuss this with the chief minister,” said Tope. The state is also in talks with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund that helped financed vaccine Sputnik V, to purchase doses. “We are trying to get the stock available with them,” Tope told reporters on Friday. He said the state has not got the doses assured by Serum Institute of India for inoculation of the 18-44 category. “The institute had assured us that it would supply additional 350,000 doses, but so far it has not come. For the 18-44 age group, we are going slow as per the availability of 779,000 vaccines. As we get more stock, we will ramp it up.” With the vaccination of over 700,000 people in the 45+ age group on Wednesday and Thursday, the state is left with a limited number of doses. With under 100,000 doses remaining, the vaccination drive for people over the age of 45 is expected to slow down this weekend, unless doses arrive from the Centre, Tope said. Maharashtra had received 900,000 doses earlier this week from the Centre. Tope said they are “constantly” following up with the Centre to provide doses of Covishield and Covaxin. Over 400,000 people in the state are due for their second dose of Covaxin. With the Centre not sending Covaxin doses, the state will take a decision on diverting the doses it has purchased for the second dose of people over age 45. The Centre provides vaccines to the states for free. The state has been buying vaccines for those in the 18-44 age group. “Two days ago, we had received 900,000 doses for vaccination of people over 45 years. Of the stock, 800,000 doses have been consumed. We have some thousand vaccines left. We appeal to the Centre to provide vaccines in large quantities, especially Covaxin. Around 400,000 to 500,000 people are due for their second dose of Covaxin. It has to be given within 42 days. If they do not provide in time, the state will divert the Covaxin doses it has purchased. But we are confident that the Centre will provide adequate doses,” Tope said. The minister reiterated the state is prepared to purchase 120 million doses at one go for the inoculation of 57.1 million population in the 18-44 category as vaccination remains “top priority” of the government. He added the state can ramp up daily vaccinations to 1 million, but the stock is not available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccines-for-18-maharashtra-to-give-priority-to-35-44-age-group-101620415681975.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Local gangster disguises as woman in Navi Mumbai, held||The Mankhurd police on Thursday arrested a 34-year-old local gangster while he disguised as a woman in Navi Mumbai. Police nabbed him after a chase of over three kilometres.The accused identified as Manikandan alias Shambhu Kuttan, was residing at Juhu Gaon in Navi Mumbai and was wanted in more than 23 cases in Mumbai.According to police, Manikandan had been absconding after a theft case was registered against him on April 8. Sub-inspector Sandeep Rahane said that he changed his mobile number every 15 days, which made it difficult to track him. On Wednesday, however, Rahane received a tip-off about Manikandan residing in Vashi.“We immediately informed the Vashi police and laid a trap near his residence at Juhu Gaon,” said Rahane. However, just before a police team reached the spot, Manikandan was alerted by his informers about the police search.“Manikandan then dressed as a woman jumped off the roof of his building and began fleeing. We already knew about his disguises, so we kept a watch and chased him,” added Rahane. After a chase of over three kilometres, the police were able to intercept Manikandan and arrest him.Sub-inspector Dattaray Malvekar, who was also a part of the team said, “After committing the crime Manikandan would return to the scene or nearby area dressed as a woman or a sadhu or any of the disguises to meet his informer or keep a watch on the police,” said Malvekar.After the arrest of Manikandan, the police are now trying to find out how many more crimes has he committed and his other disguises.Prakash Chougule, senior police inspector of Mankhurd police station said that there are several crimes registered against Manikandan. He has been booked for threatening, assault, kidnapping and attempt to murder in police stations across the city. Manikandan has been externed from the city twice since 2007.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/local-gangster-disguised-as-woman-in-navi-mumbai-held-101620415381863.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body looks to boost ‘Brand BMC’||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is looking at ways to strengthen its image and build its reputation by enhancing its social media presence across digital platforms, namely Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, Telegram, YouTube and blogs. It is now looking for a dedicated agency to maintain these platforms for at least nine departments of the civic body – public health department, education department, disaster management and fire brigade departments, roads and traffic departments, sewage, solid waste management and water departments, social media accounts of all 24 wards, various municipal hospitals, and the main umbrella account of the civic body. The agency will be hired on a contractual basis for content management, creation and improving creative design. As part of this, the BMC wants to create interactive strategies such as quizzes, crossword puzzles, contests and online surveys, across these social media platforms, live streamlining and tweeting of events, live broadcasts and webcasts. Social media platforms will also be used to give out information on the civic body’s policy decisions, services, initiatives, and events. Currently, an agency has been informally appointed by the civic body to manage its various social media accounts, which was met with mixed reactions from BMC corporators, when it started two years ago. While some criticised it as a waste of BMC’s financial resources, others pointed it was much needed to effectively communicate with citizens, especially a younger audience. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of BMC’s disaster management, fire brigade and public health departments, among others, said, “We want to formalise a contract with any agency appointed with the due tendering process, that will manage BMC’s social media presence. Social media is an effective tool in communicating with citizens, and especially during a pandemic. Our expectations from the agency have been listed out in detail in the tender document. We have a comprehensive vision of social media communication.” A tender floated by the civic body to appoint an agency said, “It will strengthen the image of the BMC as an empathetic local body and of Mumbai as a premier smart city. The aim is to bridge the gap between public perception and brand reputation of BMC.” As part of the contract, that will be valid for one year, the BMC is looking for audio and video editors, creative content writers, public relations officers, translators, photographers, videographers. Recently, the BMC undertook various initiatives to engage with Mumbaiites. In January, the BMC headquarters opened its doors to tourism, and organised guided history tours of the BMC building on the weekends. For two years now, barricades placed along civic work happening on roads and footpaths across the city sport fun facts about BMC’s history, or Mumbai City. A senior civic officer said, “It is time we looked at customer experience. This type of social media exercise will also give credibility to the information about the civic body that is floating in the public domain. It will help us counter fake information effectively, create awareness, educate Mumbaiites about the work done by the civic body. Citizens can feel closer to the civic body because they can directly reach us, convey queries or grievances from their phones.” Ravi Raja, leader of the opposition in BMC, said, “The BMC has tried using social media before and failed. Each administrative head comes up with his own idea. In times of a pandemic, we need to think before we utilise money for such an initiative.” Nayana Kathpalia, a resident of South Mumbai, who has been engaging with the BMC for two decades through various community and citizens initiatives, said, “This is a good idea. The BMC does a lot of work, but there is not enough awareness or information about it. Some years ago, the BMC was constructing an underground water tunnel between Malabar Hill and Churchgate area. The work was done so seamlessly, quietly, without interfering with routine public life. No one even realised that a huge tunnel was being constructed under main roads, railway lines and residential buildings in South Mumbai. We are always bashing the BMC, so it’s time we also saw how much work gets done on the ground.” Kathpalia added, “However, the civic body should examine if it’s premature to spend so much money on non-Covid information at present.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-looks-to-boost-brand-bmc-101620415022599.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Resident doctors in Mumbai demand arrears in stipends, start social media campaign||Resident doctors of civic-run hospitals in the city, who have not received an additional stipend for almost nine months, have threatened to not take part in Covid-19 services if their arrears are not cleared soon.On Friday, #BMCbetrayedus and #BetrayedStillWorking trended on Twitter as resident doctors took to social media to register their protest against the non-payment of stipend and arrears. In a statement released Wednesday, the Mumbai chapter of the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) said that doctors will shut down Covid services in the next seven days if the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) does not release the stipend.“We do not want to stop our services to Covid-19 patients. We are hoping and trying that it doesn’t come to that. We are putting up posters at the hospitals and making our voices heard as we continue our work,” said Arun Ghule, president, MARD, Mumbai.From May 2020 till January this year, over 3,000 resident doctors of the four BMC-run hospitals—KEM, Sion, Nair and Cooper—were paid ₹10,000 a month. It was then discontinued as Covid-19 cases started to go down. In September, the government announced a hike of ₹10,000 in the stipend for resident doctors, however, the civic body released a circular regarding the stipend only in March.When doctors demanded the arrears for the stipend hike, they said the BMC informed them that the arrears were adjusted against the ₹10,000 paid to them last year during the first Covid-19 wave. “This is unfair, especially since doctors have been working non-stop, risking their lives during the pandemic,” said Ghule. MARD claimed that the arrears for each doctor amount to ₹1.2 lakh. Despite repeated attempts, TP Lahane, medical education director, said the matter was in the jurisdiction of BMC. However, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, health, did not respond to calls or messages, despite repeated attempts. The Maharashtra State Association of resident Doctors has also extended its support to the doctors in Mumbai. “This tragedy is greater than the pandemic itself for the resident doctors. The government has finally found scapegoats to hide their failures in the resident doctors,” said the association in a statement on Friday. Meanwhile, doctors have stormed social media with their pleas for arrears.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/resident-doctors-in-mumbai-demand-arrears-in-stipends-start-social-media-campaign-101620414961962.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay student magazine demands no-fail policy||The demand for a no-fail policy is gaining ground among students at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), with the institute’s student magazine — Insight — making a case for it. In an editorial published Wednesday, Insight made an “absolute demand” for a no-fail policy in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and virtual classes. “It could make sense to fail students who have performed below a certain (usually very low) threshold set by the professor, if: all students are equally able to attend classes, all students are able to focus on their academics, all students are able to give their best in their examinations. If any of the conditions above do not hold, failing students does not make any sense. It has serious negative consequences for a student,” read the editorial. Members of Insight declined to comment. Institute director Subhasis Chaudhuri said, “I was not aware of such a demand. Our end-semester exams are all over now. Only project evaluations are possibly still remaining. We have given (students) the option for S grade for the projects. That carries a lot of weight.” He did not comment on if the institute was planning to introduce a no-fail policy. However, students interviewed by HT said virtual learning was not enough and the pressure of the pandemic keeps students from performing their best at exams. “There is a genuine frustration among students about the evaluation policies of the institute. Our learning environments are different from what it used to be on campus,” said a BTech student on the condition of anonymity. “Learning virtually is a pain, because you miss out significantly on peer learning. The online class environment is not great, difficult for dialogue during most lectures, so it’s a fairly disconnected learning,” said a final-year BTech student. He added, “During exams, it’s very difficult to maintain a conducive environment at home, especially with the strict proctoring. Some professors insist on rigorous continuous evaluation, magnifying academic stress.” The stress of family members, close friends and acquaintances suffering from Covid-19 also affect students’ ability to perform in exams, they said. “Most professors have conducted continuous and rigorous evaluation throughout the semester which has actually been far more demanding than a regular semester. Students have, at different points of the semester, been forced to make a direct choice between their academic performance and their mental and physical wellbeing. This is inhumane enough, but to fail them on top of all this is downright apathy,” read the op-ed by Insight. As the pandemic broke out in March last year, the institute allowed students to drop a course and also opt for an S grade. The S grade is a place-holder and depicts notionally a pass in a course and the test can be taken again to improve the grade. In its op-ed, Insight also made a case for S grade to be applied to the upcoming semester. The institute’s senate is yet to decide whether the option will be available to students in the upcoming semester.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-student-magazine-demands-no-fail-policy-101620414842998.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Doctors flag indiscriminate use of steroids, antibiotics in Covid-19 treatment||A 43-year-old man from Andheri was prescribed a cocktail of antibiotics, antiviral, and steroids on his first consultation with a local physician when he developed symptoms and was suspected of Covid-19. At first, he got better but within days he developed a persistent high-grade fever and his oxygen saturation levels dropped, following which he had to be hospitalized last month. In another instance, a 13-year-old girl with Covid-19 was prescribed a heavy dosage of steroids by her family physician on the fifth day of her illness, even as her symptoms had diminished. Her physician made the prescription based on a chest CT scan that showed a slight abnormality in her lungs. On the 10th day, she developed a full-blown fever and was rushed to a hospital where the doctors had to take her off steroids and work with other medicines. These are not one-off cases. City’s top medical experts have flagged a trend of patients being prescribed steroids in the first few days of symptoms. Even antibiotics that have no role in treating Covid-19 -- a viral infection-- and antiviral drugs that have little evidence backing them are being indiscriminately used, they said. “The Recovery Trial carried out in the UK has established that a 6mg dose of dexamethasone once daily has shown reduced mortality,” said Dr Sujeet K Rajan, city-based respiratory medicine specialist. “But what you see in practice is disturbing. Patients are given two to three times more steroids than what they should be given,” he said. The Recovery Trial conducted in the United Kingdom – preliminary results came out in June 2020 --found that a 6mg dose of dexamethasone, an inexpensive steroid drug, once daily for up to 10 days decreased mortality in patients on respiratory support. The trial also showed that patients not requiring oxygen did not benefit from the drug. Steroids like dexamethasone are widely used to fight against inflammation, one of the effects of the coronavirus disease. However, most doctors label steroids as “double edged swords” in Covid-19 treatment if they are not used judiciously. In fact, the unwarranted use of steroids began soon after the trial results became public. Given that the number of Covid-19 cases is higher in absolute numbers, the problem is more pronounced in the second wave. “This has the potential to be nothing short of a disaster,” said Rajan, who practices at Bombay Hospital. Indiscriminate use “Starting patients on steroids early is harmful for them,” said infectious disease expert Dr Tanu Singhal from Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital where the 43-year-old man and the teenager mentioned above are undergoing treatment. “Steroids lower the body’s immunity and can also cause viral replication. Their unindicated and early use worsen the outcome of patients. The right time to use steroids is when the oxygen saturation is low,” she said. The treatment protocol released by the Maharashtra Covid-19 task force in April 2021 allows the use of steroid- injection dexamethasone in moderate patients with pneumonia and oxygen saturation below 94%. Put simply, viral replication is a process of multiplication of the virus in the body. As steroids mask symptoms and reduce the body’s immunity, patients are at the risk of developing a severe infection. Dr Randeep Guleria, a member of the national Covid-19 task force and director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi has also recently cautioned against an early use of steroids and said that it leads to “faster viral replication and severe viral pneumonia.” According to Rajan, unwarranted high doses of steroids, often coupled with unnecessary high-generation antibiotics, present the perfect soil for invasive and life-threatening fungal infections, which can be independently a major risk factor for mortality. Cases of mucormycosis, a stubborn fungal infection are now widely being reported from the city. Also referred to as black fungus, it commonly affects sinuses or the lungs. While the disease is tackled with medication at a very early stage, cutting away the infected tissue is the only option when it spreads. Doctors in the city have had to operate out tissues of the eyes, nose and jaw in many patients. “We currently have 21 patients with mucormycosis and 15 of them are in an inoperable stage,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of civic-run KEM Hospital. “The number of patients coming with these infections has doubled,” he said. Doctors said that post-Covid-19 we are staring at a wave of threatening antimicrobial resistance. “Antibiotics like doxycycline, azithromycin, and others are crucial in treating illnesses and infections like typhoid, scrub typhus, pneumonia, etc,” said Singhal. “With their unnecessary use, we are leading to a serious drug resistance,” she said. Singhal has also stopped using ivermectin and another antiviral called favipiravir as they don’t play any role in treating Covid-19 contrary to popular belief. Many doctors in the city have questioned the inclusion of antibiotic doxycycline for off-label use and antiviral drug ivermectin in the Covid-19 treatment protocol framed by the state task force. “The task force has simply encouraged the grassroots level physicians to use antibiotics and antivirals without any great evidence backing these drugs,” said a senior doctor who did not wish to be named. Anti-microbial resistance Antibiotics, antivirals, antifungals and antiparasitic drugs are known as antimicrobial drugs. Misuse and overuse of antimicrobial drugs is one of the main factors for antimicrobial resistance. The World Health Organization has declared antimicrobial resistance as one of the top 10 global public health threats facing humanity. “For mild patients, we immediately start doxycycline, ivermectin, and paracetamol,” said Dr. Akhtar Shaikh, general secretary of the Dharavi AYUSH Doctors Association- a body of nearly 180 alternative medicine practitioners in Dharavi, who are also now treating Covid-19 patients with allopathic drugs. “Additionally, we also prescribe some AYUSH remedies for symptom relief,” Shaikh said that antibiotics are crucial because patients may have an underlying bacterial infection developed along with Covid-19 when the body’s immunity is low. “We avoid steroids before seven days of symptoms unless it is extremely necessary,” he added. Due to a shortage of healthcare staff, mainly allopathy doctors, the state government has also deployed a large number of AYUSH practitioners on Covid-19 duty. On the grassroots, however, many other alternative medicine practitioners prescribe allopathic medications, even when they are not allowed to do so. “Except Ayurveda and Unani practitioners, no other alternative medicine practitioners are allowed to prescribe allopathic medicines in Maharashtra,” said Dr Jayesh Lele, general secretary of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). “But the government rule that allows these practitioners to prescribe allopathic medicines has been challenged in court by the IMA. This is a huge problem and often leads to unwarranted use of drugs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-doctors-flag-indiscriminate-use-of-steroids-antibiotics-in-covid-19-treatment-101620414781884.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Stand-up comedians bring smile on tired faces of doctors||Laughter is the best medicine, and who knows this better than stand-up comedians. Several well-known comedians have joined hands with civic-run medical colleges in bringing a smile on the faces of the overwhelmed doctors amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “I have never seen so many deaths...sometimes, we have to decide depending on the vitals of the patients whom to prioritise. We feel helpless...,” said a 28-year-old resident doctor from the orthopaedic department of Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, also known as Sion hospital.He is one of the 700 resident doctors from the hospital who have been working tirelessly since the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020. He had also contracted the Covid-19 infection in January. So far, 262 resident doctors from the hospital alone have been infected with Covid-19 while taking care of the Covid-19 patients. In addition, 650 resident doctors from the other three civic-run medical colleges — King Edward Memorial (KEM), RN Cooper and BYL Nair hospitals — have been diagnosed with Covid-19 since last year. The ongoing pandemic, especially the second wave, has taken a toll on the mental health of resident doctors who are the main pillars of the healthcare system. “It is not only exhausting us physically but also mentally. Most of us have burnt out and have anxiety. The second wave is more stressful due to shortages of beds, medicines and oxygen because we have to deal with patients in need every day,” said a 29-year-old post-graduation student from the medicine department, KEM Hospital. “When we lose someone to the virus, we don’t even get the time to grief,” he added.City psychiatrists cautioned about a possible rise in mental ailments due to the increased work demand, social isolation, decreased self-care and increased exposure to emotionally traumatic events at work and home.Last week, a resident doctor at a private hospital in Delhi died by suicide due to severe stress amid the deadly second wave of the pandemic. Another 22-year-old medical student from Vadodara died by hanging himself from a fan on May 6 due to the stress related to Covid-19 duty. “Hours long duty in Covid wards in personal protective equipment (PPE) amid the ongoing crisis can break anyone. These young doctors have been working since 14 months, which will leave a mark on their mental health,” said Dr Harish Shetty, a psychiatrist who has been working closely with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for counselling of the caregivers. Laugh it out say hospitalsResident doctors claim that almost 70% of them are suffering from Covid stress. To address the issues, medical colleges are inviting stand-up comedians to improve their mental health with humour. “These brave fighters have been through a lot. They are exhausted and tired. So, other than counselling, we are trying to uplift their mood through humour. And comedy is the best way to keep them entertained,” said Dr Henal Shah, head of the psychiatry department, Nair Hospital.Last week, actor and stand-up comedian Ali Asgar performed for the doctors at Sion hospital. He held a 45-minute programme for the doctors in the hospital premises, while maintaining social distance and Covid-19 precautionary measures. “The health system is completely dependent on the shoulders of these young doctors. When I heard them laugh, I felt that, in some way, I have also contributed to the society during this pandemic,” Asgar said. “After the programme, so many students came and told me that they laughed so loudly after days. I have performed in different shows but never felt so happy,” he added.Last week, stand-up comedian Sahil Shah, who is also the founder of East India Comedy, performed a virtual pro bono show for doctors of the medical colleges. Talking to HT, he said, “Both my parents are doctors, so I know the stress that they are going through. So, as soon as I got the invitation, I immediately accepted it, because that was my way of thanking them for their service. There were jokes about Covid-19 and viruses, which helped make the doctors laugh.” Mumbai Dharkan, a group of NGOs, has tied up with medical colleges for the well-being of doctors. Other than providing nutritional food, they are also arranging different programmes for the mental health of the doctors. Under their initiative, well-known stand-up comedian Atul Khatri will perform for the doctors at Nair hospital on May 9. Talking to HT, Khatri said this is the least he can for the young bravehearts who are fighting against an invisible enemy. “Laughter releases happy hormones, so even though I won’t be able take away their worries permanently, if I can make them forget their worries even for 30 minutes, my mission will be successful,” he said. When asked about the topic of his stand-up, he said, “The current situation is extremely sensitive as everyone has lost their dear ones. We are all overwhelmed, so I don’t know if they would like to hear about Covid-19. So, I am yet to finalise it.”Other than professional stand-up comedians, medical colleges are also inviting senior doctors to give a moral boost to the juniors through comedy. Dr Tushar Shah, an alumni of Nair hospital, also performed stand-up for the doctors. Along with this, medical colleges are also trying to keep the doctors motivated through yoga, games and dancing. Dr Anjali Chhabria, psychiatrist, Founder of Golden Citizens Trust and Mumbai Dharkan, said, “Soon, we will start dance therapy for doctors in medical colleges. All the doctors who are interested can participate in the virtual sessions.” Dr Ajita S Nayak, head of the psychiatry department at KEM hospital, said they have started yoga sessions for the doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-stand-up-comedians-bring-smile-on-tired-faces-of-doctors-101620414721682.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Maratha quota: Ready to call special session, says Ajit Pawar; cabinet sub-committee to meet on May 8||Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the state government is ready to send a delegation, along with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Supreme Court’s order scrapping Maratha reservation. He said they may also hold a one-day special session of the state Legislature if required.Meanwhile, the cabinet sub-committee formed to take decisions related to the reservation issue is likely to meet on Saturday where a decision over the next course of action may be taken.“We are committed to provide justice to the Maratha community and for that, injustice will not be done to any other community. If required we will hold a special session of the state Legislature or pass a proposal in the monsoon session. We are also ready to send a delegation headed by the chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) to PM Modi along with leaders from the opposition party (BJP),” Pawar said in Pune on Friday.The Supreme Court on Wednesday quashed the reservation to the Maratha community saying people from the community cannot be declared educationally and socially backward just to bring them in the reserved category. The five-judge bench also refused to refer the 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment, setting a 50% cap on reservation, to a larger bench for reconsideration. Marathas were given 12% and 13% quota in education and government jobs, respectively, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018.“We had given two days to legal teams and counsel to study and examine the 569-page order of the Supreme Court. Tomorrow, we will have point-wise discussions on the verdict, based on which a decision on the next step is likely to be taken,” said an official privy to the development.According to legal experts and counsels, the state may go for enacting a new law by addressing the flaws pointed out by the SC, but this will take place only if the Centre takes the legal recourse to empower the state to do so.The state government has already declared approaching the National Commission of Backward Classes (NCBC) following the Apex court’s order that says states do not have powers to create a class to provide reservation to any community based on their backwardness in the social and educational sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-quota-ready-to-call-special-session-says-ajit-pawar-cabinet-sub-committee-to-meet-on-may-8-101620414662389.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Manora hostel project leads to war or words between BJP and Congress||The bid floated for the construction of Manora MLA hostel by Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has led to another war of words between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress. The BJP has questioned the escalation in construction cost, while the Congress has defended the decision by saying the cost went up due to the delay in construction by an agency appointed by previous Devendra Fadnavis-led government. BJP legislator Atul Bhatkhalkar raised question over cost escalation for reconstruction of the hostel at Nariman Point to ₹900 crore, from ₹600 crore during the BJP government. “How can the cost go up by 66% in just two years? Whose scam it is? Why was it floated in haste when the state government has no money to spend on Covid-19 management? I have asked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to scrap the contract, or else we will make a complaint to the central vigilance commission against it,” he said.Bhatkhalkar also said that the Congress does not have the right to raise questions over the Central Vista project as it comes under the public works department, which is led by Ashok Chavan of the Congress. Responding to the allegations, Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant said the previous Fadnavis government went for reconstruction of the MLA hostel instead of repairs. “The hostel could have been repaired (instead of reconstruction), but the repair work was embroiled in a scam during Fadnavis government’s tenure. The decision of reconstruction of the hostel was taken by the Fadnavis government in 2018 and National Builders Construction Company was engaged to demolish the old structure. Due to the delay in the reconstruction, there has already been a significant escalation of cost along with paying a compensation of ₹1 lakh per month to the legislators for accommodation in Mumbai,” he said.Sawant said there cannot be a comparison between Central Vista and Manora hostel redevelopment projects as the Centre’s project is being implemented despite the Prime Minister and members of Parliament having residents in fair conditions. “While the hostel meant for the MLAs in Maharashtra has been demolished. The allegations (by BJP) are desperate attempt to save face of Shahensah Modi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtramanora-hostel-project-leads-to-war-or-words-between-bjp-and-congress-101620414663133.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to set up paediatric taskforce||The Maharashtra government plans to set up a paediatric task force to guide the state to deal with Covid-19 infections among children and infants in the possible third Covid-19 wave expected later in the year. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the state will prepare to ramp up hospital beds and other infrastructure for children based on the recommendation of the task force. As projections suggest that children could be hit in the next wave of infections, the state aims to streamline the treatment protocol and set up health infrastructure to deal with such cases. Earlier this week, environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray suggested the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation set up a paediatric Covid care ward. A 300-400 bed facility is expected to come up at Nesco in Goregaon East. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting via video-conference with leading paediatricians from Mumbai and other parts of the state on Thursday. Thackeray, in a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office, said, “Medical experts have projected that the third wave could be dangerous for children. Therefore, we will set up a paediatric task force in the state.” Tope said that as the state is inoculating citizens above 18 years, those below it will fall under the vulnerable category when the third wave strikes between June and September. “Keeping the third wave in mind, we are planning some important decisions. We are setting up a paediatric task force immediately. We are not vaccinating those under 18, so we have to take more precautions for them... Children and infants need their mother with them. So, we need separate planning for them. The state will prepare a plan based on their (taskforce’s) recommendation,” the minister said. He added that separate ICUs, ventilators, medicines would be required for children. “Beds, paediatric SNCU (special newborn care units) beds, ventilators, medicines, etc are needed for children,” he said, adding the state is not just preparing for minors, but for all age groups for the third wave. The second wave of Covid-19 has impacted children between the age group of 0 to 10 and those in the 11 to 20 age group. As per the data of the State Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD), the state has seen a jump of 113% in Covid cases in the age group of 0 to 10 from between February 15 and May 6. The jump is even more in the 11 to 20 age group—146%. Since February 15, Maharashtra has added 79,408 cases in the 0 to 10 age group, while it added 201,223 cases in the 11 to 20 age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-set-up-paediatric-taskforce-101620414001656.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Despite restrictions, Mumbai witnesses traffic snarls||Despite restrictions by the state government amid the soaring Covid-19 cases and deaths in Mumbai, the vehicles on city roads are increasing, most often resulting in traffic jams at entry and exit points of the city as well as on some important arterial roads. A Twitter user named Mehlman Kaku tweeted that at 9am on Friday, there was traffic on Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road, while two days ago, the closure of Phoenix Mills flyover led to traffic jam on southbound roads. The traffic police, however, attributed the vehicular traffic to delivery vehicles and construction vehicles as well as infrastructure. According to traffic police officers in south Mumbai, the maximum snarls are caused by two-wheelers. “Delivery boys on two wheelers are observed in this region since the past one month. There are no tourists as the Marine Drive promenade, Gateway of India and other attractions are closed for public,” said police inspector Mubarak Shaikh, in-charge of Colaba traffic chowky. The police also said that as many hospitals are located in south Mumbai, people are traveling for vaccinations or to get admitted. Senior police officers said that the increase in traffic is also due to people traveling on their private four-wheelers as there are travel restrictions on local trains and BEST busses. “Many are traveling to reach vaccination centres and drive in vaccinations,” said a senior officer. The system of colour-coded sticker, introduced by the Mumbai Police to ensure the smooth movement of vehicles engaged in emergency and essential services during the ongoing restrictions was recently discontinued after the move to reintroduce the e-pass system for inter-state and inter-district movement was chalked out. Last year, 5,095,478 drivers had received challans for various traffic-related violations, despite total lockdown for six months. This was a steep surge from 4,938,485 violations in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/despite-restrictions-mumbai-witnesses-traffic-snarls-101620413941765.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Fall in number of sealed buildings in Mumbai, daily positivity rate falls to 8%||With the drop in Covid-19 cases, the number of sealed buildings and floors in the past one month has reduced too, reveals the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data. This is partly owing to the fall in the daily positivity rate in the city to 8% on Friday.The city recorded 3,040 cases and 71 deaths on Friday. The city’s case tally is now 671,125, while the toll is 13,651. The city’s recovery rate is 89.63% with 601,545 recoveries. The mortality rate in the city is 2.03% and there are 54,162 active cases in the city. The city’s former hotspot Dharavi reported 18 cases on Friday taking the total to 6,592 cases. There are 822 active cases in Dharavi.As per the BMC data, 789 were building and 9,785 floors were sealed on April 6, 2021, while on May 6, around 617 buildings and 8,658 floors are sealed. According to civic body officials, this is one indicator of the cases going down in the city. The high-rises in the city have been contributing over 85% of the daily cases in the second wave that started in the city from around February 10, 2021.“This fall in the number of sealed buildings and sealed floors is owing to the dip in growth rate in the city in the last one month. In the first week of April, the growth rate was around 25%, which has now gone down to around 8-10% daily,” a BMC official said.Meanwhile, Dr Siddarth Paliwal, city-based physician said, “The number of sealed buildings and sealed floors going down is also an indicator that the level of antibodies has increased in citizens. For our better understanding, we should take a bigger sample size and conduct a serosurvey.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fall-in-number-of-sealed-buildings-in-mumbai-daily-positivity-rate-falls-to-8-101620413881557.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Co-WIN: No easy victory here, amid cancellations and server problems||Every evening for the past six days, Sneha Sedani, a 28-year-old Kandivli resident, is glued to her computer screen between 7.30pm and 8pm, attempting to register for her Covid-19 vaccine shot on the Co-WIN portal. However, she has still not secured an appointment. Since May 1, when Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) began vaccinating citizens in the age group of 18 – 44 years, every evening its Twitter handle announces the time registration window. With few slots to fill per day, only those citizens who manage to register themselves in the short duration of 20-25 minutes before all slots are reserved, can get vaccinated the next day. On Thursday, BMC suspended walk-in vaccination for all age categories, to avoid overcrowding at vaccination centres. Now, citizens above age 45 years also have to book a slot on the previous evening and get an appointment for the next day. Mumbaiites are reporting frustrating failed attempts during the registration process, last-minute cancellations of appointments, and server problems. Sedani said, “I get automatically logged out within minutes of logging into the application. Then I have to repeat the procedure. By the time I reach the end of the process after the second or third attempt, all slots are taken.”“Sometimes, registration starts two or three minutes before the time announced by BMC on Twitter. So we constantly refresh the application to make sure we are online as soon as registration starts. Because all slots are booked right away,” Sneha added.Sedani’s brother, Harsh, 22, was lucky in this regard. He managed to get registered on the application on his first attempt and was vaccinated at SevenHills Hospital on May 3. Registering on the government of India’s Aarogya Setu application is equally challenging. Some citizens who have been allotted slots have been told last minute that their slots have been cancelled. Disgruntled, they have taken to social media to express their frustration. A Twitter user, Keyur Kenia, tweeted on Friday morning with a screenshot of his confirmed appointment, “I had been to BKC vaccination centre today as I registered from Aarogya Setu app but they refused as the below appointment is not valid. Then what is the point of registering through it.” Another Twitter user, Prasad said, “I had booked a slot for May 8 at BKC jumbo centre. Within half an hour, received a message scheduled vaccination has been cancelled. It is some kind of joke played on common man.” Manish Keswani, 44, a resident of Borivli said, “The Co-WIN application was allowing me to book a 12.30pm slot at 2.45pm. The application is not updated on time. I have been trying to book an appointment for a while now, but I am unable to register.” A senior civic official from BMC’s public health department said, “It is essential that citizens get an appointment for vaccination to avoid overcrowding or long queues at vaccination centres. We also don’t want senior citizens travelling long distances only to find out stock at the vaccination centre is over. So prior registration is a good solution. Due to shortage in vaccine doses, we have fewer shots available at present.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cowin-no-easy-victory-here-amid-cancellations-and-server-problems-101620413821550.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Most relief material is distributed in BJP states, Maharashtra Congress alleges||Maharashtra Congress has once again slammed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government for its alleged discrimination towards the non-BJP state governments including Maharashtra. The party has said that most of the relief material received from around 40 countries as Covid-19 ravaged in the country, was distributed to the select state under the rule of BJP.Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant alleged that the aid which was received in about 25 aircraft from various countries has been distributed mostly to BJP-ruled states. “Most of the states are BJP-ruled including Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana. Maharashtra has got nothing from it. States governments have right on the relief material,” he said.Sawant raised questions about why it being distributed through Central agencies instead of handing it over to the state governments directly. “Just like #PMcares fund, this centralised approach is with an intention to give extra power in hands of Modi. It is against federal structure as well…first they sat on it (the relief material) and when they started distributing it, Maharashtra is not in the list (sic),” Sawant has tweeted.BJP’s media cell chief Vishwas Pathak said, “NITI Aayog CEO (chief operating officer) Amitabh Kant has already explained in detail how the aid received from all across the globe is being distributed transparently. According to the government data, 38 institutions in 31 states and union territories have received the aid. Just because Congress exists in hardly a few states they feel that the relief material is distributed more in BJP ruled states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/most-relief-material-is-distributed-in-bjp-states-maharashtra-congress-alleges-101620413761552.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 54,022 cases, 898 deaths||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 54,022 new Covid-19 cases pushing the count to 4,996,758. The tally of active cases has now slightly increased to 654,788 as 37,386 recoveries were reported in a day.The toll is now 74,413, with 898 deaths recorded on Friday. Nashik reported the highest toll with 133 deaths. Nashik district recorded 102 deaths while Nashik city reported 31 fatalities. It was followed by Mumbai with 71 deaths.Surge in Covid-19 cases is yet to come down in Maharashtra, despite a lockdown imposed across the state since April 22. However, there is a slight improvement in average daily cases. While 59,647 cases were reported last month, it has reduced to 56,326 in the first week of May. In this month, maximum cases were reported on May 1 — 63,282.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a recent address said that the state would have crossed one million active cases if lockdown wasn’t imposed. “Going by the predictions made by the experts, the tally of active cases would have crossed one million mark, but we have been able to contain the spread and we have restrained them under 700,000. It is because of the lockdown and the restraint shown by the people,” he said last Friday.Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state task force said, “The daily cases in the state are not increasing. Some of the districts that didn’t have a surge in cases until now are not recording more cases. The districts that had witnessed a surge in cases, for example, Mumbai, have started experiencing a decline. That’s the reason our average daily cases of the state are still plateauing and not falling as expected.”By the end of May, the situation of the state would be better than what it is today, he added.Maharashtra’s effective reproduction number (R) for Covid-19, which indicates how fast the infection is spreading, has also declined to 1.29 from 1.45 from last week, according to an analysis prepared by the state health department.For a pandemic to come to an end, the R-value has to be sustained under 1. This infection rate was recorded 0.36 in February when the second wave hit the state. By March, it rose to 1.33.“Our situation would have gone out of hand if lockdown was not imposed. As we all can see the daily cases have hit stability and by the end of this month or from the first week of June we are expecting a gradual decline,” said a senior official from the state health department.Officials also said that there are many districts where the rise in daily cases is yet to stabilise. In addition, some districts are currently experiencing a surge in cases, as a result of which, the average daily cases of the state is not showing an expected decline. This is despite the daily average cases of Mumbai coming less than 5,000.These districts are Ratnagiri, Buldhana, Parbhani, Beed and Sindhudurg and their average weekly positivity rate (till May 4) recorded were 3.18%, 2.83%, 2.67%, 2.64% and 2.60% respectively.On Friday, Mumbai clocked 3,040 cases and took the total cases to 671,125.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 268,912 samples and had a positivity rate of 20.08%. The overall positivity rate of the state stood at 17.27%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-54-022-cases-898-deaths-101620413702571.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Only citizens who have received slot should arrive at vaccination centre: Mumbai civic body||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday appealed to all citizens against crowding at vaccination centres if they have not received an appointment after registering on the CoWIN application, the previous day. In a statement, BMC said, “The crowding is making it difficult to take the necessary precautions and maintain social distancing. Only those citizens who have been registered and have received a slot should arrive at the vaccination centre during the allotted timing.” Authorities said that there is a systematic way in which a particular number of slots are allotted to respective vaccine centres.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of BMC’s public health department said, ‘’We decide how many vaccine doses each centre should receive based on the average turn out of the past week. Usually, each vaccine centre receives stock to suffice three-four days to a maximum of one week’’.Now that BMC has made it mandatory for citizens of all age groups to take an appointment for vaccination and has disallowed walk-ins. Kakani said, “When citizens register on the Co-WIN application, they are allotted a time to visit the vaccine centres based on the availability of the slot. Vaccine centres are allotted between one and 10 slots per day, depending on the available stock at the centre. A maximum of 100 beneficiaries can be vaccinated in every slot.”At the end of each day, vaccine centres submit data to BMC of the number of vaccine shots utilised during the day, which helps the civic body keep track of the availability of stock at the centre. When stocks run out, BMC informs the state government to place an order for more vaccine shots. BMC then collects the stock allotted to the civic body by the state government, from the state’s storage facility in Pune. This is then brought to BMC’s main storage facility at Kanjurmarg and the public health department’s head office at F/South ward in Parel, and delivered to vaccine centres the next morning, before the vaccination drive for the day begins. Among stocks available at vaccine centres approximately 1% doses are wasted. Kakani said, “Mumbai has one of the lowest percentage of wastage of vaccine doses, at 1%. Wastage usually happens because every vial accommodates 10 vaccine shots. If a vial is opened at the end of the day, but only nine beneficiaries are left to get vaccinated, one dose goes waste, for example.” On an average, BMC vaccinates 35,000 to 40,000 beneficiaries per day. On Friday, 41,107 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Mumbai, of which 16,310 received their first dose, and 24,797 received their second dose. 3,613 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years were vaccinated on Friday. Presently, BMC has less than 100,000 vaccine shots left in its stock, and more are expected to arrive on Saturday or Sunday night. After suspending walk-in vaccination for all age groups on Thursday, Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Friday directed the administration to allow walk-ins for beneficiaries in the 45 years and above age group, only if they are receiving their second dose. This will happen after the immunization manager at each centre verifies vaccine certificates received by these beneficiaries after the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/only-citizens-who-have-received-slot-should-arrive-at-vaccination-centre-mumbai-civic-body-101620413701579.html
08-05-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Motherless Children||You do not have to give birth to be a mother. It is neither a function of biology, nor a title, nor even a noun. Motherhood is a verb. It means to love, to protect, to shield, to shelter; to put another’s interests ahead of one’s own. It calls for courage, sacrifice, heroism, unconditional love and deep reservoirs of empathy and compassion. A mother is a repository of our hopes and dreams, as well as of our pains and sorrows. No matter how old a person is, their mother is who they will call out to for help in their moment of agony or need. Minutes away from his certain death, with his murderer’s knee on his neck, George Floyd called out to his long-departed mother, when he could not breathe. It is said that Jacinda Arden brings many qualities to her role as the Prime Minister of New Zealand, but perhaps the greatest one is that she sees her job as being a mother to her people. A mother will not favour one of her children over the other and even if she does, will never want it to be known. A mother is someone who feels her child’s pain without having to be told of it. She is someone whose side you hurry to when you are anxious and unwell. And today, on the eve of International Mother’s Day, the wretched truth that we might as well face is that every one of us — you, me, him, her and them — we are all motherless children, orphaned, abandoned and alone, with no one to turn to, to wipe away our tears, or mitigate our fears or tell us that things are going to be okay… ************************************************“No language can express the power and beauty and heroism of a mother’s love,” said Edwin Chapin. “Motherhood: All love begins and ends there,” said Robert Browning. If you want to put an end to all wars, ask the mothers of soldiers to sit across a table and negotiate for conflict resolution. If you want to feed an ever-expanding congregation of hungry stomachs when supplies are low, put a mother in charge of the kitchen. In the long list of dictators, despots and tyrants who inflict genocide and suffering on their citizenry, you’d be hard pressed to come up with more than a couple who are mothers. Of all her epoch-making achievements, singer and activist Joan Baez, who once marched with Martin Luther King and had sung at the fall of the Berlin Wall, declared that motherhood was her most momentous one. Of all her iconic titles, Vice-President of America and major glass-ceiling-shatterer Kamala Harris says being called “Momala” is her most cherished. There’s no bond as strong in the entire world as that of a mother and child, nor is there a love so all-encompassing and protective. The natural world abounds with stories of mother goats that have nurtured newborn pups and of mother wolves suckling human cubs. A mother’s primary dharma is inclusivity; she is someone who will always look out for the weakest child in her litter. And today, on the eve of International Mother’s Day, the wretched truth that we might as well face is that every one of us — you, me, him, her and them — we are all motherless children, orphaned, abandoned and alone, with no one to turn to, to wipe away our tears, or mitigate our fears or tell us that things are going to be okay… ************************************************The art of mothering is to teach the art of living to children. Barrack Obama credits his idealistic, single mother for all that is good and noble in himself. Philanthropist, award-winning filmmaker and celebrated chef Vikas Khanna says his feisty, octogenarian airplane-flying mother is his abiding inspiration. A mother is someone who will think nothing of going hungry, even as she cooks a meal for her child. The mythologies of the world are full of examples of mothers like Yashodhara, Parvati and Sita who protected and nurtured and safeguarded their offspring. A mother occupies pole position in the world’s collective consciousness. It is said that the most memorable dialogue heard from all of award-winning screenwriters Salim and Javed’s vast body of work is the one delivered by Shashi Kapoor in Deewar, when he utters the simple words “mere paas ma hain”. Princess Diana believed, “A mother’s arms are more comforting than anyone else’s.” A mother would rather die than betray the faith and trust that her children have placed in her. And today, on the eve of International Mother’s Day, the wretched truth that we might as well face is that every one of us — you, me, him, her and them — we are all motherless children, orphaned, abandoned and alone, with no one to turn to, to wipe away our tears, or mitigate our fears or tell us that things are going to be okay… ************************************************So, not for the cheesy sentimentality of a Hallmark holiday, nor for the crass commercialisation of a spurious slogan, (Anna Jarvis, the instigator of International Mother’s Day, actually devoted the remainder of her life to protest against it), but to stress the fundamental truth of it: having a mother and dying are the only two universal human conditions. Mothers have been immortalised in great literature, iconography, popular culture and art. Brecht’s Mother Courage and single mum-on -welfare, JK Rowling’s big-hearted mother Molly Weasley in the Harry Potter series. NGO Mothers Without Borders was created by Kathy Headlee to nurture orphans across the world. Earth Mothers who don’t have to be told that the health of our planet and the health of every creature on it, however small, are inextricably bound. Modern-day Momagers, who step in to make their children’s dreams come true. Mothers like Irena Sendler, who smuggled 2,500 Jewish children out of the Warsaw Ghetto during the Holocaust. The righteous mother played by Nargis in Mehboob Khan’s Mother India, who puts her principles above her maternal love. The anguished mother in the Bible’s Judgment of King Solomon, who begs that her child be taken from her rather than cut in half. The natural state of motherhood is selflessness. The highest undertaking that a person can aspire to is to be a mother to the world. A mother will put aside her own prejudices and partisanships, when her child is in danger. She will rush to their bedside if they are ill and dying. A mother will soothe their fevered brow and keep vigil all night, until they are nursed back to health. The planet would be better served if all manmade constructs of nationhood, economy, jurisprudence, administration, and leadership were predicated on the principles of motherhood. Fortunate are those families that have a mother amid them; favoured are those people who have a mother to call their own; blessed is that country led by one who embodies the qualities of a mother. The best place to cry is in a mother’s arms. Minutes away from his certain death, with his murderer’s knee on his neck, George Floyd cried out for his long-departed mother when he could not breathe.And today, on the eve of International Mother’s Day, the wretched truth that we might as well face is that every one of us — you, me, him, her and them — we are all motherless children, orphaned, abandoned and alone, with no one to turn to, to wipe away our tears, or mitigate our fears or tell us that things are going to be okay…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-motherless-children-101620399960888.html
