09-05-2021||Mumbai||Role of private doctors crucial in fight against Covid-19: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday stressed on the role of private doctors, specially family physicians, in the fight against Covid-19, saying they can help in early diagnosis of the infection in their patients and facilitate timely treatment for them.Addressing around 700 private doctors from across the state during a meeting held via video conference, Thackeray appealed to them to join hands with the state administration to curb spread of the viral infection.Thackeray said if family physicians keep a check on the treatment of their patients in home isolation and update ward officers regularly, the civic body concerned can make arrangements for their further treatment in a proper way."Family doctors play an important role. If they guide the patients at the initial stage of the infection, it will be helpful to curb the virus spread. They can identify symptoms and check whether a patient is asymptomatic or needs hospitalisation," he said.The CM said family doctors should focus on patients in home isolation so that if required, they can be shifted to hospitals timely.He appealed to private doctors to register themselves with the Covid-19 care centres and jumbo field hospitals in their localities and visit the facilities for consultation.It is necessary to have uniformity in the treatment protocol, he added.Thackeray also said the state's oxygen production capacity is 1,270 metric tonne, but due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the demand has risen to 1,700 MT."We have prepared short and long-term plans to become self-sufficient in oxygen and the enhanced production capacity of the life-saving gas will be realised soon," he said.During the meeting, the state government's task force of medical experts, comprising Sanjay Oak, Shashank Joshi, Rahul Pandit, Tatyarao Lahane and others, informed private medical practitioners about Covid-19 treatment protocols.They told the doctors about use of steroids, importance of six-minute walk test, how to identify the need for giving oxygen, identifying reduction in oxygen level, treatment of mucormycosis-a fungal infection detected in Covid-19 survivors, use of key anti-viral drug Remdesivir and taking care of patients on ventilators.Thackeray said a paediatric task force is also being set up by the state government as experts are of the view that the third wave of Covid-19 could affect children.Around 700 private doctors participated the virtual meeting on Sunday, while 300 doctors had attended a meeting held some days back via video conference with Thackeray and the task force members, a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/role-of-private-doctors-crucial-in-fight-against-covid-19-uddhav-thackeray-101620561996053.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 vaccine drive in lurch as Maharashtra waits for more doses from govt||The shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses is expected to significantly impact the inoculation drive across the Maharashtra on Sunday, said officials familiar with the matter. In a letter to the Centre on Saturday, principal secretary of the state health department, Dr Pradeep Vyas, sought urgent supply of Covaxin as more than 500,000 people, in the above 45 age group, are due for their second dose.Earlier this week, the Centre supplied 1,150,000 doses of Covid vaccines. However, after inoculating 234,578 people on Saturday, 363,753 on Friday and 454,546 on Thursday, the state has almost exhausted its stock.Also read | PM Modi hails Maharashtra Covid-19 handling, says CMODr DN Patil, state immunization officer, said, “We have almost exhausted the existing stock of 1,150,000 lakh doses we received over the last one week. We are expecting the fresh stock of more than 3 lakh (300,000) on Monday. We have been following with the Centre for the stock of more than 5 lakh (500,000) Covaxin doses for the people waiting for their second dose. The number of centres to be operated depend on the stock we receive from the Centre.”On Friday, state public health minister Rajesh Tope claimed that if the Centre failed to provide them the fresh stock of Covaxin, they will be left with no option but to divert the stock meant for the 18-44 age group. “Out of 900,000 doses we received in the last two days, less than 100,000 doses are left. This has hindered implementation of vaccination drive,” he had said.Minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said the Centre’s failure in supplying the adequate doses of vaccines in due time has left many in a lurch. “The Centre has been operating the vaccination drive through CoWIN app and has the data of the people due for the second dose, despite it there is no supply... It is unacceptable that lakhs of people are left in distress waiting for their second dose,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-vaccine-drive-in-lurch-as-maharashtra-waits-for-more-doses-from-govt-101620507302528.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Urgently need Covaxin doses: Maharashtra to Centre||The state has written a letter to the Centre, asking for the urgent supply of Covaxin doses as more than 500,000 people, from the age group of above 45 years, are due for their second dose. The state’s inoculation drive is expected to be massively hit on Sunday, if the new stock does not reach by morning, Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary of the health department, wrote to the ministry of health and family welfare. The letter also said that since the Centre had told them to not retain the buffer stock for the second dose, the state did not reserve it.State public health minister Rajesh Tope had said on Friday that if the Centre failed to provide them with a fresh stock of Covaxin, they will be left with no option, but to divert the stock meant for the age group of 18-44 years. After the Centre supplied 1,150,000 doses during this week, the state has now run out of stock. Many vaccination centres were shut down on Saturday owing to the shortage of doses, while most of them will not operate on Sunday as well.After inoculating 234,578 people on Saturday, the state is almost exhausted with the vaccine stock. The state inoculated 4,54,546 and 3,63,753 people on May 6 and 7 respectively.“Out of 900,000 doses received in the past two days, fewer than 100,000 doses are left with the state. This has hindered implementation of the vaccination drive,” Tope had said on Friday.The central government has assured Maharashtra of 2,300,000 doses of vaccine until May 15, of which 1,150,000 have been delivered in the first week of May. “We expect the remaining stock to be delivered this week, but there is no clarity on the time line, which makes it difficult for us to plan and transport the doses to remote places,” said an official from health department.Minority affairs minister Nawab Malik, of the NCP, said that the Central government’s failure in supplying the adequate doses in due time has left many in the lurch. “The Centre has been operating the vaccination drive through CoWIN app and has the data of the people due for the second dose. Despite it, there is no supply of the doses required. It is unacceptable that lakhs of people are left in distress waiting for their second dose,” he said.Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer, said, “We have almost exhausted the existing stock of 1,150,000 lakh doses we received over the last one week. We are expecting the fresh stock of more than 3 lakh on Monday morning. We have been following with the Central government for the stock of more than 5 lakh Covaxin vials for the people waiting for their second dose. The number of centres depends on the stock we receive from the Centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/urgently-need-covaxin-doses-maharashtra-to-centre-101620503649546.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Uncertainty looms over HSC exams in absence of govt decision||Barely three weeks before the scheduled exams, HSC (Class 12) students in the state are still unsure about whether or not their exams will take place amid high Covid-19 infections and the resultant lockdown. Students said the state government’s delay in declaring the status of exams is causing severe anxiety and confusion at the last minute. “We have been studying for the entire year and still do not have any clarity on whether or not exams would take place offline. The government should not wait anymore and should announce its decision immediately,” said an HSC aspirant. On April 12, the state government had postponed HSC exams to the end of May and SSC exams to June. However, following CBSE’s decision to cancel Class 10 exams and a similar decision from ICSE, IGCSE and IB there was growing pressure to cancel exams from students and parents to ensure equivalence across boards which is key at the time of admissions to colleges. On April 20, Class 10 exams were declared cancelled by the state government and students will now be marked based on internal assessments. However, the government continued to say that HSC exams will be conducted as per the schedule. Over the last several days, the education department has been holding numerous consultation meetings with various stakeholders including schools, teachers and parents to come up with a formula for internal assessments. However, a decision on the formula and the conduct of Class 12 exams is yet to be arrived at. “Meetings are on and an announcement in this regard will be made soon,” said an official from the education department. Many students urged the education department to cancel exams for Class 12 altogether. They also participated in a Twitter storm recently with a hashtag- #cancel12thboardexams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-uncertainty-looms-over-hsc-exams-in-absence-of-govt-decision-101620501489331.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Olive Ridley nesting sites in Maharashtra double since 2020, up five times since 2015||The number of turtle nesting sites along Maharashtra’s coastline has doubled this year as compared to 2020, according to data by Maharashtra forest department’s Mangrove Foundation. During nesting season (which runs from December to March), a total of 451 nesting sites were recorded through field observations, up from 288 during the same period last year.Of these, the majority were recorded in Ratnagiri district, where 277 nesting sites were seen (up from 148 last year). This was followed by Sindhudurg, where 146 nesting sites were seen (as against 68 last year). In Raigad, which is the only other district where sea turtles are found to regularly nest, the number went up from 15 last year to 28 in the current season. The proportion of nesting sites across these three districts is in line with past data up to 2015, as provided by the mangrove foundation.In fact, data shows a significant increase in the number of nesting sites in over the past six years. In 2017, for example, only 75 nests were recorded across these three districts. That figure has shown steady improvements, year on year. While there are four species of sea turtles recorded in Maharashtra, Olive Ridleys are the only one that nest in the state and have widest population distribution. While officials and experts unanimously agreed that the development is a positive one, they did not reveal specific reasons for the same.“It will require more study to understand why there has been a sudden jump this year, but my hunch is that this is a result of more than a decade of conservation efforts by the state. Hatchlings that were released from these same areas a few years ago are now coming back to lay their eggs as mature adults,” said Harshal Karve, a marine biologist with the Mangrove Foundation.Karve explained that sea turtle conservancy has been a focus of not only the government, but also NGOs and local communities since the early 2000s. The movement can be attributed almost singularly to the work of an NGO named Sahyadri Nisarga Mitra (SNM), which started a marine turtle conservation program in 2002 in Ratnagiri’s Velas village. Since then, a range of measures to conserve turtles have been implemented, including removal of ‘ghost’ fishing nets from deeper waters and setting up of turtle treatment and rehabilitation centres in multiple districts.In 2018, a compensation scheme for fishermen under the Wildlife Protection Act was also implemented, which provides cash incentives to fishermen who may inadvertently catch sea turtles while fishing. So far, a total of 146 sea turtles have been released under the scheme, including 90 Olive Ridleys, 51 green sea turtles, three hawksbill turtles, and two leatherback turtles. A marine respondent group comprising forest department officials was also set up around this time to coordinate faster response to stranded cetaceans in Maharashtra, a significant majority of which includes Olive Ridleys.This is not the first time that such a sudden increase in Olive Ridley nesting sites has been seen in the state. A similar doubling was also observed between 2017 and 2018, when the number of observed nests increased from 153 to 303. Notably, 2017 was the year in which the mangrove foundation stepped in as the state’s nodal authority overseeing turtle conservation efforts. The first capacity building workshop among locals and officials was conducted at the Regional Coconut Research Centre, Ratnagiri on 4th February, 2017. Others, however, said that the spurt -- which has followed a year of halted developmental and commercial activities around the world -- may be due to a more complex interplay of factors. A kasavmitra (or ‘turtle friend’) employed with the mangrove foundation speculated that reduced fishing activities during the lockdown, which were further affected by rougher weather conditions at sea , have likely played a role in reducing Olive Ridley deaths as bycatch, allowing a larger number of females to reach their nesting grounds. “It cannot be ruled out. If a slowdown in fishing is responsible, then it is worrying because we are finally getting a sense of how much risk commercial fishing poses to Olive Ridleys. We will have to wait till next year and see, whether resumption of fishing brings the numbers down again,” they said.It also remains to be seen whether the increase in nesting sites this year translates to the release of more hatchlings back into the sea after birthing season, which typically lasts between April and May. In 2020, the ‘hatchling success rate’ -- or proportion of turtles which survive the nesting period -- stood at a six year low of 39% (down from 57% the previous year). “We have begun releasing turtles from our hatcheries, but the final results will be available only at the end of the month,” said Karve.Varad Giri, a herpetologist who has been closely involved in sea turtle conservation in Maharashtra, said the trend is undoubtedly a positive one. “Of course, reduced human activity during the pandemic may have played a role in the current increase, but the long-term increase in nesting sites is entirely due to community participation, which NGOs like Sahyadri Nisarga Mitra have been able to facilitate in districts like Raigad, Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri. Where turtle eggs were once being poached, they are now actively protected and cared for by citizens. The involvement of people outside of usual interest groups, such as government officials or researchers, is what has made the program successful,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/olive-ridley-nesting-sites-in-maharashtra-double-since-2020-up-five-times-since-2015-101620501249349.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Fudged data to reduce number of deaths, Fadnavis alleges||Hours after Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi lauded the Maharashtra government over the handling of the pandemic and days after the Supreme Court (SC) applauded for Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for its Covid-19 management, leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis has alleged that Mumbai civic body was manipulating the data on infection rate and the number of deaths.Fadnavis, in his three-page letter dated April 8, has said that the BMC has put the Covid deaths in the non-Covid deaths category to reduce the number of deaths due to infection. He said that when the death percentage for ‘death due to other reasons in the rest of Maharashtra in the second wave is 0.7%, it’s as high as 39.4%. Fadnavis said that this is because the Mumbai civic body put the Covid-19 deaths in other category violating the norms of WHO and ICMR. “The deaths out of accident, suicide, murder or cancer patients of the fourth stage can be categorised in non-Covid deaths even if they were tested positive. But the BMC is misusing the category by putting the Covid-19 deaths in this category to manipulate the numbers,” he said stated.Fadnavis has also alleged that even during the first wave, the BMC fudged the data in a similar fashion. He said that when the death percentage for ‘death due to other reasons in the rest of Maharashtra in the second wave is 0.7%, it’s as high as 39.4% (in Mumbai). He also alleged that the infection rate data is being manipulated by increasing the percentage of the rapid antigen test instead of RT-PCR.Congress has hit back at Fadnavis by saying that the BJP leader has not been able to digest the praises showered by the prime ministers. “When the second wave started on February 10 this year, there were total 313,000 active patients and 11,400 deaths, which rose to 671,000 active patients and 13,687 total deaths as of today. There are 2,287 deaths in 3 months of the second wave, which translates into 0.7%, which is the lowest in the world. Even if other than Corona deaths are added to the Corona deaths, the rate would be 0.8% again the lowest in the world. Instead of raising fingers at the state government the BJP leaders should treat their stomach pain and pay attention to the false statistics given in BJP-ruled states like Gujarat,” said Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-fudged-data-to-reduce-number-of-deaths-fadnavis-alleges-101620501069345.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman poses as civic vaccine official, robs 74-year-old of ₹3.1 lakh||Worli police launched a hunt for an unidentified woman who posed as a civic staff and under the pretext of carrying vaccination drive for elderly citizens, gained entry at a 74-year-old woman’s house in Worli on Wednesday. The woman then threatened the senior citizen at knifepoint and fled with cash and jewellery worth ₹3.10 lakh. The complainant, Swati Patil, and her nine-year-old grandson Sarvagya were alone at their house at the time while her son and daughter-in-law were out on work. Around 12 noon, a woman arrived at their residence and asked Patil if she had received Covid vaccine and under the pretext of completing some procedure gained entry in the house, a police officer said.“The accused asked for a glass of water and the moment Patil turned to fetch it, the accused took out a knife, threatened to kill her and robbed her of cash and jewellery. She then tied and gagged the senior citizen and her grandson before escaping,” the officer said. Patil somehow managed to get to the window and screamed for help. A passer by noticed and helped them. The family then reported the matter to police.Police suspect that the accused was aware that the victim was alone at home during afternoon hours, which helped her commit the crime swiftly. “A case has been registered against the unidentified woman under sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 392 (robbery), 334 (causing hurt) and 506(2) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Multiple teams have been formed to locate her. The elderly woman and the kid are safe,” said Anil Koli, senior inspector of Worli police station. Police have begun investigation and are checking their records of criminals matching the description of the robber. “There is no CCTV around the society and our men are checking if any CCTV of the adjacent streets captured the suspect woman’s movements,” Koli said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-woman-poses-as-civic-vaccine-official-robs-74-year-old-of-3-1-lakh-101620500469276.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC reprieve for owners of land near Kolshet air force station||In a reprieve for owners of properties in the vicinity of Kolshet air force station in Thane, the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday struck down communications issued by the station commander which imposed restrictions on development of nearby properties falling within 750 metres of approach and take of funnel zone of heliport at the defence establishment.The division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht struck down the communications after noticing that two notifications issued under provisions of the Works of Defence Act, 1903 imposed no fetters on development of properties lying beyond 100 metres from boundary wall of the air force station, but the station maintained that no construction of multi-storied building was permitted in the funnel zone of their heliport.The court was hearing a petition filed by Runwal Constructions. The developer had moved HC last year after the air force authorities repeatedly refused their requests for no objection certificate (NOC) to construct a ground-plus-10 storey building at about 500 metres from the station, but the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), which approved the developers plans in August 2019, insisted for an NOC from the air force station before starting the construction.The developer contended that under the statutory notifications issued under the Works of Defence Act, restrictions on constructions were imposed only to the extent of 100 metres from the compound wall of the air force station, and therefore the authorities could not have extended the restrictions on the development of properties beyond 100 metres by issuing executive instructions.“In our view, reasonable restrictions can be imposed on a citizen’s rights guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) and Section 300A, only by enacted law,” said the bench.“The only way to impose restrictions on enjoyment of the property in the vicinity of a defence establishment is by invoking powers under the Works of Defence Act, 1903,” it added and struck down the communications, issued by way of executive instructions.Defence authorities had opposed Runwal’s petition contending that the plot in question was within 500 metres from the air force station where Indian Air Force is operating a helipad which is extensively used for military operations, training purposes and is also earmarked for movement of VVIPs like the prime minister.The operation of heavy helicopters require flight path to be clear of any obstruction up to 750 metres and a mandated glide slope of 3 degree on approach would provide height of 39.3 metres above the ground at a distance of 750 metres from helipad landing point. The safety requirement warrants that there should be a safety margin of 50 metres between any obstruction and the mandated glide slope. Therefore, to ensure safety of helicopters no construction can be permitted in the flight path of heliport to the extent of 750 metres.They added that the NOC for the project was denied because substantial part of the plot comes within flight take-off and landing path of heliport.The contentions, however, failed to impress upon the bench. HC said defence authorities exercised their right of restriction by issuing notifications of February 14, 2007 and January 13, 2010 by clearly specifying that all areas falling within 100 metres of the air force station need to maintain restrictions.It is relevant to note here that the notifications came to be issued after considering all relevant factors pertaining usage of the air force station and following due process as prescribed under provisions of the Works of Defence Act. The said notification still hold and therefore any restrictions imposed, contrary or in addition to the notifications, would be illegal and contrary to the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-reprieve-for-owners-of-land-near-kolshet-air-force-station-101620500349952.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Patient dumped on sidewalk, BMC sacks two paramedical staff||After a video was widely circulated on social media showing a senior citizen, who was getting treatment at KEM Hospital in Parel, left unattended on a side walk, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said two contractual paramedical employees have been removed from duty for not doing their duty. The unidentified patient was admitted to KEM Hospital for stomach pain. The resident doctor attending to him referred him to a senior doctor to see if surgery was needed for his ailment on Friday, according to the civic body. Two paramedics were given the responsibility of taking him to the new hospital building for examination by the senior doctor. Later, a citizen brought to the administration’s notice that a patient from the hospital was left unattended outside gate 6, which leads to the hospital mortuary. The patient was then moved back to the ward where he was being treated. The hospital administration set up an enquiry into the matter and pulled out CCTV footage to find ou how the patient ended up outside the gate, BMC said in a statement. According to CCTV footage, two contractual employees walked the patient out through the passage near the morgue and abandoned him outside gate 6. KEM hospital administration said no carelessness has happened on the hospital’s part. A civic official said, “The two contractual staff were given a show-cause notice, after which they have been removed from duty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/patient-dumped-on-sidewalk-bmc-sacks-two-paramedical-staff-101620500349316.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Elections proved to be good for helicopter industry: Operators||The 2021 elections proved beneficial for the growth of the helicopter industry. Helicopter flights operated for around 45 days exclusively for election purpose with more machines being used from March till mid-April, as compared to pre-pandemic elections, said operators. Rajan Mehra, chief executive officer of Club One Air, said he saw a healthy growth of around 25% in March and April but added that elections were not the only reason for this increase in bookings. “There was increased travel to Dubai, Maldives and Europe, especially in the days before most countries announced travel bans from India due to the second wave. During elections, the most prominent increase was noticed for the Northeast and West Bengal, which contributed to around 40% of election flying, followed by Chennai, Karnataka and Puducherry,” Mehra said. However, according to Gulab Singh, chairman of Saarthi Airways which operated helicopters only to West Bengal, the elections in the five states were dull when compared to previous ones. “We had around 250 flights in around 45 days. We had lesser rallies this time. Majority of the election flying was over by the first week of April,” Singh said.Data collected from various private helicopter operators reveal that around 2,500 hours of flying took place in about 45 days during elections. According to the data sourced by operators, the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) used 11 aircraft, followed by Congress and Trinamool Congress with six helicopters each, for campaign. Helicopter services were flying to Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam during March and April, whereas it continued for a longer period in West Bengal. According to Captain Uday Gelli, president of Rotary Wing Society of India (western region), the situation was normal with respect to flying in March as Covid-19 cases remained in control during the month. He said the industry could do a better business this election season. “Initially in May, no one talked about the pandemic and hence flying was in full swing then. Rotary Wing Society of India estimates that during elections, helicopter operators seem to have flown three times more than the earlier elections, with the southern states seeing flying for 20 days while West Bengal saw flying for 45 maximum days. Corporate helicopters were also used for election flying, and it is estimated that they would have flown about 400 hours of the total 2,500 hours. Single-engine helicopters, too, were used but in a very limited way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elections-proved-to-be-good-for-helicopter-industry-operators-101620500290282.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||Class 10 internal assessments: Maharashtra edu dept holds feasibility study||More than two weeks after the Maharashtra government declared the cancellation of SSC (Class 10) exams, the education department on Saturday, asked schools to fill out a survey form indicating whether or not marking students on internal assessments will be feasible. The department has also sent out another survey form asking for feedback on the conduct of entrance exams for first-year junior colleges (FYJC), a plan that it has been mulling over the last few days after receiving suggestions to that effect. Officials from the state education department did not respond to calls and messages.Nearly 17 lakh students appear for the SSC exam from across nine divisions in the state every year. This year, due to rising Covid-19 infections in the state and the resultant lockdown, the government decided to cancel the exams and announced the same on April 20. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad had announced that students will be marked based on internal assessments.After a series of deliberations and discussions with various stakeholders including educationists, schools, teachers and parents, the education department has now asked schools to give their suggestions and objections on the proposed marking criteria for students. “This survey is conducted to know if there should be an internal assessment on a school level and the schools are prepared for that or not. Internal assessment will be based on online classes, WhatsApp-based teaching and assessment, online tests, term examinations, practice tests. Schools which didn’t undergo these processes will assess their students’ performance based on performance if the student is in 9th class,” stated the survey brief. The department has been mulling several options like considering cumulative scores of students over the years, conducting entrance exams and adding seats for junior college admissions this year. Another survey has sought responses from students on the conduct of common entrance test (CET) for FYJC admissions. “All the aspirants will be eligible for this CET which would have multiple-choice questions. There will be only one paper of 100 marks consisting of questions of all the subjects and the duration of the paper will be 2 hours. This offline test is planned in July 2021 or after the decrease of the spread of Covid-19 in every school following SOPs of Covid-19 break the chain regulations” stated the form while inviting responses. All schools in the state including government, non-government, aided, unaided, self-financed can participate in the survey and can indicate whether or not they can mark students based on internal assessments.Schools, however, said forms have added to unnecessary confusion. “First, the government decided that students will be marked on internal assessments. Now when they ask schools, everyone is going to say yes, because there is no other logical answer after exams are cancelled. Besides, this form is widely circulated on social media and anyone can fill it. Why can’t it be done formally through an online portal?” said a principal.Vikas Garad, deputy director, Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training said that the survey was only conducted to take feedback and the final decision will not be dependent only on the survey results. “We just want to know if schools are in a position to give us details of internal assessments and whether they have such data. If we look at the responses so far, majority of them have said yes. Similarly, majority students have said they will be okay with entrance exams,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/class-10-internal-assessments-maharashtra-edu-dept-holds-feasibility-study-101620500229203.html
09-05-2021||Mumbai||41% Covid beds across Mumbai hospitals vacant; BMC to ramp up infra for Covid cases in kids||The steady decline in the number of Covid-19 cases reported daily in Mumbai for the past few days has resulted in 41% of the 23,209 Covid beds across hospitals being vacant, as of Saturday morning. A total of 9,675 beds, 4,787 oxygen beds, 180 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 32 ventilator beds are now vacant. Meanwhile, the BMC will now begin to ramp up its hospital beds and infrastructure for children and infants, projecting rising Covid-19 infections in kids during a possible third wave. Mumbai on Saturday recorded 2,664 Covid-19 cases and 62 deaths, taking the toll to 673,235 and the tally to 13,713. There are 52,874 active Covid-19 cases in the city, as of Saturday. Mumbai on Friday conducted 33,378 tests, which have shown Saturday’s cases with a positivity rate of 7.9%. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 5,677,780 Covid-19 tests. Mumbai on Friday reported 3,040 cases while on Thursday the city had recorded 3,028 cases. On Wednesday it reported 3,882 cases, on Tuesday it reported 2,554 cases, and on Monday it reported 2,624 cases. In the past eight days, since May 1, Mumbai has reported a total of 24,764 Covid-19 cases, as opposed to 77,207 cases reported in the first eight days of April. On April 4, Mumbai reported its highest ever spike in a single day so far: 11,206 Covid cases. Throughout April, Mumbai has reported a total of 233,698 cases. To equip hospital infrastructure for paediatrics and ensure enough hospital beds are available for children and infants in a possible third wave of Covid-19, BMC had a discussion with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday, its preparedness on this front. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s public health department said, “Four points were discussed. BMC will partly convert existing maternity wards in hospitals into paediatric Covid beds; private paediatric hospitals have been asked to get ready with the infrastructure to handle Covid-19 cases in children and infants; three maternity homes, one each in Island City, eastern suburbs and western suburbs will be made into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals for children; and the new jumbo facilities will have separate wards for kids who are Covid-19 positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/41-covid-beds-across-mumbai-hospitals-vacant-bmc-to-ramp-up-infra-for-covid-cases-in-kids-101620500169316.html
