10-05-2021||Mumbai||Dharavi reports single-digit Covid-19 cases after 2 months||Mumbai's slum sprawl Dharavi reported nine new Covid-19 infections on Monday, its single- digit case count after two months, a senior civic official said.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said with the addition of nine fresh cases, the tally of Covid-19 infections in the slum-dominated area rose to 6,632.On March 11, the densely populated slum colony, once a Covid-19 hotspot, had reported seven COVID-19 cases, according to the official.The financial capital has been reporting a steady decline in daily Covid-19 cases.At present, Dharavi has 727 active Covid-19 cases, while 5,561 patients have recovered from the infection so far, he said.On Sunday, Dharavi had reported 13 new Covid-19 cases, while on April 8, it had witnessed the highest-ever 99 infections.The first coronavirus case in the sprawling slum locality was reported on April 1, 2020.Spread over 2.5 sq km, Dharavi has a population of more than 6.5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dharavi-reports-single-digit-covid-19-cases-after-2-months-101620655946013.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra's daily Covid tally goes below 40,000; Mumbai sees 1,782 cases||Maharashtra on Monday registered less than 40,000 (37,236 to be exact) new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 549 related fatalities, taking the caseload and death toll to 5,138,973 and 76,398 respectively, according to the state health department's bulletin. As many as 61,607 were discharged today and the total recoveries in the state climbed to 4,469,425, the bulletin showed.Monday's case count in Maharashtra has been the lowest since March 30 when 27,918 cases were recorded in a 24-hour time span. While on Sunday, 48,401 fresh cases were seen in the state, the lowest since April 5 this year.The capital city Mumbai also saw a significant drop in its daily Covid-19 disease tally with 1,782 new cases, taking the caseload to 677,412. The city's death toll has climbed to 13,855 as 74 more people succumbed to the disease on Monday.Maharashtra, the state worst-affected by the coronavirus disease, has been placed under lockdown-like restrictions till May 15 under which movement of people is barred, movie halls have been closed, and weddings restricted. Office attendance and inter-city and inter-district travel have also been curtailed.Also Read| Maharashtra records 48,401 new Covid-19 cases, 572 deaths in the last 24 hoursAs reported by Hindustan Times earlier, these restrictions have helped the state to control the spread of the pandemic. News agency PTI on Monday cited a survey by LocalCricles which stated that 84 per cent of the people surveyed in Maharashtra wanted these restrictions to continue.More than 18 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease in Maharashtra till now. The state is currently facing a severe shortage of vaccine doses. On Sunday, it received a total of 1,053,000 of Covishield doses of which 350,000 were purchased from the Serum Institute of India (SII) for beneficiaries between 18-44 years.Also Read| Maharashtra Covid-19 vaccine drive gets a 1 million Covishield fillipThe state also received 36,000 of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for inoculating beneficiaries above the age of 45, state immunisation officer DN Patil told HT.Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday requested the Centre to come up with a separate application for vaccination in Maharashtra as he had received several complaints of frequent glitches in the CoWin platform.Later in the day, Thackeray had a telephonic conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Covid-19 situation in the state. During the phone call, Modi lauded Maharashtra's fight in combating the second wave of the pandemic and Thackeray informed the Prime Minister about the state's preparedness in view of the third wave of the pandemic, a statement by the chief minister's office (CMO) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-daily-covid-cases-go-below-40-000-mumbai-sees-less-than-2k-cases-101620658350289.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to set up task force for children orphaned by Covid-19||The Maharashtra government would form a task force in every district to protect children orphaned by Covid-19, an official said on Monday.The task force will be headed by collectors and will comprise commissioners of civic bodies, police chiefs, rural health officials etc of the district, a state government release said.Maharashtra Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur said children getting orphaned due to Covid- 19 was becoming a social problem, adding that the state government would ensure they are nurtured, get protection as well as education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-set-up-task-force-for-children-orphaned-by-covid19-101620653828697.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||'Mark of Centre’s failure': Sena on Supreme Court-constituted Covid task force||Shiv Sena on Monday said that the appointment of a 12-member task force of experts by the Supreme Court to tackle to monitor oxygen allocation amid the second Covid-19 wave in the country is a mark of failure of the Narendra Modi-led government. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana said that the apex court-formed panel will now breathe life into the collapsed health infrastructure in the country.“The Supreme Court has now taken steps, but the rulers of the country are still stuck in politics. They are busy in selecting Assam chief minister. Even though Mamata Banerjee has won the West Bengal election, they are busy whiling away time to not let her run her administration. What will happen to people who are choking to death at such a time? Who is their saviour? Supreme Court has now appointed a 12-member task force of experts in this war against coronavirus. This task force will now breathe life into the collapsed health infrastructure,” the editorial said.Criticising the Centre for lack of planning in managing medical oxygen supply, it said, “Like the situation in Delhi, the crisis is bad in other parts of the country. The nation did not chalk out any supply management plan of medical oxygen. The guidelines will now be prepared by the 12-member task force. Despite getting oxygen from other countries, the situation has remained the same… States such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are counting their dead.”Also Read | Supreme Court-appointed task force holds first meetingThe editorial also slammed Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan for staging protests in West Bengal without wearing a mask. “Vaccines, drugs are being black-marketed and Dr Harsh Vardhan is staging protests on the streets of West Bengal without wearing a mask...It seems the health ministry does not know how bad the situation has deteriorated in the country. Therefore, the Supreme Court gave it anaesthesia and gave the responsibility of the war against Covid to the national panel,” it said.Countering the attack, Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said it was the Centre that suggested the formation of the panel of experts to the apex court and not the other way around. “Today’s editorial is based on the court-appointed panel. But the Centre itself had suggested formation of such a panel. Only Saamana can write an editorial without reading the proceedings. Sanjay Raut’s only task is to criticise the Centre... he should at least get accurate details,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/supreme-court-constituted-covid-task-force-a-mark-of-centre-s-failuresena-101620645078425.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 vaccine drive gets a 1 million Covishield fillip||Amid an acute shortage of vaccines during the third phase of inoculation drive, Maharashtra on Sunday received a total 1,053,000 doses of Covishield vaccines, of which 350,000 were purchased from the Serum Institute of India for vaccination of 18-44 category.“On Sunday we received 703,000 doses of Covishield and only 36,000 doses of Covaxin for the vaccination of people over age 45. Besides that, we received 350,000 Covishield vaccines which the state government has purchased for vaccination of people in the 18-44 category. All the doses have been shipped out to various districts and the drive will continue,” state immunisation officer DN Patil said on Sunday.In a letter to the Centre on Saturday, principal secretary of the state health department, Dr Pradeep Vyas, sought urgent supply of Covaxin as more than 500,000 people, in the above 45 age group, are due for their second dose.Also read | Amid supply crunch, Maharashtra, Rajasthan look to import Covid-19 vaccinesEarlier this week, the Centre supplied 1,150,000 doses of Covid vaccines. However, after inoculating 234,578 people on Saturday, 363,753 on Friday and 454,546 on Thursday, the state has almost exhausted its stock.On Sunday, the decline in the state’s vaccination numbers continued as the state inoculated 109,276 beneficiaries. So far, the state has fully vaccinated 3,350,633 beneficiaries, while 14,710,907 have taken their first shot of the vaccine.Addressing the press on Sunday, state health minister Rajesh Tope said the vaccination drive in the state was going at a “slow pace” due to the unavailability of the adequate number of doses.“Currently our vaccination drive is going on at a slow pace because vaccines are not being made available. Chief minister has clearly said that Maharashtra has the potential to purchase 120 million doses in one go, but availability is the main issue. The Centre must intervene in this matter...”He added that the state’s priority is to vaccinate 57.1 million population in the 18-44 category, but wants the central government to clear the hurdles of permissions to procure foreign vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-vaccine-drive-gets-a-1-million-covishield-fillip-101620604985322.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM launches Majha Doctor initiative; to involve family doctors in fight against Covid||As Maharashtra is preparing for a possible third wave of Covid-19 in the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday launched Majha Doctor (My Doctor), an initiative involving family doctors in the fight against the virus. On Sunday, the state Covid task force members interacted with 700 private doctors from Mumbai to clear doubts raised by them over the Covid treatment protocol. Last week, similar interaction was held with 300 private doctors from Mumbai.“Family doctors play an important role. If they guide the patients at the initial stage, it will be helpful to curb the virus spread,” Thackeray said during the virtual meeting held on Sunday. “If the doctors keep a check on the treatment of patients in home isolation and update ward officers regularly, the civic body can make treatment management of patients in a proper way,’’ Thackeray added.He added that family doctors can give a lot of mental support to patients initially. “Family doctors can identify symptoms and check whether the patient is asymptomatic or needs hospitalisation. Family doctors should focus on patients in home isolation take a call so that they can be shifted to hospitals on time if required,” he said. Amid the shortage of doctors in the city, Thackeray also appealed to private doctors to register themselves in the Covid Care Centers and jumbo field hospitals in their vicinity and visit the places for consultation.Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary (health), Covid task force head Dr Sanjay Oak, and task force member Dr Shashank Joshi and Dr Rahul Pandit, along with Dr TP Lahane, director-general of the directorate of medical education and research interacted with these private doctors, resolved their queries, answered their doubts on the treatment protocol for Covid patients. The doctors were also told to keep an eye out for children and infants developing symptoms such as fever, cold, diarrhoea, loss of appetite, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-launches-majha-doctor-initiative-to-involve-family-doctors-in-fight-against-covid-101620588614690.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s case positivity rate down to 7.34%, says BMC||With the decline in Covid-19 cases, the city has also witnessed a drop in the number of citizens under home quarantined. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data shows that there is a 16% drop from 627,000 persons who were home quarantined on April 10 to 525,000, as of May 07. The city’s daily positivity rate was as low as 7% on Sunday as compared to around 25% in the first week of April.According to BMC officials, one of the reasons for patients under home quarantine going down is owing to the drop in the number of cases from high-rises, where maximum patients were home quarantined. As per the BMC data, 789 buildings and 9,785 floors were sealed on April 6, while 617 buildings and 8,658 floors, were reported to be sealed as of May 6. According to civic body officials, this is one indicator of the cases going down in the city. The high-rises in the city have been contributing over 85% of the daily cases in the second wave that started in the city from around February 10.A closer look at the data of home quarantine citizens reveals the number of citizens under home isolation had gone as low as around one lakh in February, however, with the second wave the number drastically went up. Meanwhile, on Sunday, the city reported 2,395 cases followed by 68 deaths, taking the tally to 675,630 and toll to 13,781. The city’s recovery rate is 90.11% with 608,866 recoveries. The city’s mortality rate is 2.03% with 51,165 active cases. The city reported 32,590 tests on Sunday wherein 7.34% were positive. The city’s former hot spot Dharavi reported 13 cases on Sunday, taking the total to 6,623. There are 755 active cases in Dharavi and 5,540 discharges.Reacting to the fall of patients under home isolation, Dr Siddarth Paliwal, city-based physician said, “The number of patients under home isolation does not reveal the number of active Covid-19 cases, but yes, it is an indicator of the intensity of spread. Currently, we have over 525,000 citizens under home isolation whereas our active cases are less than 100,000. Hence, these also include high-risk contacts, those under isolation post-recovery etc.”‘Allegations about under-reporting baseless’BMC denies Fadnavis allegations on under-reporting Covid casualtiesThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday issued a statement, claiming that allegations of the civic body under-reporting Covid-19 deaths were false. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday had alleged that the Mumbai civic body was manipulating data on infection rate and the number of deaths. Fadnavis had said that BMC has put the Covid deaths in the non-Covid deaths category to reduce the number of deaths due to Covid. However, the BMC said, “There have been allegations in the media and social media that a virtual picture is being painted by the BMC regarding the control of Covid infection in the BMC area. The allegations are completely baseless and the municipal administration has categorically denied it.”The BMC in the statement added, “The BMC is recording Covid tests and Covid deaths as per the criteria laid down by the World Health Organization and Indian Institute of Medical Research (ICMR). The administration’s relentless efforts to prevent infection are showing positive results in the Mumbai statistics. The administration aims to achieve ‘Mission Zero’ by gradually controlling the Covid situation. Mumbaikars are also cooperating in this along with all the people’s representatives and as a result, the infection is coming under control. The Supreme Court also praised the Mumbai model.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-case-positivity-rate-down-to-7-34-says-bmc-101620588495780.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||2.6 million Covid patients provided free treatment, Maharashtra govt tells HC||In an affidavit, the Maharashtra government informed the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) recently that 2,648,827 patients were provided free of cost treatment in Covid Care Centres across the state so far, while 406,749 patients of the 4,49,485 patients who were admitted in private hospitals have been covered by group private health insurance. The state also informed the court that it had 20 packages under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY) through which free treatment was being offered to citizens from the economically weaker section.The information was provided in public interest litigation (PIL) which claimed that eligible persons were not getting benefits of the schemes, declared by the state through various Government Resolutions (GRs), issued in May 2020. The affidavit has also assured the HC of action being initiated against errant officials who have charged exorbitant amounts from patients eligible for the schemes.A division bench of justice Sanjay Gangapurwala and justice Shrikant Kulkarni, while hearing a PIL filed by Omprakash Shete through advocate AB Girase, was informed by the state that following the April 27 direction of the bench the state had filed the affidavit. The bench had directed the state that Covid-19 patients from weaker sections of society should get all medical facilities to their optimum level and that it was high time the state strictly implemented the MJPJAY.The court had stressed that the authorities should take all possible steps to provide treatment to all patients from weaker sections of society and they should not be deprived of healthcare facilities on financial grounds.On May 7, advocate Girase informed the bench that around 20 to 25 Covid-19 patients living below the poverty line and possessing all necessary documents had been charged around ₹1.34 lakh for treatment and such persons were also denied admission in Covid-19 dedicated hospitals.Additional government pleader SG Karlekar for the state referred to the affidavit and clarified that apart from patients on ventilators, 20 packages have been identified under MJPJAY wherein Covid-19 patients with moderate and severe symptoms could avail treatment. He added that grievances of patients who were charged with exorbitant rates have been registered and show-cause notices were issued to the concerned hospitals.After hearing submissions, the bench observed, “The only problem is about the implementation of the said scheme. In this exceptional time, a greater responsibility would be upon the government and its authorities to implement the benevolent scheme more fruitfully. We would be more concerned with the immediate treatment of such patients.” The bench further observed that eligible persons should not be asked to run from pillar to post and from one hospital to another for getting admitted only because of lack of funds. The court also directed the state government to inform it about the outcome of show-cause notices issued to errant hospitals and posted further hearing to June 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/26-million-covid-patients-provided-free-treatment-maharashtra-govt-tells-hc-101620588436167.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||Discrimination: An unspoken chapter on most campuses||Priyanka Sahoo priyanka.sahoo@htlive.com Mumbai: In 2012, when Riya was pursuing her Masters at Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai, she had an assignment to write about her experience with caste discrimination. She scored four out of 10. “I don’t understand how I could get my own experience wrong. So I applied for revaluation and my score changed to 4.5,” said Riya, who now works as a research and advocacy officer at Dalit Women Fight, a group led by Dalit women for supporting survivors of caste atrocities. “The forms of caste discrimination we see now are more subtle and largely of everyday nature. It is a part of the classroom. Caste practices or behaviours, which are discriminatory in nature, are in the form of humour or subtle insults,” said Riya on Saturday during a webinar titled “Get out of the class”: Caste and casteism in our top institutions. The webinar was held after a series of videos of a professor verbally abusing students from marginalised communities went viral. On April 25, video recordings of Seema Singh, an associate professor from the department of Humanities and Social Sciences at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur (IIT KGP) emerged on social media. In the videos, which are now under review of the institute, Seema can be heard verbally abusing students purportedly belonging to scheduled caste (SC), scheduled tribes (ST) communities and those with physical disabilities during a preparatory class. The institute has now set up a fact-finding committee with senior faculty members on it. “The committee has submitted its report and we are in the process of acting on the recommendations of the committee,” said Tamal Nath, registrar, IIT Kharagpur. While the videos have led to an uproar among the student community, alumni networks as well as academia, students and experts interviewed by HT said caste discrimination was rampant in college campuses in more subtle forms. In 2013, Mahesh, then 17 years old, reached his dream destination-- the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur, to pursue an integrated Master’s course in the Electrical Engineering department. Happy to have been admitted to one of the oldest IITs, he looked forward to meeting like-minded students from all over the country, where his identity as a Scheduled Caste wouldn’t matter. His actual experience, however, was very different. In the first couple of years, Mahesh scored poor marks in some subjects. “I blamed it on myself and even considered that I was not as sharp as others here. Although, by third year I realised that many others with as many marks as I got were clearing subjects and getting promoted, but I was being held back.,” said Mahesh, who was subsequently categorised as an ‘academically weak’ student—a tag that cost him two years of his academic career. “I felt more disappointed in myself. The ‘weak category’ tag appears on all academic information and soon you realise that a majority of the students in these categories belong to SC/ST/OBC/PD. There are no special classes/ tutorials/ help arranged to guide or teach these students. They are just marked out,” said Mahesh. The institute limits the number of credits per course that students, who are academically weak, can go for, unless authorised by the administration. Mahesh’s plea for extra credits, required for his course completion, was turned down six times, despite his parents making a plea with the institute. Without those extra credits, Mahesh couldn’t register for all required courses that he had to complete to get his degree. Due for graduation in 2018, Mahesh eventually graduated in 2020. “Students with equal or lower grade points were allowed to take extra credits. Most of the students disallowed from extra credits were from marginalised communities,” said Mahesh. Many students from SC, ST and Other backward classes (OBC) communities find themselves in the academically weak category and struggle to clear exams. Unable to handle the pressure, many drop out before they can complete their course. According to data revealed by the ministry of education in 2019, almost 48% of students dropping out of IITs in 2017 and 2018 were from reserved categories. Merit debate “What was your rank in the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)?” is a question that is an essential part of introduction among students. “The first question that fellow students or seniors ask during introduction is what’s your JEE rank. As students admitted to reserved category seats have relatively lower ranks, it is very easy to deduce that we are from marginalised communities,” said an alumnus of IIT Bombay, who managed to complete his dual degree a year later than the due date. “I would often get into debates with my peers, who told me they respected me less because I had been admitted through the quota. They would tell me that I had taken up the seat of a meritorious student instead,” said the alumnus, who now works as a software engineer. “In most leading academic institutions, language becomes a prominent marker for merit. Merit is determined on your fluency in English,” said Avatthi Ramaiah, chairperson - Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policies, at TISS. It is the subtle and systemic discrimination that is worse, according to Varun Singh, an alumnus of IIT Guwahati. “It took me five attempts to pass a subject. The colleagues that I helped prepare were able to clear the paper, but I wasn’t. On my fourth attempt, I asked the institute for my answersheet and I was denied the same. My professor, unprompted, told me that I shouldn’t worry about fudging of marks because of my caste. It hadn’t even occurred to me until then that my caste was a factor,” he said. “The current education system permeates discrimination in the name of merit. The idea of merit doesn’t take into account the social, emotional, academic, cultural and intellectual gap in students coming from diverse backgrounds,” said Govardhan Wankhede, former professor and dean, School of Education, TISS. Social anxiety For the first two years of her five-year integrated Master’s programme at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras, the student from Kozhikode, did her best to remain invisible on campus. She became the first college goer in the family when she secured an admission to IIT Madras in 2012. “It was an intimidating experience. The campus is huge. Even as I was recovering from culture shock, one of the early learnings for me was people made fun of the way I talked. My peers made fun of my accent when I spoke in English,” said she said. Soon, she started to avoid social events altogether. “The casual remarks and the pressure to fit in started to become too much. I felt alienated. My anxiety started to peak and I was unable to hold conversation with people,” she said, adding she had to seek professional help to manage her anxiety. “In my experience while navigating or pursuing cases of caste discrimination, the war we fight is largely about endlessly explaining what just happened qualifies to be casteist, and why. What we get in return is denial,” said Riya. Students and alumni members that HT interviewed said they were often mocked for their language, clothes and eating habits. They emphasised on an urgent need for sensitising students of all castes and classes towards what constitutes discrimination. “Those who are born in higher caste and class are inherently in a position of social power. This power is used to discriminate. It is therefore necessary to teach students what is discrimination, how it happens, what happens when one makes a discriminatory remark. Students must be made aware of the social and legal consequences of discrimination for both the victim and victimised,” said Wankhede, who served as the liaisons officer for SC/ ST students for two decades. “Students, who raise their voices against discriminatory jokes or remarks, also accused of being ‘too sensitive’. Unsurprisingly, we end up making friends who are from SC and ST categories,” said the student from Kozhikode. “Systemic discrimination at the hands of teachers and friends affects the mental health of students coming from marginalised backgrounds, most of whom are first generation learners. We have seen how students are driven to suicide,” said Ramaiah. In 2016, the death of Rohith Vemula, a student at University of Hyderabad, allegedly by suicide, led to nationwide protests at campuses. In his suicide note, he accused the university’s administration of discrimination. At IIT Bombay, Aniket Ambhore, an SC student, died by suicide in 2014. While Ambhore’s parents have alleged that he was stressed owing to discrimination, a committee at the institute ruled out caste-based discrimination. More recently, Payal Tadvi, a second-year medical student at BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai, died by suicide allegedly following discrimination at the hands of three colleagues. Students at IITs in their first year take a course in social sciences, but caste is not necessarily a part of these courses. “In the first year, it is necessary to teach students about caste privilege through a compulsory course,” said Ramaiah. DATA SPEAK*In 2019, data released by Ramesh Pokriyal Nishank, in a written reply to the Parliament, showed that of the 2,461 students, who dropped out of IITs in 2017 and 2018:- 371 were from the Scheduled Caste category- 199 from the Scheduled Tribe category- 601 from the Other Backward Classes category,*The government of India’s (GoI) norms require 10% of all seats to be reserved for students from economically weaker sections; 27% for OBC students; 15% for SC students; 7.5% for ST students; and 5% for students with physical disabilities. Quote:“Teachers are required to be upholders of the value system in our society. Through the teachers we prepare tomorrow’s citizens. When a teacher fails miserably, as it was in the recent case, it really hurts the system in the worst possible way and it takes a very long time to heal the wounds of hatred. As a teacher, I am ashamed of this incident at my alma mater,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director IIT Bombay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/discrimination-an-unspoken-chapter-on-most-campuses-101620588374733.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 48,401 cases, tally crosses 5.1 million||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 48,401 daily infections pushing the count to 5,101,737. The tally of active cases reduced to 615,783 as 60,226 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours.The state saw 572 casualties that took the toll figures up to 75,849. Mumbai reported the highest toll with 68 fatalities. It was followed by Kalyan-Dombivli city with 50 deaths.It has been three months since the state is facing a surge in cases and 17 days since the state is under complete lockdown. The lockdown restrictions have helped in stabilizing the rise in daily cases but they are yet to start declining.An analysis of statistics also shows that the daily testing of the state is also not going up. In the last three weeks since April 19, the daily tests conducted remained between 210,000 and 290,000 per day. Maximum tests were conducted on April 30 — 290,207.Officials said that there is a limit on stretching the testing apparatus. Maharashtra is among the states having conducted maximum tests and the positivity rate has also started coming down.“We have increased daily testing from a maximum 96,000 per day in the first wave to 290,000 per day in the second wave, which is many times more than what we were doing last year. We have maintained tracing over ten contacts against one positive patient,” said Dr Archana Patil director, directorate of health services.The positivity rate of the state has also started declining from 25% a day to around 21% a day which indicates that our situation is improving,” she pointed out. Dr Patil further said that the state is providing mobile laboratories to eight districts where the pendency rate of daily tests was higher. “We have provided mobile laboratories in Pune, Nagpur, Nashik, Jalna, Aurangabad and Bhandara, while the process to provide mobile laboratories in Raigad and Jalgaon is going on,” she said.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state advisor on the Covid-19 and former director-general of health services said, “There is no doubt that testing is very important, but testing apparatus also has its limitations. There are operational difficulties as we cannot stretch them beyond a limit. We are also facing challenges in contact tracing as the entire machinery is overburdened with multiple responsibilities such as vaccination. We are trying to find out alternatives to deal with the situation.”On Sunday, Ahmednagar clocked maximum cases — 2,779. Of them, the district reported 2,618 cases and the city recorded 379 cases.Mumbai clocked 2,395 cases that took the tally of total cases to 675,630. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 247,466 samples and had a positivity rate of 19.55%. The overall positivity rate of the state stood at 17.33%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-48-401-cases-tally-crosses-5-1-million-101620588375289.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||Fourth Oxygen Express reaches Maharashtra||Fourth Oxygen Express carrying 60 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen reached Maharashtra on Sunday early morning.The Roll On Roll Off (RORO) flat wagon carrying four tankers, from Angul in Odisha, reached Nagpur at 2.25am.“More than 290 metric tonnes liquid medical oxygen has been offloaded in Maharashtra through the four oxygen express till now,” said a senior Central Railway official.The route of the Oxygen Express train is decided after evaluating the ghat areas, road overbridges (ROB), tunnels, curves, platform canopies and overhead equipment (OHE).Earlier, Maharashtra had received three Oxygen Express viz. first from Visakhapatnam to Nagpur/Nashik Road with seven tankers, the second from Hapa, Gujarat to Kalamboli with three tankers and third from Angul to Nagpur with four tankers.The first Oxygen Express departed from Kalamboli railway yard to a steel plant in Visakhapatnam on April 19 and reached Maharashtra on April 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fourth-oxygen-express-reaches-maharashtra-101620588314743.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||HC reprieve till June 14 for jewellers who have not hallmarked gold ornaments||In a temporary reprieve for jewellers, the Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and the Public Distribution to consider the representation by a group of jewellers from Pune by May 15, who have challenged the January 15 order of the Centre which made hallmarking mandatory and prohibited selling and hallmark stamping of gold ornaments of higher purity (more than 22 carat). Meanwhile, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court hearing a similar petition directed the Centre not to take coercive action against any jeweller till June 14 for not hallmarking their jewellery by June 1 as stipulated in the January order. The order reduced the hallmark grades to three and henceforth gold jewellery will be available in grades of 14 carat, 18 carat and 22 carat only. On April 29, a division bench of justice K K Tated and justice Nitin Borkar while hearing the petition filed by Pune Saraf Association through senior advocate Anil Anturkar and advocate Shubham Misar was informed that the January 15 order of the Centre was against Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution, which guarantees the right to practice any profession, trade or business. In light of this, the petition sought quashing of the January 15 order or stay on the order pending hearing of the petition. According to the order, jewellers will be able to sell only hallmarked jewellery and artifacts made of 14, 18 and 22 carat gold from June 2021, violations will attract penalty and imprisonment of one year. While arguing against the order, the association submitted that jewellers would suffer losses as they are prohibited from selling gold with high purity. It was argued that gold rings having purity between 23.5 and 24 carat was a source of acquisition of gold for people belonging to all economic classes and the prohibition on sale of 24-carat traditional jewellery would wipe out the cultural heritage of the state. After the court was informed that a representation seeking provision of facilities of assaying and hallmarking centres for all the districts in Maharashtra was pending, the Court asked the centre to decide the same on or before May 15 and also permitted the association to approach the vacation court in the event the decision on their representation was adverse. Meanwhile, a division bench of justice Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote at Nagpur directed the Centre not to take any coercive action against jewellers under BIS Act after All India Gems & Jewellery Domestic Council filed a petition through senior advocate Rohan Shah. The petition contended that the new regulation, which is to come into force from June 1, would affect nearly 5 lakh of jewellers in India. The Council argued that 488 districts in India did not have hallmarking centres and as inter district travel was restricted due to Covid it would not be possible for jewellers to get the six thousand crores pieces of jewellery hallmarked by June 1 and would end up being liable for punishment under BIS Act. The bench then directed the centre not to take any coercive steps against jewellers till next date of hearing on June 14. The petition at the Mumbai bench will also be heard on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-reprieve-till-june-14-for-jewellers-who-have-not-hallmarked-gold-ornaments-101620588255810.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||Locks on doors, barricades on Covid coaches to stop patients from stepping out in Palghar||The Western Railway (WR) on Saturday evening locked four doors of an isolation coach and put up barricades near few coaches after the government railway police (GRP) complained of Covid patients roaming on platform-3 of the 23 coach Covid Express. The patients were even spotted purchasing eatables from food stalls but were prevented by the GRP, on patrolling duty.A letter by the Dahanu Vaitarna Pravasi Sevabhavi Sanstha(DVPSS) on May 7, highlighted the lacunae in the way arrangements have been made for the patients. At present, there are three patients admitted inside the Covid coach. Around five coaches are made available which will house 90 patients.Senior inspector Yogesh Devre, Palghar GRP, said we found that the patients just open the door and take a stroll and even purchase food items from the food stalls. There are around 10-15 police personnel on patrolling duty, who stop them from stepping out. I have complained to the nodal officer Keshav Tarange and the station master,” said Devre. A few relatives were also seen interacting with the patients and offering them home-cooked snacks, even as the Palghar Municipal Corporation are providing food and drinking water free of charge, said Devre. “I have posted a few policemen on permanent duty before the Covid coaches to prevent patients stepping out,” said Devre.On May 1, the WR parked a 23-car Covid care isolation train at platform 3 at Palghar station, which has a capacity to admit 415 patients.Prathamesh Prabhutondulkar, a member of DVPSS, said, “The platform number 2 and 3 form an island with tracks on either side. While on one side the Covid coaches are parked on platform 3, on the other, local and express long-distance trains make a halt on platform 2, which is used by passengers on essential duties. Also, the patients admitted to isolation coaches share the same foot overbridge that is used by common non-infected people on essential duties. Hence it is a health risk for all, he added, in his letter to the WR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/locks-on-doors-barricades-on-covid-coaches-to-stop-patients-from-stepping-out-in-palghar-101620588255240.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Citizens go outside city for Covid jabs||Even as private hospitals are still struggling with the procurement of Covid-19 vaccines for those above 18 years, the shortage of vials is forcing city-dwellers to book slots for jabs on the outskirts. While it is not illegal, public health officers have requested citizens to refrain from doing so. On May 6, a 28-year-old Kandivli resident travelled 32km to Thane with his 22-year-old sister to get the first shot of Covishield. After trying to book a slot for a jab in the city for five days, he decided to book an appointment in Thane. “My sister is on dialysis for the past two years after she got detected with a chronic kidney disease. Every alternative day, she has to undergo dialysis. So, it was essential that she got the jab at the earliest,” he said. In another instance, a 30-year-old Vasai resident booked appointments at a sub-district hospital in Jawhar, Palghar on May 7. But on May 8, when he along with his 26-year-old wife, went to the centre, the hospital asked outsiders to wait until they inoculated the locals. After immunising the locals, the others were asked to leave. When they resisted, the hospital staffers allegedly misbehaved with them. “Later, when the tehsildar appeared at the vaccination centre, he asked everyone to leave saying vaccines would not be given to outsiders. When one person asked the reason, he threatened to be arrested,” he said. State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “It’s injustice to rural people who are being deprived of the opportunity to get inoculated. People from the city should not do this. There is no need to panic over the limited supply of vaccine doses.” But citizens reasoned saying that it is not illegal to book appointments in other districts or outskirts if slots are available. “Mumbai is a part of Maharashtra and we pay taxes to the government. So, if needy people can find a slot, then they have the right to book it. Within seconds, the slots are getting over. This is so frustrating,” said the Kandivali resident. Pvt hospitals still in the dark From May 1, the Central government allowed private hospitals to inoculate those above 18 years. Of the hundreds of private hospitals in Mumbai, only two — HL Reliance (Girgaum) and Nanavati (Vile Parle) Hospitals – have got vials to inoculate the public above 18 years. Even after nine days of starting the fourth phase of the mass immunization programme, private hospitals in the city are still struggling to procure the vials. Dr Sujit Chatterjee, chief executive officer (CEO), LH Hiranandani Hospital, Powai, said, “We have not been able to get the vaccine from the BMC. We also do not know whom to contact. Nobody seems to have any answers.” He also held a conference call with the Serum Institute of India (SII) where he was informed that it would take them two-three months to supply the vials directly to the private hospitals. “They informed us that they are ramping up the production. Almost 50% of the vials would be given to the Government of India (GOI) and the other 50% vaccines would be provided to the Government of Maharashtra (GOM). If GOM doesn’t give the vaccines, we would have to procure it directly from the manufacturer which would take till the end June/July,” he said. Every day, major hospitals like Lilavati, Bombay and Jaslok Hospitals are getting over 35 queries from young adults about vaccination. “We have kept the infrastructure ready but if we don’t get the vials, we are helpless. Private hospitals can play an integral part in the mass immunisation programme, if we are given the vials,” said Dr V Ravishankar, CEO of Lilavati hospital. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country and Mumbai is often considered the epicentre of the pandemic. At a time, when public health officers have already declared a possibility of a third wave in the next four-five months, local politicians have come down heavily on the Central government for their lack of preparedness. “As reported, the Central government has sent 6.6 crore doses of vaccines to 93 countries as a goodwill gesture, but other countries’ Covid-19 load has been far lower than India. The vials were enough to vaccinate all people in Mumbai and Delhi. We wouldn’t have faced any shortage,” said Rais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party (SP) legislator and corporator from Nagpada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-citizens-go-outside-city-for-covid-jabs-101620588254735.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||Attending to all calls for help for a year||A 35-year-old man worried about being unable to see his wife and child for months due to lockdown restrictions; a 28-year-old woman locked in with her abusive father in her hometown where she is stuck after she lost her job during the pandemic; an 18-year-old student worried about the status of his exams in a crucial year. These and many other concerned callers have been flooding the helpline numbers for the past one year, in search of much needed help, and this is where free and public helpline numbers like iCall came to the rescue. “Ours is a unique helpline run by professionals and is free of cost. While iCall regularly addresses around 55-57 calls a day, post Covid and lockdown it’s almost double than usual. Soon, we realised that the existing helpline was not able to handle all calls as most were Covid-specific and needed immediate resource mobilisation,” said Dr Aparna Joshi, assistant professor and director, iCall. Initiated in 2012 as part of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) Field Action Project, iCall was put in place to fill up the vast vacuum that exists in the field of mental healthcare in the country. “Normally, 40-50% of our callers are repeat callers because we provide long-term support apart from initial support. But with Covid, most callers were those facing psychosocial concerns related to the pandemic and we realised the need for a separate helpline number catering solely to Covid affected people,” added Joshi. Towards the end of March 2020, two new helpline numbers were introduced by iCall—one for general public wanting to share their Covid-related fears and concerns emanating from the lockdown, and the second catering to health and mental health professionals. The first dedicated COVID helpline was supported by the Mariwala Health Foundation that supports iCall’s regular helpline too. Introduced in partnership with the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the idea behind the second helpline, SWASTHI, for health and mental health professionals was to address concerns of people who were “providing services to others, but were getting completely burnt out as they were also affected by the same trauma that the clients were talking about”. On an average, iCall would address anywhere between 5,000-8,000 calls a year, but between March 2020 and March 2021, the original helpline number addressed over 20,000 calls from across 29 states and union territories. The Covid-specific helpline number received 3,892 calls between April 17 and December 31, 2020. And apart from these, the helpline was also catering to people via emails and responded to nearly 1,500 emails every month last year. “The Covid-specific helpline received maximum calls from the northern and western states and showed that a majority of calls came from the 21-30 age group. The nature of the calls ranged from practical concerns such as access to medicines, health facilities, food, etc to livelihood-related and mental health concerns,” said Joshi, adding the general helpline also received maximum calls with Covid-related anxiety, emotional distress calls, relationship concerns, academic and job-related concerns as well as suicidal ideations. A report on the numbers recently appeared in the Journal of Social and Economic Development highlighted how in the first wave of the pandemic, most calls received by the helpline number were related to the fear of the pandemic, fuelled by low levels of awareness. What made matters worse were constant exposure to media reports of rising number of cases and deaths, leaving individuals worried about their health and safety. Many callers also addressed the problem of a flailing health system which could not support those in need, whereas others highlighted the plight of job losses and the economic slowdown on the livelihoods of individuals which directly affected their mental well-being. “One of the significant themes for which callers sought help from iCall regularly pertained to relationship conflicts, reported by individuals from different age groups including parent-child, intimate, married, long distance and peer relationships. Families, forced to stay together for extended periods, found it difficult to navigate through this enforced togetherness,” highlighted the report. Stranded in the same household with parents, spouses and children led to newer triggers for conflicts. “There has been an increase in cases of family members complaining of lack of personal space as all members are home-bound, leading to higher stress and anxiety disorders among all age groups,” said clinical psychologist, Dr Seema Hingorrany. “In the past one year, more young couples are worried that they are headed towards divorce, whereas youngsters are witnessing domestic violence instances between their parents and this has left many scarred,” she said, adding that more therapists are now resorting to family therapy sessions for such cases. Recently, iCall was recognised and listed as a mental health innovation by the Global Mental Health Innovation Network, giving the helpline workers the much-deserved recognition and accolades. “iCall fills the huge treatment gap that exists in mental health services in the country, especially in covid times. Designed as a free, confidential, multilingual, telephone-based service by trained counsellors, it aligns with the core principle of the UN Sustainable Development Goals—‘leave no one behind’,” said professor Shalini Bharat, director, TISS. She added that as a community connected institute of higher learning, TISS remains committed to innovating services and programs for improving health and wellbeing of people. “The Global Mental Health Innovation Network Award to iCall is a huge reaffirmation of our conviction that educational institutes must remain socially relevant and use knowledge to find solutions to people’s problems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/attending-to-all-calls-for-help-for-a-year-101620588194692.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Vaccination drive for 45+ only for 5 hours today||Amid the shortage of vaccine stock, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will conduct the vaccination drive for the 45+ age group only for five hours on Monday.The BMC had received a stock of around 200,000 vaccine doses in the past one week, which has nearly exhausted. Further, 14 new vaccination centres are also expected to function in the city from Monday.According to BMC officials, the stock that is left is not sufficient to vaccinate around 40,000-50,000 citizens. The BMC, in a statement on Monday, said the vaccination drive will only be open between noon and 5 pm. However, the BMC did not specify how much stock was remaining nor did it announce how many vaccine doses are expected to arrive in the city. At the time of going to the press, Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department, said, “We are running low on stock, and exactly how many centres will run on Monday for 45+ will be announced late in the night. We are awaiting reports from every centre on how much stock they have with them, based on which we will take a decision.”However, vaccination for the 18-44 age group will continue normally between 9am and 5pm. The BMC also announced addition of two new centres, including Dindoshi Hall in Malad and Rajasthan Seva Sangh in Malad, for vaccination of the 18-44 age group. Additionally, 12 new centres will open for the 45+ age group starting Monday. These include MCGM Welfare Centre (Chakala), Shri Gurunanak Gurudwara (Andheri), Squatters Colony Welfare Center (Jogeshwari), Jain Mandir (Andheri), Shastri Nagar Health Post (Borivali), Navagaon Health Post (Borivali), St Michael Church (Mahim), Riddhi Garden (Malad), Shardaben Patel Ground Hall (Malad), Municipal Eye Hospital (Kamathipura), St Isabel School Hall (Reay Road) and Atal Smriti Udyan (Borivali).Meanwhile, on Sunday, only 19,631 citizens were vaccinated in the city, of which 3,289 were in the age group of 18 to 44, 7,727 in the age group of 45 to 59, 7,052 in the age group of 60+ and the remaining were health care and frontline workers. Overall, 2,700,431 citizens have been vaccinated in the city since January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-vaccination-drive-for-45-only-for-5-hours-today-101620588135719.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||Senior Air India pilot loses battle to Covid-19||A senior Air India pilot who operated flights under the government’s Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) and cargo flights, lost battle to Covid-19 on Sunday. The 54-year-old, Capt. Amitesh Prasad who operated Boeing 777, was a resident of Kandivli and had last landed in Bangalore on April 15. He, however, complained of symptoms after reaching Mumbai and tested positive on April 20, after which, he was immediately admitted to the hospital. An Air India official said, “His last flight was AI 176, San Francisco, to Bangalore. He landed in India on April 15 and tested positive on April 20 and was moved to the hospital shortly after.” A pilot’s friend said that Capt. Prasad was involved in several cargo flights in the initial stage of the pandemic, flying emergency supplies from China. “He also operated several Vande Bharat flights throughout the pandemic. He breathed his last at 1.30am on Sunday in KJ Somaiya Hospital, Sion,” the pilot said. A statement issued by Indian Pilot’s Guild (IPG) read, “Amitesh was loved by all for his gentle nature. We are blessed to have been able to call him our colleague and friend. Amitesh has faithfully served Air India since December 1995 where he joined Flight Despatch. Over the years he worked hard and made his way to the rank of Commander on the Boeing777 fleet. He was actively involved in flying cargo missions to Shanghai and Guangzhou when the pandemic struck last year. And has been flying Vande Bharat flights to the US and back until he recently fell ill with Covid-19.”Capt. Prasad is succeeded by his wife, who is also undergoing treatment for Covid at the hospital, and his two teenaged children. Air India officials said that the wife is currently stable. Close pilot friends said that Capt. Prasad’s daughter is studying in Canada and his 15-year-old son studying in the city and is currently residing with his relatives. Air India pilots said that the frontliners are not given priority for vaccination, which has been communicated to the management by both the pilots’ unions. While IPG, union of Boeing pilots, wrote to the Air India management on April 28, the Indian Commercial Pilot’s Association, an Airbus pilots union warned to stop work, if the management does not start a vaccination drive and if pilots are not given priority. “He is the second pilot to lose his battle to Covid, in Air India. The previous pilot, however, was not flying while he contracted Covid,” said an Air India official. “We have been risking our lives to fly for the nation. Despite the pandemic claiming lives and difficulty in even getting treatment due to lack of medical infrastructure, the management has not begun vaccination drives. We have been assured that they will conduct the vaccination drive from May 15, however, this should have been done at least a month earlier,” said a senior Air India pilot.“However, in due fairness, after the pilot was admitted, the airline’s medical staff did everything they could, to help Capt. Prasad,” he added. This is not it. Air India also lost its maintenance engineer on Sunday. 41-year-old Johnson Turkey, a Kolkata based engineer also succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/senior-air-india-pilot-loses-battle-to-covid19-101620588135212.html
10-05-2021||Mumbai||Speed bumps ahead for Maharashtra’s vaccination drive||Amid a shortage of Covaxin doses, Maharashtra has received 36,000 doses of the vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech, expected to be used for the second dose. The state on Sunday received 703,000 doses of Covishield for inoculation of people over 45 years, which would help the state continue its drive, albeit at a slow pace. Maharashtra also received the 350,000 doses of Covishield it purchased from the Serum Institute of India for vaccination of the 18-44 age group category.On Saturday, the state health department had written a letter to the Centre, urgently seeking Covaxin doses, as over 500,000 people from the age group of above 45 years were due for their second dose. State immunisation officer DN Patil said the state has received “only 36,000 doses of Covaxin” and the state is expecting more in the coming week. “On Sunday, we received 703,000 doses of Covishield and only 36,000 doses of Covaxin for the vaccination of people over age 45. Besides that, we received 350,000 Covishield vaccines, which the state government has purchased for vaccination of people in the 18-44 category. All the doses have been shipped out to various districts and the drive will continue,” Patil said.Over the past three days, the state’s daily vaccination numbers have seen a dip for want of doses. On Thursday, state inoculated 455,109 beneficiaries, followed by 363,765 on Friday. On Saturday, the state inoculated 236,960 beneficiaries. On Sunday, figures on the CoWin portal showed that the state inoculated 109,276 beneficiaries. So far, the state has fully vaccinated 3,350,633 beneficiaries, while 14,710,907 have taken their first shot. Tope on Sunday said the vaccination drive in the state is going on at a “slow pace” due to unavailability of adequate number of doses. He said the state’s priority is to vaccinate the 57.1 million population in the 18-44 category, but wants the Centre to clear the hurdles of permissions to procure foreign vaccines.“Currently, our vaccination drive is going on in a slow pace because vaccines are not being made available. Chief minister has clearly said that Maharashtra has to potential to purchase 120 million doses in one go, but availability is the main issue. The Centre must intervene in this matter and make vaccine doses available for Maharashtra. The vaccination of 18-44 category is crucial as the age group steps out of their homes. If the government gives permission, we can procure Sputnik or other foreign vaccines for the citizens of our state. There are several approvals needed from the Centre,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/speed-bumps-ahead-for-maharashtra-s-vaccination-drive-101620585854466.html
