11-05-2021||Mumbai||CID to record statements of 'bookies' in case against Param Bir Singh||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of Maharashtra Police has called alleged cricket bookies Sonu Jalan, Ketan Tanna and Munir Khan to record their statements on Wednesday in connection with their allegations against IPS officer Param Bir Singh, sources said.Jalan and others, who have lodged complaints of extortion against the former Mumbai police commissioner, have been called to the Belapur office of the CID, sources added.The trio had written a letter to state Director General of Police Sanjay Pandey last month, accusing Singh of extortion. The complaints were handed over to the CID for investigation.Meanwhile, the state Anti-Corruption Bureau has initiated a discreet inquiry against Singh in corruption complaints lodged against him by police inspectors Anup Dange and Bhimrao Ghadge, an ACB official said.Singh was shunted out as the top cop of Mumbai after the role of policeman Sachin Waze surfaced during the investigation of the explosives-laden SUV that was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai.Singh later levelled allegations of bribery against then state home minister Anil Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cid-to-record-statements-of-bookies-in-case-against-param-bir-singh-101620752141744.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 40,956 new Covid cases; Mumbai’s daily caseload down to 1,717||Maharashtra’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday went up again with 40,956 new cases and 793 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department’s bulletin. With this, the caseload and death toll in the state climbed to 5,179,929 and 77,191 respectively and the total recoveries stand at 4,541,391, the bulletin showed.Tuesday’s case count in Maharashtra is 3,720 more than that of Monday’s, when 37,236 new cases were recorded, the lowest since March 30 this year.However, the state capital Mumbai continued to report a downward trend in its daily Covid-19 tally as less than 2,000 (1,717 to be exact) new cases were recorded for a second straight day, taking the caseload to 679,129. Fifty-one people died while 6,082 recovered on Tuesday, taking the city’s death toll and total recoveries to 13,906. On Monday, Mumbai recorded 1,782 new cases and 74 more deaths.Maharashtra is currently the worst-hit state from the pandemic across India and is adding the maximum to the country’s new cases and deaths.Also Read| Maharashtra, UP, Delhi among 18 states where daily Covid-19 cases falling: GovtHowever, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday that Maharashtra along with Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and other states, is witnessing a decline in its daily Covid-19 cases. Addressing a press briefing, health ministry officials said that such states should continue to focus on their containment efforts so that the rate of infection keeps on reducing.Maharashtra is currently observing lockdown-like restrictions till May 15. These restrictions are expected to continue till the end of the month and a decision on the same will be taken in the state’s cabinet on Wednesday.As Maharashtra continues to face acute shortage in supplies of vaccine doses, state health minister Rajesh Tope announced on Tuesday that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) led government will now divert doses procured for inoculating people between 18-44 years to give the second dose to all to give second dose to 45+ beneficiaries.Also Read| Maharashtra diverts Covid-19 vaccines for 18-44 age group. Minister explains whyThis decision comes after Tope had requested the Centre last week to provide more vaccine doses to the state and indicated if the adequate supplies are not available, the state will have to divert vaccines meant for the 18-44 age group to those above 45 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-adds-40-956-new-covid-cases-mumbai-s-daily-caseload-down-to-1717-101620738902131.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra diverts vaccines for 18-44 yrs to 45+ amid shortage of supply: Health minister Rajesh Tope||The Maharashtra government has diverted the Covid-19 vaccine procured for inoculating those between the age of 18 and 44 to give second dose to 45+ beneficiaries. This was announced by state health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday."The decision has been taken in the wake of the short supply of vaccines for 45-plus beneficiaries by the central government," said Tope. “Efficacy of the vaccine is largely affected if the second dose is not administered within the stipulated time period,” he further said.The state health minister added that more than 2.1 million people above the age of 45 are due for their second dose, and out of them 1.6 million are for Covishield. Tope said that only 35,000 doses of Covaxin are available.Also Read| Maharashtra, UP, Delhi among 18 states where daily Covid-19 cases falling: GovtMaharashtra, in accordance with the Centre’s guidelines, started the third phase of the vaccination drive from May 1 to inoculate people between 18 and 44 years. In April, when the second phase of the vaccination drive was underway, several vaccination centres in the capital city of Mumbai, Pune, Panvel andother districts of the state were closed as they ran out of doses.More than 18.2 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Maharashtra so far with 14,776,548 vaccinated with the first dose and the remaining 3,487,664 given both doses. The worst-hit state in the country is seeing a fall in its daily cases of Covid-19 and related deaths in the past few days. On Monday, less than 40,000 new cases were recorded, the lowest single-day tally in 41 days.Also Read| 'Centre can do away with Covid-19 vaccine monopoly': Kejriwal writes to PM ModiMaharashtra’s caseload currently stands at 5,138,973 with 76,398 deaths and 4,469,425 recoveries.The Centre, meanwhile, on Tuesday told states to prioritise inoculation for those beneficiaries who are due for the second dose of the vaccine and reserve a minimum of 70 per cent of the doses for this purpose and the remaining 30 per cent for those waiting for the first dose. “This however is indicative. States have the liberty to enhance this to as much as 100 per cent,” the Union health ministry said in a statement.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-diverts-vaccines-for-18-44-yrs-to-45-amid-shortage-of-supply-tope-101620731827024.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Over 2,000 cases, 8 deaths from Mucormycosis in Maharashtra so far, govt creating special wards: Health minister Tope||After announcing free treatment for patients suffering from the rare fungal infection of Mucormycosis, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said more than 2,000 cases have been reported and eight people have succumbed to the infection in the state so far. He said that the state government is creating special wards for these patients, reported news agency ANI."Mucormycosis patients will be treated for free under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. Over 2,000 cases have been reported and 8 people have died of this infection in the state so far. We are making special wards for these patients," ANI quoted Tope as saying.Tope on Monday announced the free treatment of patients of Mucormycosis under the Maharashtra government's flagship medical insurance scheme -- Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana.Patients will get free treatment under the health scheme at 1,000 hospitals across the state. The minister announced about the free treatment citing that the cost of medicines for the treatment is expensive, hence the aid will be provided to the patients.Also read: Telangana announces 10-day Covid-19 lockdown, all activities allowed from 6-10amMucormycosis or 'black fungus' is a growing concern in Covid-19 patients in India. The disease that is strongly linked to diabetes can lead to blackening or discoloration over the nose, blurred or double vision, chest pain, breathing difficulties and coughing blood. The infection is found to be in Covid-19 patients with diabetes and compromised immune systems. Covid-19 and its treatment can have a severe impact on patients with diabetes as it can be exacerbated by steroids like dexamethasone during the treatment of the viral disease.Tope also said that the symptoms of fungal infection are being reported in Covid-19 patients who are diabetic and whose diabetes is not under control. The state health minister also said that an awareness campaign to educate people about the infection will also be organised.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Meanwhile, Odisha also reported its first case of Mucormycosis on Monday in a 71-year old man with a history of uncontrolled diabetesUncontrolled diabetes, mellitus cancers, organ transplant, long-term corticosteroid and immunosuppressive therapy and HIV/AIDS increase the risk of fungal infection, the Union health ministry said in a statement.The statement added that a drop in immunity due to the steroids used in the treatment can be a triggering factor in some cases of the disease, but it is still uncommon.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-2-000-cases-8-deaths-from-mucormycosis-in-maharashtra-so-far-govt-creating-special-wards-health-minister-tope-101620721263680.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Internal, entrance exam surveys: FYJC aspirants remain confused||The state education department’s move to conduct surveys asking students and schools for feasibility of internal assessments and entrance exams for Class 10, and first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions has created confusion in the absence of clear guidelines from the department. More than two weeks after the Maharashtra government declared the cancellation of SSC (Class 10) exams in the state, the education department on May 9 asked schools to fill out a survey form indicating whether or not marking students on internal assessments will be feasible. The department has also sent out another survey form asking for feedback on the conduct of entrance exams for FYJC, a plan that it has been mulling over the past few days after receiving suggestions to that effect.More than 83% schools are prepared for internal assessments, while over 66% students are ready for entrance tests, said an official So far, the education department has got responses from over 19,000 schools and more than 2.73 lakh students and the last date to submit is May 11.Schools said that while they have been asked to fill out the forms indicating their preparedness, it has led to further panic among students as they do not know what decision will be ultimately taken for marking and admissions to junior colleges. “The government cannot ask students who have studied for an entire year for their boards if they can give an entrance exam now for admissions to colleges. Students are not prepared for it and even if they agree to undergo these exams, there is a lot of uncertainty around what their syllabus will be and how they will be conducted. The government should first come up with a decision basis its consultations with stakeholders such as schools, experts and students, instead of creating further confusion,” said the principal of a suburban school.Officials at the education department claimed that a majority of students and schools have said that such a format is feasible.Many however questioned the survey methodology and said its results cannot be trusted. “It is an open Google form which anyone can fill and one has no idea whether the people filling it are from schools,” said a teacher. Meanwhile, the BMC education committee in its meeting held on Monday discussed the need to stay prepared for vaccinating students as and when guidelines with regards to come from the Centre and state. “We’ll also have to ensure that all teachers and staff are vaccinated in coming days,” said Sainath Durge, member of BMC education committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/internal-entrance-exam-surveys-fyjc-aspirants-remain-confused-101620675500770.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbaiites say they’re being sent back sans shot, portal shows they got 1st dose||In the midst of vaccine shortage, there’s a new hassle. Potential beneficiaries with appointments are being sent back home without jabs, only to receive auto-generated messages from the centralised Co-WIN portal about completion of vaccination, leading to panic and confusion among citizens. Take for instance, Sunita Madhur, 37, who, after trying for two days finally got a slot for vaccination at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo centre on May 9. She reached the centre by 4pm, and after waiting in the queue for an hour was informed that vials for those above the age of 18 years got over. She, along with many others in the same age category, were asked to try again the next day and sent back home. But on reaching her Parel home, she got a message stating completion of her first Covishield shot The message also contained a link through which she could get the final vaccination certificate.“There is so much harassment. We are unnecessarily exposing ourselves to contracting the virus at overcrowded centres just to be sent back home. Also, due to this technical glitch, I can’t even book another slot,” she said. In another incident, S Ramanathan, 61, went to Cama Hospital on May 9 to take his second shot of Covishield. After waiting for three hours, around 3.15pm in the afternoon, he couldn’t get the shot as the vials got over. But in the evening, he got a similar message about completion of the second dose. Later, when he logged into the Co-WIN portal, it showed that he had completed both the shots. “I was extremely confused and didn’t know what to do. I called BMC’s helpline number for guidance but didn’t get much help. Yesterday, I visited the hospital again and explained the technical glitch. Thankfully, they understood and gave the shot,” he said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has informed the central health department about the technical glitch. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said such a technical glitch has been observed in a few cases. “It is not in our hands as the error is in Co-WIN, so we have informed the central government about it. People who are witnessing such issues should visit the centres again immediately and explain the issue.” People across the state are experiencing a similar situation. Shruti Nair, 33, a resident of Pune went to get her first shot at rural Kanhe Phata hospital around 9.30am on May 5. Later, those public above 18 years were referred to another vaccination centre. But still didn’t get the shot. However, like many others, she also received a message of completion of the first dose. Now, to get the vaccine, she had to re-register on the Co-WIN portal again with a different number and identify proof. “When I tried to book the slot again, I was shown June 2 as my next appointment date for my second shot. I didn’t have any other option but to create a new profile. But I will wait until the state has enough vials, as I don’t want to go through the same harassment,” she said. Despite repeated attempts, Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, did not respond to calls or messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiites-say-they-re-being-sent-back-sans-shot-portal-shows-they-got-1st-dose-101620675321357.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||₹1,100-crore Mission Oxygen to add 1,000 MT in six months||To prepare for the third wave and take the state to self-sustainability in terms of oxygen supply for medical purposes, the Maharashtra government has planned a ₹1,100-crore Mission Oxygen. It is expected to get a cabinet nod this week.Under the plan, the state has set a target of taking the daily generation of oxygen to 2,300 metric tonnes (MT) in the next six months, and to extend it to 3,000 MT in two years. It is also considering an option to invest in oxygen plants, instead of depending entirely on private sector. The state’s current requirement of oxygen is 1,600 MT daily. Maharashtra has a local production of 1,295 MT a day, and gets around 400-500 MT by way of allocation from the Central government from other states. Although the state has been able to fulfil its current demand for Covid-19 patients, it has chalked out a plan in anticipation of the third wave. Its Mission Oxygen will have short- and long-term plans, with the first phase of addition of 500 MT to be achieved in next three months and additional another 500 MT in six months as its short-term goal. Currently, a majority of plants are owned by private sector, but now the state wants to invest in plants to build its capacity at the earliest. “38 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants have already started generating 53 MT a day, while work orders to set up 240 such plants with a generation capacity of 240 MT a day have already been issued. The daily oxygen generation capacity of these plants vary from 0.5 to 5 MT and cost ₹20 lakh and above. Similarly, we are planning air separation units (ASUs), which take some time for installation across the state. Besides it, we are planning to utilise the existing capacity of 600 MT of generation plants in gaseous form, by providing compression and bottling facilities to them. This would help take the generation to 2,300 MT in six months,” said an official from Mantralaya. The official, who does not wish to be quoted as the proposal is yet to be formally approved by the cabinet, said that some of the liquid medical oxygen plants are expected to be installed by private players. He said the programme also includes capacity building by private sector to add to their current generation of oxygen.The official said the state government is also augmenting its storage capacity to more than 10,000 MT by installing tanks at district and divisional levels. “Currently, we have been consuming the stock we get on daily basis, without having any buffer stock. It is not an ideal situation during the time of a pandemic. We waste hours filing the oxygen from steel plants in other states and then its transportation. By creating storage capacity of over 11,000 MT, we will be in position to stock the oxygen to last for at least for seven days,” the official said. The state cabinet is expected to give its formal nod to the ₹1,100-crore programme in its meeting this week. By implementing the programme, the state government wants to end its dependence on Central government for additional oxygen for Covid patients. “Though the Centre has been allocating 400-500 MT in addition to our domestic consumption of 1,295 MT, the Central government may ask Maharashtra to supply oxygen to other states from domestic consumption. We have been asked to supply 11 MT from generation in Kolhapur to Goa, when we have been facing shortage locally. Besides its allocation of 60 MT from Bellary in Karnataka was blocked leading to shortfall in the supply. By ramping up our own capacity through Mission Oxygen, we want be self-reliant in the next six months,” said another official.Meanwhile, Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), India’s premier container port, successfully executed the handling of four containers carrying 80 MT medical oxygen in cryogenic state in the vessel MV. GSF GISELLE of AXS service. The medical oxygen containers were sent by United Arab Emirates.MV. GSF GISELLE, carrying the containers reached JNPT on Monday, after departing from Jebel Ali, on the southern outskirts of Dubai on May 5. Inputs from G Mohiuddin Jeddy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1100crore-mission-oxygen-to-add-1-000-mt-in-six-months-101620675080662.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||How Mumbai NGOs are helping spread the vaccine safety net||As the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has made it compulsory for citizens across all age groups to have a prior online appointment for vaccination, several non-government organisations (NGO) and corporators have stepped forward to help slum dwellers who have no access to smartphones and internet or don’t know how to use the booking app or portal. The BMC, on May 6, citing overcrowding at several vaccination centres across the city, suspended the walk-in vaccination drive, and made it mandatory for citizens to register and book an appointment to take the jab. This came in the backdrop of a stampede-like situation reported at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo vaccination centre. Starting May 7, the BMC has been allowing only those with online appointments for vaccination, which has added to the struggle of senior citizens and those with no access to the internet. Sachin Nachnekar from NGO YUVA, said, “The vaccine help desks in 12 slums of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region have reached out to 860+ people and helped 260+ people on board the Co-WIN platform since April 29. In Mumbai, we have set up help desks in areas such as Dahisar, Kandivli, Malad and Jogeshwari with 116 volunteers helping citizens.”Maharashtra Peco Net – a group of NGOs, citizen volunteers, corporate and government bodies – have reached out to around 1.1 million citizens in the state and assisted around 77,902 citizens get vaccinated by setting up 51 vaccination help desks. Poornima Nair, director-health & disability from NGO Apnalaya, said, “We are training around 20 volunteers who will tour Shivaji Nagar in Govandi, spread awareness about Covid-19 vaccines, manage misinformation of vaccines and lastly helping citizens register and book online slots. We are operating door-to-door and will cover a population of 52,000-55,000 citizens.” Another NGO Alert Citizen Forum is also helping many get vaccinated by helping them book a slot online. Several corporators across the city too have lent a helping hand to senior citizens and those who are not tech-savvy. Corporators across party lines are opening up tele-guidance and setting up help desks in their wards. Abhishek Ghosalkar, former corporator from Dahisar, said, “I have formed a team of 10 youngsters who are available in my party office for four hours. In these four hours, we take requests from senior citizens or slum dwellers. Later, when the slots are open, we book slots for them. We help around 40 to 50 citizens in the 45+ age group daily… Earlier, we were arranging buses, but citizens did not show up for vaccination, and now citizens want to get vaccinated, but we are not able to ensure a slot to everyone. However, in the coming days, as more stock arrives, I will increase the number of volunteers to ensure more citizens get the benefit.” As per the 2011 census, of the 12.4 million population in the city, over 4 million lives in slums and not everyone has access to smartphones. Raees Shaikh, Samajwadi Party corporator from Mumbai Central, said, “Aadhaar card is not enough to get the jab. Rather, a car and high-speed internet are also a big necessity. It can’t get more elitist than this. When we talk about online registration and appointments, we are forgetting senior citizens, those who do not own a smartphone, and those residing in slums.” Sandeep Patel, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator from Goregaon, said, “Earlier, when walk-in vaccination was allowed, we used to ensure that senior citizens and every citizen who does not know how to go online and register gets vaccinated. We had set up a help desk to register citizens outside the vaccination centre in my ward. But today, nothing is in our hands and the complete system is online.” Patel said, “I am getting calls from citizens in my ward that many from outside the ward are coming to the centres near their houses and are getting vaccinated. This is injustice to locals. We will have to allow walk-ins.” On Monday, a BJP delegation led by leader of Opposition Pravin Darekar met municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal to raise the issues of citizens. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of the ward, which covers Dharavi, said, “We are taking help from NGOs and elected representatives for vaccination of citizens in Dharavi. Earlier, we organised buses for citizens to travel till vaccination centres, but now we are having a dedicated vaccination centre in Dharavi. NGOs are helping citizens complete the online registration.” Prithviraj Chauhan, assistant municipal commissioner covering Chembur, said, “We are having citizen desks at ward offices and even vaccination centres are guiding citizens on how to book online. It is also expected that every house has at least one person who is tech-savvy. But all this will change once we have more vaccine doses and walk-ins will be allowed.” On Monday, 31,043 citizens were vaccinated in the city, of which 4,837 were between the ages of 18 and 44, 11,047 in the 45-59 age group, 10,591 were senior citizens and the rest were healthcare and frontline workers. The BMC said on Tuesday 16 additional vaccination centres will be made operational in the city from the 190 centres, as of Monday. The BMC has stock of around 100,000 vaccine does of which around 20,000 are Covaxin and the remaining are Covishield. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The vaccination drive will continue on Tuesday and all those given appointments will be accommodated.”Reacting on those who cannot book appointments online, state minister Aadtiya Thackeray said, “We are working on a way to make vaccines more accessible to people who are unfamiliar with technology.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/how-mumbai-ngos-are-helping-spread-the-vaccine-safety-net-101620674960698.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees rise in vaccinations with 288,581 beneficiaries on Monday||A day after clocking around 110,000 vaccinations, the Covid-19 immunisation drive in Maharashtra saw a slight improvement with 288,581 beneficiaries getting inoculated on Monday across 4,404 centres in the state. So far, the state has vaccinated 18,374,452 beneficiaries and 3,489,266 of them have received both the doses. In the past one month, the state has administered over 8.1 million doses.However, the state government has a vaccine stock that would last only for the next two to three days, officials said. A state health department official who did not wish to be named said, “We have received stock in the weekend that has allowed us to continue the vaccination drive. Our vaccination drive will continue on a slow pace for want of enough doses. We are expecting another batch of vaccine from the Centre during the week to allow us to continue vaccination across all centres.”In case of failing to get more doses from the Centre, the state could reduce the number of active vaccination centres. “Looking at our speed, the Centre ought to send us 1.5 to 2 million doses in a week, but it is not happening. We received a little over 700,000 doses in the weekend. After Monday, there would be around 350,000 to 400,000 vaccines remaining, which will suffice for two or three days,” the officer added.Meanwhile, the state is still awaiting the stock of Covaxin from the Centre even as nearly 550,000 people in the state are due for the second shot of the Bharat Biotech vaccine. The state government has written to Centre seeking Covaxin and has received a meagre 36,000 doses. “Despite following up with the Centre, they are not giving us Covaxin for people aged over 45 years. It is their responsibility to provide it. People are getting agitated. I will again speak to the Union health minister over this,” said Rajesh Tope, state health minister. Officials added that the state government will decide to divert its stock of Covaxin to inoculate the people who are yet to take their second shot.Tope also said that the state government will decide on the categorisation of the 18-44 age group this week. The state is expected to give priority to people between the age of 35 and 44, with preference to people with comorbidities. “The plan for categorisation will be ready within this week. We will add criteria such as comorbidities,” Tope said. He further added that they intend to start vaccination of 18-44 age group on their app, but so far they have not received a go-ahead from the Centre to create a new app for the state. Officials added that one option before the state is to start offline vaccination. However, officials are wary to start offline vaccination of such a large group. Offline vaccination could also require a go-ahead from the Centre. When asked if the state plans to write to Centre seeking permission to allow offline vaccination of 18-44 group, Tope said, “We can do offline, but the issue is that keeping a record is a major issue. We have to record each vaccination properly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-rise-in-vaccinations-with-288-581-beneficiaries-on-monday-101620674240077.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||BMC to add 500 beds to treat Covid-19 in children and infants||To prepare for a possible rise in Covid-19 cases among infants and children in the projected third wave which is likely to hit mid-year, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to add at least 500 beds to exclusively treat Covid-positive children and infants. These can be increased as and when needed, civic authorities said. As part of the plan, the civic body will convert three maternity homes — one each in the island city, and eastern and western suburbs — into dedicated Covid-19 paediatric hospitals. This is among decisions taken by the civic body last Friday in a meeting chaired by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “We aim to start by adding 500 beds in the paediatric wards. But if the need arises, this can be scaled to as many beds as we need. All existing jumbo facilities will have a reserved paediatric ward. The jumbo facilities have a capacity to add 200 to 250 beds to the paediatric section.” Presently Mumbai has six jumbo facilities — NSCI at Worli, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Nesco in Goregaon, Dahisar jumbo facility which has two wings, Mulund, and one at Richardson and Cruddas. BMC will also identify maternity homes across the city where a part of the beds will be reserved for children and infants. Kakani said, “Presently, some hospitals have maternity wards that are already treating pregnant women who are Covid-positive. For example, BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central has a maternity ward for pregnant women with Covid-19 infection. Such wards will have partial number of beds reserved for Covid-positive children and infants.” The civic body has asked all private hospitals in the city to prepare their maternity wards to handle Covid cases in kids and to ramp infrastructure to handle such cases. Presently, at least 173 municipal, private and government hospitals treat Covid-19 patients in the city. The four upcoming Jumbo facilities at Malad, Sion, Kanjurmarg, and Mahalaxmi will also have dedicated paediatric wards, Kakani said. Meanwhile, Mumbai has reported a steady decline in the number of daily Covid-19 cases with 1,782 cases and 72 deaths on Monday. The city has reported less than 2,000 cases for the first time since March 16, when it had reported 1,922 cases. There are now 677,412 total cases in Mumbai and the toll is 13,855. The city has 47,054 active cases. On Sunday, Mumbai conducted 23,061 Covid-19 tests, which reported Monday’s cases, with a positivity rate of 7.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-add-500-beds-to-treat-covid-19-in-children-and-infants-101620674180003.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir’s allegations: Team of 5 to assist panel||More than five weeks after the appointment of a single-member probe committee under retired high court judge KU Chandiwal, the state on Monday appointed a team of five officials to assist it. The delay in deciding the remuneration of the probe committee chief and appointment of the staff to assist it is reportedly because of the parallel probe started by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the case.The committee, appointed on March 30, will probe the allegations levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against former home minister Anil Deshmukh. In his letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh had alleged that the home minister had asked police officers from crime branch to collect Rs100 crore a month from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours.The government resolution issued on Monday has named Bhaiyaasaheb Behere, deputy collector with BMC, as secretary of the committee, Ad Shishir Hire as its counsel. Other three retired government officers have been appointed administrative officer (sheristadar), stenographer and office superintendent. The panel has been asked to submit its report in six months. The three-point terms of reference given to the committee include whether Singh has submitted any proof in his letter dated March 20 to establish that Deshmukh or anyone from his office committed any offence as alleged; whether the allegations levelled by Singh, citing the messages from ACP Sanjay Patil, (suspended) API Sachin Vaze, have any truth; and whether they need to be investigated by the ACB or any other agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-s-allegations-team-of-5-to-assist-panel-101620672859708.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||1 litre of petrol crosses ₹100 in Parbhani, diesel at ₹90.10||The price of one litre of petrol crossed ₹100 in Parbhani in Maharashtra on Monday. One litre of petrol was available at ₹100.24, while one litre of diesel was priced at ₹90.10.With an increase of 25 paise on petrol and 35 paise on diesel on Sunday, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹97.86 and one litre of diesel was available at ₹89.17 on Monday. The hike comes after the prices of petroleum products stabilised on Sunday. On Saturday, petrol was priced at ₹97.61 for one litre and diesel was priced at ₹88.82. Transporters have stated they will urge the Central Government to reduce the prices. “The government should have cut the excise duties and asked the states to lower their Value Added Tax (VAT) to provide some relief, but its insensitivity towards the plight of people continues unabated.” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motors Transport Congress. The rise in fuel prices in the city was witnessed on Tuesday after remaining constant since April 15. On April 15, the price of one litre of petrol was ₹96.83 and diesel was ₹87.81.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1-litre-of-petrol-crosses-100-in-parbhani-diesel-at-9010-101620672679812.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra likely to extend lockdown by two weeks||The Maharashtra government is likely to extend the lockdown till May-end, even as it reported its lowest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in 41 days. With 37,236 new Covid-19 infections (27,918 cases were reported on March 30), the state’s tally went up to 5,138,973, while the toll rose to 76,398 with 549 more deaths.The significant dip in cases on Monday can be attributed to the drop in number of tests to 192,330 in 24 hours, below the daily average of over 2,50,000 tests over the past few weeks. The test positivity rate on Monday stood at 19.36%, against the weekly rate of 20.82%. Mumbai, too, saw its lowest one-day spike in 56 days (1,782 cases), after reporting 1,713 infections on March 15. The state government is, however, all set to extend its current lockdown by another two weeks after it ends at 7am on May 15. The lockdown will be as strict as it is currently, while in some districts where the cases are on the rise, the local administration is expected to impose stricter curbs. The decision is expected to be taken in the state cabinet on Wednesday. At present, cases are on the rise in 21 districts and dropping in 15, including Mumbai and Thane. The slowed-down vaccination drive is another reason for extension of the lockdown.“Though the daily caseload has stabilised over the past few weeks, it is still at the average of over 55,000, which is much higher than the peak of the first wave, when the highest daily peak was 24,886 cases on September 11 last year. We will still have to follow stricter curbs to bring the cases down. The strain on the health infrastructure has been reduced significantly with more than 25% beds in the state vacant. In some districts, the percentage is 40. But some districts like Kolhapur, Sangli are witnessing rise in the number of cases. More than half the districts are still logging rise in daily cases. In such a scenario,the lockdown will continue in its current form at least for two more weeks,” said an official from Mantralaya.Currently, only essential establishments are allowed to operate between 7am and 11am, while attendance in government offices has been brought down to 15%. People are not allowed to venture out without a valid reason. The inter-district travel, too, has been restricted only for the medical and valid reasons.A senior Shiv Sena minister said that the decision of extension by two weeks was taken in the cabinet when it was unanimously decided, in last week of April, to impose lockdown. “We had decided to extend it by two weeks instead of announcing it for four weeks at a go,” he said.Mumbai’s guardian minister Aslam Shaikh on Monday said the decision over the lockdown will be taken after discussion in the cabinet. “We have been augmenting our health infrastructure during the lockdown to face the second wave and in anticipation of the potential third wave of the pandemic. We have been witnessing good result of the lockdown as cases in Mumbai and other cities have come down significantly. Considering this, the decision over giving relaxations in the districts with a drop in cases and stricter norms where cases are on the rise, will be taken,” he said.Some of the districts have imposed stricter lockdown amid the rise in cases. Buldhana district’s guardian minister Rajendra Shingne announced that the district has terminated internal public transport service until May 20. The shops, too, have been shut down for more than a week beginning from Tuesday.Pune district remains on the top in term of daily cases with 4,685 cases reported on Monday, followed by 3,813 cases in Ahmednagar, 2,545 in Nagpur, 2,234 in Nashik. The daily caseload in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) dropped to 4,883 on Monday from over 10,000 cases a few days ago. After Mumbai, Latur (51), Beed(42), Kalhapur (26) districts reported high number of deaths.With the drop in active cases to 590,818, the state’s recovery rate improved to 86.97%. Highest active patients, 97,593, are in Pune, followed by 47,054 in Mumbai and 34,185 in Thane. State has 3,670,320 people in home quarantine and 26,664 institutionally quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-likely-to-extend-lockdown-by-two-weeks-101620672019691.html
11-05-2021||Mumbai||Beechcraft aircraft lands on belly after wheel falls off, probe initiated||It was around 5.50pm when Ravi Kanth Avala, a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) head constable, was on duty at the watchtower number 12 on the airside of the Nagpur airport. His INSAS rifle resting by his side, as he turns towards the active runway, Avala spots a Beechcraft King Air C90 plane taking off.“For some reason, I kept watching the plane as it was speeding on the runway. I noticed that the moment it took off, the rear left wheel of the plane broke and got separated. The speed of the aircraft was such that the detached wheel went rolling at least half a kilometre (km) ahead, towards the left of the runway, before it came to halt. The plane, however, took off, unaffected,” Avala, the only witness to the incident, told HT.Sensing the gravity of the incident, the 48-year-old head constable immediately picked up his rifle and rushed towards the runway, which is barely 300 metres from watchtower number 12.“I went to the spot where the wheel had fallen. As it was a charter jet, I was sure it would land somewhere within a maximum of two-three hours. I also knew that such planes have a capacity of seven-eight passengers and therefore lives are at stake. At that time, I didn’t know that it’s an air ambulance carrying a Covid-19 patient. Thinking that it can lead to a fatal accident upon landing, I immediately reported the matter to my superiors who further alerted the authorities concerned. It was found that the plane was destined to Mumbai and officials there were briefed about the incident to be able to make the timely arrangements to handle the aircraft as it prepared to land,” Avala said.The medical flight which was on its way to Mumbai from Bagdogra, had stopped at Nagpur for refuelling.On Friday, CISF also announced a reward of ₹10,000 for Avala and the director general’s commendation certificate and disk for his mindful action that saved lives and averted a major disaster from happening.Avala said he feels fortunate to have saved a tragedy from unfolding.“My seniors and colleagues appreciate my quick reaction. My alertness and promptness was lauded. My family members, wife and children are also proud of me,” said Avala, who has been posted at Nagpur airport since 2017.The Jet Serve Aviation’s Beechcraft C-90 aircraft, registered as VT-JIL, had to make a belly landing at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Thursday evening. The non-scheduled medical flight with five people on board had taken off from Bagdogra to land in Mumbai. It however had to land on its belly, as its left rear wheel got separated immediately after take-off and fell off at Nagpur airport, where it had a halt for refuellingWhile Avala’s presence of mind played a vital role in saving the lives of five passengers on board, top AAI sources said that after learning about absence of rear left wheel, the pilot had requested the ATC to get in touch with the aircraft type’s (C-90) expert from DGCA to figure out the best possible procedure to be followed in the situation.At times when a full emergency is declared at airports, all the stakeholders get into action to prepare for the extraordinary situation. While the role of every stakeholder matters, air traffic controllers (ATC) play one of the most crucial roles at such times. From deciding on the line of action to coordinating with the pilot, airport operator and safety experts, if needed, ATCos swing into action with an aim to make the aircraft land safely.“The checklist with the pilot did not state his course of action needed, in case one of the rear wheels went missing,” claimed an AAI official. “Though the pilot had communicated to go for belly landing, he shared a contact with an expert for C-90 aircraft and asked the on-duty controllers to re-confirm the course of action needed,” the official added. It is then that the air traffic controllers (ATCos) got in touch with two experts from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to have their view on the situation. The experts also agreed and asked the ATCos to go ahead and perform belly landing.Mohan Ranganathan, aviation safety expert and former instructor pilot of Boeing 737, said, “Absence of standard operating procedure on partial landing gear failure is a very serious lapse on DGCA’s part.”DGCA director general Arun Kumar said that investigation will reveal the facts. “We will not like to speculate,” he added.The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), however, confirmed that they have taken over the investigation.“AAIB is conducting an investigation as per Aircraft (Investigation of Accidents and Incidents) Rules, 2017, into the causes of the occurrence,” read AAIB’s reply to the email sent by the paper.At times when a full emergency is declared at airports, all the stakeholders get into action to prepare for the extraordinary situation. While the role of every stakeholder matters, air traffic controllers (ATC) play one of the most crucial roles at such times. From deciding on the line of action to coordinating with the pilot, airport operator and safety experts, if needed, ATCos swing into action with an aim to make the aircraft land safely.“Those two hours were not only challenging but also worrisome for all those involved in planning safe landing of the Beechcraft C-90 aircraft. Thankfully, the aircraft had fuel for two and a half hours more even after reaching Mumbai. This gave us good time to consider all possibilities and take a call,” recalled an Airports Authority official who was on duty on Thursday night.AAI officials said that the Nagpur ATC contacted Mumbai ATC around 6.45pm to inform them that the aircraft’s wheel had fallen off in the airport premises.“The pilot was unaware of the situation until the Mumbai ATC got in touch with Capt Kesari Singh to inform him about it. However, none of us knew which wheel of the aircraft was detached,” said the AAI official.AAI officials at Mumbai airport said in order to understand which wheel fell off at Nagpur, Capt Singh suggested to ‘low pass’ the runway. This means the aircraft passes around 50m above (adjacent) the runway. It was during the low pass at around 7.30pm that the Mumbai ATC with the help of fire department officials learnt that the aircraft’s rear left wheel was missing.“The pilot was cleared to conduct the ‘low pass’ immediately at around 6.45pm when the aircraft was 200Nm away from Mumbai,” said a controller at Mumbai.A Delhi-based AAI official said that the absence of either side of the wheel is riskier as compared to issues with the nose wheel.“This is because the two rear wheels come in contact with the runway first, followed by the nose wheel.”“ATCos were asked to go ahead with belly landing after which the airport operator was contacted and asked to prepare for foam-based landing. Arranging for foam and making it available at the touchdown point of runway 27 took some time,” said a senior AAI official in Mumbai.“At first, when the arrangement of foaming the runway was taking time, we were even thinking on the lines to send the aircraft back to Nagpur, however, by then the airport operator confirmed that foam was being arranged,” the official added.The aircraft however touched down safely at 9.09pm after which the fire department officials took over and handled the situation so that the aircraft did not catch fire. Though the aircraft suffered substantial damage, there were no injuries. The mid-aged male patient, who was one of the passengers was being treated for Covid-19, was rushed to Nanavati hospital. Sources from the hospital said that the patient is on oxygen support, but he is conscious and stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/airbus-wheel-falls-off-lands-on-belly-aircraft-accident-body-to-probe-101620414421780.html
