12-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra govt approves scheme to boost oxygen production||The Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to make the state self- sufficient in oxygen production under which special incentives will be offered to manufacturers.The `Maharashtra Mission Oxygen' aims to ensure a production of 3,000 metric tons of life-saving gas per day in the state, said a statement from the chief minister's office.At present the production capacity in the state is 1,300 metric tons per day while the demand is 1,800 metric tons on account of coronavirus pandemic.During the possible third wave, the demand for medical oxygen could rise to 2,300 metric tons, the statement said.Under the scheme, incentives will be given to industrial units for producing oxygen including 150 per cent waiver in GST inMarathwada and Vidarbha and 100 percent in rest of the state. There will be similar waiver in stamp duty and electricity duty too.Health minister Rajesh Tope announced during the meeting that Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) and Air Separation Units (ASU) plants will be set up to boost oxygen production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-maharashtra-govt-approves-scheme-to-boost-oxygen-production-101620834342033.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra halts vaccination for 18-44 age group, cites ‘shortage of doses’||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope announced on Wednesday that the state’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for those in the age group of 18-44 was being put on hold due to a “shortage of doses.”Also Read | Maharashtra cabinet recommends extending lockdown-like restrictions for 2 weeks“We’re suspending the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 for the time being owing to the shortage of the vaccines,” Tope told the media after a meeting of the state cabinet. “Serum Institute of India (SII) chief Adar Poonawalla has promised chief minister Uddhav Thackeray delivery of 1.5 crore doses of Covishield to Maharashtra after May 20. We will start the vaccination for the 18-44 age group after we receive the vaccine,” Tope further said.Also Read | Maharashtra records 46,781 new Covid-19 cases; Mumbai’s daily tally goes over 2,000 againHe added that Covishield doses meant for the 18-44 age group will be diverted for the second dose for those above 45 years of age. On Tuesday, the Maharashtra government decided to divert 310,000 doses of the Covaxin anti-Covid-19 vaccine to those aged above 45 for the same purpose.Also Read | Maharashtra diverts jabs for 18+ to keep 2nd shots for 45+ movingCovishield and Covaxin are the two vaccines which are being administered in India currently. While the former is actually a shot developed by AstraZeneca-Oxford University and is being manufactured as “Covishield” in India by the Pune-based SII, the latter has been developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited.Maharashtra, which has the highest Covid-19 caseload among all states and Union territories, has frequently complained of vaccine shortage, a charge that has been repeatedly rebutted by the Central government. However, several other states, too, have complained of a shortage of doses.Also Read | 'Health minister didn't suggest': Centre on Maharashtra's plan to halt vaccination for 18-44 age groupStarting May 1, everyone above the age of 18 became eligible for a Covid-19 vaccine jab. The decision to this effect was taken in a review meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 19 amid an alarming rise in the country’s daily Covid-19 cases. According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) data on Wednesday morning, 175,235,991 vaccine doses have been administered since the nationwide inoculation drive commenced on January 16. Till May 11, the number of doses administered in Maharashtra stood at 18,821,485, as per a state health department bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-maharashtra-halts-vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-cites-shortage-of-doses-101620831616860.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 46,781 new Covid-19 cases; Mumbai’s daily tally goes over 2,000 again||Maharashtra’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continued to rise on Wednesday with 46,781 new cases and 816 more deaths recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload and death toll to 5,226,710 and 78,007 respectively, according to the state health department’s bulletin. As many as 58,805 recoveries were recorded on Wednesday taking the total recoveries past 4.6 million. The recovery rate is currently at 88.01 per cent.Wednesday’s case count in Maharashtra is 5,825 more than that of Tuesday’s when 40,956 cases were seen. On Monday, 37,236 new cases were recorded in the state, the lowest since March 30 this year.The capital city Mumbai also witnessed a sharp spike in its daily Covid-19 caseload on Wednesday with 2,104 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 681,233. The city’s death toll has climbed to 13,972 as 66 more people succumbed to the disease on Wednesday. From the past 2 days, Mumbai was seeing just a little over 1,700 new infections.Also Read| Maharashtra cabinet recommends extending lockdown-like restrictions for 2 weeksState health minister Rajesh Tope said that the cabinet has recommended extending lockdown-like restrictions in Maharashtra for two weeks, adding that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a decision in this regard soon.As Maharashtra is preparing for another wave of the pandemic, the Bombay high court on Wednesday asked the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government about the measures it is taking to monitor the spread of the Covid-19 disease among children, according to news agency PTI. The bench, comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice G S Kulkarni, has asked the state to file its reply by May 19.Also Read| How to download Covid-19 vaccine certificate from Co-WIN, Aarogya Setu appQuoting experts who said that children might be the most vulnerable in the third wave, the Bombay HC bench said authorities must take pre-emptive steps and also strengthen Maharashtra’s health infrastructure, PTI reported.More than 18.8 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in Maharashtra so far.As the state struggles to inoculate eligible beneficiaries amid an acute shortage of doses, health minister Tope said on Wednesday that vaccination of beneficiaries between 18-44 years has been suspended and all doses meant for this age group will now be diverted to for those above 45 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-logs-46-781-new-covid-19-cases-and-816-deaths-101620827059443.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Clerics in Maharashtra's Jalna urge people to celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr at home due to Covid-19||For the second consecutive year, there will be no congregrational prayers and get- togethers in Jalna on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with Muslim clerics here urging the community members to celebrate the festival at home in a simple manner.Eid-ul-Fitr, which marks the culmination of the fasting month, will be celebrated either on May 13 or May 14 depending on the sighting of the moon.The Maharashtra government has already guidelines, urging people to celebrate the festival in a simple manner and advised against taking out processions and congregating in view the curbs enforced in the state."Amid distress, fear and worry,we have to celebrate the Eid at home this year," said Maulana Sohel, president of Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind (Arshad Mandi Faction) Marathwada unit.Coordinator of Jalna's 'Holy Quran Centre', Abdul Hafiz, said that one-to-one meetings and gatherings during this year's Eid are a distant dream considering the prevailing coronavirus situation.He, however, said that people can make use of technology to connect with each other virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/clerics-in-maharashtra-s-jalna-urge-people-to-celebrate-eid-at-home-due-to-covid19-101620822048951.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to divert 310,000 Covid-19 jabs to 45+ group amid crunch||Amid the shortage of vaccine doses against the rising number of beneficiaries above the age of 45 waiting for their second shots, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday decided to divert 310,000 Covaxin doses meant for the 18-44 age group to the 45+ group. Even though state health minister Rajesh Tope stopped short of suspending the inoculation drive for the 18-44 age group, officials feel it is likely to be halted owing to limited sessions.Maharashtra has more than 2.1 million people above 45 years whose second dose is due, of which more than 500,000 are awaiting the second Covaxin dose. Tope on Tuesday said the decision to divert the stock was taken after the central government asked states to use the stock procured by them for the third phase of the drive — the 18-44 age group. He said all vaccination centres in the state have been directed to divert the stock meant for the 18-44 age group.The state has 600,000 doses of Covishield and 36,000 of Covaxin, received this week. Of them, 350,000 doses of Covishield were for the 18-44 age group, while the remaining stock was for 45+.Also read | Maharashtra adds 40,956 new Covid cases; Mumbai’s daily caseload down to 1,717“I spoke to union heath minister Dr Harsh Vardhanji, requesting him for additional stock for the second doses of people above 45 years. He, however, informed us about the unavailability of doses and asked us to utilise the stock procured for the 18-44 age group. After talking with chief minister Uddhav Thackerayji, we have decided to divert the stock of 310,000 doses of Covaxin, which will now be made available for the second dose [for 45+]. This includes 275,000 doses of Covaxin procured by the state for 18-44 years and 35,000 supplied by the Centre,” said Tope.“More than 500,000 people are waiting for second dose of Covaxin, while 1.6 million people are due for their second dose of Covishield. The diversion of the stock is expected to slow down the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 years. We will take a call how to go about the drive for this age group by talking to the task force,” he said.Maharashtra has vaccinated 15,140,471 people with 18,787,531 doses, with 375,713 administered on Tuesday.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, however, said state governments should reserve at least 70% of stock supplied to them for the second dose. He said the states should prioritise the administration of second doses to address the issue of the large number of people waiting for their second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-divert-310-000-covid-19-jabs-to-45-group-amid-crunch-101620762723750.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Hailed as heroes, but plaints of doctors, nurses ignored||Since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year, around 11,000 doctors and nurses in Maharashtra have contracted Covid-19 infection. Of them, 62 have succumbed to the deadly infection in the line of duty, as per data provided by the state health department. The tributes on various platforms notwithstanding, on ground, these pillars of the public health system feel “discouraged”, claiming the authorities largely ignore their well-being. Numberspeak As doctors and nurses work in close proximity to Covid-19 patients, they are the most vulnerable to contracting Sars-Cov-2—the virus that causes novel coronavirus. Till May 10, a total of 3,473 and 2,914 government and private doctors have been infected. Of the total 6,387 infected doctors, 62 succumbed —16 of whom were government doctors. Data shows, in the same period, as many as 4,497 nurses got infected—2,909 serving patients in government medical setups, while the remaining at private hospitals. A total of 12 deaths have been recorded – nine from government facilities, while three from private facilities. “Most infections were recorded in the first wave when the hospitals didn’t have adequate number of personal protective equipment (PPE) and standard operating procedures (SOP) were not in place. In the second wave, we have seen fewer infections and lower fatality rate,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. Doctors’ plaintsAfter 14 months of Covid-19 duty, healthcare workers are feeling mentally and physically exhausted. Resident doctors, however, allege that instead of appreciation, they often face discrimination and dejection from the authorities. For instance, a 28-year-old resident doctor, who is pursuing his post-graduation at a government medical college in a rural district of Maharashtra, contracted the virus last year while serving Covid-19 patients. After his recovery, the doctor developed post-Covid complications that obstructed his movements. His doctor advised him to take complete bed rest. After recovery, he joined Covid duty at the hospital in January. To his surprise, in March, the doctor was served a notice informing him that his post-graduation term has been extended by two terms, which means 12 months, as he was on leave during recovery. “This is injustice and unethical. I contracted the infection on duty. I wasn’t even called to provide an explanation and submit documents,” said the doctor. HT is in possession of the complaint letter filed by the doctor, who is not named to protect his identity. At Sion Hospital, 262 resident doctors have contracted Covid-19 so far. Although they are being provided with nutritious food, their hostel walls have moss and fungus, which can cause infection among recovered patients as they have low immunity. “Many recovered patients are now developing mucormycosis in which a person can lose eyesight, palate, tongue and can even die. In such a situation, it is risky for those with low immunity to live in such unhygienic conditions,” said a member of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) from the hospital. HT has photos and videos of the hotels. Last year, students of BYL Nair, King Edward Memorial and Lokmanya Tilak General hospitals were receiving a daily stipend of ₹300 as an incentive for their Covid-19 duty. In January, when the number of Covid-19 cases dipped, the incentive was stopped. “In the second wave, where one doctor has to handle over 30 patients at a time, we deserve the incentive. Other than civic-run medical colleges, it should also be given to doctors from government-run medical colleges,” said a member of the central MARD. Due to the ongoing pandemic, students who had sought admission to post-graduation for specialised courses are facing academic loss, as they couldn’t study properly due to their Covid-19 duty. Despite this, the students alleged the medical colleges are charging ₹1 lakh as tuition fees. “We have not learned anything on the specialities we opted for, which has created a sense of insecurity about our future. Deploying resident doctors for Covid duties is understandable, but what about their medical education? Instead of giving relief and uplifting the morale, they’ve been forced to pay academic fees for classes which were never conducted,” said Dr Deepak Munde, a post-graduation resident at KEM hospital, who was the former president of MARD. He didn’t have the money to pay the fees so, had to sign a bond declaring that he will pay the money later. Doctors also often have to face assaults by the hands of patients’ relatives over unavailability of beds or oxygen. In the latest incident, last week, a first-year post-graduate student from the department of medicine, who was on Covid-19 duty at the Grant Medical College, Latur, was assaulted by a relative of a coronavirus patient over unavailability of an intensive care unit (ICU) bed. “The patient was serious with oxygen level below 85% and required an ICU bed, but we didn’t have one. It is not our fault that beds aren’t available in hospitals. The patients’ relatives thrashed us. For years, we have been asking the department to increase security. With the rise in cases, such incidents have also increased,” said a doctor from the hospital. Later, an first investigation report (FIR) was filed against the family members, but they weren’t arrested on humanitarian grounds. Nurses’ issues Nurses also complain of lack of basic facilities. Most nurses are working under tremendous stress due to the manpower shortage. Jibin TC, president, United Nurses Association (UNA), Maharashtra, said that since 2019, the health department hasn’t filled up 59,000 posts of nurses. “In February 2019, the public health department advertised for 59,000 posts. But the examination was held only in February of this year. So far, the recruitment process hasn’t been completed,” he said. At rural hospitals like Kuwar Tilak Singh Hospital, Gondia, staffers allege contractors, who are given the responsibility to hire nurses, recruit only inexperienced nurses over qualified ones to save money. “At present, seven nurses in the hospital have Covid-19 infection, which brings down the staff strength. In addition, we have to train these inexperienced nurses who fail to provide proper care to patients,” said a nurse from the hospital over the phone. Dr TP Lahane, director of DMER refuted the claims, stating, “These are just allegations. Everything has been taken care of.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hailed-as-heroes-but-plaints-of-doctors-nurses-ignored-101620762687936.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Hindmata to get relief this monsoon?||Under its two-part plan to ease traffic flow on Babasaheb Ambedkar Road at Hindmata junction, which witnesses waterlogging during the monsoon, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is constructing underground water tanks at the junction below the flyover, and a three-meter-high elevation connecting Hindmata bridge with Parel TT flyover. While the first will abate waterlogging, the second will help ease traffic movement. Every year, during the monsoon, the Hindmata junction in Dadar East, ahead of Dadar TT, is inundated in two- or three-ft deep rainwater. In the past two years, it took the BMC several hours to drain the water and clear the route for traffic. During this time, vehicles can either take two flyovers, or the traffic is completely diverted from BA Road, as the distance between these two flyovers is about 100m, which is at road level. This area also gets submerged in rainwater. A senior civic officer from the bridges department said, “The waterlogging at Hindmata leads to traffic jams on the flyovers, or traffic diversions off Babasaheb Ambedkar road. We want to complete this elevation work on priority, before the monsoon.” The elevation will connect the two flyovers at a height of three feet and its length is 100m. The work is being carried out by two departments - the stormwater drains department and bridges department. Officers from the stormwater drains department were unavailable for a comment on Tuesday. The plan to construct underground water holding silos across the city to abate flooding was first mooted two years ago. At least two tanks were planned to be constructed in the eastern suburbs. However, the project did not take off due to lockdown. The water from the tanks constructed under the Hindmata flyover will be supplied for non-potable purposes to nearby gardens and clubs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-hindmata-to-get-relief-this-monsoon-101620760347667.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Unit in Pune to be used to produce Covaxin; to be handed over in 3 days||After the Bombay high court (HC) directed the state government to hand over a vaccine manufacturing unit locate in Pune district to an associate of Bharat Biotech for vaccine production, the forest department said it will complete the process within the next three days. The HC has directed the Pune district collector to hand over possession of an idle vaccine manufacturing unit at village Manjari Khurd, in Haveli Taluka, to Biovet Pvt. Ltd, an associate of Bharat Biotech, to manufacture ‘Covaxin’ and other vaccines. The unit is situated on land admeasuring 11.58 hectares. A division bench of justice KK Tated and justice Nitin Borkar, while hearing an interim application by ‘Biovet’ which sought possession of the vaccine manufacturing unit being used by Intervet India Pvt Ltd, a multinational subsidiary of Merck & Co which was granted the land in 1973 to manufacture vaccine for Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD). The company which was shutting down its operations in India had agreed to transfer the land and unit to Biovet, however, the government through the forest department refused the transfer, on the grounds that the transfer in 1973 was bad. Deputy conservator of forest (Pune division) Rahul Patil said his department, which owns the land, will cooperate with the procedure while formalities related to handover will be completed in two-three days following which the pharma company can take make arrangements required for the vaccine production.On May 6, advocate RD Soni for Biovet informed the bench that the company had filed a petition challenging the July 2020 order of the deputy conservator of forest, Pune, who had rejected their application to re-examine and review the refusal order passed by the assistant conservator in June 2018. Soni submitted that if the unit was handed over to Biovet it could start manufacturing Foot and Mouth Disease and Covid-19 vaccine.Soni also submitted that due to the dispute between the company and the state government, the plant and machinery, which could start manufacturing of Covaxin, was lying idle, hence the court should direct the government to transfer the land to Biovet and also permit them to carry out structural changes to maximise the manufacturing capacity of the unit. The company also assured the court that they would not claim any equity in their favour and would use the unit for manufacturing life-saving vaccines including Covaxin.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state government submitted that it did not have an objection if an interim application was allowed to the extent that applicants would use the premises only for manufacturing Covaxin and other life-saving vaccines without claiming any right, title and interest on the said property. The AG also informed the court that the concerned officer would cooperate with Biovet for grant of any permission required to start the manufacturing process for Covid-19 vaccine.After hearing the submissions, the bench accepted the undertaking by Biovet and directed the state government to grant appropriate licenses, permissions or NOCs to Biovet in a ‘time-bound manner’ to enable manufacturing of FMD vaccine and Covaxin along with other life-saving vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/unit-in-pune-to-be-used-to-produce-covaxin-to-be-handed-over-in-3-days-101620760287718.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Vaccine shortage in Mumbai: BMC may reserve 2-3 days for those seeking second dose||To administer on-time vaccination to beneficiaries taking their second dose, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is likely to reserve two or three days of the vaccination drive in the coming week, exclusively for those taking their second dose. This will depend on the availability of vaccine stock. Concerns over delay in beneficiaries taking their second shot were discussed in a meeting between Mumbai suburbs guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, and Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s public health department on Tuesday. Senior civic officials said detailed guidelines will be published by BMC on Wednesday based on Tuesday’s discussions. Guidelines will be on how to administer on-time second dose for beneficiaries, and measures BMC can take to reach those who are not on social media.Other concerns regarding over-crowding at vaccination centres, technical glitches experienced by users while registering on the Co-WIN application, and catering to beneficiaries who are not tech-savvy and are unable to effectively register on the Cowin application on time to receive a slot were also discussed at the meeting.Meanwhile, the vaccination drive will continue as it is at present, for all age groups only after registration and receiving a slot online. Beneficiaries who are to get their second dose can walk in and show their certificates from the first dose and will receive their second shot after verification. Aaditya Thackeray told HT on Tuesday evening, “There are several beneficiaries who received their first shot five or six weeks ago. They are due for their second vaccine shot, who have not received it. Concerns were raised about these beneficiaries receiving their second dose on time. We have discussed some measures BMC can roll-out subject to availability of vaccine doses.”Thackeray said, “A lot of people are not on social media. Many have experienced problems while registering on the Co-WIN application. So we can look at long term measures making it easier for beneficiaries to register, such as the token system, which is issued for the second dose, at the time of vaccinating for the first dose itself.” Thackeray tweeted after the meeting, “This afternoon I met with MC Chahal ji and AMC Kakani ji to discuss and work out a strategy for 1) Ensuring second shot is administered on time 2 Communication and slots for those not tech savvy or on social media 3) activation of 227 vaccination centres 4 preps for possible third wave.” Thackeray also tweeted, “While we explore possibilities of globally procuring vaccines and also increasing vaccination centres to have 1 in every municipal ward, the road map for administering second shot for every age group will be published soon.” He later said, “If centres are set up at every municipal ward, we will be able to tackle the problem of overcrowding, even though vaccines will have to be dispatched in small quantities.” BMC will also make arrangements for mothers of kids who have Covid-19 and are hospitalised, to stay with their child, without catching covid. A separate area in pediatric wards is likely to be set up for mothers as well. Creches will be set up for children whose parents have tested Covid-19 positive, but the child has not tested positive, Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccine-shortage-in-mumbai-bmc-may-reserve-2-3-days-for-those-seeking-second-dose-101620760167662.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s positivity rate falls to 6.06%, deaths remain a concern||Despite the number of cases and daily positivity rate going down to as low as around 6% in the city on Tuesday, followed by an increase in bed availability, the number of deaths has not gone down, reveals data of the state health department.On Tuesday, city recorded 1,717 cases, followed by 51 deaths. This took the total case tally to 679,129 and toll to 13,906. Around 28,258 tests were conducted on Tuesday. The recovery rate in the city is 91% with 679,129 recoveries, and mortality is 2.04%. The positivity rate of 6.06% was recorded. Dharavi has 692 active cases and 5,605 have been discharged.According to state health department data, between April 4 and May 8, the number of cases being reported has steadily gone down on a week-on-week basis from around 60,000 cases to 20,000. However, the death count on a week-on-week basis has only increased but has stagnated in the past one week.As per the data, between April 4 and April 10, 69,037 cases were reported followed by 190 deaths, while between April 11 and April 17, 60,506 cases were reported followed by 357 deaths and between April 18 to April 24, 51,128 cases were reported followed by 425 deaths.In the next two weeks, the weekly cases went down to 30,222 cases between April 25 and May 1, however, the deaths in the same period went up to 533. Lastly, in the week between May 2 to May 8, 21,421 cases were reported followed by 498 deaths. The fatality rate also in this period has almost remained the same, that was 2.41% on April 4, 2.06% on April 22 and 2.03% on May 8.In this period, the bed availability has also improved, and the overall capacity of beds has increased in the same period from around 16,000 beds to around 22,000, as of May 11.The state task force on the other hand claims the fatality rate in the second wave has been much lesser when compared to that of the first wave. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra’s Task Force said, “The deaths will go down in the coming days. The deaths recorded in the second wave’s peak is much lesser than the peak of the first wave. The deaths generally go down in a period of three to six weeks after the peak is over. The death rate increasing has nothing to do with the new strain considering this strain spreads easily, but is less deadly. The deaths are also increasing due to delayed treatment.”Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We are witnessing that the deaths are going down slowly, and they will not go up for now, until we control the number of cases. The deaths are due to the piled up cases of the earlier days. These are referred late to the hospitals from nursing homes or due to delayed treatment or diagnosis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-positivity-rate-falls-to-6-06-deaths-remain-a-concern-101620759987644.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Deaths from Mumbai, MMR dip in 3 months||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded lower daily positivity rate for the third consecutive day, as it saw 40,956 fresh Covid-19 cases. The state tested 217,664 samples in the past 24 hours with a positivity rate of 18.82%. On Monday, the state had a positivity rate of 19.36%, while on Sunday it was 19.56%. However, the state saw a jump in deaths from Monday, as it reported 793 deaths, taking the toll to 77,191. The active caseload in the state declined to 558,996 on Tuesday. Since mid-February, the state has seen nearly 25,000 fatalities with rural and semi-urban areas showing a higher death count compared to the urban areas of Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region, and Pune district. In the past three months, the share of fatalities from Mumbai, MMR and Pune district has reduced from 51.94% to 43.91%, indicating that deaths are from rural and semi-urban centres in the state spread across 31 districts. Between February 11 and May 11, the state recorded 24,983 fatalities. Till February 11, Mumbai, MMR (which includes Thane district, Navi Mumbai and urban as well as rural areas of Palghar and Raigad districts) and Pune district had 24,707 of the 51,415 deaths. On May 10, of the total deaths, 42,844 came from the 31 districts, while 33,554 were from Mumbai, the MMR and Pune district. Of the 31 districts, 13 districts have reported over 100% increase in deaths between February 11 and May 11. Nandurbar district recorded the highest increase with 222.54% jump in deaths, from 213 to 687. Nanded, Amravati, Washim, Yavatmal, Gadchiroli, Parbhani and Sindhudurg districts recorded between 179% and 145% jump in deaths in the three-month period. Hingoli, Gondia, Wardha, Chandrapur, Beed, Jalna, Ahmednagar and Latur districts recorded a jump in deaths between 127% and 103.19% during the same period. Health experts and state officials attribute the rise in deaths in the rural and semi-urban areas to higher viral activity in these areas in the second wave and poor health infrastructure that was strained after the sheer caseload. “Compared to the previous wave, the rural and semi-urban areas saw more viral activity. Local body election in January, weddings, public gathering and increased movement of people led to more cases. The public health facilities do not have quality infrastructure. There aren’t enough private hospitals in rural areas, tier-two cities have them, but they are not as good as Mumbai or Pune,” a health department official, who did not wish to be named, said. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director-general of health services (Maharashtra) and advisor to the state on Covid-19, said there are multiple factors leading to higher deaths in rural and semi-urban areas, including poor health infrastructure, mutating virus and inadequate quantity of drug and oxygen. “The sheer number of cases that are recorded in the second wave has put pressure on health infrastructure in many districts. One nurse is minding 30 patients, including critical ones, on one night shift. How can one manage? There was a shortage of drugs, oxygen, etc too. Besides, earlier, patients used to be fine within seven days. Now, they become critical after eight to nine days in some cases, leading to deaths,” he said. Dr Salunkhe added that the case fatality rate (CFR) and overall death rate in these districts have not increased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/deaths-from-mumbai-mmr-dip-in-3-months-101620759927673.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Poor planning leaves board students stuck||Confusion and lack of coordination within the state education department has left nearly 33 lakh Class 10 and 12 aspirants in the state board in a lurch this year.With the rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and the resultant lockdown, the state government decided to cancel Class 10 SSC exams that was earlier scheduled to be held in June. While the education department declared in April that it will mark Class 10 students based on internal assessments, it later came up with a survey asking schools if considering such assessments to mark students is feasible. The survey brief stated that internal assessment will be based on online classes, WhatsApp-based teaching and assessment, online tests, term examinations, practice tests. “Schools which didn’t undergo these processes will assess their students’ performance based on their Class 9 progress,” as per the survey.The education department also released another survey asking students if they would be willing to take an entrance exam for first-year junior college admissions. Both these surveys, however, exposed the education department’s poor handling of the issue and a lack of coordination between its various wings such as the state board, the MSCERT and its administrative and bureaucratic officials. While the government had formed a committee of experts to provide inputs on the conduct of exams and assessments for the year, members of the group said they were not kept in the loop about the surveys. “We also saw them in some groups and have no idea where it came from. The surveys are not just unscientific but are poorly worded and thus create confusion. While decisions on calculating assessments and conducting entrance tests are yet to be taken, the survey brief almost mentions this as a matter of fact which has confused schools too,” said a member of the expert committee. While the education department had said in April that exams for HSC (Class 12) will be conducted as per the earlier plan in May end, the state board has neither released a timetable nor come up with a notification stating whether or not these exams can be conducted. “Right now, students are just kept in the dark. They don’t know whom to ask. Students need to be told about the status of their exams at least a month in advance. The current situation is just too stressful,” said Ranjana Mahajan, a city-based parent.Officials at the department did not respond to calls and messages.Experts are now calling for better coordination and communication between various wings of the government and the education department. “Communication made to students should be consistent and timely,” added a senior academician.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-poor-planning-leaves-board-students-stuck-101620759808208.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Teen murdered, body found near temple||The Samta Nagar police on Tuesday found the body of a 16-year-old boy in the wee hours near a temple in Ganesh Nagar at Kandivli (East).The police registered a case of murder after the post-mortem revealed it was a case of homicidal death.According to the police, the locals informed the police after they experienced a strong stench of the decomposing human body. The boy was identified as Vicky Gupta, a commerce student and a resident of Ganesh Nagar.On questioning, the mother of the deceased said that the victim had left his house at 8.30am on Monday and he was to return in an hour.“The boy did not own a mobile phone so the parents could not find out where he was,” said an officer. At 2am on Tuesday when the boy failed to return home, they reported his disappearance.A few hours later the body was found with injury marks pointing to murder. Police are awaiting the autopsy report to find out his cause of death.The officers investigating the case said that a few months ago the deceased had an affair with the daughter of a neighbour who had threatened Gupta that he would kill him if he continued meeting his daughter. “We have detained him, however, we are also investigating other angles which could lead to Gupta’s killer,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-teen-murdered-body-found-near-temple-101620759747753.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Fuel price hike: 1l of petrol costs ₹98.12; diesel ₹89.48||Fuel prices in the city hiked on Tuesday with one litre of petrol crossing ₹98. Premium petrol crossed ₹100 and was available at ₹102 in Mumbai.With a hike of 26 paise and 31 paise respectively, one litre of petrol was available at ₹98.12, while one-litre diesel was available at ₹89.48 on Tuesday.Premium petrol that consists of higher octane (a chemical component of petrol), was available at ₹102.06 and premium diesel was available at ₹92.72.On Monday, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹97.86 and one litre of diesel was available at ₹89.17.One litre of petrol also crossed ₹100 in Parbhani in Maharashtra on Monday.Citizens and transporters have expressed are irked by the constant rise in fuel prices.“Constant increase of fuel prices with the shutting of local train services is impacting the lives of common citizens. How is one supposed to travel if the fuel prices are increasing every day and local trains shut? Taxes on petrol should be reduced immediately.” said Nitin Rathore, a Bandra resident.“Lakhs and crores of rupees, as well as lives, were wasted in recent elections and nobody questioned their source, perhaps money recovered from excess taxation is siphoned for that purpose only as it does not reflect in any tangible benefit to the common man. Instead of providing any relief or facility to the people, the government is trying to squeeze the last drop of blood from them,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-price-hike-1l-of-petrol-costs-98-12-diesel-8948-101620759687670.html
12-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra diverts jabs for 18+ to keep 2nd shots for 45+ moving||Amid the shortage of vaccine doses against the rising number of beneficiaries above the age of 45 waiting for their second shots, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday decided to divert 310,000 Covaxin doses meant for those aged between 18 and 44 to the 45+ age group. Even though state health minister Rajesh Tope stopped short of suspending the inoculation drive for the 18-44 age group, officials feel it is likely to be halted owing to limited sessions. Maharashtra has more than 2.1 million people above 45 years whose second dose is due, of which more than 500,000 are awaiting the second Covaxin shot. Tope said the decision to divert the stock was taken after the Centre asked states to use the stock procured for the third phase of the drive — the 18-44 age group. He said all vaccination centres have been directed to divert the stock . The state has received 600,000 doses of Covishield and 36,000 of Covaxin this week. Of them, 350,000 doses of Covishield were for the 18-44 age group, while the remaining stock was for 45+. Covishield is an Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine locally manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII), and Covaxin is co-developed by Bharat Biotech International Ltd. and the Indian Council of Medical Research.“I spoke to union heath minister Dr Harsh Vardhanji, requesting him for additional stock for the second doses of people above 45 years. He, however, informed us about the unavailability of doses and asked us to utilise the stock procured for the 18-44 age group. After talking with chief minister Uddhav Thackerayji, we have decided to divert the stock of 310,000 doses of Covaxin, which will now be made available for the second dose [for 45+]. This includes 275,000 doses of Covaxin procured by the state for 18-44 years and 35,000 supplied by the Centre,” said Tope.“More than 500,000 people are waiting for second dose of Covaxin, while 1.6 million people are due for their second dose of Covishield. The diversion of the stock is expected to slow down the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 years. We will take a call how to go about the drive for this age group by talking to the task force,” he said.“There is unrest among the people whose second dose is due as the uncertainty over the availability of the doses looms large. There was no other option, but to divert the stock procured by us from SII and Bharat Biotech. We can begin the vaccination of age group of 18-44 years with the stock of Covishield as and when we receive it,” said an official from the health department.Maharashtra has vaccinated 15,140,471 people with 18,787,531 doses, with 375,713 administered on Tuesday.“It is the responsibility of the Centre to provide the vaccines to the state for the vaccination of those above 45 years, but it is not being fulfilled by them. There will be no desired effect achieved if the second dose is not administered within a stipulated period. We have written to both SII and Bharat Biotech but there is no positive response from them. Perhaps the demand raised by us is huge in quantity,” Tope said.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has, however, said state governments should reserve at least 70% of stock supplied to them by the Centre for the second does. He said the states should prioritise the administration of second doses to address the issue of the large number of people waiting for their second doses.Maharashtra’s BJP unit has, however, slammed the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, saying the shortage was because of mismanagement. “Tope has announced to suspend the drive for the age group of 18-44 by blaming the Centre. In fact, the shortage is because of the mismanagement and failure to procure the vaccine. The MVA government did not pay the manufacturers within the stipulated time and hence they have not been responding to the government positively. After the decision of procuring doses from two manufacturers was taken on April 28, the payment was done only on May 7,” he accused.Tope also said the Centre should give nod to other international companies for the supply of their vaccines in India. “The Centre should give the approvals to other vaccines, like they have given it to Sputnik V. We are ready to import them through global tenders. The Central authorities should act on this, so that state can directly procure them through global tenders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-diverts-jabs-for-18-to-keep-2nd-shots-for-45-moving-101620758967648.html
