13-05-2021||Mumbai||Lockdown-like curbs in Maharashtra till June 1. What's allowed, what's not||The Maharashtra government on Thursday extended the lockdown-like restrictions till June 1, 7am to break the chain of transmission. The state government made it mandatory for everyone entering the state to carry a negative RT-PCR report.The government in the order said all the restrictions imposed under 'Break the Chain' orders dated April 13, 21 and 29, along with new additions will be imposed in the state till June 1. Earlier, the ongoing lockdown was supposed to end on May 15.Here's a list of new restrictions imposed in the state to control the curve of Covid-19 infections:Any person entering Maharashtra by any mode of transportation will be required to carry a negative RT-PCR report, which will have to be issued from up to a maximum of 48 hours before the time of entry into the state.Also watch | ‘Around 12 lakh waiting for 2nd dose of Covid vaccine in Maharashtra’: Nawab Malik﻿The restrictions that were earlier applicable to persons arriving from places of 'sensitive origin' will now be applicable to anyone arriving from any part of the country, the order stated.Not more than two people-driver, cleaner/helper- may be allowed to travel in the same, in case of cargo, carriers. If the cargo carriers are originating from outside the state, then a negative RT-PCR report will be required for entry. The test will have to be done from upto a maximum of 48 hours before the time of entry and will be valid for two days.Also read: Covid-19 lockdown in Bihar extended till May 25, announces CM Nitish KumarLocal DMA is required to keep a vigil on rural markets and APMCs for Covid appropriate behaviour. In case the DMA finds a place difficult to manage and discipline, he or she may decide on a case-to-case basis to shut them and impose further restrictions.Milk collection, transport and processing may be allowed without restrictions but its retail sale will be allowed subject to restrictions imposed on shops selling essentials goods or through home delivery.Personnel engaged in airport and port services and are needed for the movement of cargo related to medicines and equipment for Covid-19 management are allowed to travel through local, mono or metro services.Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 46,781 new Covid-19 cases and 816 fatalities, according to the state health bulletin. The active caseload of the state stands at over 546,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lockdownlike-curbs-in-maharashtra-till-june-1-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101620894717555.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 1, mandates negative RT-PCR report for those entering the state||The Maharashtra government on Thursday extended the ongoing restrictions to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state till June 1, 7am. The lockdown imposed by the state government under the 'break the chain' initiative was supposed to end on May 15.The state government also imposed stringent restrictions on Thursday as it made carrying a negative RT-PCR report to enter the state through any mode of transportation mandatory.Maharashtra, which is the top contributor to the daily new Covid-19 infections in the country reported a decline of more than than 30,000 active cases on Wednesday, as per the Union health ministry data. The per-day growth rate average of the state is also half the national average as it stands at 0.8 per cent, state health minister Tope said on Wednesday.Also read: Kejriwal asks 'where is India' as states float global tenders for Covid vaccines"Maharashtra's Covid-19 growth rate is merely half of the country's daily growth rate. The state's per day growth rate is 0.8 per cent as against the country's rate of 1.4 per cent. The state is carrying out around two lakh tests on a daily basis while per million testings is around 2.50 lakh. It is a very good sign for us," PTI quoted Tope as saying.Speaking of the success of the 'break the chain' initiative to drive down the Covid-19 infection rate in the state, Tope said that the strict measures under the initiative have definitely reduced the number of Covid-19 cases but the curve is not stable yet, as per the PTI report. There are some 12-45 districts in the state that have shown a declining trend in the number of viral infections, he added.However, there are still some districts where the number of cases is a cause of concern, Tope said. The positivity rate in these parts of the state has not plummeted and is still hovering over 10 per cent, he added, as per the report.Also read: India records 3.62 lakh fresh Covid-19 infections, 4,120 deaths in 24 hoursMaharashtra on Wednesday found 46,781 people infected with the disease in the last 24 hours, while 816 lost their lives to the infection, according to the state health bulletin.The Covid-19 case tally of the state has reached 5,226,710 and the active caseload stands at over 546,000 after the addition of new cases on Wednesday. The death toll in the state has reached 78,007, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-june-1-101620886661867.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to compile database of mucormycosis to assess its spread||The Maharashtra health department has decided to create a separate database of cases of mucormycosis, primarily being found in Covid-19 patients, to assess its actual spread and how to tackle it, officials said.Two Covid-19 patients recently died of this rare but serious fungal infection in neighbouring Thane, while there has been a surge in such cases in Mumbai and Pune, they said.As per doctors, mucormycosis, also known as the black fungus, is mostly found among Covid-19 patients who have diabetes. Its symptoms include headache, fever, pain under the eyes, nasal or sinus congestion and partial loss of vision.Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said there could be over 2,000 mucormycosis patients in the state as of now and with more and more Covid-19 cases coming up, "their number would increase for sure".On Wednesday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said as many as 111 patients, all Covid-19 survivors, were undergoing treatment for mucormycosis in hospitals here.According to state health services director Dr Archana Patil, earlier there was no regular health management of mucormycosis, though it was detected in a few pockets.However, the Maharashtra health authorities have now decided make a detailed report of such cases in the state, and guidelines regarding it will soon be issued to all the districts, Patil said on Wednesday."Once such data is compiled on a real-time basis, we will have some idea about the actual spread of the fungal infection and how to respond to it. We can also allocate medicines and provide necessary guidance as per its prevalence," the official said.According to health experts, cases of mucormycosis are rising in the state mainly among Covid-19 patients.The immune system of such patients is weak which makes them more susceptible to this fungal infection, they said."There were some cases of this fungal infection in private hospitals last year during the first wave of Covid-19. But, some of those hospitals did not inform the state government or the ICMR about it," a state health official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-compile-database-of-mucormycosis-to-assess-its-spread-101620877579460.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||SII CEO Adar Poonawalla promised to send 1.5 crore Covishield doses to Maharashtra after May 20: Rajesh Tope||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla has promised to send 1.5 crore doses of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine it manufactures, Covishield, to Maharashtra after May 20, according to the state health minister Rajesh Tope. The SII CEO made the promise to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the minister told news agency ANI.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla has promised the chief minister to deliver 1.5 crore doses of Covishield to Maharashtra after May 20. We will start the vaccination for the 18-44 years age group after we receive the vaccine," he said.The state halted vaccination of those in the age group of 18-44 on Wednesday due to the unavailability of vaccines. "Vaccination for 18-44 age group has been suspended for the time being due to shortage of vaccines. All the doses purchased by the state government for the age group will now be diverted for the 45 category," Tope said after attending a cabinet meeting over the Covid-19 situation in state on Wednesday.Also Read: Maharashtra halts vaccination for 18-44 age group, cites ‘shortage of doses’On whether the government will impose stricter restrictions or a complete lockdown in Maharashtra to curb the spread of the virus, Tope said the health department and other ministers proposed to extend the lockdown in state for 15 days. "The chief minister will take the final decision on this matter," he said. Maharashtra has the highest Covid-19 caseload in the country and it reported 46,781 fresh infections and 816 new deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department on Wednesday. The new cases pushed the case tally in the state to 52,26,710 and the death toll to 78,007. The active number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra stands at 5,46,129.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sii-ceo-adar-poonawalla-promised-to-send-1-5-crore-covishield-doses-to-maharashtra-after-may-20-rajesh-tope-101620868131979.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra suspends vaccination drive for 18-44 age group||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to temporarily suspend the vaccination drive for the 18-44 years category and divert the vaccines that it purchased for that age group to provide second doses for those above 45, due to a shortage of available doses required to curb the spread of Covid-19. Following a state cabinet meeting on Wednesday, health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state government would divert the stock it has purchased for inoculation of people between 18 and 44 to ensure that those who require their second dose get it on time. “The government has decided to temporarily suspend the vaccination of 18-44 category. The Centre is unable to provide second doses for the national programme to vaccinate people above age 45. There is a due date to these doses and therefore it is essential to give the second dose in time. Therefore, whatever stock Maharashtra government has purchased for 18-44 category, will now be diverted for vaccination of over 45,” Tope said. He added that people should not “expect” their first dose as providing second dose to the people has become the state’s priority now. The recommended time period between the first and second doses of Covaxin and Covishield is between 28 days and 42 days in the case of the former, and 42 to 56 days in the case of the latter. The third phase of the national vaccination drive permitted states to procure vaccines for 18-44 year olds directly from the manufacturer, while the Centre would continue to procure and distribute vaccines to states for the 45 years and above age group, health care workers, frontline workers and other priority groups. At least 350,000 vaccines were bought by the state government for the 18-44 years category, whose vaccination was permitted by the Centre starting May 1. As of May 12, around 1 million vaccines were available from the stock of both the categories. The Centre’s supply to the states comes in every five to seven days: the last batch of vaccines arrived on May 9. More than 2 million people are due for their second doses, government estimates showed. “We have 1 million doses available with us, including 700,000 Covishield and 300,000 Covaxin. The vaccines that the Centre provides in the next two-three days, will be used for second doses only. For now, do not expect first dose, as we have to finish the second doses of people. We will take a decision [to restart] based on the availability after five to seven days,” Tope said. The state cabinet also decided that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi explaining to him the vaccination situation in the state. The vaccination drive in Maharashtra has been marred with lack of vaccines though the state tops the country with highest vaccination count with 18.8 million doses till May 11. Of these, 3.6 million belong to the priority categories. The state has inoculated 596,091 people in the third phase of the vaccination drive till May 11. Around 90 million people are eligible for the vaccine in Maharashtra. A senior health department official said that the state has been “aggressive” on the vaccination drive as it is the only way to arrest the magnitude of possible third wave. “Since the beginning, Maharashtra did not get enough doses. We have shown our capabilities to vaccinate 450,000 and 500,000 people in a day. But the inflow has been slow and fewer. We need around 1.5 million or 2 million doses weekly to go at a good pace. State has been aggressive in immunisation plan. Even when we did not have adequate doses, chief minister insisted that we should start the drive, as part of the preparation for the third wave,” the official requesting anonymity said. Tope said that Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, informed the chief minister that it would provide 1.5 million doses per month after May 20. “After that supply starts, we can then take a decision to restart 18-44 category’s vaccination. For now, our priority remains giving second dose for people over 45,” the minister added. Among those eligible for the second dose, 1.6 million are for Covishield and 400,000 for Covaxin. The health minister reiterated that the state government is unable to plan for the vaccination of 18-44 category as there are only two vaccine manufacturers in the country and the Centre is not giving its approval to allow import of foreign vaccines. Tope said that they discussed floating global tenders for foreign vaccines but are stuck due to Centre’s clearance. “Many in the cabinet have asked to include vaccines in the global tenders. But first the Centre has to give permission for these vaccines including, Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson. Besides that, the cold chain has to be readied as these vaccines have to be kept in sub-zero temperatures, unlike our [Indian] vaccines which are between 2 to 8 degrees Celsius. If the Centre gives its approval, the state government has no hurdles to go in for global tenders for vaccination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-suspends-vaccination-drive-for-18-44-age-group-101620847786837.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Surge in mucormycosis cases: Maharashtra sets up task force||In view of a three to four times surge in mucormycosis or black fungal infection amid increase in recovered Covid-19 patients in the ongoing second wave, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has created an internal advisory board consisting of head of the department of ENT, ophthalmology, medicine, anaesthesia from various medical colleges in the city. Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC, said the state public health department has formed a separate task force to look into the matter of mucormycosis in the state. Since February, five major government and civic-run hospitals have recorded 151 cases of mucormycosis in recovered Covid-19 patients. Mucormycosis is a serious but rare fungal infection caused by a group of mould called mucormycetes. It causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and even death if not treated on time, said doctors.“The board will investigate each case like probable source of infection, line of treatment if the patient needs infection or debridation (medical removal of dead, damaged, or infected tissue), procurement of the medicines and post-recovery treatment,” said Kakani.“In Covid-19 patients, immunity gets compromised due to some medicines like Tocilizumab and steroids. When they get exposed to mucor mould, which is commonly found in soil, plants, manure, and decaying fruits and vegetables, it becomes life threatening. It affects sinuses, brain and lungs,” said Dr Girija Suresh, senior ophthalmic consultant, Fortis Hospital, Mulund. Surge in cases in second waveThough no cumulative data is available for last year, doctors from both private and government hospitals have witnessed a drastic rise in mucormycosis cases in the second wave which started in February. At Fortis Hospital, doctors have observed a three-time rise in cases. Similarly, Dr Amol Patil, senior consultant, ENT and skull-base surgery at Nanavati Max Super Speciality Hospital, said while they treated five patients with mucormycosis last year, the number of cases since February this year has increased to around 15. “Most patients are within the age group of 30-50 years who came with sinus infection. In patients with advanced infection, we observed eye involvement causing vision loss and spread of the infection to the brain, with life-threatening sequelae (secondary infection). We are seeing more cases now as compared to last year, but we need thorough clinical studies to fully understand the reasons,” said Dr Patil.Of the 151 mucormycosis cases recorded in the second wave in the city, King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital also known as Sion hospital, BYL Nair, Sir JJ Hospital and RN Cooper Hospital have recorded 34, 32, 38, 40 and seven cases, respectively. Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Sion hospital, said they were receiving one or two cases per month in the first wave of the pandemic which has now increased to seven to eight per month. Doctors believe the actual number could be higher. Dr Ajay Doiphode, president, Association of Otolaryngologists (AOI) Mumbai Branch and Mumbai ENT Association, said there is no proper system of data collection, and therefore many cases may have gone undocumented.Steroids reduce inflammation in the lungs of Covid patients, but it also reduces the immunity and increases the blood sugar levels. Dr Doiphode attributed unregulated usages of steroids that lower immunity as one of the primary reasons for the surge in cases. “When ICMR declared that steroids are helpful in the treatment of Covid-19, doctors blindly started prescribing the steroids. Patients with mild symptoms who took treatment at home are given steroids. This unregulated usage needs to be stopped,” he said. Prevention better than cureWith early detection of cases, a patient’s organs and tissues can be saved from getting surgically removed. A patient in his early stage of infection can be treated with anti-fungal injections such as Liposomal Amphotericin B injection. Dr Doiphode said, “The doses depend on the weight of the patient. Per kilogram, we administer 5mg. But in more serious cases, we increase it further. We also have another anti-fungal medicine, Posaconazole, which is given post recovery.” With this, doctors also need to monitor the kidney. But if a patient is detected at a later stage, doctors have to debride the infected tissues and organs. At Sion hospital, 11 patients have lost their eyes and six of them succumbed to the infection, as per Dr Renuka Bradoo, head of the hospital’s ENT department. “Most of the patients were middle aged with the medical history of diabetes,” she added.With the rise in the cases, the city is witnessing a shortage of Liposomal Amphotericin B injection. As per doctors, each patient needs five to six injections per day. Dr Bharmal said BMC has floated a tender to procure 190,000 of the life-saving injection and 38,000 Posaconazole tablets. “They need to fasten the procurement process or else, more patients will die,” said Dr Doiphode.Patients suffering from the fungal infection normally have stuffy nose. Sometimes, blood may ooze out of the nose. They might have swelling and pain in the eye along with drooping of eyelids and blurred eye vision. There could be black patches of skin around the nose.Dr Suresh said the only way to reduce the possibility of fungal infection is to administer right doses of steroids. “The patients, even after recovery, should follow up with doctors. It is also important to maintain hygiene after getting discharged from hospitals,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/surge-in-mucormycosis-cases-maharashtra-sets-up-task-force-101620847547755.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC irked at Shiv Sena minister for gathering at inauguration||Expressing displeasure at Shiv Sena leader and cabinet minister Sandipan Bhumre’s participation in the inauguration of a development project in Paithan constituency, Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday said it was compelled to direct politicians and ministers to not conduct ceremonies and functions including inauguration until lockdown restrictions were eased.The division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Bhalchandra Debadwar was hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL), based on news reports about shortage of medical oxygen supply, black marketing of Remdesivir, and other issues pertaining to Covid-19 faced by the general public.During the course of hearing, the bench was informed by an intervenor about a news report wherein the Sena leader was seen inaugurating a development project in his constituency Paithan. The court noted, “While news reports said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has appealed to politicians not to organise such events, it is still happening….even the leader/minister is a super spreader...There seems to be no action. What is this politicians-police nexus?” In its order, the bench noted, “We are pained to note that the minister was physically holding ceremonies in his constituency. The newspaper also states the minister had violated diktats of the chief minister, who had asked his own ministers and leaders not to hold ceremonies physically.”“We would refrain from drawing conclusions at this stage, but we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that the minister gave consent to these functions and has physically attended them, and photographs indicated that most of the time the mask was on his chin or did not even wear a mask at times,” observed the bench. Adding that everyone needed to discipline themselves, the court said, “We all should obey law and lockdown restrictions. None of these orders or restrictions is being followed by these politicians.” Suggesting that such events could be held virtually, the bench noted, “Do we not realise that citizens gather in large numbers when people’s representatives make physical appearance for the inauguration ceremony? Is it that lockdown restrictions and orders passed by court in the interest of public health are meant only for the poor while politicians are above law? The bench also noted that the case lodged in light of the event excluded the minister from the list of accused. The bench will hear the suo motu PIL and address the other issues related to Covid-19 management on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-irked-at-shiv-sena-minister-for-gathering-at-inauguration-101620846527341.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Most schools conducted WhatsApp-based assessments for Class 8 to 10: Survey||Majority of the schools in Maharashtra have conducted assessments for Class 8 to Class 10 on WhatsApp, data shared by the state education department has revealed. The second-most widely used method of conducting assessments was online tests, as per the survey findings.Schools that used WhatAapp-based assessments either used a set of questions pre-set by them which were sent to students through a link on the social messaging app or asked students to answer questions on the app either in the text format or by sending scanned images of solved papers. The Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT) had asked schools across the 36 districts in the state to report on the various methods used throughout the pandemic period to assess students of higher grades. The survey was based on figures that schools reported themselves with the help of the portal created by the education department. Schools were asked as to which method/s they used to assess students while schools remained shut all of last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown. The methods included WhatsApp-based assessments, online tests, online sessions, offline tests, home visits, with the help of workbooks and other means. Schools could record one or more than one method used by them. A total of 12,931 schools reported their assessment methods, of which 12,298 said they used WhatsApp-based assessment. In Mumbai, too, the most popular format remained WhatsApp-based assessments with 731 schools using the method.Schools in several parts of the state took offline sessions between November and April as the government permitted reopening of schools in places where Covid-19 cases were low or non-existent. The survey revealed that 9,930 schools conducted offline assessments of students. Similarly, around 7,352 conducted assessments through home visits.While the data does not give the full picture, as only about 50% of the total schools in the state provided their input, it is now being studied as a representative sample by officials to gauge the formula for internal assessments for Class 10 students. With the cancellation of SSC exams, the education department is now mulling over options to mark around 1.7 million students in the state. Teachers, however, said the department will have to be careful while considering WhatsApp-based assessments. “We do not know the validity of these assignments because there is no consistent format. Achieving equivalence will be a challenge,” said a teacher from a suburban school.BOX: MaharashtraTotal schools surveyed: 12,931WhatsApp assessments 12,298Online test 9,758Online session 8,401Offline test 9,930House visit test 7,352Workbook 8,402Other 3,643MumbaiTotal schools surveyed: 800WhatsApp assessments 749Online test 731Online session 724Offline test 614House visit test 325Workbook 591Other 402||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/most-schools-conducted-whatsapp-based-assessments-for-class-8-to-10-survey-101620846526161.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 hit aviation sector hard, domestic passenger footfall at lowest in decade||The coronavirus pandemic has pushed the domestic passenger traffic across the country to a decadal low, even as daily flights from Mumbai are currently down to numbers seen during the first wave in May and June 2020. Domestic traffic in the financial year ending March 2021 was 53.4 million passengers, the lowest since 2010-11 when domestic air operators flew 53.8 million passengers on national routes. “We were seeing 650 flight movements until April as the traffic had started to pick in both domestic and international sectors. However, due to the sudden rise in Covid-19 cases in the country we have gone back to May-June’s traffic last year and are handling just around 200-250 flights daily,” a Mumbai airport official said, on condition of anonymity. By comparison, the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International airport Mumbai handled an average 950 daily flights even as recently as 2019 before the pandemic hit. The domestic traffic in 2019-20 was 274.50 million, as per data made available by rating agency ICRA. The sector was showing signs of recovery as airlines clocked around 60-70% seat occupancy by the end of 2020, after all flights were stopped in March at the start of the pandemic, and domestic flights were allowed to resume only after two months. However, figures provided by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) show that domestic traffic in February 2021 registered a mere 1% growth over January, with the capacity (number of flights deployed by the airlines) static at 71% in both months. In April, domestic air traffic declined by 29% from March, while there was a 15% fall in capacity between the two months. “The first half of this fiscal will be a washout. Till there is a very aggressive focus on vaccination, job losses are inevitable as demand is frozen with nearly 400 plus aircraft on ground in the first quarter,” said Kapil Kaul, chief executive officer of Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA), India, an aviation advisory and research think tank. Part of the reason for the depressed numbers is the continued ban on international flights, which began in March last year and was recently extended to May 31. However, starting April 2020, cargo and DGCA approved flights began to take off. Nevertheless, international traffic has declined by over 90% due to the absence of regular overseas flights. India made bilateral air bubble arrangements with 28 countries, although recently some countries like Hong Kong and Australia announced restrictions on flights to India after a surge in cases was reported from here. Maharashtra’s case trajectory began to register a surge starting February, and by March-end, it contributed to as much as 60% of the country’s caseload and continued to remain the most affected state in the country till April-end, Union health ministry figures pointed out. When flights were allowed again on May 24, the average load factor (the total seat occupied in an aircraft) was 5%, which gradually increased to 60% -70% by October-November. This year too, passengers are wary of flying, which has forced airlines to cancel flights across the country: most airlines have dropped pre-March schedules by almost 40%-50%. SALARY CUTS, JOB LOSSES “Pre-Covid we were on average flying around 70-80 hours per month which came down to zero for a brief moment and then reached about 50 hours around July to September last year. We have not reached the same hours as pre-Covid till now,” said one pilot from Indigo airlines, requesting not to be named. The pilot, with about eight years of experience with three airlines, said that there were two main reasons for reduction in hours: fewer passengers leading to cancellation of flights and a high number of pilots and crew getting infected with Covid-19. This pilot also contracted the disease last month. “Airlines fear that people will neither travel for leisure nor for meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions in 2021. They believe that new virus strains, quarantine rules prevalent in states across the country and other factors will have an impact on the industry. The most important quarter for the domestic market is the first quarter, and in 2021, this seems to be a wash out already. But it’s better than last year where operations were shut for two straight months,” said Praveen Iyer, a former senior executive from Jet Airways. The current fiscal will witness a loss, he said. “All airlines except Indigo will struggle to manage their cash position. As far as employees are concerned, the worst is over. Lay-offs are doubtful, but salary (including incentives/ allowances) cuts that are already in effect may continue,” Iyer said. With deeper pockets than its competitors, Indigo has retained most of its pilots even though there was a cut of around 10% in each department. In May last year, the company made a salary cut of 15% and then there were 10 days per month without pay till November which took the proportion of the cut to almost 45%. However, in November, the company stopped sending its personnel on 10 days a month without pay but increased the salary cut to 28% which remains in force till this day. SpiceJet air crew members floated an online petition a day after the low-cost carrier slashed salaries up to 50% in April for all employees. In the petition, the signatories claimed that many were also underpaid as they worked through the pandemic. Earlier this month, the CEO of GoAir wrote to the employees stating that the plan to restructure their pay was on hold due to the surge in cases, which has “impacted overall operations and reduced flying capacity,” a report in the Hindu BusinessLine newspaper stated. However, experts said that if the current situation persists, more job losses are imminent in the aviation industry. “Most of us had restarted recruitment with the improvement seen in the last four months,” said Murali Ramachandran, chief executive officer of Celebi Aviation Holding, India, a ground handling agency. “It is (job losses) already happening and will continue to happen for the next several months, because it’ll take a while for air travel to come back again. But again, just like the last time, the stronger airlines continue to take a very different approach to their employees compared to the less efficient airlines and I expect to see that differentiation to continue,” a former top airline executive, who has worked for both international and domestic airlines, said. RECOVERY TARGETS “We don’t have uniform rules related to international resumption beyond bubbles as yet and it may take longer to bring it into place,” Kaul said. International traffic is expected to be back to pre-Covid times by 2023-24, he said. Other experts Hindustan Times spoke to also proffered a similar timeframe for recovery: the second half of 2022 for domestic traffic, and longer for international travel. The airline executive quoted above explained that this would be so because of the differential vaccination regimes of different countries. “I think we’ll have to get to a situation where there’s a health passport, vaccination certificates, etc and so you’ll see things picking up. But as there’ll be different parts of the world that will be vaccinated at different times, I think it’s going to be until sometime, maybe the second half of 2023 before the globe as such feels more comfortable with international travel.” An executive associated with the Association of Private Airport Operators said that the airports maintain asset intensive infrastructure despite the fall in air traffic. Private airport operators need to pay the Airports Authority of India as part of joint ventures. More than half of their revenue comes from non-aeronautical parts such as landing-parking charges and retail outlets, he explained. “Our fixed costs are almost 80% of the total costs, as far as airports are concerned. So our fixed costs are very high, unlike airlines or any other stakeholders, we are in a very bad situation. They (the airlines) can cut costs, by reducing fleet strength but airports don’t have that kind of adaptability. Now non aero revenue has almost gone to 5% or 10% of the pre Covid levels also because the retail business at airport too is negligible as a result of which the retail outlets are unable to pay rents,” he said. (WITH INPUTS FROM SHARAN POOVANNA)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-hit-aviation-sector-hard-domestic-passenger-footfall-at-lowest-in-decade-101620846466657.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||MAT stays Daya Nayak’s transfer||The Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal (MAT) on Wednesday stayed the transfer of encounter specialist police inspector Daya Nayak, who was shunted out of Juhu unit of the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad to far-off Gondia district. A bench of MAT member AP Kurhekar stayed the May 6 order primarily in view of “the grave situation prevailing now because of COVID-19 pandemic and the second wave”. Nayak was transferred to caste scrutiny committee, Gondia, considering that Nayak has served 20 years in Mumbai. “Government of Maharashtra by G.R. dated May 10, 2021 has taken conscious decision not to effect any transfer including mid-term or mid-tenure till June 2021 in view of COVID-19 pandemic situation. The said G.R. was issued hardly four days after impugned transfer order,” said MAT while staying the transfer order. “The benefit of this G.R. also can be extended to the Applicant (Nayak) though impugned transfer order was issued four days before the issuance of G.R. in the light of continuing Pandemic situation,” reads the order. Nayak moved MAT through advocate MD Lonkar, challenging the transfer order on various grounds that he was transferred to a different division in contravention of the 2015 rules of divisional allotment for appointment to Group ‘A’ and Group ‘B’ posts. He further pointed out that in 2014 the applicant was transferred from Mumbai to Nagpur, but at the time, the government had accepted his representation in view of threat to his life from underworld and terrorists and he was reposted in Mumbai. “It appears that the then Commissioner of Police has received complaint against the Applicant that he is keeping relation with criminals and also threatened one Mohammed Nabi Khan for withdrawing report lodged against him,” the government pointed out. MAT, however, criticized the action observing that, “Director General of Police dug out report of Commissioner dated December 31, 2013 and solely on the basis of it recommended the transfer of the Applicant. What is striking to note that except this old and stale report of the Commissioner dated December 31, 2013 there is absolutely no fresh material as to what prompted the Director General of Police to transfer the Applicant suddenly after the lapse of more than eight years from the receipt of letter dated December 31, 2013.” said advocate MD Lonkar who appeared for Nayak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/matstays-daya-nayak-s-transfer-101620846465534.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Several lives could have been saved by door-to-door Covid vaccination: Bombay HC||Expressing anguish at the Central government for not abiding by its earlier direction to consider allowing door-to-door vaccination, the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday observed that had such policy been implemented, it would have saved lives of several senior citizens and specially-abled persons who were unable to visit vaccination centres.The court also asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to apprise it on its proposed initiative to have ward-wise vaccination camps to reach out to a larger population in Mumbai and sought to know if vaccination officials would visit homes and administer jabs to eligible persons. After being informed that persons without any type of identity card could register on the Co-WIN website for getting the vaccination, the court sought to know whether beggars, homeless and transgenders could avail of the facility. The court asked Mumbai, Pune and other civic authorities to inform it about measures undertaken by them to vaccinate such persons and also the number of such beneficiaries.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by lawyers Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, seeking directions to the Centre, the Maharashtra government and the BMC to provide door-to-door vaccination facility for people over 75 years of age, the specially-abled and the bed-ridden. On April 22, noting that senior citizens could not be left to die and hence should be given priority while administering vaccines, the HC had directed the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) to reconsider its decision of not having door-to-door vaccination and to find a via media solution to address the issue. On Wednesday, the court asked additional solicitor general Anil Singh as to why its earlier directions were not complied, “When we had passed the reasoned order on April 22, your government should have considered either way. Why wait till filing of an affidavit in Supreme Court in suo motu PIL?” While referring to photographs in local newspapers wherein senior citizens in wheelchairs were seen waiting in queues at vaccination centres the bench said, “If we had door-door vaccination, so many of our prominent citizens across fields, who were not in good health could have saved them. Definitely, something could have been done. Particularly considering some of the recent deaths.” The chief justice then said that in the meeting of senior administrative judges with BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday, they were assured that by May 17, BMC would have vaccination camps across all its wards in Mumbai and said, “Once such camps are started, we will have to see whether it would be possible for the BMC to send vaccination officials to the residences of bedridden persons to administer the jabs. This is the only way we can do it.” The bench sought response from the Centre and civic bodies on its queries and posted the further hearing to May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/several-lives-could-have-been-saved-by-door-to-door-covid-vaccination-bombay-hc-101620845685486.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Fill up vacant posts of medical officers in Maharashtra prisons, vaccinate inmates: HC to State||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday directed the state government to fill up one-third of vacant posts of medical officers and other medical staff in jail hospitals across Maharashtra and ordered the prison authorities to abide by the new standard operating procedures (SOPs) of the high powered committee (HPC) to decongest jails in light of the second Covid wave.The court asked the prison authorities to follow SOPs of the Central government for vaccinating prison inmates, including those not having Aadhar cards.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the suo motu (on its own) public interest litigation (PIL) based on the report published in Hindustan Times which highlighted the rise in Covid-19 cases in two months from 47 to 188 in the prisons in Maharashtra, was informed that as per its directions in a previous hearing the prison authorities had filed a reply. The reply stated that there were 35,124 inmates lodged in various jails across Maharashtra and there was a shortage of medical officers. During the previous hearing on April 29, the court had observed that Taloja Central prison had only three Ayurveda doctors and no Class I medical officers or other staff as required under Prison Rules, 2015. Expressing concern over the death of two prisoners and a jail staff due to Covid-19, the bench had questioned the authorities on the availability of qualified medical staff in prison hospitals and asked the Centre and the state if prison inmates needed to have Aadhaar cards before they get vaccinated.On Wednesday, the court noted that as per the state’s reply, nearly one-third posts of medical officers across jails in Maharashtra were lying vacant and observed that while all prisons should have requisite and able medical staff, the state’s reply was silent on the issue. The bench further noted, “We are not asking you to increase the number of sanctioned posts. At least fill up the existing posts. Already one year of the pandemic is over and you cannot depend on already burdened state-run hospitals. All jails must have at least sanctioned posts of medical staff filled.” The court further noted that apart from Taloja jail, prisons at Kolhapur, Amravati, Nagpur, Mumbai Central and Yerawada (Pune) also did not have any Class 1 medical officers.On the issue of vaccinating prison staff and inmates, Professor Vijay Raghavan, member of Centre for Criminology and Justice, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), who is assisting the court in the suo motu PIL submitted that vaccination should be done in camp mode inside prisons like other states had done rather than taking the inmates to civil hospitals. He also said that HIV positive prisoners or pregnant women, patients of Tuberculosis could be considered by the HPC for release.The prison authorities informed the court that jail staff were considered frontline workers and out of 3,818 prison staff members across 46 jails, 3,252 were vaccinated. It also said that 10,161 inmates above 18 years of age had Aadhar cards. The state and central government further informed the bench that on May 6, the union government had issued SOPs allowing registration of groups of people who did not possess any photo ID card or Aadhar cards on Co-WIN portal. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh for the Centre said that as per these SOPs, prison inmates could be vaccinated despite not having Aadhar cards by registering through the Co-WIN portal. Directing the state government to reply to its queries, HC posted the further hearing to May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fill-up-vacant-posts-of-medical-officers-in-maharashtra-prisons-vaccinate-inmates-hc-to-state-101620845625365.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Less than 50,000 cases recorded in Maharashtra for fourth day||Maharashtra is witnessing a gradual decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases per day as it recorded less than 50,000 new cases for the fourth consecutive day.On Wednesday, the state recorded 46,781 new cases, along with 816 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state has now reached 5,226,710. There are currently 546,129 active patients across the state of which Pune tops with 103,067 patients followed by Nagpur with 49,345 active patients. The death toll has now reached 78,007 with Mumbai leading with 13,972 deaths, followed by Pune with 10,176 people.There were a total of 252,167 tests conducted on Wednesday, while 58,805 patients have been recovered. The total number of deaths has now reached 78,007, with 816 succumbing to the virus on Wednesday.The number of cases started declining below 50,000 from Sunday onwards as it recorded 48,401 new cases followed by Monday and Tuesday with 37,236 and 40,956 new cases, respectively.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that situation in the state is stabilising. “The positivity rate of the virus is coming down. In addition, the growth rate is on the decline at 0.8%, as compared to the national average of 1.4%. We are ranked in the 30th position in terms of the growth rate of Covid-19,” said Tope.Tope said that in 15 districts of Maharashtra, the Covid-19 has slowed down, showing marked improvement.Dr Jeevan Jain, a physician from Lalbaug, who has treated over 15,000 Covid-19 patients, said the lockdown played a crucial role in the decline of the virus. “The lockdown has slowed down the virulence and decreased the potency of the virus significantly. The lockdown needs to be extended so that its gains are not lost,” said Jain.The majority of the ministers in the state cabinet have demanded the extension and have authorised chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to decide on this.Given the surge in Covid-19 cases, a strict lockdown was imposed in Nashik for 10 days. The police department stationed themselves at 40 different junctions penalising people, who stepped out without a valid reason. Similarly in Pune, the action was taken against 23,000 violators in the last five days for breaking Covid-19 rules.Meanwhile, the Union minister Nitin Gadkari donated 650 ventilators and 300 oxygen concentrators to both government and private hospitals in Vidarbha. The Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) celebrated the birthday of their chief Prakash Ambedkar by distributing fruits to the orphanages, after maintaining all Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/less-than-50-000-cases-recorded-in-maharashtra-for-fourth-day-101620845505353.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Neonatal ICUs, creches for kids of Covid positive parents on Mumbai civic body’s cards||Alongside ramping up infrastructure in light of the recent projection of more cases in children and infants, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also decided to set up creches for children whose parents are Covid-19 positive, especially, if such children do not have anyone to take care of them during their parents’ quarantine period. All paediatric wards for Covid-19 positive children are likely to have an adjoining and safe stay area for mothers of ailing children, especially in the case of infants who have tested positive for Covid-19. This was discussed in a meeting between Mumbai suburbs’ guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, and additional municipal commissioner in charge of the civic public health department, Suresh Kakani, on Tuesday. Thackeray later said, “We cannot expect an infant or a very young child who has tested positive for Covid-19 to stay away from its mother. But we also need to make sure the mother is safe from Covid-19. So we will have to design an area that meets both our requirements, alongside paediatric Covid wards.” “This works the other way round as well,” Thackeray added. In cases where both parents of young children have tested positive for Covid-19 and will be institutionally quarantined, but the child has tested negative, BMC will make arrangements for the children to be looked after if they don’t have family members to take care of them. Hindustan Times reported last week, that BMC will add at least 500 beds in dedicated Covid care centres across the city, for children and infants afflicted with Covid. The existing six Jumbo facilities have a capacity of accommodating 250 more beds each. Moreover, the four new Jumbo facilities coming up at Mahalaxmi, Sion, Malad, and Kanjurmarg will have pediatric Covid wards. However, Thackeray said, “BMC will also focus on adding more neonatal ICU and ventilator beds.”Experts have noticed the trend of a rising number of Covid cases in children below 10 years of age, and in infants over the past few months. Om Shrivastav, who is a part of the Maharashtra government’s covid task force said, “Between the first and second wave, we have seen an increase in the number of cases in children below 10 years and infants. We can assume this trend may continue, and we don’t want to be caught off guard, or start making preparations after the crisis has hit us. So we must keep infrastructure ready.” The state government is also forming a pediatric task force of experts for the same. Meanwhile, Mumbai on Wednesday reported 2,104 Covid-19 cases and 66 deaths, taking the tally to 681,233 and the toll to 13,972. There are 36,595 active cases in the city at present. On Tuesday, Mumbai conducted 33,499 tests, which have shown Wednesday’s cases. The daily positivity rate is 6.2% on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/neonatal-icus-creches-for-kids-of-covid-positive-parents-on-mumbai-civic-body-s-cards-101620845446663.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC raps Maharashtra govt, Centre for not anticipating demand for Remdesivir||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday asked the state government to justify the increased demand for Remdesivir injections from 45,000 to 70,000 vials per day after it was informed that despite the Centre allocating additional vials as per the HC directions, there was still a shortage. The court also questioned the Centre for its lack of preparedness in foreseeing the need for Remdesivir in large quantities, though the drug was included as a therapy by the Union health ministry in July 2020. The court also expressed anguish over the Centre’s failure to procure Remdesivir in abundance in anticipation of future Covid waves. The court cautioned the state for curbing Covid cases in rural areas and among children. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing PILs filed by city-based lawyer Sneha Marjadi and social activist Nilesh Navlakha and others alleging mismanagement of Covid-19 treatment in Maharashtra and seeking swift penal action against black marketers, was informed by advocate Akshay Shinde for the state that Maharashtra was receiving only 45,000 vials per day from the Centre. He submitted that Maharashtra’s requirement was of nearly 71,000 vials per day. In response, the Centre informed the bench that on April 21 it had increased the allocation of Remdesivir vials to eight lakhs to Maharashtra and around five lakh vials had already been provided. In light of these submissions, the bench noted that the resolution of the difference in figures was in getting to the root of the shortage. The bench also sought to know from the state as to how the figures had jumped from a daily requirement of 51,000 per day to 71,000 and directed the Centre and state to inform it of steps taken to address the shortage.“Remdesivir was thought of by Union Ministry of health since July 2020 as a therapy for Covid. Have we lowered our guards? We should have procured Remdesivir in sufficient quantities. Why is there a shortage? We should have been prepared to have this drug in abundance,” noted the bench. In light of the submission by advocate Rajesh Inamdar, representing petitioner Navlakha that despite a shortage of Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and other drugs for combatting Covid infections, some celebrities and politicians were helping citizens’ who posted their requirement on social media platforms procure the medicines the court remarked, “Why don’t you (state) appoint nodal officers assigned to film stars and politicians? We wouldn’t stand in their way. But then let this go to everyone and not a select few. Whether this would amount to hoarding? Illegal procurement? It is not a one-off incident.”Referring to a news report of a Palghar hospital where patients were lying on the floor without any medical facilities the bench said, “The report was an eye-opener...We have to stop infection at the threshold so that it does not spread in rural areas. We do not have those facilities in rural areas like cities. In the first wave, villages were not as much affected. But now you have to focus on villages.” The court also directed the state government to take measures through district collectors to contain Covid-19 spread in rural areas.Noting that the third wave was predicted to affect children, the bench asked the state to inform about Covid- 19 cases among children in Maharashtra and suggested that certain hospitals could be reserved for them. The bench also said that while admitting children, sufficient arrangements should be put in place for the mothers to be present with their children to cater to their needs. Senior counsel Anil Sakhare representing BMC said that the civic body was gearing up to tackle the third wave by adding special pediatric wards in the city since the pandemic began, there have been 37 deaths of children infected due to Covid so far. The HC also directed the Pune Municipal Corporation to ensure that the officials attending helpline calls from citizens should be updated with data regarding the availability of beds and drugsHC sought responses from state and civic authorities on its queries and directions pertaining to Covid-19 management and posted the further hearing to May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-raps-maharashtra-govt-centre-for-not-anticipating-demand-for-remdesivir-101620845445354.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Lockdown in Maharashtra expected may extend by two weeks, all ministers in favour of the same||The ongoing lockdown in Maharashtra is all set to be extended by another fortnight. In the meeting on Wednesday, almost all of the state cabinet ministers demanded two weeks’ extension to the lockdown in the wake of the rise in Covid-19 cases in some of districts. The formal decision on the same is expected to be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a day or two.After a partial lockdown from April 5, the state government imposed a complete shutdown from April 22. The state has allowed essential establishments to remain open between 7 and 11am, people to step out only for medical and valid reasons, restricted inter-district travel for valid reasons and brought down attendance in the government offices to 15% during the lockdown which ends at 7am on May 15. The lockdown has helped the administration to arrest the spike in Covid cases. The number of active patients came down to 546,129 on Wednesday from 699,858 on April 22.The decision of the complete lockdown was taken by the state cabinet in the third week of April after the health department projected the active cases to rise to more than 1.1 million by May 1. The state cabinet on Wednesday pressed for the need to extend the ongoing lockdown for another two weeks. “The final decision over the extension will be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray soon. The cabinet ministers are in the favour of an extension of two weeks,” said public health minister Rajesh Tope.Tope said that though the cases in about 15 districts are on the decline the remaining districts have been witnessing the rise in the same. “We have improved on the positivity and growth rate of the cases. With 0.8% growth rate against 1.4% national rate, Maharashtra is in 30th position in the country. The positivity rate and other parameters related to the Covid-19 have improved in the state. Though we cannot claim to have the infection curve completely stabilised, the daily caseload is certainly on the decline,” he said.According to the officials from the relief and rehabilitation department, there would not be any relaxation given from the current restriction during the extension of the lockdown. “There are a lot of sectors who have been demanding for the relaxation in train travel, office attendance, but the chief minister is firm on extending it in the existing form. The decision about imposing the complete lockdown for four weeks was taken by the cabinet last month. It was also decided to declare it in two phases. We expect the gradual unlocking to begin after May 30 or 31,” said the official.The official pointed out that the lockdown has helped the state ease the pressure on the health infrastructure to a great extent.“We have more than 25% beds vacant in the state, with some districts reaching 40%. We have eased the shortage of life-saving drugs like Remdesivir and oxygen through concentrated efforts over the last few weeks. But the vaccination drive is not attaining the desired speed, though we top in the number of people inoculated, amid the shortage of the vaccine. We expect the extension of the lockdown to help at the beginning of the flattening of the infection curve in the next fortnight,” he said.Some of the districts like Buldhana, Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli have already imposed stricter curbs at a local level with permission from the chief secretary of the state. Some of these districts have completely shut down the establishments including essential ones and curtailed the intradistrict public transport as they have been witnessing a continuous rise in the cases.Out of the total active patients, 44.22% or 247165 are in five districts (Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai, Thane and Nashik) while another 20.37% or 113845 are in five more districts (Ahmednagar, Solapur, Satara, Sangli and Chandrapur) as on May 11. 32.92% or 194486 patients out of 590818 active patients, as of May 11, are hospitalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lockdown-in-maharashtra-expected-may-extend-by-two-weeks-all-ministers-in-favour-of-the-same-101620845385374.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body floats global tender for vaccines, restricts China||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday floated an expression of interest (EOI) to procure 10 million vaccine doses from vaccine manufacturers abroad. The decision was taken by the BMC on Monday to speed up the vaccination process.According to BMC, all clearances (from the Centre) regarding Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson vaccine doses will have to be taken by the manufacturers themselves. However, it has barred Chinese vaccine manufacturers from participating in the procurement process by restricting the participation of countries sharing borders with India.In a statement issued on Wednesday, the BMC said, “To supply one crore (10 million) doses of Covid prevention vaccine, BMC has published a Global Expression of Interest (EoI) inviting various companies to submit proposals. This notice has been published today (May 12, 2021) and according to this, EoI are to be submitted to the BMC by 1pm on May 18, 2021. The proposals will be unveiled on the same day, May 18, 2021, at 3pm. If the BMC issues a work order, the entire vaccine will have to be supplied to the concerned companies within three weeks.”This comes two days after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday gave a nod for the BMC to float a global tender. Mumbai suburbs guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray on Monday had tweeted, “Looking at the need for adequate vaccines to ensure that vaccination is swift & efficient, after discussing the issue with CM Uddhav Thackeray ji, as guardian minister of Mumbai, we have asked BMC to explore possibilities of global procurement of vaccines.”Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “BMC has floated global bid to procure one crore Covid vaccines at the earliest. BMC has resolved to make every possible effort in future and also to acquire sufficient quantity of Covid vaccines to vaccinate all eligible citizens of Mumbai on a war-footing in the next 60-90 days.”P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We have floated just the expression of interest, and have put a condition that all certification and approvals vaccine manufacturers will need, they will have to get it from the government of India, drug controller. The EoI, for now, is to procure ten million doses, and regarding indemnity issues, we have mentioned that the best international practice will be followed. Ultimately, we all will be bound by conditions of the Central government.”Velrasu also confirmed that BMC has also put a condition that applicants should not belong to countries sharing borders with India, which will restrict the entry of Chinese vaccine manufacturers.Further, considering several vaccines from the western countries require cold storage mandating temperature in minus, the BMC has made it mandatory for manufacturers to arrange for such a facility. The BMC in the EOI document has stated, “BMC has cold storage facilities consisting of walk-in cooler (WIC) 2 in no. with 40 cum capacity each. The temperature of WIC is+20 to +80C. If the covid vaccine requires storage and temperature requirements other than that available with the B, C, the applicant will have to provide the required storage facility for the Covid Vaccine, till the vaccination points. Currently, MCGM has 20 hospitals and 240 vaccination centres.”The document further adds, “The applicant should have their own cold chain transporting system from their manufacturing unit or should have a valid contract with a transporting agent having facilities to transport Covid Vaccines under cold chain norms to the storage facility / any of the hospitals/ vaccination centres within BMC jurisdiction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-floats-global-tender-for-vaccines-restricts-china-101620845325441.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Mission Oxygen: Maharashtra govt approves sops for industry||To encourage the private sector to generate liquid medical oxygen as part of its Mission Oxygen plan to increase daily production up to 3,000 metric tonnes (MT) in the state, the state cabinet on Wednesday gave in-principle approval to the sops to the industry. The state is expected to bear a burden of around ₹200 crore towards the incentives. Under its Mission Oxygen, also coined as Swayampurna Maharashtra, the state has set a short-term goal of 2300 MT to be achieved in the next six months. The mission, which is expected to cost the state ₹1,100 crore, will have the participation of private players with the aim of at least one new plant in each of the six divisions. The state is extending sops in terms of waiver in the registration fee, electricity duty, stamp duty and GST. “The waiver in GST will be 150% in backward Marathwada and Vidarbha and 100% for the rest of the state. This will help us in encouraging the setting up of new LMO plants,” said public health minister Rajesh Tope. “We have six major players including Linde India, Inox Air Products, Praxair India, Taiyo Nippon Sanso India, JSW Steel and Air Liquid India Holdings who produce most of the current daily generation of 1295 MT. We are in talks with existing manufacturers and expect new entrants,” said an official from Mantralaya. During the discussion cabinet members also suggested incentives for the cooperative sugar sector, which has started tapping the generation of oxygen. The state has planned more than 290 PSA (Pressure Swing Absorption (PSA) plants and dozens of Air Separation Units, along with the LMO plants with the help of private players.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mission-oxygen-maharashtra-govt-approves-sops-for-industry-101620845265933.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Two weeks after videos of abuse surface, IIT-KGP suspends prof||A professor from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Kharagpur has been suspended two weeks after videos of her purportedly abusing students from Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribes categories and those with physical disabilities emerged on social media. Seema Singh, an associate professor of English from the department of Humanities and Social Sciences, was suspended on Monday pending an internal investigation, said Tamal Nath, registrar, IIT-Kharagpur. On April 24, video recordings of Singh were posted anonymously on the confessions page of the institute, an informal group of students on social media. The recordings are those of preparatory classes, allegedly taught by Singh online and attended by over 100 students and parents, where she can be heard hurling abuses repeatedly. IITs offer preparatory courses for two semesters to aspirants of SC and ST communities as well as persons with disability (PWD). The preparatory courses are offered against vacant seats reserved for students who missed out on admissions through the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE). At the end of the two semesters, the students can either take JEE again or seek admission based on their performance during the preparatory course. In the video clips, Singh can be heard verbally abusing both students and their parents for not attending classes, keeping their cameras switched off during the class. Singh also castigated a student for sending an email stating that they would not be able to attend the class for a few days due to the death of their grandparent. “Professor Singh has been suspended until further orders. A fact-finding committee had been instituted to look into the allegations and has submitted its report. We are now instituting an internal inquiry,” Nath said. Singh was unavailable for comment.Soon after the videos went viral, Singh had, in an email to students, apologised for her behaviour. “I am writing this to express my sincerest apology for what happened last week. It was definitely not my intention to hurt anyone… It was never the slightest intention to be discriminatory towards any segment of the student community,” Singh wrote in her email. Meanwhile, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has taken suo motu cognisance of the matter and initiated an inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-weeks-after-videos-of-abuse-surface-iit-kgp-suspends-prof-101620845206486.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||SoBo society files case against contractor over fake Covid reports||A housing society in south Mumbai has filed a criminal case registered against a contractor for allegedly producing fake negative Covid-19 test reports of four workers engaged to carry out repairing work in a flat.According to Gamdevi police, the complainant Hiren Thakkar, 64, is the manager of Saajit Cooperative Housing Society Sagar Villa, located on Bhulabhai Desai Road. In his complaint to the police, he stated that one of the residents of the society, R Khemka, wanted to get some repairing work done at her flat and hence secured due permission from the society. But due to the ongoing pandemic situation, the government has made Covid-19 testing of labourers compulsory, before starting any repair work. After Khemka was informed about it, she told the same to the contractor, Shivaji Maruti Kambale. On Tuesday, four workers arrived at the society for the work and Kambale submitted their negative Covid test reports to the society. “When the society manager saw the Covid test reports, he noticed that the VID (Virtual ID) number and the testing time on all the four reports are same, which raised suspicion about the genuineness of the reports,” a police officer said.Thakkar then informed society’s chairman Percy Dubash, who then contacted the pathology lab for verification. The lab executive said those reports were not issued by them and further added that the VID number on the reports was linked to some other person’s test report conducted last year. Following this the society informed the Gamdevi police.“We have registered a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code against Kambale. His friend had helped him in making the false Covid test report. Both of them will face legal action soon,” said Rampiyare Rajbhar, senior inspector of Gamdevi police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sobo-society-files-case-against-contractor-over-fake-covid-reports-101620845207206.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Congress must play role of strong opposition: Shiv Sena||Three days after questioning where the Congress would be in terms of national-level politics in 2024, the Shiv Sena on Wednesday, in an editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana, said the Congress must play the role of a strong opposition in the future. It stated that the popularity of the Narendra Modi government is sliding due to Covid-19 deaths, inflation, economic slowdown, unemployment, etc, and added that the prominent opposition party in the country must come down from “Twitter branch” to the ground. On Sunday, Sena leader Sanjay Raut in his weekly column RokhThok had taken a critical tone on the Congress’ performance in the Assembly elections held in West Bengal, Assam and Kerala. He had said there was no leader in Delhi to take on Modi. However, in an editorial on Wednesday, the Sena lauded Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for his criticism of the Centre and said that the Central government accepted several suggestions made by Gandhi in the fight against Covid-19. “Going ahead, the Congress party must act like a fierce opposition party. The anger against this government is building up among the people. The popularity of the government is sliding due to unemployment, economic slowdown, inflation, and deaths due to Covid-19. At this moment, all the key opposition parties must come down from the Twitter branch (social media) and go on ground. That does not mean leading crowd on the streets amid the Covid-19 pandemic, but the opposition must question the government on a daily basis. The Congress must take a lead in this,” the editorial said. The editorial further said that during the Congress Working Committee meeting, party president Sonia Gandhi expressed concern on the poor performance in the recently-held Assembly elections in five states. It said that the same issues were raised by the column (RokhThok) in Saamana. “The results are so poor that some changes have to be made to the party. Sonia Gandhi raised these issues in the meeting. Congress leaders from Maharashtra say they do not read Saamana, but Sonia Gandhi takes cognisance of Saamana,” the editorial read, taking a swipe at Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole.The editorial also added that leaders, who had left the Congress, are going on to bring their own regional parties to power in that particular state. It cited examples of Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal, Hemant Sarma in Assam, and N Rangaswamy in Puducherry — all three are former Congress leaders. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Raut, executive editor of Saamana, said the views expressed in the newspaper was due to concern, as the Congress is a big party and contributed immensely in the freedom struggle. “The same party had to face defeat in Assam and Kerala, and Sonia Gandhi raised the issue of why the party could not come into power in the states during the party’s working committee meeting, which was also raised by Saamana,” said Raut. He further said that everybody, “be it gully or Delhi” (at local level and national as well), take note of Saamana and decide their policies accordingly,” said Sena leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-must-play-role-of-strong-opposition-shiv-sena-101620845205355.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Storm expected to lash south Maharashtra coast starting Friday, may lead to cyclone||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecasted the formation of a low-pressure zone over the Arabian Sea starting Friday (May 14). This weather condition is then expected to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 16, prompting IMD to issue yellow-category storm warnings for parts of Madhya Maharashtra and the southern end of Konkan coast. This is not expected to have significant impact over Mumbai and north Konkan.“Squally weather with wind speed reaching 45­55 kilo metre per hour (kmph) is very likely to prevail along and off South Maharashtra-Goa coasts on May 15 and 16. Sea conditions will be rough to very rough over South Maharashtra-Goa coasts on May 15 and 16. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas during the above period,” IMD’s regional forecasting centre said in a statement Wednesday.The storm “is very likely to move north to north-westwards and intensify further into a cyclonic storm over east central Arabian Sea around May 16 and continue to move north-north-westwards for some more time with further intensification,” it cautioned.IMD has issued a yellow alert with a forecast of thunderstorm with lightning, rain and gusty winds at isolated places in Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Ahmednagar, Kolhapur, Pune, Satara, Sangli, Solapur, Beed, Nanded, Latur, Osmanabad for May 14 and 15. This may also bring some relief to these districts from the summer heat. For Mumbai, however, partly cloudy skies are expected to prevail, with a near normal temperature (about 34 degrees Celsius daytime maximum) for the next few days.Orange category (ie heavy rainfall) alerts have been issued for Lakshadweep Islands from May 13 to May 15, along with the possibility of a tidal wave occurrence. Parts of Kerala, Karnatake and Tamil Nadu are expected to receive isolated but heavy bouts of rain over the next four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/storm-expected-to-lash-south-maharashtra-coast-starting-friday-may-lead-to-cyclone-101620845205971.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Deonar plant: Firm checking green impact not accredited||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has outsourced the environment impact assessment (EIA) for a proposed waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at the Deonar dumping site to an unaccredited consultant organisation (CO), in variance of the directions of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC). Fine Envirotech Engineers (FEE), a Mahim-based environment consultancy headed by proprietor Dr Umesh Kulkarni, which conducted baseline environmental monitoring and socio-economic surveys for the Deonar WTE project, is not recognised by the National Accreditation Board for Education and Training (NABET), the statutory body that audits and certifies EIA consultants nationally. FEE has been tasked with drafting EIA reports for several other public infrastructure projects in the city. These include assessments for MMRDA’s Metro-2A and Metro-7 lines, and the BMC’s solid waste processing facility in Kanjurmarg. Dr Umesh Kulkarni, proprietor of FEE, also confirmed that his organisation has operated without NABET accreditation for “the past five or six years”. “There is a stay order from the Bombay High Court against the ministry’s office memorandums, which remains valid. I have been in the business for three decades and our team of experts, across sectors, have conducted several successful EIA projects.” The absence of NABET recognition does not preclude FEE from conducting such assessments. The accreditation was made mandatory for EIA Consultant Organizations by the Union environment ministry through an Office Memorandum dated December 2, 2009, FEE has obtained a stay order from the Bombay high court against the direction.“Fine Envirotech Engineers… have been granted stay of the Office Memorandums issued by the MoEF by which Environment Consultants were directed to have an accreditation from NABET,” states a letter written by FEE’s legal counsel to the environment ministry in September 2017, a copy of which has been accessed by HT. “By virtue of the same, Fine Envirotech Engineers are carrying various category projects all over India and are currently engaged by a varied clientele including government and private,” the letter continues. The HC order referred to was passed on August 23, 2013. The stay order continues to be valid. With the matter still subjudice, FEE is allowed to continue operations, but without statutory oversight.“The CO’s arrangement with the BMC is not illegal per se, but raises an important question which needs to be answered in public interest. Why are authorities giving work to an organisation that is not duty bound to a centrally mandated level of quality, and which does not get audited regularly? Even if the CO is technically capable, it creates a major hole in the accountability,” said Zaman Ali, a city-based environmental lawyer. Hindustan Times also spoke to representatives of two other COs based in Mumbai, accredited by NABET. “As a certified organisation, it is our view that such projects should be given only to accredited COs which have proven sector-specific expertise. The NABET certification process is riddled with red-tape and could be improved, but having accreditation is mandatory,” said a proprietor of one such firm, seeking anonymity.Experts also said the permissibility of unaccredited EIAs is questionable in light of the MoEFCC’s March 2016 amendment to the EIA notification, which clearly states that such work is to be undertaken only by certified organisations. BMC’s chief engineer for solid waste management, Kishor Bhambure, was unable for a comment. However, a subordinate official who is directly involved with the project, but requested anonymity, said they were not aware of such an amendment in law. “But we know that FEE is not recognised by NABET. They have a case pending in the courts and are in possession of a stay order, which makes them eligible to carry out the EIA for our Deonar plant,” said the official.There are, in fact, multiple stay orders in the matter passed by the High Courts of Gujarat and Karnataka as well, on the basis of different petitions from COs. “As a result of these stays by High Courts, some consultants who were actually not found competent through a detailed assessment process, are carrying out EIAs for various sectors thereby potentially endangering the projects as well as the environment and people around. Additionally, some other consultant organizations, who have not even applied for accreditation, are using this route to by-pass the entire process and doing work at inexplicably low costs. This is a big disincentive for… consultant organizations... who are willing to follow the process directed by the Government and are making continuous efforts and investments to produce proper EIAs,” the Quality Council of India noted in an internal report in April 2015.FEE’s Deonar EIA report itself has been criticised for a lack of rigour. A solid waste management expert certified by the Quality Council of India, and who has at least a decade of experience conducting similar impact assessments for projects in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, said while seeking anonymity, “The EIA report suffers from a few gaps. Firstly, the OC has not ascertained whether the waste material from Deonar landfill is suitable for incineration. Second, there is no chemical analysis of the leachate generated by the landfill site, which may be polluting groundwater. There has been data collection, but the data has not been meaningfully interpreted for public benefit.”Moreover, the expert also pointed out that FEE has not, in its draft EIA document, adequately disclosed the names of concerned experts -- also known as Functional Area Experts -- involved in the exercise, along with their qualifications. “This disclosure is usually in the final chapter of any standard EIA document. In the given EIA report, in Chapter 12, the consultant has just given a person’s CV as consultant disclosure, without mentioning accreditation status of that person. There is no sector-wise list of appropriate experts. This is a violation of EIA guidelines,” said the QCI-certified expert quoted above.Experts also highlighted that there is likely to be an inherent conflict of interest when project proponents are allowed to appoint EIA consultants at their own discretion, and suggested that, to bring more transparency to this process, the consultants would ideally be allocated by regulatory authorities themselves.Commenting on the matter, Meenakshi Kapoor, an independent environmental policy researcher, “”This case raises more questions when viewed with a March 2020 order of the MoEFCC, in which it states that consultants who do not stick to the issued Terms of Reference should be issued a show cause notice and repeat offenders should be delisted. If non-accredited consultants can operate, they have nothing to lose even if they do a shoddy job and are told off for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/deonar-plant-firm-checking-green-impact-not-accredited-101620845145392.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||CR to deploy mechanised boats to assist passengers in case of waterlogging at railway tracks||In order to ensure the safety of passengers during monsoon, Central Railway (CR) will be deploying mechanised rescue boats at railway track flooding locations. Five mechanised rescue boats will be deployed to be used when local or outstation trains get stuck due to waterlogged railway tracks during monsoon. The quick response team and flood rescue team of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) have been trained by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to assist passengers during monsoon. Further, RPF will also monitor railway tracks with the help of drones. “During flooding of railway tracks, there have been instances where passengers got stuck. Mechanised boats will be used in such cases. Training of RPF personnel and railways commercial staff is also done,” said a senior CR official. Cleaning of drains near Ghatkopar, Dadar and Byculla railway stations are being undertaken currently while cleaning of railway culverts and drains near Sion, GTB Nagar and Kanjurmarg railway stations will be undertaken soon.The zonal railway has also undertaken drainage mapping of its railway tracks to inspect the pathway of drains and choking locations that generally lead to waterlogging on railway tracks.In addition, work is being carried out to remove muck from railway tracks as well as boulders in the ghat sections as preparatory work for monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cr-to-deploy-mechanised-boats-to-assist-passengers-in-case-of-waterlogging-at-railway-tracks-101620845086644.html
13-05-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad: Family of accused write to CM, seek release on bail||Family and friends of 15 accused arrested in Elgar Parishad and Bhima-Koregaon violence case have written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, urging him to recommend releasing the 15 accused on interim bail to the high-power committee.In their letter, the family members said, “The Supreme Court of India has empowered state governments to form high-power committees which could then decide upon the release of prisoners in each state. We urge you to recommend to the committee to release the BK (Bhima-Koregaon) undertrials on interim bail at least. They are all law-abiding citizens who have families outside. We are worried about their safety in these desperate circumstances where everyone is at risk.”They claimed they were worried about the health of the arrested accused as most of them are aged above 60 years and have comorbidities. “Although vaccination is believed to reduce the lethality of Covid-19 infection, it is seen that only four BK undertrial detainee — Gautam Navlakha, Vernon Gonsalves, Sudha Bharadwaj and Shoma Sen — have received a single dose of the vaccine, as of last week of April,” reads the letter.The families also claimed the communication channel between the accused and their family members have also been disrupted. “Although letters have been written by the BK detainees in Taloja prison on several occasions in the past two months, we, the families, have not received most letters from them. The few letters that have reached the families were posted and delivered after delay of over a month. We are also concerned that they may be receiving letters written to them by their family and friends with undue delays,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-family-of-accused-write-to-cm-seek-release-on-bail-101620845085964.html
