14-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai cops look for woman, daughter booked for cheating investors||Khar police launched a manhunt for a mother-daughter duo from Kalyan for allegedly cheating a businessman to the tune of ₹63.72 lakh on the pretext of investing the amount in 34% share of their shipping company. The duo was out on bail when they went absconding. Police lodged a first information report (FIR) against Ragini and Mansi Khandelwal after the complainant, Ravi Jaisingh, submitted a written application to the police in March.According to Jaisingh, his acquaintance Rashid Agarwal had introduced him to Raju Naik who claimed to have 41% share in a company named Shree Tirupati Balaji Marine Enterprises Ltd which was based in Kalyan Shipyard and manufactured heavy infrastructure vessels and tug boats.Naik took Jaisingh to the shipyard and asked him to invest ₹50 lakh in the same firm, however, the businessman declined. Later Naik introduced him to Mansi Khandelwal who had 49% shares in the company. Police officers said that Mansi asked Jaisingh to invest the money to own 34% share of the company.“An MOU was also signed by the accused to the effect,” said an officer from Khar police station.Under this pretext, the mother-daughter duo had extracted ₹63.72 lakh from Jaisingh between 2018 and 2020 and then refused to give him the shares in March 2021. Jaisingh then approached Khar police to lodge a complaint. In February the duo was arrested by Andheri Police for allegedly cheating people of crores of rupees on the pretext of investing in shares of shipyard. They have allegedly duped several investors using the same modus operandi.Acting on the complaint, a probe was initiated after which the police learnt that the modus operandi of the women was to ask businessmen to invest in ships, which could attract monthly returns in lakhs and then refuse to give them their share. “Since Ragini and Mansi got bail on April 23, the duo is absconding,” added the police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cops-look-for-woman-daughter-booked-for-cheating-investors-101621016519904.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Marathas hope to get their reservation back||The Maratha community is hopeful of revival of their reservation, after the Centre filed a review petition in the Supreme Court (SC) for reconsideration of the order related to states’ powers to list backward classes after the 102nd Constitutional amendment. Community members feel if the top court reviews its verdict on states’ powers, the Maharashtra government can revisit the other grounds on which the quota has been struck down. On the other hand, in the absence of the quota, the community has also started building pressure on the government for implementation of the sops announced for the community. The Centre filed a review petition in the SC on Thursday, pleading it to reconsider its May 5 judgment, which ruled that after the Constitutional amendment in 2018, state governments have no power to draw up their own list of backward classes. The Marathas were given 12% and 13% quota in education and government jobs, respectively, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018. The SC quashed it, stating people from the community cannot be declared educationally and socially backward just to bring them in the reserved category. The five-judge SC bench also refused to refer the 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment that set a 50-% cap on reservation to a larger bench for reconsideration. The Maharashtra government has appointed an eight-member committee under retired high court judge Dilip Bhosale to study the SC order and recommend the way forward. “If the top court reviews its verdict, confirming that the powers with the state governments are intact, the ball will again be in the court of the Maharashtra government. Currently, in the wake of the SC order, it is dangling between the state and Centre. Now, the state will have to take a call whether to go for the review of the order related to the findings of the Gaikwad committee, which was the basis of the SEBC quota, or conduct a survey again to establish the backwardness of the community. The committee appointed under the retired high court judge can give recommendations to the state on these fronts,” said an official from Mantralaya. Legal experts also see hope. “The Central government has clarified that the state government’s powers related to reservation were intact. Once their claim is admitted, the Maharashtra government will have the options of appointing a fresh commission to look into the backwardness of the community and conduct the survey again, keeping the SC’s remarks in mind. Even the lacunae in the report, pointed out by the court, could be revisited and revised to establish “exceptional and extraordinary circumstances” to accord the reservation. If it is done, there would be no question of following the 50-% cap on reservation,” said advocate Abhijit Patil, one of the members of coordination committee of lawyers appointed for reservation. Public works department minister and head of the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation Ashok Chavan demanded the Centre file a review petition in the SC for its verdict on the 50-% cap. “We had demanded the Centre’s intervention for a review of the Indra Sawhney verdict, which caps the reservation to 50%. We had demanded the case be transferred to an 11-judge constitution bench. We again urge the Centre to file a review petition for reconsideration of the cap on reservation,” Chavan said on Friday. Bharatiya Janata Party’s state unit chief Chandrakant Patil said the state should announce a ₹3,000-crore package to ensure benefits of the other backward classes to Marathas. “Until the reservation is given again, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government should immediately start implementing the benefits and schemes meant for backward classes for the Maratha community. Our government had rolled out the package for the community in the wake of the prolonged process of reservation in 2017,” he said. The community has relaunched its agitation through digital platforms to push for reservation. “We want the state government to take all steps to restore the reservation. The government should tap the legal options available. We have also been pressing for appointment letters to 2,185 youth from the community who have been selected for various posts, but could not get the letters before the stay on reservation. The state should seriously implement the schemes announced to extend the reservation benefits to the community,” said Virendra Pawar of Maratha Kranti Morcha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/marathas-hope-to-get-their-reservation-back-101621015919907.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 count drops below 40,000 as tally tops 5.3 million||Maharashtra’s tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose to 5,309,215 on Friday as 39,923 more people were found positive for Covid-19 in the state in the preceding 24 hours, a health department bulletin showed. The related death toll, meanwhile, reached 79,552 as the viral disease claimed more 695 lives in this period, the bulletin further showed.This is for the sixth straight day Maharashtra has recorded less than 50,000 fresh infections in a 24-hour period. On May 8, there were 53,605 cases and 864 deaths. On May 10, as well, Maharashtra recorded less than 40,000 cases, as 37,236 people were found positive for the infection.According to the health department bulletin, 53,249 recoveries were also recorded, taking total number of recoveries to 4,707,980. The latest positive cases were from 250,784 samples tested, or a positivity rate of nearly 16%, taking total tests conducted thus far to 30,602,140.Mumbai, the western state’s capital city, saw yet another fall in its daily cases, with 1,660 infections in the last 24 hours, while its death toll rose by 62. Mumbai’s infection tally thus stands at 684,845, including a death toll of 14,102.Maharashtra has the highest Covid-19 caseload among all states and Union territories. On Wednesday, the state government extended lockdown-like curbs till June 1 to break the chain of transmission. However, with a shortage of vaccine doses being reported from across the state, the government has also decided to divert jabs of both Covid-19 vaccines -- Covaxin and Covishield -- to be used as second dose for those above the age of 45. The vaccination of those aged 18-44 has been suspended for now..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-39-923-new-covid-19-cases-as-tally-tops-5-3-million-101620997480757.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||What’s the need for Central Vista amid pandemic? asks Sena’s Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday criticised the Narendra Modi-government’s plan to build Central Vista in the national Capital, asking what use would changing the map of Delhi be when people are struggling to survive and the dead don’t get last rites with their bodies floating in Ganga. The Sena leader also said the country was running “Ram bharose”, taking potshots at the Centre’s handling of the Covid-19 situation. “The situation in the country is so bad, what will you do by changing the map of Delhi? People in the country are struggling to survive...people are asking what is the need for Central Vista, new parliament [house] or new Prime Minister’s residence?” he asked, even as he pointed out that Chhattisgargh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has stopped the work on the state’s Vidhan Sabha and diverted the funds for Covid-19 management.Also Watch | Covid: Sanjay Raut urges Centre to not hide crisis; Cong demands parallel govtRaut’s statement comes a day after 12 Opposition leaders, including Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, TMC chief Mamata Banerjee, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, DMK chief MK Stalin, and NCP president Sharad Pawar, wrote to Prime Minister Modi to stop the work on Central Vista project and divert the fund to fight Covid-19. The Sena MP also added though the country has a Prime Minister, a home minister and a health minister, but they aren’t seen at the forefront of Covid management. “There is a government, administration, prime minister and health minister but the deaths due Covid-19 are increasing, several corpses are floating in the Ganga from Varanasi to Patna...the PM and home minister are on the chair but they need to be seen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/whats-the-need-for-central-vista-amid-pandemic-asks-sena-s-sanjay-raut-101620979858314.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Reconsider rule of negative Covid report for drivers: Transporters body to Maharashtra govt||Transporters have written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asking to reconsider the guidelines of a compulsory negative RT-PCR report for drivers travelling from outside the state.Citing the guideline as impractical, the body has stated that the compulsion of negative RT-PCR test would lead to delay in transport of essential commodities including oxygen concentrators, medicines, oxygen tankers and fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) goods.The Maharashtra government under its BreakTheChain guidelines have stated that cargo carriers originating from outside the state will be allowed only after they produce a negative RT-PCR test, which is issued up to a maximum of 48 hours.“In the case of cargo carriers, not more than two people (driver + cleaner/ helper) may be allowed to travel in the same. If these cargo carriers are originating from outside the state, these may be allowed to enter into the state with a negative RT-PCR test, which will have to be issued from up to a maximum of 48 hours before the time of entry into Maharashtra and which will be valid for 7 days.” mentions the guidelines.All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) has stated that the RT-PCR report takes 48 hours and cargo between Delhi takes 72 hours to reach Maharashtra.“The provision must be revisited and rectified in all practicality. It would have been prudent if a rapid antigen facility is created at border check-posts free of cost. It must also be ensured that waiting time at the border check-posts is not more than two-three hours. Adequate facilities for food and water are provided for drivers at the borders and they are given hospitable treatment by the officials.” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, AIMTC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/reconsider-rule-of-negative-covid-report-for-drivers-transporters-body-to-maharashtra-govt-101620933471928.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Second Covid vaccine dose: Maharashtra govt’s first priority||A day after announcing the suspension of the Covid-19 vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group, Maharashtra inoculated 338,400 people above 45 years on Thursday, as it prioritised administering the second doses for beneficiaries. Amid the delay in supply of doses by the Centre and manufacturers, not only has the inoculation of younger citizens been halted, but it has slowed down for those above 45 years. Of the 338,400 people inoculated on Thursday, 210,040 got their second dose, while 128,360 were given their first shot. The state government on Wednesday suspended the drive for the 18-44 age group, so as to divert the jab to the second doses for those above 45. The state government diverted the vaccines it purchased for the 18-44 age group due to the shortage of vaccines supplied by the Centre for beneficiaries above 45 years.Health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday the state has requested the Centre for more vaccines. “We have more than 2 million people due for their second doses. We have diverted around 1 million doses, including 300,000 procured by the state for 18-44 years category, to enable the second dose within the stipulated time. We expect the Centre to supply the additional stock of 1 million doses to make up for the diversion and also supply additional 1 million to ensure inoculation of people waiting for their second shot,” he said. He said the state was not complaining about the short supply by the Centre as they are aware about non-availability of vaccines. “But we expect better management of the jabs by the centre by monitoring the due period of the beneficiaries. The responsibility of providing adequate stock of the vaccine for second doses of 45-plus beneficiaries lies with the Centre. We do not want to politicise the issue, but putting facts in the public domain is necessary,” he said.The health minister said that not only Maharashtra, but even Karnataka, too, was compelled to suspend the third phase drive (18-44 years age group).Though the state government has decided to give priority to the second dose for those above 45 years, many districts administered first doses to the people in the category. “Maharashtra is expected to receive another stock of more than 500,000 doses in a day or two, till which we have stock that can last for two more days. As the Centre has now extended the period of second dose of Covishield to 12-16 weeks from 6-8 weeks, we expect demand for the second jab to reduce a bit,” said an official from the health department. Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer, said, “About 80% of the doses were used for the second doses for 45+ citizens today. In the next two days, we will further reduce the percentage of inoculation for first dose. Once we get the stock, we can think of resumption of inoculation for the 18-44 age group.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-covid-vaccine-dose-maharashtra-govt-s-first-priority-101620933351919.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Protect doctors, staff from assault by kin of Covid patients: HC tells Maharashtra govt||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed the state to furnish details of first information reports (FIR) registered against persons who were guilty of assaulting doctors and other staff amid the ongoing pandemic. The court held it was the responsibility of society and authorities to protect the doctors and other medical service providers who are working tirelessly. The bench also noted that doctors and medical staff should not be made scapegoats for lack of drugs or oxygen not being supplied by authorities.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Dr Rajeev Joshi through advocate Nitin Deshpande, was informed of instances of assault on doctors by the kin of patients. The petition stated that Maharashtra witnessed a maximum number of such instances of violence and the government had failed to implement legal provisions including those under Maharashtra Medical Service Person and Medical Service Institution Act, 2010 to curb such incidents.“We have to protect doctors, and medical services providers at this hour, especially when they are tirelessly working for us under stress. As a responsible state, we will fail in our duty if we do not protect them... It is of paramount interest. They are saving society,” observed the bench. Additional public prosecutor Dr FR Shaikh for the state submitted that in cases of relatives or acquaintances of patients assaulting doctors and hospital staff the provisions of the 2010 Act and Indian Penal Code were being applied. The court then asked the state government to comply with the assurance given to the HC in 2016 regarding providing police protection in hospitals and installing CCTV surveillance and directed the state government to inform it about the status of its implementation. The bench also asked the association of doctors and medical consultants to give their suggestions for proper implementation of the said legal provisions and asked the government to respond by May 18.Meanwhile, the court while hearing a PIL filed by Lokshahiwadi Balasaheb Sarode Smriti Prabodhan Upakram through advocates Asim Sarode and Ajinkya Udane which sought proper disposal of medical waste was informed that the state should also be directed to provide special masks for speech and audio impaired people for their identification. The bench then directed the state government to ensure that all district collectors and municipal commissioners observed the proper implementation of disposal of medical waste from Covid-19 related treatment across all hospitals in Maharashtra. The bench stressed the need for authorities to strictly abide by the guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board with regards to the disposal of medical wastes. The HC also directed the authorities to formulate a system for the distribution of special masks for speech and audio impaired persons as well as pavement dwellers after the petitioner informed that while the state has claimed that it has arranged for such special masks, there was no distribution system in place. The bench also suggested that it is the right time to implement the Anti-begging Act, to prevent the spread of coronavirus and provide rehabilitation to the beggars.Further hearing of the PILs will take place on May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/protect-doctors-staff-from-assault-by-kin-of-covid-patients-hc-tells-maharashtra-govt-101620933291926.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body plans to allot ward wise jab centres to residents||To smoothen the vaccination process, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has planned to allot vaccination centres to potential beneficiaries, as per their respective civic wards. This, officials said, will help in evenly dispersing the crowd and eliminating serpentine queues outside large vaccination centres. However, this plan will be implemented only after the civic body can procure an adequate number of vials. Civic officials also said ward-wise booking of slots for vaccination will continue via the Co-WIN app, the modalities for which, are yet to be decided.Decentralising immunisation will benefit citizens like 49-year-old Sujata Shah, who travelled 23kms from her home in Borivli to the BKC jumbo centre, to get her second jab, as she couldn’t book a slot at a nearby vaccination centre on the Co-WIN app. She got her first jab at HCG Hospital, Borivli last month. But when she tried to get her second dose, the hospital ran out of vials, which left her with no option but to choose the jumbo centre.“It was my sixth week from the time I took my first shot, so I had to get the second jab at the earliest. Also, as I am a diabetic, I didn’t want to miss my second jab. I ended up spending ₹800 on commute just to get the second vaccine,” said Shah.But not everyone can afford to spend large amounts on the commute to get the vaccine. Additionally, due to the unavailability of vials, people often have to run from one vaccination centre to another, which are kilometres away, despite having an appointment. The differently-abled and bed-ridden patients are most affected.On May 10, Tanmay Roy, 57, had to book an ambulance to ferry his 88-year-old paralysed father from Malad to get him inoculated at Dahisar Jumbo Centre.“I could have taken him to BKC Jumbo Centre but his doctor suggested to get him inoculated at Dahisar Jumbo Centre which remains less crowded. Due to his health condition, he is extremely vulnerable to contracting the infection, so we had to be careful,” he said.Every day, hundreds of probable beneficiaries are facing a similar plight to get immunised in the city. Taking cognisance of the inconvenience that is being caused, the public health department has chalked out a plan to start ward-wise immunisation of their respective residents.“We are planning to allot vaccination centres according to the wards. This will help lessen the burden on other big centres. But to do so, we need to have an adequate number of vials to distribute it among all the 26 wards,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.At present, BMC has 146 vaccination centres across the city. But most of the centres either have an inadequate number of vials or slots for jabs that aren’t available on the centralised Co-WIN app.For instance, Preeti Nihalani booked a slot for her 60-year-old mother at Tata Memorial Hospital for Thursday. But later, she got a message about its cancellation.The BMC on Wednesday floated an expression of interest (EOI) to procure 10 million vaccine doses from vaccine manufacturers abroad. The decision was taken by the civic body on Monday to speed up the vaccination process.“It is a good suggestion to allot vaccination centres ward-wise to its residents. But, BMC will also have to ensure that each of the wards has an adequate number of vials. Otherwise, it may further aggravate the public fury against the corporation if they notice any partiality in the distribution of the vials,” said Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-plans-to-allot-ward-wise-jab-centres-to-residents-101620933171916.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||As bed vacancy goes up, patients from other cities, states travel to Mumbai for Covid-19 treatment||As bed availability in the city has gone up with a decline in daily positivity rate, the city has recorded a rise in the number of Covid-19 patients from other cities and states.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, this is due to the shortage of beds in many states, especially in Northern India.Earlier, of the total patients admitted, 10%-20% were outsiders (non-residents of Mumbai). However, this number has now gone up to 30% with an increase in bed availability, BMC officials said.As per the BMC data, the bed availability ratio was 22% in dedicated Covid hospitals and centres, as of April 7. The availability ratio for intensive care unit (ICU) beds was 6%, 20% for oxygenated beds and 4.95% for ventilators, as of April 7. This went up to 46% vacancy in dedicated Covid hospitals and centres, 10% in ICU beds, 44.94% oxygenated beds and 5.49% in case of ventilators, as of May 12. In this period, there was a significant jump in the capacity of overall beds in dedicated Covid hospitals and centres followed by ICU beds, oxygenated beds and ventilators.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Mumbai has witnessed the trend of non-resident citizens getting admitted in Mumbai since the start of the pandemic. In this, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) tops, wherein citizens from Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan etc are admitted. But infected patients from within and outside states have also been flying to Mumbai for admission, and the inflow has increased by around 10%.Kakani added, “Earlier, we had 10% to 20% patients, from outside Mumbai, admitted in city hospitals, now that figure has gone up to 30%. Among this, many also prefer civic-run SevenHills Hospital.” Further, Bombay Hospital in south Mumbai has also seen an increase in the number of Covid patients coming from outside Mumbai. Dr Gautam Bhansali from Bombay Hospital said, “We are seeing patients coming to Mumbai via air ambulance as there is a shortage of beds in their hometowns. I have got two patients who flew via air ambulance from Delhi two days ago as they were not getting a bed there. I have a patient who came from Jodhpur and got admitted to Bombay Hospital. Apart from this, within the state, too, we see those infected with Covid flying to Mumbai via air ambulance. We are going to treat a patient tomorrow who is arriving from Jalgaon.” The city has over 85,000 beds that include isolation beds in quarantine centres, ICU beds, oxygen beds, ventilators and normal beds in dedicated Covid hospitals and centres.Meanwhile, on Thursday the city reported 1,952 cases and 68 deaths. The city reported a daily positivity rate of 6.31% as 30,884 tests were reported on Thursday. With this, the city’s tally has gone up to 683,185 and death toll has reached 14,040. The city’s fatality rate is 2.05% and recovery rate is 92% with 630,900 recoveries. There are 36,338 active cases in the city. Dharavi — city’s former hot spot — reported nine cases on Thursday, taking its total case count to 6,662.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-bed-vacancy-goes-up-patients-from-other-cities-states-travel-to-mumbai-for-covid-19-treatment-101620933111909.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Maratha community hopeful after Centre files review petition||The decision of filing a review petition in the Supreme Court (SC) has revived the hopes of the members of Maratha community. Maratha community outfits have welcomed the step by the Centre, which has filed a review petition in the SC challenging its verdict over the 102nd Constitutional amendment saying that the amendment has done away with the powers of the state concerning the reservation.“If the top court accepts the Centre’s stand that the power is still with the state, it will open a window for the revival of the reservation. The five-judge bench had quashed the reservation questioning the Gaikwad commission report and also upheld Indra Sawhney judgment’s spirit of not crossing 50% of the cap on the reservation. The report can be still be revised and the reservation can always be accommodated within 50% limit if the SC rules that states have powers. The review petition is a great sigh of relief for us,” said Virendra Pawar of Maratha Kranti Morcha.Public works department minister and head of the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation Ashok Chavan has demanded that the Centre should also file a review petition in SC for its verdict on 50% cap. “To save the reservations given by many states by crossing the limit of 50%, the ruling on Indra Sawhney verdict too should be challenged. The Centre should file a review petition over it too. We had pleaded with the Centre on both these aspects even before the final hearing on the reservation began. We are happy that the review petition has come immediately after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray-led delegation of Maharashtra government met the Governor on Tuesday,” he said.Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “The Centre had time and again clarified that the state government’s powers to give reservation were intact and had said this in SC too. The review petition is a reiteration of the stand. A two-judge bench had earlier admitted the stand by the Centre. I am happy that the Central government moved a review petition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-maratha-community-hopeful-after-centre-files-review-petition-101620932932664.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Cancelling Class 10 exams against academic interest of students, states PIL||A public interest litigation (PIL) has been moved in Bombay high court (HC) challenging the state government’s April 2021 order on cancellation of Class 10 exams across all boards, given rising Covid-19 cases in the state. The petition has claimed that the government’s decision was against the academic interest of students and would lead to problems in the admission process for Class 11 as different boards would come up with different formulae for declaration of results without conducting exams. The PIL filed by Pune resident and retired professor Dhananjay Kulkarni through advocate Uday Warunjikar has claimed that the government decision would result in complete absurdity as the unequals would be treated equally if results were based on percentile or best of five formulae. The petition has stated that if the state board for higher and secondary education would conduct the examination for Class 12 which has nearly 14 lakh students across the state there was no justification for cancelling Class 10 exams, which will be given by more than 16 lakh students of the state board and other students belonging to other boards as well. Kulkarni has further submitted in the petition that the decision to not conduct exams for Class 10 would also affect the admissions to diploma courses which have 11.5 lakh seats and will also have an adverse effect on the diploma in pharmacy course. The petition has added that though the state has said that it would come out with a common formula for all boards it is yet to be announced and if the proposal to conduct an entrance test for admission to class 11 could be conducted then there was no harm in conducting the class 10 exams as well. In light of these averments, the petition has sought to quash and set aside the cancellation of Class 10 SSC exams decision of the state government and pending hearing sought a stay on the operation of the decision. The petition has also sought directions to the Centre to conduct class 10 exams across boards with a proper formula to avoid confusion among students. Though the PIL was listed before a bench of HC on Thursday, as it recused the PIL is likely to come up for hearing next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cancelling-class-10-exams-against-academic-interest-of-students-states-pil-101620932931941.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to stop vaccination drive for 45+ age group on Sat, Sun||Owing to the shortage of vaccine doses, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to stop the vaccination drive for the 45+ age group on Saturday and Sunday. On Friday, the vaccination drive will be undertaken for four hours, between 1pm to 5pm.According to BMC officials, it plans to vaccinate around 100,000 citizens, who are awaiting their second dose of Covishield and Covaxin, on a walk-in basis for 60+ and specially-abled citizens. However, the decision might change owing to the revised guidelines of administering a second dose of Covishield between a gap of 12 to 16 weeks. The current gap between two doses of the vaccine was six-eight weeks.The civic body had a stock of 100,000 vaccines on Wednesday, but of the same, over 20,000 were used for Thursday’s vaccination drive.Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer said, “Around 80% of the doses were used for administering the second jab for those above 45 years today. In the next two days, we will further reduce the percentage of inoculation for the first dose. We are expecting more stock of vaccine from the Centre tomorrow or day after. The stock currently available with us can last for two more days. Both the manufacturers are expected to supply us stocks against our orders placed for the 18-44 years group. We can then think of resuming the inoculation for 18-44 years. We have not decided any date to continue the suspension of the vaccination for this group, it depends on the availability of vaccines.”On Thursday, 31,377 citizens were vaccinated in the city, of which, 6,541 were between the age group of 18 and 44, 12,184 were between 45 to 59 age group and 10,953 were senior citizens above 60 years of age followed by the remaining healthcare and frontline workers. Overall, 2,817,425 citizens have been vaccinated in the city.Though the civic body has suspended the vaccination drive for the 18 to 44 years of age group to divert the doses for the second shot of the 45+ age group, the private hospitals are continuing to conduct the vaccination drive in the city as they are directly procuring the vaccine doses from the manufacturers. These private hospitals are conducting vaccination for all age groups above 18+ and are allowed to charge.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner said, “We had around 100,000 doses in our stock as of Wednesday and we will continue our vaccination drive with it on Friday too. However, for now, the vaccination for the 18 to 44 age group will remain on hold as we had announced on Wednesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-boy-to-stop-vaccination-drive-for-45-age-group-on-sat-sun-101620932811954.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||3 held for robbing toll booth attendant in Mumbai||Navghar police have arrested three men for allegedly assaulting an attendant of the Mulund (East) toll booth and robbing money from him on Thursday morning.According to the police, around 9.30am on Thursday, the attendant, Paresh Suryavanshi, was walking towards the MEP Infrastructure Pvt Ltd office – the firm that manages the toll booth – near the bridge at Anand Nagar to deposit the amount collected at the booth, when a motorcycle approached him from behind. Inspector Ganesh Sanap from Navghar police station said that as restrictions on travel are in place on account of the pandemic, there was less traffic in the morning, taking advantage of which, the robbers attacked Suryavanshi with a wooden stick on his head.“The accused then tried to snatch the box of cash from Suryavashi, but he resisted the attempt, following which the box fell on the road and the cash, worth ₹8,500, fell out of the box,” said Sanap.The accused then picked up the money and fled the spot. Suryavanshi raised an alarm and called the police.Sanap said that after registering the case, they scanned the CCTV footage of the area and noted the number of the motorcycle. “Based on the number plate of the motorcycle, we tracked the three men,” added Sanap.The men – Rahul Rajendra Patre, 23, Sunil Prakash Dhurandhar, 20, and Kailash Chandrakant Thakur, 28 – have been arrested for assault and robbery.The police are now probing the case further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-held-for-robbing-toll-booth-attendant-in-mumbai-101620931671815.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Indrani Mukerjea seeks interim bail||Indrani Mukerjea, the prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case, recently sought interim bail on health grounds following her Covid-19 after she recovery.The prosecution has submitted a reply opposing the plea.Indrani, who is facing a murder charge for allegedly killing her daughter in April 2012, had tested positive for Covid-19 in the last week of April. She later wrote to the court from jail seeking interim bail on health grounds.Meanwhile, her regular bail plea is also pending before the Bombay high court.This is her second request for interim bail. Last June, Indrani had sought interim bail due to the spread of Covid-19 in prison. A month later, her plea was rejected by the special CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) court.While refusing to grant her interim bail for 45 days, the CBI court had noted that Indrani is a foreign national, and thus belongs to the category of prisoners which is exempted from getting interim bail. The court also observed that only on the grounds of the spread of Covid-19 in jails, Indrani should not be granted bail. The court had also noted that medical officers are available in the jail and prisoners are well taken care of.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indrani-mukerjea-seeks-interim-bail-101620931611792.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Ajit Pawar cancels move to hire pvt agency for publicity||Following criticism from the Opposition and on the social media over the decision to spend ₹5.98 crore on deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s social media publicity, the order has now been scrapped. The state government had on Wednesday issued a government resolution (GR), giving its nod to hire a private agency for the publicity of the schemes and decisions by Pawar on social media and increase his outreach.After the media reports on the decision emerged, the Opposition strongly criticised the deputy chief minister for spending such a huge amount on publicity during the pandemic. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader also faced criticism on the social media, following which his office issued a statement on Thursday announcing that the proposal has been cancelled.“The deputy chief minister has directed to immediately scrap the order as he feels that there is no need of appointing a private agency. His office does not feel the need to be active independently on social media as the publicity department of the government is sufficient for it. The office will continue to rely on the publicity department of the government for the communication with media and public. Eyebrows were raised over the order issued yesterday as the deputy chief minister has always believed to be away from unnecessary publicity. He has ordered to cancel the said order,” the statement read.BJP leader Atul Bhatkhalkar said, “After we raised the voice, the deputy chief minister has cancelled the order. It should also be done by the CM too amid the financial crisis in the state during the pandemic.”NCP spokesperson and state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said the proposed expenditure on publicity was very less in the comparison to the money spent by the previous Devendra Fadnavis government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ajit-pawar-cancels-move-to-hire-pvt-agency-for-publicity-101620931551832.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai labs see sharp drop in Covid-19 tests||With the drop in the number of daily Covid-19 patients, government and private laboratories are seeing a 36-50% dip in demand for RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests in May compared to April. Health officials attribute it to the lockdown imposed in mid-April, which restricted movement, and consequently cases and the tests for their close contacts.Amid the spike in cases in April, private laboratories were receiving around 15,000 swab samples daily, which is now down to around 8,000. In the first week of May, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief Iqbal Singh Chahal, too, confirmed the dip. Data from the BMC shows that overall testing in the city has dropped 36% in May – from an average of 43,354 tests a day to 27,798. Chandrashekhar Mani, vice-president (operations), Thyrocare, said, “The demand for testing has dropped by almost 50% this month compared to the previous months. When the second wave started, the state, in a circular, instructed corporate houses to test their employees, which added to the demand for testing. Firstly, they asked for RT-PCR testing, and gradually allowed rapid antigen tests.” Suburban Diagnostics, too, has seen a similar trend. Dr Anupa Dixit, laboratory director of the diagnostic centre, said, “As we have seen a drop in the daily Covid-19 cases, the number of tests has naturally gone down. At present, we are testing 7,000-8,000 samples daily.” Last month, the city broke all records on April 7, with 11,163 new cases, the highest since the outbreak of the pandemic. On an average, the city was recording 6,800 new cases daily. The overall growth rate worsened to 1.91%, with a doubling rate of 35 days. However, as of May 12, the city’s doubling rate has improved to 176 days and the overall growth rate is 0.38%. The daily average of Covid-19 cases stands at 2,100 in May. “In April, our main target was testing as many people as possible. We were tracking 40 close contacts for every patient. On certain days, we even conducted 56,000 tests. But now, the number of daily tests has dropped to around 28,000, as the infection rate has fallen. With this, the need for testing close contacts of patients has also declined,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. Public health experts point out that the lockdown has largely contributed to it. “The lockdown has helped control the spread of the virus, thereby bringing down the demand for testing. Also, last month, we were testing all local vendors and roadside stall owners, which has stopped now because of the lockdown,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC. On May 5, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) reiterated the guideline that a person who has tested positive for Covid-19 need not undergo another test after completing the mandatory quarantine period or post recovery. Experts believe this may also be one of the contributing factors behind the drop in testing numbers. In April, the labs were overwhelmed with work and faced severe shortage of testing kits, which delayed the reports by more than two-three days. “Now, with fewer samples, most labs are able to give the reports within 36 hours,” said Mani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-labs-see-sharp-drop-in-covid-19-tests-101620931493476.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha lockdown till June 1; -ve RT-PCR report must for arrivals||The Maharashtra government on Thursday extended the lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state till June 1, 7am. The restrictions imposed by the state government under the “break the chain” initiative were supposed to end on May 15. The state government imposed further restrictions by mandating a negative RT-PCR report for people entering Maharashtra. The test should be conducted up to 48 hours before entry. Earlier this month, Maharashtra had listed eight states — Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Kerala, Goa, Gujarat, Delhi and NCR region, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand – as places of “sensitive origin” and had put restrictions on those arriving from these states. The restrictions included mandatory 15-day home quarantine even if they are carrying a negative report; passengers without symptoms and without needing to be moved to quarantine centres shall without fail be stamped on their hands for compulsory home quarantine up to a total of 15 days.Now these rules will be applicable to anyone arriving in Maharashtra from any part of the country, the latest order stated. As per the order issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, Maharashtra continues to be “threatened” with the spread of Covid-19 virus, and therefore it is “imperative to continue emergency measures to prevent and contain the spread of virus”. Therefore, the government “finds it is necessary to continue the enforcement of the current restrictions, along with certain additional restrictions, throughout the State beyond 7 AM on 15th May, 2021 till 7 AM on lst June, 2021 to break the chain of transmission effectively.”Maharashtra, the most affected state with Covid-19 in the country, has arrested the growth of cases in the second wave and is now seeing a “decline”, according to health minister Rajesh Tope. However, he added that some districts continue to report higher cases. “Our active case count has come down from 700,000 to around 550,000. Though 500,000 active cases are a huge number, we are in a declining state now. However, cases are increasing in some districts in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara in western Maharashtra and in Beed, which is in Marathwada. Therefore, we still have to take precautions and be on our toes,” Tope said. The state order also added that local disaster management authority should keep “special vigil” over rural markets and APMCs to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. It added that local disaster management authority can decide to add further restrictions with 48-hour notice. In case of cargo carriers, not more than two people will be allowed to travel in those vehicles. “If the carriers are originating from outside Maharashtra, they will be allowed with a negative RT-PCR test report issued within 48 hours before the time of entry into the state and will be valid for seven days,” the order said. Personnel engaged in airport and port services and needed for movement of cargo related to medicines or equipment needed for Covid management will be allowed to travel in local, mono and metro services, the order added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-lockdown-till-june-1-ve-rt-pcr-report-must-for-arrivals-101620931492885.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Nawab Malik questions Centre over use of non-permitted Moderna vaccine||Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Thursday questioned the Central government about how it allowed a non-permitted vaccine to be administered to the residents of France and their relatives who reside in India.Malik in his tweet said “Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are the 3 Vaccines that are permitted in India by our government. According to information received by me, the French Embassy in India has procured the vaccine @moderna_tx and is inoculating their citizens and their relatives at Navi Mumbai with the help of @ApolloHosMumbai. Question arises, how can a non-permitted vaccine be allowed to be administered? If they can get it, why can’t Indian government get it for our citizens too? The government and the Health Minister @drharshvardhan must clarify.”The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has termed this a non-issue. “It is the right of every embassy to give whatever vaccine they want to their employees. The state has the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) which should take action if they want. They just want to divert the topic,” said BJP legislator Ram Kadam.The state government has been accusing the Centre for vaccination fiasco, saying it was the latter who allots vaccines to states and hence any shortage was its responsibility. State ministers said the Central government was biased against Maharashtra and was not allotting sufficient vaccines to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nawab-malik-questions-centre-over-use-of-non-permitted-moderna-vaccine-101620931371828.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Rural Maharashtra sees more Covid-19 cases compared to urban spots||Maharashtra, which recorded 42,582 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, is witnessing a surge in cases in the rural parts of the state as compared to urban pockets. Both Covid positivity rate and growth rates have increased in rural areas compared to urban centres.Take the case of rural parts of Ahmednagar which reported 2,370 new cases on Thursday, which is 829.41% more compared to cases in the urban parts of the district which stood at 255. Similarly, in Jalgaon, 575new cases were recorded in rural areas whereas 71 new cases came from urban Jalgaon. Solapur rural saw 1,569 new cases while the urban pockets in the district clocked 125 cases. The trend is similar for Kolhapur and Sangli which recorded 1,144 and 1,229 cases in rural areas and 125 and 234 new cases in the urban areas, respectively. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the state government on Covid-19 management, said this trend was witnessed even in the first wave of the virus. “Covid-19 first strikes the urban areas and then slowly spreads to semi-urban and rural pockets,” said Salunke, adding, “There is a huge population living in peripheral areas who come to urban areas for their livelihood. They are the carriers of this virus,” he added.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, blamed the lack of Covid-appropriate behaviour among rural masses for the spread of the virus. “You hardly see rural people wearing masks or observing social distancing. In addition, they tend to neglect initial signs of Covid-19 symptoms,” said Shaikh. “Rural health infrastructure is the worst, and we hardly see doctors in many places. These factors aggravate the situation,” he added.In Ichalkaranji, a private hospital was found using a ventilator meant for government hospital and charging fees from patients. In Nashik, police started bashing those roaming or driving without valid reason. In Satara, the local administration has decided to fine citizens ₹500 for roaming without valid reason.Currently, Kolhapur is witnessing a high fatality rate of 3.5%. The Covid-19 task force team visited the city to study the situation and suggested a complete ban on home isolation while beefing up testing facilities in this region. A total of 250,398 tests were conducted across the state on Thursday. The day also saw 54,535 recoveries. The death toll has reached 78,857 with 850 patients succumbing to the virus on Thursday. The total case count in Maharashtra stands at 5,269,292.On Thursday, there were 533,294 active cases in the state. Pune topped with 101,181 active cases followed by Nagpur with 45,996 active cases. In terms of Covid fatalities, Mumbai leads with 14,040 deaths followed by Pune with 10,232 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rural-maharashtra-sees-more-covid-19-cases-compared-to-urban-spots-101620931312271.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra seeks national policy on vaccine import, asks Centre to buy on behalf of states||Maharashtra has demanded a national policy on import of Covid-19 vaccines to avoid “unhealthy competition” and profiteering by vaccine manufacturing companies from other countries. The state has also requested the Centre to procure vaccines on behalf of all states for fair price and uniformity in scheduling.State health minister Rajesh Tope, along with health ministers from five other states, participated in a video-conference with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Thursday. Maharashtra pressed for a national policy on vaccine import and more vaccine doses for the state for inoculating the second dose to beneficiaries aged above 45 years, Tope said after the meeting. “Almost all the states participated in the interaction sought policy on the procurement of vaccines from other countries. Currently every state is going for global tenders for procurement of vaccines manufactured in other countries amid the shortage. This would lead to unhealthy competition among the states. The vaccine manufacturing companies from other countries will prove to be beneficiaries of the competition among Indian states; they will look at it as an opportunity to earn more profit. Ultimately, the nation will be at a loss. It should be avoided,” Tope said to have suggested to the Centre.The minister said if the Centre floated global tender on behalf of states, India could procure the vaccines at competitive prices. “Intervention by the Centre in this respect is important. It should float a tender on the basis of demand of vaccines by the states, and should also fix the schedule for vaccination of these imported jabs. The Centre can bring clarity on the use of these imported vaccines, their prices and monitoring for states in the framework of the policy,” he said. He further added that the policy would help weed out the confusion among states related to vaccines developed by other countries and approved by the World Health Organization (WHO).Maharashtra has also demanded for more vaccines for the state to complete vaccination of more than 2 million people who are waiting for their second dose.It has also demanded curtailment of the maximum retail price (MRP) of Amphotericin B injection which is utilised in treating mucormycosis, a fungal infection among recovered Covid-19 patients. “Maharashtra has around 1,500 such patients who need multiple injections, ranging between 20 and 40, with each costing at ₹6,000. We have demanded that the MRP of such injections be reduced to make them affordable to the patients. The MRP is too high, forbidding regulators to take any action. Similarly, the manufacturing companies of this drug should be asked to ramp up production. We have also requested the Centre to allot us an extra quota of the injections in the ratio of the patients in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-seeks-national-policy-on-vaccine-import-asks-centre-to-buy-on-behalf-of-states-101620931132977.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Amid second wave, DGCA mandates breath analyser test for crew, ATCO||Taking into account the rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country in the ongoing second wave, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Thursday issued guidelines on breath analyser (BA) tests for airlines and airports across the country. This comes after the Delhi high court (HC) ordered DGCA to issue guidelines stating all requirements and protocols to be followed for administration of BA test. DGCA said a maximum of 5% pilots and cabin crew members will be subjected to random pre-flight BA test on a daily basis, subject to the limit that not more than six people shall be tested in any hour of the day. The aviation regulator also made Air Traffic Controllers (ATCO) subject to random BA test before their daily duty.Pilots from Air India and other airlines had earlier written to DGCA to stop BA tests since they aggravate the risk of getting infected. A senior Air India pilot said, “We wanted the government to stop BA tests completely for air crew, as it was done last year. The effect of the second wave in the country is huge and we are only risking our lives by conducting BA test even on a random basis.” DGCA, however, clarified that the new guidelines are temporary in view of Covid-19 and will remain in effect till three months. The restoration of provisions of Civil Aviation Requirements on this will be reviewed after three months.The regulator clarified that to ensure safety, every aviation personnel reporting for duty is required to submit an undertaking stating that he/she is not under the influence of alcohol and that he/she has not consumed alcohol in the last 12 hours from the time of reporting for duty. DGCA also mentioned that the undertaking must contain a warning that in case of violation of the undertaking, strict action, including off rostering and even suspension, will be taken by DGCA against such an individual. “Cockpit crew, cabin crew and ATCO shall submit the undertaking in the presence of medical staff, and the same shall be captured on camera,” stated the order. Mentioning the measures to be taken while conducting the test, DGCA said the test will be carried out in a bigger and an open area which has CCTV coverage. DGCA asked the doctor/paramedic/EMT/nurse to scan a person for symptoms of Covid-19 before carrying out BA test, and exempt him/her from the test if he is detected with any Covid-19 symptoms. “Such a person will undergo the required examination and will return to duty only after having been declared fit, records of which will be maintained,” the order stated. DGCA further clarified that such cases shall not be treated as missed BA cases.Asking the doctor/paramedic/EMT/nurse to take all precautions, DGCA stated they will have to take a rapid antigen test or any other test for Covid-19 as approved by the respective state government prior to joining the duty for BA testing. “The person doing the BA test should use a personal protective equipment (PPE) kit. The person undergoing the test should wash their hands before and after the BA test or use disposable gloves for handling the BA machine. Before every use, BA equipment should be sanitised using UV sterilisers. Integrity and sanitary condition of BA tubes/ mouthpiece should be maintained,” the order concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-second-wave-dgca-mandates-breath-analyser-test-for-crew-atco-101620931131780.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||School fee hike issues resurface: Parents sign online petitions, demand action||With a large number of complaints concerning fee-related issues mainly including the ones related to fee hikes remaining unresolved, parents from the state have now resorted to signing online petitions. Over the last few days, parents from different parts of the state have signed petitions urging the government to address the issues of fee hikes in private schools. Recently, a group of parents from the city started a petition urging the Maharashtra government to reduce school fees by 50% during the pandemic, as the overall cost of operations have reduced due to school closures. “Parents have been protesting against exorbitant and unjustified fees charged by the schools for the year 2020-21 and 2021-22. They have lodged several complaints with the statutory authorities, met the education minister many times to get some concession in fees, but except false promises, nothing has been done till date,” said Jayant Jain, president of the Forum for Fairness in Education, a parents organisation that started the petition. So far, it has been signed by nearly 6,000 parents. Anubha Sahai, president of the Indiawide Parents Association said the Central government can have a comprehensive policy concerning private school fees. The government should come up with an amendment in the Right to Education (RTE) Act and include a provision for the regulation of fees. It should appoint a committee at the central level (Central fee regulatory committee) and state level (state fee regulatory committee). The committee at the central level should be an appellate body,” she added. A petition demanding the same which was started in 2018 is now doing the rounds on parent groups and is being re-endorsed by parents. Recently, the Maharashtra government had invited suggestions on amending the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011. It received 2,825 suggestions, the majority of which are from parents. The government-appointed committee will now be examining the suggestions and will later give its report in this regard.A government resolution released on May 8, 2020, stated that schools should stay all fee hikes for the current academic year and have to allow parents to pay fees in instalments. The GR was, however, stayed by the Bombay high court on June 26, 2020, in response to a petition by several organisations of private school owners. The court lifted the stay in March this year and said that the state may initiate action against a school in case of complaints from parents or even take suo motu cognizance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/school-fee-hike-issues-resurface-parents-sign-online-petitions-demand-action-101620931072428.html
14-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fraudsters dupe citizens on pretext of selling Covid drugs at cheaper rates||At a time when people are taking to various social media platforms to amplify SOS alerts in order to avail emergency medical help for needy Covid-19 patients, some are taking advantage of the ongoing crisis.The Maharashtra cyber police has launched a probe against some of such elements and registered an FIR (first information report) against unidentified cyber fraudsters who posed as representatives of pharma giant Cipla on social media and duped dozens of people across the country under the pretext of selling Remdesivir and Tocilizumab – two drugs used to treat Covid-19 – at cheaper rates. Cipla, which manufactures and distributes the two drugs in India, approached the Maharashtra cyber police with the complaint on Wednesday.“The company has provided the contact numbers of 38 individuals suspected to be involved in the racket and also details of 40 bank accounts belonging to them, to the police. The accounts are based in New Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal The cyber police started freezing these accounts on Thursday,” said an officer.The racket came to light after the company’s corporate communications team received complaints from the relatives of Covid-19 patients claiming that its representatives had cheated them under the pretext of selling the medicines.Cipla’s manager Vrajesh Bajaj in his complaint stated that the “aggrieved people” informed his company that few people posted mobile numbers on various WhatsApp groups and social media platforms posing as ‘authorised’ dealers of the pharma company. When patients’ relatives contacted on the given phone numbers, the suspects would convey that the injections would be made available on the payment of 50% advance via online transaction. The rest of amount can be paid during the delivery of the drugs, the police said. The company’s corporate communication team was flooded with calls in which many people complained that after receiving the advance money, the suspects stopped responding to calls. Some also said they had received water and fake drugs which displayed the complainant’s company’s name and logo. Many citizens also complained on social media tagging the pharma company.The Maharashtra cyber police then initiated its investigation. “We would soon zero down on the suspects. Details of beneficiary accounts are also being obtained. The investigation is in progress,” said Yashasvi Yadav, inspector general of state cyber police. The police have registered an FIR under the relevant sections of the Information Technology Act, 2000, the Trademarks Act, 1999, and Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940.The Union health ministry has directed that the supply of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab can only be through authorised government and private hospitals and that no individual, distributor or retailer can sell these drugs to the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fraudsters-dupe-citizens-on-pretext-of-selling-covid-drugs-at-cheaper-rates-101620931071864.html
