15-05-2021||Mumbai||After PM directs audit of ventilators, Congress calls for joint audit with state||Hours after Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi directed an audit into the installation and operation of ventilators provided to the states by the Centre, Maharashtra Congress demanded a joint audit by the state and Centre. The state Congress has been raising the issue of “sub-standard” quality of ventilators provided to Maharashtra from the PM Cares fund.Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said merely an audit would not be enough and demanded that the Center and the state government conduct a joint audit and take action against the “culprits”. According to a statement by Sawant, these ventilators are lying unused at many locations including Aurangabad and Nashik. Welcoming the decision by PM Modi, Sawant said he should have taken the decision last year as the machines would not have been lying unused in the hospitals.“During the Covid-19 outbreak, the Central government has been supplying ventilators to the states and Union Territories from the PM Cares fund. Under the Make in India initiative, some companies have been given the task of making ventilators. Over the past year, objections have been raised from various states about the quality and uselessness of these ventilators. Similar objections were raised in Gujarat. Recently, Aurangabad Medical College had appointed a committee to give a comprehensive report on the quality of ventilators provided to them. The report of the committee is very serious and concludes that all the ventilators supplied by Jyoti CNC, a Gujarat-based company, are useless,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-pm-directs-audit-of-ventilators-congress-calls-for-joint-audit-with-state-101621101004746.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: CISF constable duped of ₹1.24 lakh by online fraudsters||Trombay police on Friday booked unknown persons for duping a 30-year-old constable from the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) of ₹1.24 lakh.According to the police, the complainant Ananda Shelke is posted at the BARC. The fraudster posed as an executive from a courier-logistics company, and under the pretext of processing a complaint of non-delivery of a product his wife had ordered online, managed to convince Shelke to download an app. The accused later fraudulently extracted money from his account. Shelke’s wife had ordered sarees from a popular e-commerce site. However, the product was not delivered on time, following which, Shelke tried to track the delivery of the product. He looked for the customer care number of the shipping company online. “He contacted the shipping company and asked for the contact of the delivery boy who would be delivering his ordered product. The executive sent a link to the complainant to re-verify his address and also asked him to make a transaction of ₹5. Shelke clicked on the link, but as his transaction of ₹5 got declined the executive asked him to download an app,” said a police officer.After opening the app it asked the user to press the ‘allow’ button for certain permissions. Later, ₹50,000 got deducted from Shelke’s account. When he enquired, the executive told him that it would be refunded soon and told him to ‘allow’ the app to process further.On following the said instructions, ₹50,000 and ₹24,000 got deducted again from his account. Shelke then realised that he has been duped and he approached the police.The Trombay police have registered a case of cheating and impersonation and are investigating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cisf-constable-duped-of-1-24-lakh-by-online-fraudsters-101621101004161.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Family members renew plea for release of the accused||Family members and friends of the accused in Elgar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon violence case have renewed their plea for release of all the accused in the case from jails, claiming that death is staring in their faces because of the inhuman conditions in Taloja and Byculla jails where they are lodged.They have alleged that there was mismanagement in prison with regards to Covid-19 protocol and medical facilities available in prisons.Family members and well-wishers of the accused held a virtual meet on Saturday narrating the conditions in prisons and inmates amid the second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak.Wife of Hany Babu, 54, an associate professor in the department of English with Delhi University who recently tested positive for Covid-19, pleaded that they should be released immediately and taken care of medically and emotionally. She said the condition in the prison is very dangerous in as much as the jail hospital not having doctors or trained staff to take care of patients.One of the well-wishers of accused Harshali Potdar claimed the condition in Taloja jail was very dangerous and added that the inmates who are actually sick and unwell are not being tested for the infection while healthy inmates are being tested. She further alleged that the inmates are also not being taken care of.Father Joe Xavier, friend of accused Stan Swamy, expressed concern for the 84-year-old Jesuit priest and said that Swamy, in their last telephonic conversation, had told him that he was “fragile” and feeling helpless.Sudha Bharadwaj’s daughter Maaysha said her mother’s condition was very poor, as she suffers from several co-morbidities.The kin also alleged that in this situation, the family members have not been able to communicate with the arrested accused. They alleged the letters written by accused got delivered after a month while phone calls are also not clearly audible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-family-members-renew-plea-for-release-of-the-accused-101621100944861.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Missing out on campus experience, say FYJC students||Last year, when Ryan Viegas passed his Class 10 board exam with 92%, he was elated. Viegas, who wanted to pursue Arts, got a seat at one of the city’s most prestigious colleges — St Xavier’s College. In his school days, he had heard a lot about the excitement of being in one of the top colleges of the city and wanted to experience all of it himself. However, with the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown, colleges in the city and the state remained close and lakhs of students like Viegas had to make do with virtual experiences of college life.“I was really excited about getting to go to the college of my choice. I had heard a lot of things about the college and the activities there. Academically, I am very happy with the online teaching but the physical experience is something I miss,” said Viegas. When asked about the difference between the offline and online format, he said, “Since I do not know what it is to physically attend college, I cannot even make that comparison.”While the pandemic and the resultant shift to online learning had an impact on students across grades, for students who entered first-year junior college (FYJC) last year, the impact was more pronounced. For majority students in Maharashtra, FYJC is the first college experience that students get as they move from schools to junior colleges for Class 11 and 12. In Mumbai itself, nearly 224,000 students were admitted at various junior colleges across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region last year. With colleges remaining closed for physical classes, these students have been deprived of the real college experience — enjoying a new campus, meeting new teachers, making new friendships and, travelling to far-off colleges by themselves at times. Even as junior colleges in the state began their online classes soon after the academic year began for students, the real experience of transitioning from school to college environment was lost. Students said colleges are doing their best to provide them with excellent online learning but added that they do miss out on the college experience as a whole, something that they had always looked forward to. Nilakshi Mishra, a student from an aided school in Chembur, worked hard to get to the college of her choice. A student of Ruia College, Mishra was not able to visit her campus even once. “I had heard so many stories from my friends about college life, canteen and hangout places near the college. It all seems like a rosy picture to me now. I have barely been able to make any friends and only know a couple of students who I have worked with for my group discussions and assignments. It is really upsetting,” said Mishra.Satram Verhani, former vice-principal of CHM College in Ulhasnagar, said this year has been particularly difficult for FYJC students. “In college, there are so many extra-curricular activities. Students get an opportunity to participate in events, various clubs etc. which they could not do to that extent this year. While we did conduct some events online, it is definitely not the same,” he added.Aryaman Kumar, a science student enrolled at PACE Junior College in Dadar, said students cannot develop a good rapport with their teachers in the online mode. “The teachers teach us well and handle all our queries, but beyond that there is no discussion at an individual level because both teachers and students are new to each other. We have no reference point for a general conversation, which usually helps a lot in getting to know things during college days,” he added.Teachers said it is difficult to imagine college life without a campus. “When we were in college, we learnt more in canteen and gymkhana than in classrooms. When students come to colleges from schools, a different world opens up for them altogether. Nothing can compensate for these prime years and they will never come back,” said a junior college teacher from a suburban college.Schools and colleges in the state closed for physical classes in March 2020. While admissions to junior college began in August 2020, colleges in the state started only in December-January owing to the Supreme Court stay on admissions under the Maratha quota. Students are now hoping that physical colleges resume soon. “I just hope we get to attend college at least for a few months. I want to take up a professional course later and this is the only college experience where I will get to study and relax a bit at the same time,” said Sana Shah, a student from Vile Parle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-missing-out-on-campus-experience-say-fyjc-students-101621100944246.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Virtual tours of engineering colleges for aspirants as AICTE takes college approval process online||Engineering aspirants aiming at institutes in the country will soon have the advantage of getting a virtual tour of the institute on their respective websites. While this process is common with universities abroad, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has decided to give students in the country the same feature.A year after approving 171 new professional institutes online due to Covid-19 restrictions, AICTE has now decided to take the process to virtual mode only. The decision comes after several stakeholders felt the online mode brought better accountability and transparency to the entire process.“While in 2020, the approval process had to be conducted online due to travel restrictions imposed by the pandemic, we have received very positive feedback from all stakeholders in the past one year. Hence, we decided to permanently do away with physical visits and paperwork involved in the institute approval process,” said Anil Sahasrabudhe, chairman, AICTE. Along with new institutes, existing institutes also have to apply for renewal of their affiliation with AICTE every year. As part of the process, colleges submit detailed paperwork highlighting the courses they offer, staff and infrastructure available and the fees they plan to charge students. Once the paperwork is approved, AICTE sends a specially-appointed local inquiry committee to visit the institute and check the facilities as described by the institute in their form.As part of the virtual process now, colleges will be expected to submit all necessary documents in soft copy to AICTE, and the council then participates in a virtual tour of the institute before the final approval. “Time and again AICTE has received complaints against senior members of local inquiry committees demanding bribes at the time of physical visits. Virtual tours should help cut out third-party arrangements and bring more transparency to this process,” said principal of an engineering institute in Pune.AICTE approved 171 new institutes in the 2020-21 academic year, marking a 138% drop compared to last year when it gave approvals to over 945 institutes across professional courses. Experts say the lower number is due to the blanket ban on private engineering and pharmacy institutes across the country, despite a year-on-year seat vacancy of up to 50%.According to AICTE, almost 70% institutes which were approved this year are government-run, whereas in the past few years, private institutes have dominated engineering and pharmacy sectors. Every year, AICTE starts accepting approval applications for new as well as existing institutes by November. However, this year applications were accepted February onwards. The governing authority now has the permission from the Supreme Court to complete the approval process till June-end. “Online applications are helping us go paperless and at the same time, making the otherwise cumbersome process easier for the institutes as well as for us. The advantage of virtual tours is that the institute can then upload the same video on their website, making it convenient for students to check the institute before choosing to apply for a seat,” added Sahasrabuddhe.This year, AICTE has also introduced the concept of digital signatures on online application forms, making it clear that no application will be accepted without the validated digital signature of the head of the institute or management governing the institute. “This process brings better accountability because every year institutes would blame their juniors for errors in the application process, but henceforth we will hold the heads of the institute accountable for errors, if any,” added Sahasrabuddhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/virtual-tours-of-engineering-colleges-for-aspirants-as-aicte-takes-college-approval-process-online-101621100824139.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man acquitted of murdering neighbour||Mumbai sessions court recently acquitted a 29-year-old man arrested around five-and-a-half-years ago for killing his neighbor who stalked and harassed his wife. The man was cleared of all charges as the prosecution failed to prove that the weapon used for committing the murder belonged to the accused.The accused, Shrinivas Lakka, was arrested for allegedly killing his neighbour on December 22, 2015. Lakka then went to Chunabhatti police station to surrender, the prosecution claimed.The prosecution had alleged that the deceased used to follow Lakka’s wife and verbally harassed her, following which Lakka met with him asking him to stop. However, as he continued with the stalking and harassment, Lakka assaulted him on neck, head and abdomen multiple times. The court, however, acquitted Lakka as the prosecution failed to prove that the weapon was Lakka’s. Police claimed they seized and sealed the weapon around 8pm on the day, but evidence on record suggested that a constable was seen carrying the weapon around 10.30pm while investigating the crime. This discrepancy turned out to be fatal for the prosecution case.Lakka’s lawyer Wahab Khan claimed the confession at the time when he allegedly surrendered, as claimed by the police, was not admissible as evidence. The prosecution had also failed to examine an eye witness, wife of the deceased, to prove the case.The court accepted the submissions and acquitted Lakka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-acquitted-of-murdering-neighbour-101621100765457.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||78-year-old booked for sexually assaulting stray dog||Tulinj police booked Anant Patil, 78, a resident of Nallasopara (East), for allegedly sexually assaulting a stray dog on May 14. A resident of a building near the scene of the crime filmed the act and alerted an NGO, which in turn informed police, said senior inspector Rajendra Kamble, Tulinj police.“We saw the clip and registered a case under section 377 (unnatural sex) of the Indian Penal Code and section 11(1)(a) of the Animal Cruelty Act, 1960. We did not arrest him as he is suffering from a series of dreaded disease including sexual transmitted disease (STD), diabetes and other ailments. We will also conduct RT-PCR test for Covid-19 detection. But it would be risky if we arrest him due to his contagious disease,” said the officer. The police will present a charge sheet in the case before Vasai court and will also produce Patil before the court. “We are investigating further to check if he is a habitual sex offender,” said Kamble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/78yearold-booked-for-sexually-assaulting-stray-dog-101621100764772.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Set up separate wards, teams to treat mucormycosis: Maharashtra health minister||Looking at the rising cases of mucormycosis in Maharashtra, state health minister Rajesh Tope directed authorities to create a separate ward in government and private medical college hospitals to treat such patients. Tope, while addressing media in Jalna on Saturday, also said that independent team of experts and nurses should be formed to treat these patients.The health minister said cases of mucormycosis, which is colloquially referred as black fungus, are a new challenge for the health department in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic and added that patients with this disease need ear, nose, throat (ENT) specialist, ophthalmologist, neurosurgeon, plastic surgeon. He said government hospitals and medical college hospitals have some experts, and therefore a separate ward should be set up there. “Not every place will have so many experts under one roof. Therefore, treatment is being provided in large hospitals. And the disease can be treated in certain large hospitals participating in Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana,” Tope said. He further added that the state is taking efforts to make available the injections required for the treatment of black fungus. So far, he said, 5,000 injections have been distributed and the state is in process to purchase 100,000 injections from Haffkine Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/set-up-separate-wards-teams-to-treat-mucormycosis-maharashtra-health-minister-101621100764212.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 4 booked in illegal death certificate racket||City police crime branch officers have booked a doctor and three others suspected to be involved in a death certificate racket. The accused would arrange death certificate in ₹3,000 for those who wish to take the body of their relatives to their hometown for the last rituals and urgently require a death certificate. The group was allegedly issuing death certificate without a doctor examining the (deceased) person. Those booked on charges of cheating and forgery have been identified as Sunny Kawle, Somnath Gaikwad and Dashrath Gurav. A doctor is also been named in the case. The crime branch had unearthed the racket after sending a bogus customer to one of the group members who issued a death certificate for ₹3,000 without examining the body, the police said. Crime branch officers have handed over the case to Nagpada police for further probe. The police are trying to find out when the group is illegally issuing death certificate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-4-booked-in-illegal-death-certificate-racket-101621100464142.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: At 37.4 degrees Celsius, May temperature hits 10 year high||With the maximum daytime temperature on Saturday settling at 37.4 degrees Celsius — up from 34.5 degrees Celsius the day prior —Mumbai recorded its hottest day in May, in a decade. The city had earlier recorded a temperature of 36.1 degrees Celsius on May 3, which until Saturday was the highest reading since 2016. Officials attributed Saturday’s sudden rise in mercury to the dense cloud cover that has been forming over the city since Thursday.“As a result of weather activity due to Cyclone Tauktae, there is a dense cloud cover which has formed over the Konkan coast, and which is acting as a heat trap. Hot air is unable to rise beyond a certain height and this pushes up the atmospheric temperature closer to the earth’s surface. But this phenomenon should reduce significantly toward Sunday evening once it rains,” said a meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for its automatic weather station in Santacruz, the maximum daytime temperature on May 16 may drop to as little as 31 degrees Celsius, falling further to 30 degree Celsius on May 17 — which would mark the city’s lowest daytime May temperature in 10 years. Generally, cloudy skies with moderate to heavy rain at isolated locations in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar are expected to prevail during this period. Wind speeds are likely to be between 35 to 50kmph.At 7pm on Saturday, IMD’s regional forecasting Centre in Mumbai reported that Cyclone Tauktae was located about 250kms off the coast of Goa. It is expected to cross Mumbai’s latitude late Sunday, at a distance of 300 to 350kms from the coast. Parts of south Maharashtra — including Ratnagiri and Raigad in the Konkan belt — began to heavy rains on Saturday itself, however, officials said that the impact on Mumbai and the north Konkan belt will be minimised by the cyclone’s movement toward Gujarat, where it is expected to make landfall between Kutch and Gir Somnath around May 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiat-37-4-degrees-celsius-may-temperature-hits-10-year-high-101621100404132.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Pension for Covid orphans good move by Madya Pradesh: Sena||Lauding the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled Madhya Pradesh government for announcing a monthly pension for children orphaned during the Covid-19 pandemic, Shiv Sena on Saturday said that this could be a role model for other states. The Sena, through its mouthpiece Saamana, said that the governments — state or Union — have to take cognisance of children who have lost their parents due to Covid-19 and must give the “shield of humanity”.Madhya Pradesh government on Thursday announced that children who lost their parents or guardians to Covid will be provided free education and a ₹5,000 monthly pension. The state will also bear the expenses of the education of these children.The editorial in Saamana said that any amount of praise for Chouhan’s decision was not enough. Sena lamented the loss of the many adults due to Covid-19 leading to several children left bereft of guardians.“Many children are unaware that their parents who are fighting Covid may not return from the hospital. The government will have to take care of these orphaned children by becoming their guardian. Whether is the Union government or the state, they would have to take note of these children and give them the shield of humanity the way Madhya Pradesh’s Shivraj Chouhan has done,” the editorial said.Earlier this week, the Maharashtra government decided to form a task force in each district under the district collector to identify the children who have been orphaned due to Covid-19 to ensure their safety. The editorial added that many have expressed concern over the issue and it has been discussed on several occasions. “This was discussed in Maharashtra too, but Madhya Pradesh did not merely discuss this serious matter, they also announced that they would give pension to such children,” the editorial said in a critical tone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pension-for-covid-orphans-good-move-by-madya-pradesh-sena-101621100284154.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Four inmates die of Covid in Maharashtra jails in a fortnight||Four prisoners have died of Covid in state prisons in last two weeks. The casualties occurred in Mumbai’s Arthur Road central jail, Byculla’s women’s prison, Taloja prison and Nagpur prison. Cases of active cases of Covid among prisoners have also slightly increased in last two weeks.According to the prison officials, till April 30, a total of nine Covid deaths were reported across the jails in state. The death toll jumped to 13 till May 14. Currently, there are 411 active cases in state jails, which includes 317 prisoners and 94 prison staffs. The maximum active cases have been reported in Kolhapur jail (83) and Thane prison (66), a jail officer said.Seeing surge in cases of infection in the second wave the prison authority had decided to carry out random testings in jails. As a result of this drive last month, major outbreak of Covid was detected in Byculla’s women prisons where nearly 40 prisoners were found Covid-19 positive, including the Sheena Bora murder case accused Indrani Mukerjea. Most of them have recovered now.Since last April, prison authorities have conducted 69,818 Covid-19 tests across 47 prisons and jail administrative offices in the state. A total of 3,757 prisoners tested positive for Covid-19, of which 13 have succumbed to the disease. 3,427 infected inmates have recovered fully. To minimise the impact of the infectious disease in jails, the prison authority last month has started building ‘two-tier protection’ system. Along with temporary prisons, that were set up last year across the state, this year the arrangements are also made for Covid care centres with the help of the local administration.If a new prisoner is to be lodged in a jail, they will have to mandatorily undergo Covid testing and spend 14 days at a quarantine centre (temporary prison), irrespective of their test results. The prisoner will be admitted to a regular jail only if they show no symptoms after 14 days.If a prisoner shows any symptoms during their stay at the centre, they will be shifted to a Covid care centre for treatment. If their condition deteriorates, they will be hospitalised. This way, confirmed cases and suspected ones will be separated. This system will keep an effective check on the entry of infected prisoners in jails, thereby preventing further spread of the infectious disease in jails, claims a prison officer.As prison authority believe that the main reason for the spread of the virus in jails is overcrowding, hence jail superintendents across the state are working in close coordination with the undertrial review committees, headed by sessions judges, to enable regular review of decongestion of prisons, a senior prison officer said.Since March 2020, around 10,900 inmates have been released to reduce overcrowding. Approximately 34,000 inmates are lodged against capacity of 24,000 in prisons of Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/four-inmates-die-of-covid-in-maharashtra-jails-in-a-fortnight-101621100164084.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Four clean-up Marshall arrested on extortion charges||MIDC police booked five clean-up marshals and arrested four of them for demanding ₹1 lakh extortion from a private company. They claimed the firm had not followed Covid-19 protocol and the money is to not take action against them.Police said one of the five accused first extorted ₹20,000 on April 21. But on Friday, four accused again visited the company and demanded more money saying the firm owner was not wearing mask.The company owner informed the police and the four were arrested. “The private agency the five accused belonged to has been authorised by Mumbai civic body for collecting fines from those not wearing mask and spitting in public places. But their jurisdiction was limited to penalising pedestrians or those violating rules in public places. They were not authorised to enter any private premises or company and take action. Hence they have been booked under extortion charges,” said deputy commissioner of police (zone 10) Maheshwar Reddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-four-clean-up-marshall-arrested-on-extortion-charges-101621100104079.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Change in Covid-19 vaccine protocol a breather for Maharashtra government||After the Union government extended the period between the two doses of Covishield from six to eight weeks to 12-16 weeks, the state health department said that people should not rush to vaccination centres before 84 days from their first shot. The change in the protocol by the Centre has given some breather to the state government which had turned its focus to complete the second dose of nearly 1.6 million people across the state.The state government now has stock that would last for around three days, officials said. With the change in protocol, a chunk of the Covishield doses that were kept to give the second jab to people will now be also used for the first doses. There is no change in protocol for the second dose of Covaxin.State immunization officer DN Patil said that the health department has notified all vaccination centres about the change. However, people will not be turned back from the centre if they wish to take the shot after six weeks, Patil said. “We have issued an advisory to all districts to give the second dose after 84 days, per the Centre’s guidelines. But people will not be stopped to take vaccine after six weeks, unless the change is made in the Co-WIN app, restricting them to schedule booking,” Patil said.According to Patil, the state would now have around 500,000 to 600,000 Covishield doses and about 100,000 Covaxin doses. “The stock that is at the centres now is expected to last us about two to three days. We are not expecting any fresh stock before next Monday or Tuesday. The doses that were earlier kept for second doses are being used for first doses after the change in protocol,” Patil said. The state is inching closer to the 20-million mark in vaccination, as it administered 192,438 doses. As of Saturday, the state has administered 19,911,343 doses, of which 4,206,220 are second doses. The state is expected to surpass the landmark on Sunday.Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Saturday went past a grim landmark of 80,000 deaths due to Covid-19 as it added 960 fatalities, taking the death toll to 80,512. The state continued to see fewer cases on Saturday, while the positivity rate also dropped. Maharashtra added 34,848 fresh Covid-19 cases to its tally with a positivity rate of 14.68%. The active cases came under 500,000 to reach 494,032, while the total tally rose to 5,344,063.Mumbai reported 1,450 fresh cases, taking its tally to 686,295. The active cases in the city declined to 34,083. The state has recorded nearly 29,000 deaths between February 15 and May 15. The second wave of the Covid-19 has been particularly deadly for the state as it saw 28,960 fatalities in the last three months, averaging 9,650 deaths every month. Between the outbreak in Maharashtra in March 2020 and February 15, 2021, the state had recorded 51,552 deaths—an average of around 4,685 deaths a month.Though the overall cases are declining in the state, some districts continue to report a high number of cases. The state health department has identified 15 districts including Ahmednagar, Kolhapur, Sangli, Ratnagiri, Beed, Buldhana, Yavatmal, and Chandrapur, where the surge continues. Officials said that they have ramped up the testing drive along with increasing the hospital beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/change-in-covid-19-vaccine-protocol-a-breather-for-maharashtra-government-101621100044120.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 34,848 new Covid-19 cases, 960 deaths in last 24 hours||Maharashtra recorded 34,848 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the state-wide tally to 53,44,063. This marks a decline from the 39,923 cases recorded on Friday. With 960 deaths recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 80,512. A total of 2,37,264 samples were tested in the state today.Saturday marks the seventh consecutive day of Maharashtra recording less than 50,000 daily cases. The state had recorded 53,605 cases on May 8, daily cases have been on the decline since then.Capital city Mumbai recorded 1,450 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, pushing the city-wide tally to 686,295. This marked a slight decline from the 1,660 cases reported on Friday. With 62 fatalities, the city also recorded less than 100 deaths.59,073 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, pushing the number of total recoveries to 47,67,053. The state had witnessed 53,249 discharges on Friday. The recovery rate now stands at a high 89.2%.The Union health ministry said on Saturday that Maharashtra leads the list of states where active cases of Covid-19 has been declining since the last 15 days. Out of 2,37,264 samples tested in the state, 34,848 turned out to be positive, taking the positivity rate of 17.3%. Currently, 34,47,653 are under home quarantine, and 28,727 people have been placed under institutional quarantine, said the government health bulletin.The state is also bracing for some disturbances in certain parts due to cyclone Tauktae and is currently under a lockdown that was extended till June 1 on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-34-848-new-covid-19-cases-960-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101621091871188.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||SpiceJet crew spend 21 hrs in plane after not showing Covid negative report, then return||Upon not presenting a mandatory negative RT-PCR report at the Zagreb airport in Croatia, the entire SpiceJet crew had to spend 21 hours inside the aircraft and then return to the country.The flight took off from Delhi on Tuesday and landed at the Zagreb airport where the Croatia Aviation Authority did not allow SpiceJet's crew to step out of the plane.According to SpiceJet spokesperson, the aviation authority had given a go-ahead to enter the country without a Covid test report when the flight departed from India."Prior to departure from India, email confirmation was received from Croatian authorities that RT-PCR is not required for crew. On arrival in Zagreb, the crew was told that orders have changed. SpiceJet crew rested in the aircraft for 21 hours (as mandated by regulation). They then flew back to Delhi," said the spokesperson.The massive surge in Covid-19 cases across the country is the reason for asking India-based airlines for a compulsory RT-PCR test report at the Croatian airport."Due to sudden and massive increase in Covid-19 cases in India, they have now been instructed that RT-PCR is required. This came as a surprise," added the spokesperson.India's low-cost airline SpiceJet has submitted a full report related to the case to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and complied with the rules."Since the crew could not fly back immediately due Flight Duty Time Limitation (FDTL) restrictions, bedding, food, water was provided in the aircraft. The plane was cleaned and DGCA permission was obtained," said the spokesperson.India's aviation watchdog DGCA official has admonished the SpiceJet pilots and officials on the said incident.In the last 24 hours, India has recorded 3,26,098 new Covid-19 cases and 3,53,299 recoveries. The cumulative caseload of the country touched 2,43,72,907 including 36,73,802 active cases and 2,04,32,898 total recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/spicejet-crew-spend-21-hrs-in-plane-after-not-showing-covid-negative-report-then-return-101621087497843.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||'Be there for you': Mumbai Police uses 'Friends Reunion' in Covid-19 advisory||The Mumbai Police on Saturday gave a witty twist to the upcoming “Friends: The Reunion” special as they shared an advisory, inspired by the popular American sitcom, urging people to stay indoors amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown.The show, which premiered in September 1994 was a phenomenon during its decade-long run and later achieved a cult status through TV reruns and streamers.All the six original cast members -- Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox, Lisa Kudrow, Matt LeBlanc, Matthew Perry and David Schwimmer are coming back for "Friends: The Reunion".The streamer HBO Max on Thursday released a teaser trailer for the special that showed the core cast walking in a distance with their back towards the camera.The Mumbai Police took to Instagram to share a screenshot of the teaser of the show and urged everyone to reunite with their friends only after the "final season of Covid-19" is over.“’Reunite’ with your F.R.I.E.N.D.S – but only after the final season of #COVID19 please? Till then, online meet-ups will ‘be there for you’ #FriendsForever #FriendsofSafety #takingoncorona #friendsreunion,” Mumbai Police captioned the post.The post has received over 57,200 likes and 500 comments.Directed by Ben Winston, the much-awaited special will be broadcast on May 27.Last year, Mumbai Police used a bit of '90s nostalgia with popular shows like “Nukkad”, “Mahabharat”, “Humlog”, “Fauji”, “Circus”, among others to drive home the point of social distancing amid the coronavirus lockdown.They also had given twist to the popular dialogue of Rajkummar Rao-Shraddha Kapoor starrer "Stree": ‘Oh Stree Kal Aana’ to ‘Oh Corona, Kabhi Mat Aana’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/be-there-for-you-mumbai-police-uses-friends-reunion-in-covid-19-advisory-101621085758715.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||FYJC students miss campus life due to college closures||Last year, when Ryan Viegas passed his Class 10 board exam with 92%, he was elated. Viegas, who wanted to pursue Arts, got a seat at one of the city’s most prestigious colleges — St Xavier’s College. In his school days, he had heard a lot about the excitement of being in one of the top colleges of the city and wanted to experience all of it himself. However, with the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown, colleges in the city and the state remained close and lakhs of students like Viegas had to make do with virtual experiences of college life.“I was really excited about getting to go to the college of my choice. I had heard a lot of things about the college and the activities there. Academically, I am very happy with the online teaching but the physical experience is something I miss,” said Viegas. When asked about the difference between the offline and online format, he said, “Since I do not know what it is to physically attend college, I cannot even make that comparison.”While the pandemic and the resultant shift to online learning had an impact on students across grades, for students who entered first-year junior college (FYJC) last year, the impact was more pronounced. For majority students in Maharashtra, FYJC is the first college experience that students get as they move from schools to junior colleges for Class 11 and 12. In Mumbai itself, nearly 224,000 students were admitted at various junior colleges across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region last year. With colleges remaining closed for physical classes, these students have been deprived of the real college experience — enjoying a new campus, meeting new teachers, making new friendships and, travelling to far-off colleges by themselves at times. Even as junior colleges in the state began their online classes soon after the academic year began for students, the real experience of transitioning from school to college environment was lost. Students said colleges are doing their best to provide them with excellent online learning but added that they do miss out on the college experience as a whole, something that they had always looked forward to. Nilakshi Mishra, a student from an aided school in Chembur, worked hard to get to the college of her choice. A student of Ruia College, Mishra was not able to visit her campus even once. “I had heard so many stories from my friends about college life, canteen and hangout places near the college. It all seems like a rosy picture to me now. I have barely been able to make any friends and only know a couple of students who I have worked with for my group discussions and assignments. It is really upsetting,” said Mishra.Satram Verhani, former vice-principal of CHM College in Ulhasnagar, said this year has been particularly difficult for FYJC students. “In college, there are so many extra-curricular activities. Students get an opportunity to participate in events, various clubs etc. which they could not do to that extent this year. While we did conduct some events online, it is definitely not the same,” he added.Aryaman Kumar, a science student enrolled at PACE Junior College in Dadar, said students cannot develop a good rapport with their teachers in the online mode. “The teachers teach us well and handle all our queries, but beyond that there is no discussion at an individual level because both teachers and students are new to each other. We have no reference point for a general conversation, which usually helps a lot in getting to know things during college days,” he added.Teachers said it is difficult to imagine college life without a campus. “When we were in college, we learnt more in canteen and gymkhana than in classrooms. When students come to colleges from schools, a different world opens up for them altogether. Nothing can compensate for these prime years and they will never come back,” said a junior college teacher from a suburban college.Schools and colleges in the state closed for physical classes in March 2020. While admissions to junior college began in August 2020, colleges in the state started only in December-January owing to the Supreme Court stay on admissions under the Maratha quota. Students are now hoping that physical colleges resume soon. “I just hope we get to attend college at least for a few months. I want to take up a professional course later and this is the only college experience where I will get to study and relax a bit at the same time,” said Sana Shah, a student from Vile Parle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fyjc-students-miss-campus-life-due-to-college-closures-101621077603344.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Liquid medical oxygen, cylinders arrive at Mumbai port from Kuwait||Kuwaiti ship arrived at Nhava Sheva Port in Mumbai on Saturday, carrying three semi-trailers of Liquid Medical Oxygen (25 metric tonnes each) and 1000 oxygen cylinders on board, to help India combat the coronavirus pandemic.External Affairs Ministry (EAM) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi expressed gratitude to the government of Kuwait for the much-needed oxygen to help ease pressure on the health infrastructure of the country."Taking forward historical ties of friendship. Kuwaiti ship arrives at Nhava Sheva Mumbai (India). 3 semi-trailers of LMO (25 MT each) and 1000 O2 cylinders onboard. Grateful to H.H. Sheikh Nawaf Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah the Amir of the State of Kuwait & government of Kuwait," EAM spokesperson tweeted.Meanwhile, an Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft airlifted three oxygen containers to Kuwait for recharging and subsequent return by sea."An IL-76 airlifted three oxygen containers to Kuwait for recharging & subsequent return by sea. Airlift of 8 x containers by C-17s to Qatar is underway. The air-sea logistics supply chain ops will make medical oxygen available in reduced timelines," IAF tweeted.Last week, a shipment of 282 oxygen cylinders, 60 oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other medical supplies from Kuwaiti reached India to help the country fight the deadly second wave of virus"Deepening our fraternal ties of friendship. Thank Kuwait for shipment of 282 oxygen cylinders, 60 oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other medical supplies that arrived today," Bagchi tweeted.India is witnessing a second wave of coronavirus that resulted in increased demand for medical oxygen, beds in hospitals and life-saving drugs.India reported 3,26,098 new COVID-19 cases, and 3,890 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per Union Health Ministry. It has the second-highest cases of infection in the world. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/liquid-medical-oxygen-cylinders-arrive-at-mumbai-port-from-kuwait-101621071005685.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC paves the way for promotion of govt employees with disabilities||The Bombay high court (HC) last week relaxed its earlier status quo order and allowed the state government to promote the employees due to retire by June 30, on a condition that the government will also promote employees with benchmark disabilities on Group A and Group B promotional posts identified for them.The division bench of justice Amjad Sayed and justice Madhav Jamdar further directed that the affidavit shall set out what exercise has been carried out and proposed to be carried out, including the data and statistics that have been collated so far to identify the posts and the outer limit within which the exercise would be completed.The court was hearing a bunch of petitions filed through advocates Vinod Sangvikar, Sugandh Deshmukh and Mahendra Shingade, by persons with disabilities complaining about denial of reservation-in-promotion to Group-A and Group-B posts.Acting on their petitions, HC has on November 3, 2020, stayed the process for finalising promotions to Group-A and Group-B posts in some departments after noticing that the right to reservation in promotion of the physically challenged persons was recognised by the Supreme Court, and a proposal for identifying the posts and working out modalities for providing such reservation was already placed before the state cabinet for approval.HC had thereafter also refused to vacate the stay on January 15 this year by observing that the promotion process cannot be allowed without securing the rights of the petitioners - employees with benchmark disabilities - the general administration department had renewed the plea claiming that the Apex court had subsequently thought it fit to place the matter of reservation-in-promotion for persons with benchmark disabilities for review before a larger bench.During the course of hearing on the petitions on May 7, counsel for the petitioners pointed out that some departments in the government had completed the process of identifying posts to be filled by promotion to the employees with disabilities. The lawyers pointed out that in some cases promotion orders were also issued and what remained to be done was to issue posting orders.Against this backdrop, HC allowed the state government to promote general category employees due to retire by June 30, 2021, but on the condition that the employees with disabilities are also issued posting orders due to them.The bench has added that it expects that the process to identify promotional posts for employees with benchmark disabilities in all departments is completed by June 22, when the petitions will come up for further hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-paves-the-way-for-promotion-of-govt-employees-with-disabilities-101621018140005.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||SSC cancellation: Unfair to have single formula for marking, say schools, students||As the state education department is yet to announce the marking criteria for Class 10 (SSC board) students in the state, there is a concern among students and teachers that a single criterion for marking might not do justice to all students as there is no uniformity in the format for internal assessments across schools.In a recent survey conducted by the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (MSCERT), it was found that schools have assessed students between Class 8 and 10 in many different ways- using Whatsapp based assessments, through online sessions and tests, offline exams and workbooks and worksheets. Teachers said that in the absence of uniform evaluation criteria, it will be difficult to mark students on a single formula.For instance, many schools which reopened for offline classes in November 2020 and conducted sessions until April 2021 have evaluated students based on offline exams, conducted in the school and strictly supervised by teachers. The principal of a school in Chandrapur said, “In our region schools had reopened and we conducted offline exams. Our students sincerely wrote these papers and there was vigilance to see that there is malpractice. But in places where students gave tests online, there was no way to check malpractices. How can one evaluate these two sets of students on the same criteria?”With the rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and the resultant lockdown, the state government decided to cancel Class 10 SSC exams in the state that was earlier scheduled to be held in June. The department is yet to announce the formula for assessments. Students said that they are getting more worried by the day. “There is no decision almost a month after the announcement of the cancellation of exams. We cannot even estimate how much and how well we will score because we do not know what marks will be calculated, to begin with,” said Shweta Wagh, a Malad-based student.Officials from the education department said a decision in this respect will be announced soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ssc-cancellation-unfair-to-have-single-formula-for-marking-say-schools-students-101621018080570.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Contempt notices to Cidco, Raigad collector as NGT order on Panje not implemented||A civil society group, which works to protect Maharashtra’s mangroves and coastal wetlands, has served contempt of court notices to Cidco and the Raigad district collector for non-compliance of a month-old order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that ordered that all tidal water inlets to Cidco’s 289-hectare (ha) property in Uran be opened immediately to ensure flow of sea water to Panje coastal wetland and its mangrove forests.NGT’s western regional bench had, on April 15, directed Cidco and the Raigad district collector to ensure that chokepoints at five tidal inlets are removed, upholding previous orders from the state environment department. Environmentalists have repeatedly emphasised in statements to the press over the past month that this order has not been implemented. Nandakumar Pawar, head of NGO Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, had moved NGT for urgent interim relief in April as the state government’s earlier orders to clear the inlets had been ignored.“You are hereby called upon to ensure that the order dated April 15, 2021 passed by the National Green Tribunal and the directions contained therein are complied with forthwith and the blockages to the 5 culverts at Panje are immediately removed, failing which my client will consider himself at liberty to file appropriate proceedings including those for contempt against you,” stated the notice, which was served by Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishthan’s legal counsel Meenaz Kalia.An official with Cidco, who did not wish to be identified, said, “The NGT order does not apply to us directly. The particular culverts are on Navi Mumbai SEZ land, which has been leased out to a private company in 2019. They need to implement the order, not Cidco.” Nidhi Chaudhury, Raigad district collector, did not respond to a request for comment.Environmentalists, however, took issue with this claim. “NMSEZ is only leasing land from Cidco. Besides, Cidco is also a partner in the NMSEZ, and the ownership of the land belongs with them. They are still the rightful custodians,” said BN Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation who has been campaigning for Panje to be declared as a wetland and a bird sanctuary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/contempt-notices-to-cidco-raigad-collector-as-ngt-order-on-panje-not-implemented-101621018080017.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Uran mangroves being buried during lockdown, allege activists||Vast stretches of mangroves are being destroyed at three major locations in Raigad’s Uran taluka by various project proponents under cover of lockdown, environmentalists alleged in a complaint to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray this week.They said such work was in violation of earlier orders by the Bombay high court (HC), which bar construction in mangrove areas, as well as the Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) notification. “The pace at which whole swathes of mangrove forests are being buried is shocking, particularly at Cidco’s Holding Pond 2 area of Dronagiri node in Uran, which has been placed under CRZ-1 by the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA),” said BN Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation.Low-lying intertidal regions in the area have been levelled with non-oceanic mud, and in some cases construction of pakka structures has also begun, leading to recent unseasonal floods in Uran. Holding Pond 2 is a contiguous 237-hectare running waterbody and even in the nomenclature of local planner Cidco, the area is supposed to be a flood control mechanism. “But unfortunately, the holding pond itself is being shrunk with the burial of lush green mangroves,” said Nandakumar Pawar, head of NGO Shri Ekvira Aai Prartishtan.Members of Paaramparik Machhimar Bachao Kruti Samiti, whose artisanal fishing livelihood is threatened by the resulting ecological damage, also alleged the frequency of landfilling activities has visibility increased during lockdown, and first picked up pace a little less than a year ago. “The scale of mangrove loss is plain to see. But most of the work happens at night, when trucks come and blatantly dump debris and mud directly over the water bodies,” said Deepak Koli, a member of the group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uran-mangroves-being-buried-during-lockdown-allege-activists-101621018021050.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Ventilators procured under PM Cares were of inferior quality: Maharashtra Congress||Congress on Friday alleged that the ventilators procured by the Central government under PM Cares Fund were of inferior quality and could not be installed in hospitals, even when they were badly needed to treat Covid-19 patients. Ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), however, refuted the allegations saying they were ‘baseless and incorrect’ and without the support of full information.Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that about 100 ventilators supplied by the Centre to government hospitals in Nashik and Aurangabad could not be installed because of flaws in them. Citing a probe committee appointed by the Government Medical College in Aurangabad, Sawant said that the ventilators could not be repaired even by the technicians appointed by the manufacturing company. He said 60 ventilators provided to a hospital in Nashik were lying idle because the parts required for their installation were not provided.“It is a big scam of procurement from the money received in donations to PMCares Fund. The procurement needs to be investigated by a state-level committee. Modi government forced corporate houses in the country to donate to this fund, but information about the donations was kept under the wrap. The fund was kept out of the purview of the Right To Information Act. The public need to know how and why such highly incompetent manufacturing company got the contract to supply ventilators,” Sawant said.In its clarification issued through Press Information Bureau, the MoHFW has said, “The ventilators in question are not funded under PM Cares fund. In Aurangabad Medical College, 150 ventilators were supplied by Jyoti CNC. Of them, 100 ventilators reached Aurangabad on April 19 and another 50 on April 23, followed by their installation as per the allocations received from the State authorities. Some of them were installed in private hospitals by state authorities. On getting complaints, the engineers appointed by manufacturers attended the calls by recalibrating some of them and replacing parts for few others. The ventilators were made functional and commissioned subsequently. Some of the complaints were for the improper mask fitting on patients.”The statement further stated that the team of service engineers is still in the hospital and as soon as a ventilator is fitted on a patient with NIV mode, they shall be in a position to demonstrate this to the hospital authorities there. At present the ventilators have been put on Invasive mode on the patient and functioning fine, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ventilators-procured-under-pm-cares-were-of-inferior-quality-maharashtra-congress-101621018019948.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Asking to deposit ₹22 lakh fraud amount not a valid bail condition: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) recently set aside the bail condition of depositing ₹22 lakh imposed on an accused in a fraud case by an additional sessions judge on the grounds that such an onerous condition for bail was not maintainable. As three other accused in the fraud case had already been granted bail, the HC granted bail to the accused on grounds of parity, albeit with conditions applicable in normal bails. A bench of justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing the bail application of Mohammadali Saiyyed, was informed by advocate Dr Abhinav Chandrachud that the additional sessions judge, Malegaon had granted bail to the accused on August 21, 2020 and in the operative part of the order, his client was directed to deposit ₹22 lakh before the magistrate as a condition precedent for his release on bail. Dr Chandrachud submitted that his client had initially applied for bail with the judicial magistrate first class on the grounds that the charge sheet was not filed within the stipulated time, which was allowed by the magistrate. However, before Saiyyed could fulfil the bail conditions imposed by the magistrate of depositing ₹50,000 as personal bond and furnishing solvent sureties of like amount, the police filed a charge sheet within four days of the bail order. After this, Saiyyed approached the additional sessions judge. According to the prosecution, Saiyyed in connivance with three others had posed as officials of a financial firm based in Gujarat and collected ₹22 lakh from a developer from Manmad as commission for processing a loan of ₹5 crore. However, after the loan was not sanctioned, a case was lodged at the behest of the developer and the four were arrested. While the three others were granted bail by the HC, Saiyyed was the last as he was considered the mastermind of the fraud. Dr Chandrachud informed the HC that the condition precedent imposed by the additional sessions judge had been deprecated by the Supreme Court, and as his client could not arrange the amount, Saiyyed’s right to be released on bail was frustrated. In light of these submissions, he sought setting aside of the bail condition and urged the court to grant bail to Saiyyed. The application was opposed by the complainant’s advocate who informed the court Saiyyed had two passports and could abscond if released on bail. The additional public prosecutor for the state, while submitting that though the condition of depositing ₹22 lakh for release on bail was onerous, said that Saiyyed could not be released on bail on merits. After hearing the submissions, the bench agreed with Dr Chandrachud about the condition precedent and noted, “Obviously the condition is onerous and it is prejudging the issues between the parties without trial. This condition proceeds on the footing that the FIR is the complete truth without necessity of any further proof. This approach obviously is not permissible.” The bench then set aside the precedent condition and granted bail to Saiyyed on the grounds that he would appear before the concerned police station on the first Monday of every month and would be present during trial and disposed of the application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/asking-to-deposit-22-lakh-fraud-amount-not-a-valid-bail-condition-bombay-hc-101621017961147.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 39,923 new Covid cases, state to focus on districts with maximum cases||As Maharashtra witnesses a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, with 39,923 cases recorded on Friday, the state government is now focussing on districts where the virus continues to cause menace.According to the state government, 15 districts have recorded fewer cases while the surge continues in the remaining 21 districts.Various districts like Kolhapur, Nashik, Satara, Sangli, Buldhana and Yavatmal are still facing the surge of cases.According to Dr Subhash Salunke, Maharashtra government’s advisor for Covid-19 management, various proactive steps are being taken to contain this virus. “We have ramped up the testing facilities, the home quarantine patients are being strictly monitored and oxygen and medicines supply has been increased,” said Salunke.There were a total of 2,50,784 tests conducted on Friday, while the number of recoveries has been 53,249 people. The total number of deaths has now reached 79,552 with 695 deaths recorded on Friday. The total number of people infected with Covid-19 to date stands at 53,09,215.There are currently 519,254 active Covid-19 patients across the state, of which, Pune tops with 96,028 patients followed by Nagpur with 40,496 active patients.The death toll has now reached 78,552 with Mumbai leading with 14,102 deaths followed by Pune with 10,262 patients.According to Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, it was imperative to adopt an aggressive strategy to rein in this virus. “The government needs to enforce strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols and any violations should be dealt with a heavy hand. In many of these districts, the health infrastructure is very poor and the need of this hour is to beef up the entire system. Covid-19 can be contained in Maharashtra not by a reduction in selected pockets but when the numbers across the state come down,” said Mandot.After Mumbai, drive-in vaccination has started in Nagpur at Global Mall which was inaugurated by Union minister Nitin Gadkari.Meanwhile, in Nashik, four people were arrested for selling Remdesivir in the black market at ₹27,000 per dose.In Kolhapur, two convicts undergoing their sentence for murder escaped from Covid-19 centre.In Buldhana, 13 doctors working in private Covid-19 hospital resigned en-masse protesting against the mental stress they were facing from the politicos. Similarly, the local administration in Buldhana has enlisted the help of drones to keep a watch on those roaming on the streets without any valid reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-39-923-new-covid-cases-state-to-focus-on-districts-with-maximum-cases-101621017960006.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress chief seeks probe into alleged phone-tapping||Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole alleged that his phone was under interception in 2016-17 during the previous Devendra Fadnavis government and demanded an inquiry by the state government. He has also alleged that phones of many leaders from the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and even Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were tapped.“I have received information that my phone was under interception, and the permission for the same was sought by giving the reason of narcotic links associated with me. My phone was under surveillance under the name of Amjad Khan. The telephones of many other leaders from leading parties and that of IAS and IPS officers too were intercepted. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government should investigate into the illegal tapping and the motive behind it, as it is a serious violation of the fundamental right of privacy. It should also be brought to the fore about who gave permission for such tapping and who were associated with the act,” Patole said.The Congress leader said the tapping was done by naming the telephone numbers under fake accounts. He has demanded strict action against the people involved in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-chief-seeks-probe-into-alleged-phonetapping-101621017901276.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra govt extends ₹50L relief scheme for families of deceased cops||The state government on Friday issued a fresh government resolution (GR), extending the scheme providing for solatium of ₹50 lakh to the kin of the government employees, including police personnel, who died due to Covid-19, while performing Covid-related duties.The scheme that had lapsed on December 31, 2020, has now been extended till June 30, 2021. The families of over 100 police personnel, who died of Covid since January 2021 will now get due compensation, a senior IPS officer said.HT had first published a report on May 4, highlighting how families of police personnel who died due to Covid this year were left in the lurch, as the scheme ended in December 2020.Very few families of deceased policemen could get compensation this year in the absence of a relief scheme. Their case was presented before the finance department and was marked as a ‘special case’ by the police department. However, dozens of claim files had remained unprocessed due to the non-renewal of the scheme. Sanjeev Singhal, additional director general of police (administration) said, “We welcome the government’s decision. The police department has been continuously following this matter with the government and requesting them that the funds be released so that the grieving families of deceased policemen could get much needed financial aid.”During the initial days of the pandemic, many police personnel pressed into Covid-related work had contracted the virus and were falling sick. The disease was spreading among the police force rapidly, and thus there was a sense of fear and panic among the men in khaki.The state government had in May 2020 announced the scheme extending financial help of ₹50 lakh to the families of deceased policemen and a government job to a family member. Mumbai Police went a step ahead and announced an additional ₹10 lakh fund for each family from the police welfare funds. Hundreds of families of cops who died last year got benefits and many family members even got jobs in the police force.So far all 446 police personnel have died due to Covid-19 in Maharashtra, including 128, who have lost lives this year.Kavita Mahale, 30, wife of late Sanjay Mahale, a constable posted with Nardana police station in Dhule, said that the compensation will help her start her life afresh. Her husband succumbed to the disease on March 25 and eight days later his father also passed away. Sanjay’s mother had already died six months ago due to a prolonged illness. Mahale is now left with her two kids. Gaurav Wani, an engineering student and son of head constable Sanjay Wani, who was posted with Kolshewadi police station in Kalyan, is equally perplexed. Three months have passed since his father’s death due to Covid, but the family hasn’t yet received any compensation from the state. The family now hopes that the claim file would be processed soon.Similar is the case of the family of head constable Ramesh Survase from Chunabhatti police station who died last month due to Covid. Survase’s brother Vishnu said the compensation money will help his brother’s wife take care of her two children aged 17 and 12 years.Covid care cell for cops The state police have started a 24x7 Covid care cell where any police personnel can contact and take any information related to Covid 19, bed availability, medicines availability, etc. The cell will also have information on medicines like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, and oxygen concentrator, etc. They can also lodge any Covid0-related complaint on this helpline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-maharashtra-govt-extends-50l-relief-scheme-for-families-of-deceased-cops-101621017899980.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 1,660 new Covid cases, tally now stands at 684,845||Mumbai on Friday reported 1,660 new Covid-19 cases, continuing its downward trend of cases reported per day since the past two weeks. Mumbai also reported 62 deaths, with a high fatality rate for the day, at 3.7%. The positivity rate is now 6.5%.The tally has now gone up to 684,845, and the toll to 14,102. There are 35,843 active Covid-19 cases in the city at present. Mumbai presently has 85 containment zones which are slums and chawls. In 13 of 24 administrative wards of Mumbai, a population of 455,000 are quarantined. There are 377 sealed buildings, with the most number of them in Andheri West, Malabar Hill and Bandra (West) area, quarantining a population of 319,000; and 6,767 sealed floors, the most number of which are in suburban wards of North Mumbai, corresponding to areas of Kandivli, Mulund, Malad, and Andheri, with a population of 983,000. During the second wave, trends have shown more cases are from residential buildings than slums, contrary to trends in the first half of last year. During this wave, some previous hotspots have zero containment zones, such as Worli or slum pockets of Bandra (East), or very few containment zones such as Dharavi, which has only one active containment zone at present. The most number of containment zones are in R/South ward, corresponding to Kandivli (West) - 20 - followed by Andheri (East) - 16. M/East ward corresponding to Govandi has seven containment zones. Presently, the civic body seals entire residential buildings (called micro containment zones), if five or more cases are reported in the building. A floor is sealed if a single Covid-19 case is found. Mumbai on Thursday conducted 25,205 Covid tests, resulting in Saturday’s cases. The positivity rate is now 6.5%, lowest in over one month. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 5,851279 tests with an average positivity rate of 11.09%. Positivity rate is the number of positive Covid-19 cases, as a per cent of total tests done. Mumbai’s doubling rate is now 199 days, and its average growth rate is 0.34%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-1-660-new-covid-cases-tally-now-stands-at-684845-101621017839988.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||State may cross 20-mn vaccination mark this weekend||Maharashtra on Friday inoculated over 150,000 beneficiaries, inching towards becoming the first state in the country to administer 20 million doses by the weekend. The state is currently short of around 300,000 inoculations to achieve the landmark. Meanwhile, the second shot for people over 45 years of age is expected to get a boost this weekend, as Maharashtra is expecting a batch of vaccines from the Centre on Friday night or in the wee hours of Saturday, officials said. A day after the Union government said the second shot of Covishield should be taken between 12 and 16 weeks after the first jab, from the earlier six to eight weeks, the state anticipates easing of the rush. However, there is no clarity from the state on how many citizens will be eligible for the second dose once the new gap is implemented. As per the state government’s estimates, currently 1.6 million people are due for their second shot of Covishield and 400,000 for Covaxin. However, the Centre has not provided any stock of the Bharat Biotech-manufactured vaccine since Sunday, a senior health department official said. The civic body has decided to suspend vaccination on Saturday and Sunday. The health department officials said they will give preference to second dose in the drive. The state is planning to keep 80% of the vaccine doses received for second dose and 20% for first dose, an official said. The state has already decided to divert around 900,000 doses, including the doses it purchased for 18-44 years category, and utilise for the second doses of people over 45 years. From Monday, for three days in a week, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has allowed walk-in for people over 60 years and differently abled at vaccination centres. “There is a discussion to bring down the proportion from 60:40 to 80:20 to finish the second doses. Even if the interval has been increased by the Centre, the department, through the state government, will continue to demand higher number of doses to cater to the demand,” said an official requesting anonymity. Over the past seven days, the state has administered 1,490,994 shots, of which 59.16% or 882,101 are second. The state has averaged 212,999 doses daily between May 8 and 14. On May 14, the state administered doses to 150,926, including 96,336 second shots, data from the Co-WIN portal showed. So far, the state had administered 19,700,398 shots since January 16, when the vaccination drive began in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-may-cross-20-mn-vaccination-mark-this-weekend-101621017781698.html
15-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body plans mobile vaccination centres in city||To make the vaccination drive more aggressive, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to start mobile vaccination centres in the city. According to BMC officials, once it procures additional vaccine doses from the international market, the mobile unit vehicles will visit housing societies and complexes where citizens will be able to come and get the vaccine shots. The city has been facing a shortage of vaccine due to which the civic body has suspended vaccination for the 18-44 category. Most of the available stock is being used to give second dose due to around 100,000 beneficiaries. The number of beneficiaries, however, will come down, once the state government directs the BMC to follow the interval gap of 12-16 weeks, from the current 8-12 weeks, for second dose of Covishield vaccine, as advised by the Centre. The BMC has planned a special walk-in drive for second dose of Covishield for around 100,000 citizens between May 17 and 19. This number may come down now, which would mean the civic body can use some of the stock for first dose. On Friday, 23,924 citizens were vaccinated in the city, of which 3,180 were between the age of 18 and 44, 12,323 in the 45-59 age group, 7,888 above the age of 60 years, 134 health care and 399 front line workers. Overall, so far, 2,841,349 citizens have been vaccinated in the city. Meanwhile, civic officials said looking at the current stockpile, the plan to have mobile vaccination centres will not materialise in the next one month. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We plan to aggressively vaccinate citizens once we get sufficient vaccine doses. By sufficient doses, I mean two million to three million doses, after which we plan to start mobile vaccination centres. This will be possible after we procure bulk vaccine doses from the international bid that we floated.” Earlier this week, the BMC floated a global expression of interest, inviting international vaccine manufacturers to deliver around 10 million vaccine doses to the city. However, the BMC has restricted the entry of China. Kakani added, “We are thinking that rather than going door-to-door, going to societies or complexes will be much faster and everyone will be comfortable this way. We will aim for locations where we can cover maximum population. This will be apart from the permission that the BMC is giving to housing societies and corporates to tie up with private hospitals for vaccination.” According to the BMC, the required infrastructure will be set up within days after the procurement of bulk doses. A BMC official from the transport department said, “When we say mobile vaccination centres, we just need a simple ambulance to vaccinate one person at a time. The observation will be done outside the mobile vaccination centre. We can use the existing 550 Covid ambulances that will be used for arranging the cold storage. The modalities will be worked out in the coming days. Additional vehicles can be procured, if required.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-plans-mobile-vaccination-centres-in-city-101621017781093.html
