16-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 11,699 deaths, fatality rate of 1.58% in 15 days||Even though the daily Covid-19 cases have witnessed a steady drop over the past week, the state has logged 11,699 deaths in the first fortnight of May, recording a 1.58% case fatality rate (CFR) during the period.The state recorded 34,389 new Covid-19 cases and 974 deaths, second-highest single-day record, on Sunday. The case tally is now 5,378,452, while the death toll stands at 81,486.Against a total of 7,38,618 people infected between May 1 and 15 and 11,699 deaths reported during the period the CFR stands at 1.58 %. An average of 799 deaths took place daily, while 32 deaths were reported per hour during this period.The CFR in the first 15 days of April stood at 0.51%, as 4,225 deaths were reported against 826,799 infections reported in two weeks. The first fortnight of the last month saw average daily death of 281. The CFR is the number of deaths recorded during the period in proportion to the total cases in that period.According to Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), the CFR will reduce in the next few days as the fatality curve always lags by three-four weeks behind the infection cases curve. “Most of these deaths are of patients who were admitted before two to three weeks. We will see the decrease of deaths in the coming days,” said Dr Lahane.Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, attributes the high CFR to the surge in rural pockets. “There are at least 12 districts in Maharashtra like Ahmednagar, Satara, Sangli and Beed where both new cases, as well as deaths, are increasing by the day. They tend to increase the CFR of the state. These districts suffer from two factors, a casual approach towards the virus and lack of medical facilities. Many people in rural parts do not wear masks, nor they practice social distancing. In addition, fewer tests are being conducted in these districts. The longer turnaround time for results of the tests lead to more infections and subsequently the high death rate,” said Gilada.Mumbai continued to log fewer cases by reporting 1,535 cases and 60 deaths. Pune city has recorded 1,359 new cases, while Nashik city saw 1,022 new cases. Aurangabad and Kolhapur city recorded 214 and 217 cases respectively.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 468,109. Pune tops with 82,397 active patients followed by Mumbai with 33,574 and Thane with 30,492 active patients. The total number of tests conducted in the last 24 hours were 264,587 with a positivity rate of 12.99%.In Solapur, there was a large procession at the funeral of a social worker throwing all social distancing norms at the wind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-11-699-deaths-fatality-rate-of-1-58-in-15-days-101621189027471.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Vax drive to resume in Mumbai from Tuesday; more stock expected this week||The shortage of vaccine doses has slowed down the vaccination drive in the state and Mumbai. After stalling the drive for two days, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is expected to resume it from Tuesday. Presently, Mumbai has only 50,000 vaccine doses in stock and is expecting more doses this week, according to civic authorities. The state government is expecting new stock of vaccines on Monday or Tuesday. The short supply of the shots has witnessed a drastic drop in the vaccination rate in the state. Maharashtra could vaccinate less than 200,000 people daily last week, and BMC has been vaccinating around 25,000 per day. On Saturday, Maharashtra vaccinated a total of 192,742 beneficiaries. In Mumbai, the drive has been suspended on Monday, for a day, given the warning issued by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) of heavy rainfall and gusty winds due to cyclone Tauktae, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Sunday. In a statement, Chahal said, “In view of the warning of high-intensity cyclone issued by IMD, the vaccination program in Mumbai for Monday (17th May) is cancelled.” The vaccination drive will resume in Mumbai on Tuesday. There are presently 260 vaccination centres across the city, of which 166 are operated by BMC, 74 are private and 20 are operated by the state or Central government. Chahal on Sunday also announced that walk-in vaccination will be allowed for beneficiaries above age 60 years who are getting their first dose but only for the Covishield vaccines. According to BMC, there are about 300,000 beneficiaries 60 years of age remaining to be given their first dose. BMC plans to complete this within a week. On Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday (May 18 to 20) beneficiaries in the 60 years and above age group taking their first dose of Covishield, those who are due for a second dose of Covaxin, and differently-abled beneficiaries will qualify for walk-in vaccinations. On these three days, only health and frontline workers can get their second dose of Covishield as many have completed 12 weeks since their first dose. On Thursday, Friday and Saturday vaccination will be allowed via online appointment through the Co-WIN app.According to the BMC data, so far 2,841,349 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Mumbai, of which 2,121,573 have received their first dose and 719,776 administered second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vax-drive-to-resume-in-mumbai-from-tuesday-more-stock-expected-this-week-101621188968129.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Majha Doctor: Family doctors key in fight against Covid, says Maharashtra CM||To seek cooperation from local doctors in the fight against Covid, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and state-appointed task force of doctors, under its Majha Doctor initiative, interacted with more than 17,500 doctors across Maharashtra on Sunday. They guided the local doctors on various aspects, including treatment protocol, treating patient during home isolation or institutional quarantine, reasonable use of drugs and oxygen and treating mucormycosis, among others. In what was termed as a one-off attempt of interaction with the family doctors, the state leadership urged the doctors to manage patients taking treatment at home well. Thackeray said that as 75% patients do not show any symptoms for the virus, they are treated at home by their family doctors, which, in turn, increases their responsibility multi-fold. He said the late referral to hospitals makes it difficult to treat them, thus increasing the fatality rate. “If the patients are treated well in home isolation with appropriate management, the mortality rate can come down significantly,” said Thackeray. The webinar, Managing Covid-19 in Primary Care, was organised by OneMD and was attended by state task force members Dr Sanjay Oak, Dr Shashank Joshi and Dr Rahul Pandit; Director of Directorate of Medical Education and Research Dr TP Lahane and Dr Ashish Bhumkar. r“A family doctor plays an important role while treating a Covid-19 patient at home as he is monitoring his oxygen level, treating comorbidities and guiding him on medicines. The doctor needs to take a call on admitting the patient to the hospital at the appropriate time. Maintaining the sugar level during infection is also a major task before the family doctor. If this management is done properly, it may help reduce the fatalities,” said Thackeray. He also urged the family doctors to extend their services by serving at the nearest Covid care centres. “This will not only be a service to society, but will also give relief to patients as they are being treated by their own doctor. There is a challenge of keeping monsoon-related diseases such as dengue, malaria, leptospirosis in control amid the pandemic. I have directed the state machinery to increase rapid antigen testing so that such diseases can be contained,” he said. Doctors from the task force insisted on the reasonable use of drugs, including steroids and even oxygen. “Patients tend to avoid Covid-19 tests for obvious reasons, but there is no alternative to RT-PCR test. Six-minute test and breathlessness among patients could help doctors in early diagnosis of the infection. It has also been observed that CT scans are being done unnecessarily and their scores are given undue importance. Doctors should also treat oxygen as a drug, ensuring its rational use at clinics and primary health centres and hospitals,” said Dr Oak. Dr Oak said the task force has recommended treatment of Covid-19 patients with no symptoms at community halls at village level, instead of keeping them in home isolation. According to a statement by the CMO, they received more than 3,000 reactions from doctors and general public and was shared by over 1,000 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/majha-doctor-family-doctors-key-in-fight-against-covid-says-maharashtra-cm-101621188907451.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||No coercive action to be taken against Daund hospital accused of over-charging till May 19: HC||The Bombay high court (HC) has restrained the authorities from shutting down a hospital in Daund, Pune which is a dedicated Covid care centre after receiving complaints of over-charging and having four Covid deaths in a single day. The shutdown order was passed on May 7 after the authorities conducted an inspection on receipt of the complaints and found that the centre had not been following stipulated operational norms. However, in light of the fact that 18 patients were still being treated in the centre and the authorities had not allowed the hospital to explain, the court restrained them from shutting the centre till the next hearing on May 19.The division bench of justice KK Tated and justice Abhay Ahuja, while hearing the petition filed by Mohan General and Multi-Specialty Hospital at Daund, Pune, was informed by advocate Dr Uday Warunjikar that the petition was challenging a May 7 cancellation of license order by the sub-divisional officer, Purandar taluka, Pune. The petition also challenged the direction by the sub-divisional officer to the hospital to refund the excess fees they had charged from patients who underwent Covid treatment at the facility.Dr Warunjikar informed the court that the 60-bed hospital had 12 intensive care units (ICU) units and 10 invasive and non-invasive ventilators. He submitted that the hospital was having all the modern amenities and also had the wherewithal to treat Covid patients and had also arranged for a sufficient supply of oxygen.The bench was informed by additional government pleader Kavita Solunke that after receiving numerous complaints from patients who received treatment at the hospital, the tehsildar inspected the hospital and its records and prepared a report. The report states that four Covid patients had died on April 27 due to lack of proper treatment and the hospital had not maintained proper records of patients. The report also pointed to the fact that the hospital had recovered ₹2.75 lakh from an insurance company for treating a patient whose actual bill was only ₹87,000.Solunke submitted that in light of the above it was clear that the hospital violated several provisions of the Bombay Nursing Home Registration Act, hence the show cause notice issued to the hospital asking it to respond in three days failing which its license would be cancelled and its registration would be suspended was valid. She also sought time to file an affidavit with regards to the report. Dr Warunjikar submitted that 18 patients were still receiving treatment at the hospital and if the hospital was not allowed to function it would have an adverse effect on the condition of the patients. He added that as the proper procedure was not followed as per the Act and the hospital did not have a chance to have its say, the implementation of the May 7 order should be stayed. After hearing the submissions, the bench directed the authorities to file their reply by May 18 and retrained them from taking any coercive action against the hospital till the next date of hearing on May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-coercive-action-to-be-taken-against-daund-hospital-accused-of-over-charging-till-may-19-hc-101621188908124.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||PIL seeking separate vaccine booking portal for Mumbai filed in HC||A public interest litigation (PIL) seeking a dedicated vaccination booking portal for Mumbai has been filed in the Bombay high court by an Andheri based teacher. The petition has claimed that the existing Co-WIN portal is not user-friendly as it does not have a fixed opening time, hence a fixed time for booking vaccination appointments should be made available for citizens, especially those in the age group of 18-44 years. The PIL has also sought a system to ensure that senior citizens are not made to return home without getting their jabs as centres have a tendency to administer available vaccines to walk-in citizens, even though time slots have been allotted.The PIL filed by Yogita Rajesh Vanzara points to the fact that the vaccine booking portal does not have a fixed schedule and timing for citizens to log on and book a slot for getting jabs at the vaccination centres as a result of which precious time of people in the age group of 18-44 years is wasted in keeping track of when the booking function on the portal gets activated.The PIL has also cited the erratic timing of the booking function becoming activated and stated, “Various centres show the availability of seats at midnight or thereafter and yet booked within seconds of the same being offered to the public.” To avoid this situation the petition has sought directions to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to open slots for booking vaccine at a pre-determined time with due intimation for a full week, instead of on daily basis.The PIL has also raised the issue of non-availability of vaccines for citizens who have got appointments for the jab especially senior citizens who have to return home without the jab as the centres that have walk-in facilities exhaust the vaccines. In light of this, the PIL has prayed for directions to administer the vaccine to walk-in citizens only after ensuring that people who have booked vaccines through the portal are given the vaccination.The petition also highlights the issue of citizens from economically backward finding it difficult to get vaccine bookings due to their technical ignorance or inaccessibility due to lack of a proper internet connection. The petition also points to the fact that the servers are unable to take load due to the large number of people trying to book vaccination slots.On the issue of centres not being senior citizen and disabled friendly, the PIL has sought directions to make the centres’ wheelchair friendly as well. The petition also complains of the portal deleting bookings after which the citizen is unable to secure another booking.In light of the above, the PIL has sought to set up a separate portal for Mumbai and to streamline the booking process by having fixed timing and providing information in real-time on the availability of vaccines at the centres. The PIL is expected to come up for hearing in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pil-seeking-separate-vaccine-booking-portal-for-mumbai-filed-in-hc-101621188787514.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Testing goes up at Mumbai airport: 1.25L of total 3.45L tests done in less than two months||With the surge in Covid-19 cases in the second wave and some states including Maharashtra announcing lockdown-like restrictions, the number of RT-PCR tests at Mumbai airport has witnessed a massive increase. The airport saw around 125,000 RT-PCR tests since March 7 till the first few days of May. The total number of tests done at the airport till date stands to 345,000.From November 26, 2020 till last week, passengers travelling to Maharashtra from specific states, marked as “sensitive areas”, were required to have a negative RT-PCR report. However from Friday, the state government made negative RT-PCR test report, obtained within 48 hours before the time of entry into the state, mandatory for all arriving passengers. Considering the issues with delayed test reports, the state allowed air and rail travellers to de-board at their destinations in Maharashtra but asked them to get tested upon arrival.Due to the impact of the second wave that largely started around April, air traffic has fallen from around 650 movements per day to around 200-250 movements per day, sources from Mumbai airport had told HT earlier in the week.“Around 5.3 million passengers travelled to/from Mumbai airport between January and April 2020. However, the traffic fell when foreign countries imposed travel bans. Domestic traffic largely saw the impact from the first week of May,” said an airport source. Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) set up testing facilities in September 2020 and it was gradually extended to encompass arriving and departing passengers as well as non-passengers arriving at the airport. With the increase in demand for testing at the airport in the wake of various testing and quarantine regulations across borders, CSMIA then went ahead to introduce an express molecular technology developed by Abbott ID Now to provide test results in 13 minutes.“Since the launch of its testing facilities in September 2020, CSMIA has registered over 345,000 tests. The airport has established over 30 testing counters for international and domestic passengers. The testing centres include those equipped with molecular testing facilities which offer passengers the option to process their test results in 13 minutes post sample collection,” a senior airport official said.However, passengers getting tested after arrival are allowed to head to their destinations and the reports are emailed to the after a minimum of 24 hours.“As per the government resolution of Maharashtra government dated May 12, any passenger arriving from any part of India should bring negative RT-PCR report. Without a negative report, they are not allowed to board. Previously, passengers arriving from seven states were screened compulsorily...If passengers don’t have negative RT-PCR report, then the passengers were allowed to leave the airport after giving their swab samples for testing at the testing counters at the airport. The lab informs the concerned ward if a passenger is found positive and the respective ward monitors such a passenger,” said Devendra Kumar Jain, officer on special duty (OSD) in-charge of domestic and international operations, Mumbai civic body.“The system is developed and every passenger is tracked. Passengers are equally worried and they take precautions themselves too,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/testing-goes-up-at-mumbai-airport-1-25l-of-total-3-45l-tests-done-in-less-than-two-months-101621188727469.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae alert: BMC suspends vaccine drive in Mumbai for Monday||The Covid-19 vaccination drive for all age groups has been suspended in Mumbai on Monday, for a day, in view of the warning issued by IMD of heavy rain and gusty winds due to cyclone Tauktae, civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Sunday. In a statement, Chahal said, “In view of the warning of a high-intensity cyclone issued by IMD, the vaccination programme in Mumbai for Monday (17th May) is cancelled.” The vaccination drive will resume in Mumbai on Tuesday. There are presently 260 vaccination centres across the city, of which 166 are operated by the Brihanmumbai MunIcipal Corporation (BMC), 74 are private and 20 are operated by the state or central government. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, in-charge of BMC’s public health department and disaster management department, said, “Mumbai can expect heavy rainfall and speedy winds on Monday. BMC’s disaster management department is on alert for any incidents of waterlogging, tree collapses, traffic diversions. Mumbaiites are advised not to venture out of their homes at public places. Hence, vaccination is also suspended.” Chahal on Sunday also announced that walk-in vaccination will be allowed for beneficiaries above age 60, who are getting their first dose, but only for Covishield vaccines.On Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday (May 18 to 20), beneficiaries in the 60 years and above age group taking their first dose of Covishield, those who are due for the second dose of Covaxin, and differently abled beneficiaries will qualify for walk-in vaccinations. On these three days, only health and frontline workers can get their second dose of Covishield as many have completed 12 weeks since their first dose. On Thursday, Friday and Saturday vaccination will be allowed via online appointment through the Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-alert-bmc-suspends-vaccine-drive-in-mumbai-for-monday-101621187767416.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Back-ups for oxygen, medicines ready, says CM Uddhav Thackeray||As Cyclone Tauktae, which is moving parallel to the Konkan coast, changed speed and turned into a very strong cyclone on Sunday, affecting several villages near Rajapur in Ratnagiri district, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray told the Centre that the state was ensuring uninterrupted electricity supply and has prepared a back-up plan for supply of oxygen and medicines to Covid-19 patients. Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday conducted a review meeting through video-conference with chief ministers of Maharashtra and Gujarat, and Dadra-Nagar Haveli administration. Many tehsils in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg witnessed damage to property, felled trees and power outages owing to the gusty winds at a speed of 130 miles per hour. District authorities shifted as many as 652 residents living in slums in Rajapur by 5pm. Strong winds are also reported to have caused severe damage to mango growers. On Sunday night, the Indian Meteorological department said the cyclone is likely to hit Ratnagiri district by midnight. Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has shifted at least 580 patients from the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo facility, Dahisar and Mulund Jumbo facilities to the Nesco Covid facility and the SevenHills hospital in Andheri. Mumbai is expected to receive heavy rainfall and gusty winds post-midnight on Sunday and through Monday, authorities said. Civic authorities also said the BMC has stocked up enough oxygen supply in all remaining jumbo facilities, in light of any emergency, where oxygen cannot be delivered on time on Monday. All hospitals have power back-ups, and an additional stock of diesel for diesel generators, in case of power outages, according to the BMC. Thackeray told Shah that around 900 metric tonnes of oxygen is produced in five production plants near coastal Maharashtra and the administration of Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg have been asked to take precautionary measures to ensure these plants are safeguarded. In a statement, the Maharashtra government said, “The double feeder power supply and strong wiring will ensure no damage is caused to oxygen production plants near the coast.” Maharashtra also has around 12 hours of oxygen supply in stock as a back-up plan. All fishermen from Maharashtra have returned to the coast and no one is now at sea, except a few from Palghar, who are on the way back, Maharashtra informed the Centre. Homes along the coast have been vacated and residents have been shifted to temporary shelters. “The coast guard is on standby in Mumbai,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of BMC’s public health and disaster management departments, adding, “The coast guard on Saturday rescued a few fishermen from the deep sea off Mumbai’s coast. As of now, we don’t have any more information of fishermen at sea.” After a meeting with the Mumbai Police and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Saturday, the BMC asked all assistant commissioners of 24 wards in the city to be prepared to move residents from low-lying areas in case of inundation. Temporary shelters have been prepared for them. Kakani said, “All low-lying areas have been equipped with dewatering pumps.” Three NDRF teams of 45 members each are on standby for Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-back-ups-for-oxygen-medicines-ready-says-cm-uddhav-thackeray-101621187587443.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two arrested for stabbing 26-year-old||Three people allegedly stabbed a 26-year-old man and assaulted him with an iron rod two days after the man had intervened and stopped the trio from assaulting a neighbour. Trombay police arrested two of the accused on Sunday while the third is absconding. The arrested accused — Farukh Saidul Shaikh, 21, and Imran Shaikh, 23 — have been booked under charges of attempt to murder, assault, and punishment for criminal intimidation and common intention, said a police officer. The third accused, Yasin Saidul Shaikh, is wanted in the case.The victim, Taslim Sayyed Salar, a 26-year-old resident of Mankhurd, had intervened when the three accused had a heated argument with Salar’s neighbour four to five days ago. Salar, who was present at the neighbour’s home at the time, dispersed the accused who threatened and questioned Salar on his involvement and left. The accused returned on Friday night armed with an iron rod and allegedly assaulted Salar at his residence. One of the accused was carrying a knife and stabbed Salar in the abdomen, said senior inspector Siddheshwar Gove, Trombay police station.The accused fled from the spot while neighbours took Salar to Sion hospital where he has been recuperating and he is out of danger, said Gove. The police was informed about the incident. A team visited the spot and verified the attack and recorded statements of the locals. Following Salar’s statement, a first information report (FIR) was registered on Saturday and two accused were arrested from the vicinity, added Gove.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-two-arrested-for-stabbing-26yearold-101621187347340.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fuel prices continue to rise, petrol inches towards ₹100-mark||Fuel prices kept rising steadily over past one week with petrol price inching towards ₹100 mark for one litre on Sunday. After the hike of 23 and 29 paise, petrol and diesel prices touched ₹98.88 and ₹90.40 for a litre on Sunday, respectively. On Saturday, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹98.65 while diesel was available at ₹90.11 for a litre. About a week ago on May 10, petrol cost ₹97.86 and diesel ₹89.17 for one litre. Fuel prices have increased steadily since May 3. Earlier on April 15, petrol was priced at ₹96.83 for one litre and diesel at ₹87.81, as opposed to ₹96.98 and ₹87.96 for petrol and diesel on April 14, respectively.The rise in the fuel prices has irked citizens as well as transporters as it could lead to inflation. They have also urged both the state and Central governments to work on reducing fuel prices.“There has been a constant increase in fuel prices, which is causing financial problems to citizens. People are stepping outside their houses only for urgent travels. Local trains are shut and people have no other option but to travel by their personal vehicles. In this backdrop, the government should reduce the prices of both petrol and diesel. Value Added Tax (VAT) on fuel should be reduced immediately,” said Ankita Deshpande, a Parel resident.All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) stated that excise duties on petroleum products should be cut. “The government should have cut excise duties and asked states to lower VAT to provide some relief, but its insensitivity towards the plight of people continues unabated,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, AIMTC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fuel-prices-continue-to-rise-petrol-inches-towards-100mark-101621187288551.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae to pass Mumbai on Monday; IMD sounds orange alert||Cyclone Tauktae is expected to pass by Mumbai on Monday sometime during late morning to early afternoon, at a distance of about 380kms from the city’s coastline, officials in the India Meteorological Department (IMD) confirmed on Sunday. Wind speed between 55 and 70kmph (kilometre per hour) is expected to lash the city, along with heavy rainfall at isolated locations. Light to moderate rains commenced in the city on Sunday night with winds touching 30 to 35kmph speed and gusting up to 52kmph. The shower will increase by late night and may continue till Monday afternoon.The weather bureau’s initial yellow category storm warning for Mumbai for Sunday has been upgraded to orange category warning for Monday, indicating very likely chances of rough weather.“The weather system has slowed down a bit after initial forecasts suggested that it would cross Mumbai’s latitude on Sunday. It is now expected to cross the city sometime after 11.30am on Monday, though effects of the cyclone began to be felt on Saturday night itself when wind speeds in Mumbai touched as much as 40kmph. Showers and gusty winds may be felt on Sunday night,” said Jayanta Sarkar, scientist and head of IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai, on Sunday .Officials said heavy rainfall due to the cyclone would not pose a major problem to Mumbai’s civic infrastructure. “But citizens should be mindful of the weather when stepping out, especially along the coast, due to the strong winds,” said KS Hosalikar, senior scientist with IMD in Pune. “Some wind damage to property cannot be ruled out. Orange alert has also been sounded for Thane and Palghar districts, while Raigad is in the red category because the impact of the rain and winds might be felt more severely due to the district’s hilly topography.”With the slowing down of the weather system, temperatures in Mumbai remained high on Sunday, with a maximum daytime temperature of 36 degrees Celsius, down from a 10-year high for the month of May at 37.4 degrees Celsius the day prior. This was due to the dense cloud cover that has formed over the city and is acting as a heat trap. However, mercury is expected to dip to 31 degrees Celsius on Monday after heavy rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-to-pass-mumbai-on-monday-imd-sounds-orange-alert-101621187228534.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 34,389 new Covid-19 cases, 974 fatalities||Maharashtra on Sunday logged 34,389 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, while 974 succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin. In comparison to Saturday, the state reported a net decline of 459 infections and a rise of 14 deaths.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The new addition in the cases and deaths took the case tally of the state to 5,378,452 and toll to 81,486 on Sunday, the bulletin showed. The active caseload of the state with one of the highest number of currently positive cases in the country reached 494,032 on Sunday.As many as 59,318 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, outnumbering new cases for the seventh straight day or a week. A total number of 4,826,371 patients have come out of the clutches of the deadly virus since the pandemic hit the state. There has been a net increase in the number of new recoveries in the last 24 hours, as on Saturday the state reported 59,073 discharges.More than 264,00 samples were tested to detect Covid-19 in the state's population, a rise of 27,323 tests done on Saturday. The total number of tests done so far for Covid-19 stands at 3,11,03,991, according to the bulletin.Mumbai on Sunday reported 1,544 new viral infections and 60 fatalities due to the disease, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation(BMC) bulletin. The number of new cases rose by 97 in the last 24 hours, while fatalities increased by two.Also read: Shiv Sena accuses Modi government of Covid-19 mismanagementEven with less testing in the last 24 hours, there has been a net incline in the number of new cases. On Saturday, 24,896 samples were tested for Covid-19 in comparison to 22,430 tests done in the last 24 hours, the BMC data showed.At present, the active cases in the state capital stand at 35,702, with 86 active containment zones (slums and chawls) and 339 sealed buildings.2,438 patients recovered on Sunday taking the total discharges to 636,753. The recovery rate from the disease stands at 92 per cent, same as on Saturday, according to the BMC data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-34-389-new-covid-19-cases-974-fatalities-101621172937911.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae to cause very heavy rains in parts of Konkan, Mumbai||The very severe cyclonic storm Tauktae could cause heavy to very heavy rains at isolated places in north Konkan, Mumbai, Thane and Palghar in Maharashtra on May 17, the IMD said on Sunday.The Met department has predicted extremely heavy rainfall in Raigad on Monday.The IMD had informed the Mumbai civic body that Mumbai is not in the direct line of the threat of the cyclone. However, as it will pass through the sea near the Mumbai coast, its effect is likely to be accompanied by rain and strong winds."Latest track forecast, CS could come at arnd 19N Lat on 17 May afternoon, but could far more than 200 km. Still N Konkan; Mumbai Thane Palghar could hv hvy-vry hvy RF at isol places. Raigad Extremely HR possible. Strong winds, rough sea, Rain 16-17 May," tweeted KS Hosalilar, head SID, Climate Research and Services, IMD, Pune.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai has not received rains since Sunday morning though the sky is mostly overcast.However, the weather mainly remained windy in the city, resulting in the falling of four trees in the western suburbs.Mumbai had received light rain on Saturday night.Meanwhile, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Sunday took stock of the cyclone preparedness after visiting the BMC disaster control room.Pednekar appealed to citizens to strictly follow the instructions given by the civic administration from time to time.The very severe cyclonic storm is likely to intensify during the next 24 hours and reach the Gujarat coast on Monday evening, the IMD had said in its bulletin earlier in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-to-cause-very-heavy-rains-in-parts-of-konkan-mumbai-101621166196482.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: BMC suspends Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai on May 17||The Mumbai civic body on Sunday decided to keep its Covid-19 vaccination drive suspended for the third day on May 17 in view of the warning about cyclone Tauktae, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had on Friday announced that there would be no inoculation on May 15 and 16 considering the India Meteorological Department's cyclone warning.The vaccination programme will now be implemented on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, Chahal said.According to the IMD, cyclone Tauktae has intensified into a "very severe cyclonic storm" and is very likely to reach the Gujarat coast in the evening hours of May 17 and cross it between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavnagar district around the early morning of May 18.A BMC official had earlier said that the civic body has shifted 580 patients from Covid care centres in the city as a precautionary measure in view of the warning that cyclone Tauktae is likely to pass close to the city.Meanwhile, Chahal also said the central government has issued directions to maintain a gap of 12 to 16 weeks between two doses of Covishield vaccine. Hence, nobody except health care workers and frontline workers will be eligible for the second Covishield dose at present as vaccination for other categories had commenced on March 1."Due to this change, the civic body has decided to extend the walk-in (vaccination) facility for citizens above 60 years of age for the first Covishield dose during May 18- 20," he said.Last week, the BMC had announced that the citizens above 60 years of age, who are waiting for the second dose of Covishield vaccine, the beneficiaries yet to get the second dose of Covaxin and the disabled person can opt for walk-in vaccination from Monday to Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-bmc-suspends-covid-19-vaccination-drive-in-mumbai-on-may-17-101621164665903.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||As Tauktae nears, Maharashtra amps up oxygen, power supply in Covid-19 hospitals||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said an alert has been sounded in coastal districts of the state in the wake of cyclone Tauktae, and the state administration has braced up to ensure uninterrupted electricity and oxygen supply in Covid-19 hospitals.Thackeray gave the assurance to Union home minister Amit Shah during a virtual meeting in the morning on the preparedness for tackling the cyclonic storm.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), cyclone Tauktae has intensified into a "very severe cyclonic storm" and is approaching the Gujarat coast.The IMD has forecast high-speed winds along and off south Maharashtra-Goa and adjoining Karnataka coasts over the next couple of days.During the meeting, Thackeray said jumbo Covid-19 centres and other facilities can protect patients from rain. But, in view of the cyclonic storm, some patients from Mumbai and other areas have been shifted to safer places.He said all steps have been taken to ensure oxygen production plants on the coastline and transport of oxygen to rest of the state remain unaffected.Thackeray also informed that residents along the coastline have been moved to safer places and disaster management units have been activated.Collectors of Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Raigad and Palghar districts and Mumbai municipal commissioner have been instructed to ensure that the oxygen production plants of 900 metric tonne capacity along the sea coast are safe, he said.Officials of the electricity and public works departments are also on alert, the CM said.He said arrangements have been made to ensure 12 to 16-hour oxygen backup in districts to be affected by the cyclonic storm."A total of 160 metric tonne of oxygen is expected to reach Maharashtra from Jamnagar in Gujarat by Monday. If there are problems in the Jamnagar plant due to the cyclone, arrangements have been made to get the additional stock from other places," he said.Thackeray said fishermen were also returning to the coast from the sea.He also informed the Union minister that the state has adequate stock of medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-tauktae-nears-maharashtra-amps-up-oxygen-power-supply-in-covid-19-hospitals-101621155709652.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to see heavy rain on Sunday as result of Cyclone Tauktae||A low-pressure zone over the Arabian Sea, which began to form on Thursday morning, is expected to intensify into the first cyclonic storm of the year for India’s west coast. Named Cyclone Tauktae, the weather system is expected to bring heavy rains to parts of Mumbai and Thane districts on Sunday, as it will pass by the Konkan region at a distance of 300 to 500km from the coast.The cyclone was named by Myanmar. Tauktae means gecko in Burmese.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) placed Mumbai and Thane under yellow category storm warning, indicating very likely chances of “heavy rain at isolated places”, for one day. Districts towards the southern leg of Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra (including Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara) have been placed under an orange category alert, indicating more severe weather, on Saturday and Sunday.“The influence of the storm in Maharashtra is likely to subside after May 17 (Monday) as it would travel northwestwards towards Gujarat around May 18,” said an official with IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. The official added the storm will not meet directly with the coast in Maharashtra, and that it may also delay the arrival of the monsoon along India’s west coast by a few days. However, they did not specify the exact influence it is likely to have on monsoons in Mumbai.“Cyclone Tauktae is likely to become the first severe cyclonic storm in 17 years to travel so close to the coast of Kerala, Karnataka, Goa & Maharashtra. As per the IMD Cyclone e-atlas, not a single severe cyclonic storm managed to do so after May 2004,” Akshay Deoras, a meteorologist at the University of Reading, tweeted earlier this week. Deoras also said that in Maharashtra, most of the storm’s impact is expected along the Konkan coast in the form of wind damages to trees and weak structures. He said, “People must remain vigil and try to remain at a safe distance from hoardings, power lines, and trees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-see-heavy-rains-on-sunday-as-result-of-cyclone-tauktae-101621017962698.html
16-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: BMC readies plan to shift patients from BKC Jumbo facility||As gusty winds and rain is expected in Mumbai on Saturday and Sunday in the wake of Cyclone Tauktae which is forming over the Arabian Sea, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday said it is ready for disaster response, if needed.BMC has made all necessary arrangements in case the need arises to shift Covid-19 patients from the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo facility. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “There are not more than 300 patients at the BKC jumbo facility. We have put in place a plan to shift them if the need arises.”Over the past two days, BMC stopped admitting Covid patients at BKC jumbo facility in anticipation of the cyclone, Kakani said. “So, not many patients are there at present. We have vacant beds at Nesco jumbo facility in Goregaon and at SevenHills Hospital in Andheri, where patients can be moved. Ambulances with oxygen, doctors, ICU beds are all on stand-by,” Kakani added.In a statement on Friday, BMC said, “All dangerous trees around jumbo facilities have been pruned. 384 such trees were pruned. At these centres, required manpower has been made available along with equipment and vehicles, keeping in view the fact that there is a possibility of falling trees or branches in case of strong winds.”All waterlogging spots are equipped with dewatering pumps, the statement said.BMC has activated temporary shelters in all 24 wards, and citizens living along coastal Mumbai have been alerted, the statement said.Considering the possibility of strong winds and rains, the Mumbai Fire Brigade has been directed to deploy flood rescue squads at all six beaches in BMC limits. In addition, instructions have been given to keep Mumbai Police’s mobile vans operational at these places. Citizens are not allowed near these beaches, BMC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-bmc-readies-plan-to-shift-patients-from-bkc-jumbo-facility-if-needed-101621017900540.html
