18-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 28,000 new Covid-19 cases, 679 deaths; Mumbai cases dip sharply to 960||With 28,438 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, the tally in Maharashtra reached 5,433,506. As many as 679 patients lost their lives to the disease in a single day, which pushed the death toll 83,777.The capital city of Mumbai saw less than 1,000 new cases (961 cases to be exact) and 44 related deaths, which pushed the city's tally to 690,023 and the death toll to 14,316. Earlier on Monday, the city logged 1,232 new cases and 48 related deaths.Meanwhile, a bulletin from the health department on the day showed that the state currently 419,727 active cases.Daily new cases have been witnessing a declining trend in Maharashtra since the past few days. However, Tuesday's tally of 28,438 new cases is a marginal increase over the 26,616 new cases reported on Monday (May 17). Previously, the state had logged 34,389 new cases on Sunday (May 16), 34,848 new cases on Saturday (May 15) and 39,923 new cases on Friday (May 14).Also read | Eight states have more than 100,000 active Covid-19 cases, testing increased consistently: CentreAs many as 52,898 patients recovered from the disease on the day, in line with the trend of daily recoveries exceeding the single-day infections in the state. So far, 4,927,480 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the state with a recovery rate of 90.68%, data from the government showed.The data also showed that 250,310 samples were tested for the diseases on Tuesday. With this, medical workers in the state have tested 31,588,717 Covid-19 samples.In terms of the active caseload, Pune with 72,089 active cases remains the highest contributor to the state's tally. Among other districts, Mumbai (31,790 cases), Thane (28,257 cases), Nagpur (26,794 cases), Solapur (20,154 cases) and Ahmednagar (19,745 cases) account for the most number of active cases.Covid-19 vaccination drive resumed in selected centres in Mumbai on Tuesday, after a three-day halt, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. According to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 19,833,516 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in Maharashtra as of 7am on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-over-28-000-new-covid-19-cases-679-deaths-mumbai-sees-960-new-cases-101621349257021.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||BMC extends Covid vaccine global tender deadline by a week||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday extended the deadline for its global tender for vaccine supply to Mumbai by a week, to May 25. The decision came in the wake of the civic body failing to get any response from Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers as the deadline of May 18 ended.The BMC has planned to procure 10 million vaccine doses from the international market in order to speed up the vaccination drive in city. For this, it floated global expression of interest on May 12 and the last date of bidding was May 18.Also Read | Bandra-Worli sea link now open for commute, tweets BMCA BMC official confirmed on Tuesday, “We have extended the last date of participation by another week as we would like to give more time to the market to respond.”P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, had told HT a day ago, “We have not got any response yet, and we are likely to extend the last date for bidding by one more week. We expect the market to respond once we give the extension.”According to officials, any interested supplier can bid for the tender. However, China has been restricted from bidding. Further, the vaccines that do not have Centre’s approval will have to get the same on their own, according to BMC’s tender document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmcextends-covid-vaccine-global-tender-deadline-by-a-week-101621334353510.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Coast guard rescues 47 crew members from barge Gal Constructor off Palghar coast||The coast guard on Tuesday rescued 47 crew members onboard the Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) barge named Gal Constructor which was drifting north after it lost power due to Cyclone Tauktae. The barge, which had around 137 crew members onboard, was at about 48 nautical miles north off Colaba while rescue operations continued, said coast guard officials.The rescue was made near Vadrai in Satpati in Maharashtra’s Palghar district with the help of two choppers. More sorties will be made to rescue the remaining 90 crew onboard, said a senior coast guard official. A Naval chopper has also been pressed into service to airlift the crew, said Coast Guard chief public relations officer (CPRO) commander Mehul Karnik.He said two Chetak choppers from the coast guard’s base at Daman swung into action and reached the spot along with coast guard ship Samrat amidst very rough and inclement weather conditions due to the cyclone.The Indian Navy has deployed three warships in high sea for search and rescue (SAR) assistance of two ships — barge P305 and barge GAL Constructor — with 410 people on board, after they were stranded in Bombay High due to Cyclone Tauktae on Monday afternoon. INS Kochi, INS Kolkata and INS Talwar have been pressed into carrying out the rescue operations.Barge P305 went adrift off Heera Oil Fields in the Bombay High area on Monday when the cyclone hit the area. After getting an alert from the barge, the navy launched the rescue operation, which is still going on. About 150 out of the 273 people on-board P305 have been rescued while the remaining were on life jacket support and efforts were being made to rescue them.The Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard (ICG) were on high alert as severe cyclonic storm Tauktae passed the Mumbai coast to hit Gujarat coast in Saurashtra region between Diu and Una on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/coast-guard-rescues-47-crew-members-from-barge-gal-constructor-off-palghar-coast-101621328353298.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Bandra-Worli sea link now open for commute, tweets BMC||The BrihanMumbai Muncipal Corporation (BMC) announced on Tuesday that the Bandra-Worli sea link has now been opened for commute. It was closed in the wake of Cyclone Tauktae, which wreaked havoc in coastal districts of Maharashtra."Dear Mumbaikars, Bandra-Worli sea link is now open to commute," a tweet from the BMC said.Dear Mumbaikars, Bandra-Worli sea link is now open to commute.#MyBMCUpdates #CycloneTauktaeUpdatesThe Bandra-Worli sea link was closed for traffic on Monday in view of the strong winds and people were asked to take alternate routes.Gusty winds reaching the speed of 114 kmph and heavy showers lashed Mumbai and its neighbouring areas on Monday as the "very severe cyclonic storm" Tauktae passed close to the coast while moving towards Gujarat. Many trees were uprooted and local train services disrupted.At least 16 people were killed as the cyclone brushed past the coastal states of Kerala, Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra, authorities said.Water-logging occurred at 13 locations in Mumbai and at seven spots in the western suburbs, according to the BMC.The city recorded a minimum temperature of 23.7 degrees Celsius, four degrees below normal, after heavy rains caused by the cyclone. Some parts of the city registered over 300mm of rainfall in 24 hours as of 8.30am on Tuesday.According to Shubhangi Bhute, senior director at Mumbai office of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the highest wind speed of 108 km per hour was recorded at the Colaba observatory on Monday afternoon.Flight operations at Mumbai airport remained suspended for 11 hours before resuming on Monday night. More than 55 flights, both incoming and outbound, were cancelled during the time the airport remained shut.Tauktae has, meanwhile, weakened on Tuesday as it crossed Gujarat. More than 200,000 people were evacuated from their homes in Gujarat and authorities shut ports and major airports as the cyclone made landfall late on Monday, packing gusts of up to 210 kmph.The cyclone which was categorised as "extremely severe" weakened to a "very severe" storm after making landfall, the IMD said. The intensity is set to reduce further in the next few hours, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bandraworli-sea-link-now-open-for-commute-tweets-bmc-101621323794908.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Rains exceed 300mm in parts of Mumbai, mercury to rise sharply today||Mumbai recorded a minimum temperature of 23.7 degrees Celsius (°C), four degrees below normal, after heavy rains caused by Cyclone Tauktae. Some parts of the city registered over 300mm of rainfall within 24 hours as of 8.30am on Tuesday.The India Meteorological Department said Santacruz received the maximum rainfall (230.3 mm). Its weather station in Colaba recorded 207.6 mm of rain. Thane and Palghar districts recorded 89.9mm and 294 mm of rain.Also Read | Naval ships rescue 146 on-board sinking barge in Bombay High areaAfter the maximum temperature on Monday dropped to a record low of 26.7°C, the temperatures were expected to rise sharply. The IMD’s seven-day forecast said the maximum temperature was expected to be around 31°C. “With the high levels of humidity following the storm, the atmosphere will get quite muggy today, though intermittent rains and drizzles could bring some relief,” said an IMD meteorologist.Wind velocity, too, slowed down considerably during the night, dropping to as low as 25 to 30 kmph in some places, said officials with the IMD’s Regional Forecasting Centre, Mumbai. This was down from record-breaking speeds of 114kmph the previous day at about 2 pm just as Cyclone Tauktae was skirting past the city. “Though wind speeds of up to 40 kmph are predicted in some parts of the city today, they may happen as isolated gusts and, on the whole, the wind speeds will keep reducing through the day,” said the official quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rains-exceed-300mm-in-parts-of-mumbai-mercury-to-rise-sharply-today-101621320853063.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Naval ships rescue 146 on-board sinking barge in Bombay High area||The navy rescued 146 out of 273 people on-board a barge as it was sinking during cyclone Tauktae while the remaining 127 people were on life jacket support and efforts were being made to rescue them.The barge went adrift off Heera Oil Fields in the Bombay High area on Monday when the cyclone hit the area. After getting an alert from the barge, the navy launched the rescue operation, which is still going on.A helicopter was sent from INS Shikra, Mumbai, to support the rescue efforts. The search and rescue operation has been carried out by warships INS Kochi and INS Kolkata with the help of other offshore support vessels like Greatship Ahalya and Ocean Energy in extreme weather conditions and very rough seas.Click here for LIVE Updates of Cyclone TauktaeThe operation continued throughout the night and 111 people were rescued by INS Kochi and INS Kolkata. As many as 17 and 18 people were rescued respectively by Greatship Ahilya and Ocean Energy till 6 am on Tuesday, said commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relation officer of the western naval command.He added another barge, Gal Constructor, with 137 persons onboard has run aground about 48 nautical miles north off Colaba. An emergency towing vessel, Water Lily, along with two support vessels and Coast Guard ship Samrat are in the vicinity to provide assistance and for evacuation of crew members, added Karnik.Karnik said INS Talwar is proceeding to assist oil rig Sagar Bhushan with 101 personnel onboard and a barge with 196 personnel. He said both of them are adrift and about 50 nautical miles southeast off Pipavav Port. He added the search and rescue efforts will continue through the day with more naval vessels are ready to augment them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/naval-ships-rescue-146-on-board-sinking-barge-in-bombay-high-area-101621317553201.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||After 3-day gap, BMC to resume Covid-19 vaccination from Tuesday||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai, that was suspended for three days due to the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae, will resume from Tuesday at select centres, the city civic body said on Monday.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in a release, said that walk-in vaccination will be carried out at select inoculation centres on May 18 and 19.As a precaution after the Tauktae alert, the civic body of Mumbai had suspended the inoculation drive for three days - Saturday, Sunday and Monday.Under the influence of the extremely severe cyclonic storm, Mumbai and its adjoining districts were lashed by heavy rains and high-speed winds overnight and on Monday.The weather system has now moved to the coast of neighbouring Gujarat.The civic body said the vaccination won't take place at centres affected by the cyclone which damaged structures.The list of the centres, where vaccine doses will be administered over the next two days, will be updated, the BMC said.It said citizens above 60 years of age will be given the first dose of Covishield vaccine, whose dosage gap has been increased to 12 to 16 weeks from the earlier 6 to 8 weeks, on May 18 and 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-3-day-gap-bmc-to-resume-covid-19-vaccination-from-tuesday-101621304220896.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Class 10 exams cancelled: Bombay HC directs boards to reply to PIL on assessment methods||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday directed the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) board to respond to a public interest litigation (PIL), raising concerns over the assessment methodology to be adopted for students following the cancellation of Class 10 board exams by the state government in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade, while hearing the PIL filed by a Pune-based retired professor, Dhananjay Kulkarni, was informed by advocate Dr Uday Warunjikar that the state government’s May 12 decision to not conduct Class 10 exams across all boards would have an adverse impact on students during admissions to Class 11 (first-year-junior college) and would create confusion and chaos.As the state government had also announced to devise a formula to assess the students but has not done so yet, Dr Warunjikar submitted that if it was left to the various boards to come up with marking patterns, there would be no uniformity in the evaluation, which could further affect the state board students at the time of admissions to Class 11.It was further submitted that while the state planned to conduct Class 12 exams for nearly 1.4 million students, not holding the exams for over 1.6 million Class 10 students was not justified. In light of these submissions, Dr Warunjikar stated that apart from seeking the quashing of the state government’s decision, the petition also sought directions to the Centre to come up with a uniform assessment policy for all boards with a proper formula for evaluation and curb any confusion among students.Advocate Sandesh Patil for the Central government informed the court that while the CBSE board was under its control, the ICSE board was an autonomous body and state was responsible for conducting SSC exams. Hence, it was not possible to take a common decision for evaluation. He further added that an evaluation system has already been issued for Class 10 students of CBSE board which could be sorted by other boards as well.Advocate Kiran Gandhi for the state submitted that the petition was ornate as the Maharashtra government had issued a resolution allowing the board to make changes in rules pertaining to the new evaluation and assessment system. As the state board was yet to formulate the rules and alternate marking method, the PIL should be disposed of. Gandhi added that the state board’s examination committee would come up with a formula which would be sent to the Maharashtra government for final approval.After hearing submissions, the court asked the Centre and the respondent boards to file affidavits in reply to the PIL and posted the hearing to Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/class-10-exams-cancelled-bombay-hc-directs-boards-to-reply-to-pil-on-assessment-methods-101621278073896.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||As cases drop, number of covid tests halved in Mumbai||With a constant decrease in the number of daily Covid-19 cases reported in Mumbai for the past two weeks, the tests conducted in the city have also almost halved. While an average of 50,000 tests was conducted per day in Mumbai during mid-April, they have now come down to an average of 20,000-25,000 daily. Officials have attributed the decrease in the number to fewer people coming forward for a test. Experts believe that Mumbai needs to continue testing more people. They also believe that it is too early to tell if the second wave is declining, but the city must not assume that the threat of Covid-19 has passed. About 35%-40% of the tests conducted per day are rapid antigen tests, which on an average have a lower positivity rate than RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) tests. On Sunday, Mumbai conducted only 17,640 tests, the results of which were revealed on Monday. Of these, Mumbai reported 1,232 cases with a positivity rate of 6.9%. Mumbai also reported 48 deaths, with a case fatality rate of 3.8%. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 5,916,245 tests. The total number of positive cases in Mumbai is 689,062, with a cumulative positivity rate of 11.9%. The average positivity per day in Mumbai has now dropped to 6% to 8%, down from 20% and above seen in mid-April. Positivity rate is the number of positive Covid-19 cases reported as a percent of the total tests done. By mid-March, Mumbai had started conducting at least 50,000 tests a day and on some occasions up to 55,000 tests. Experts and authorities believe the second wave started around March 11. On April 4, Mumbai reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in a single day – 11,204 – of 51,319 tests conducted, revealed BMC data. By April 20, the daily tests dropped to below 40,000. For the past five days, Mumbai has been conducting lower than 30,000 tests per day. However, on all these days Mumbai reported less than 2,000 cases, with a positivity rate of 6% to 8%. The steady decline in cases reported per day is in no way indicative of the larger picture that the second wave may soon pass, experts say.Dr Om Shrivastav, who is a part of Maharashtra government’s Covid task force, said, “We can’t look at Mumbai in isolation. The cases have come down, but cases in the rest of the state or country have not. So what happens when restrictions are lifted? To say that the second wave is declining, we should wait till the end of September at least and then take a relook at the figures and decide.” Experts also believe that the city needs to keep up high testing numbers despite the lower positivity rate. Dr Rahul Pandit, another member of the task force, said, “I have always said we need to keep testing in large numbers even if the number of cases per day begins to drop. We may record lower positivity rate during this time, but until we have a positivity rate below 5%, testing in high numbers is a better strategy.”“This can be done by contact tracing in large numbers during the first 24 hours. We can target areas which have reported a higher number of cases, for example certain wards or localities in Mumbai. Eventually, we will not report cases in clusters and will see isolated positive cases. Even though numbers show an improvement in the situation, we cannot consider this and become slack.” Dr Pandit added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-cases-drop-number-of-covid-tests-halved-in-mumbai-101621278073321.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay designs prototype to reuse oxygen for patients on ventilators||A team of alumni and researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) have built a breathing device that can reduce wastage of oxygen when a Covid-19 patient is put on assisted breathing support such as ventilators. The prototype, called ‘reBreather’, is a semi-closed circular breathing system that will allow patients to breathe in unused exhaled oxygen. Covid-19 patients with severe breathing trouble are put on ventilators that can supply oxygen through a combination of nasal cannula and mask at a flow rate of up to 50 litres per minute. However, the lung can only absorb one litre of oxygen in a minute. The rest of the 49 litres (L) are breathed out or wasted. The researchers have used an existing technology of reusing exhaled oxygen— commonly used in diving and mountaineering systems — to cut down on this wastage. “At a time when oxygen is in short supply across the country, this mode of recirculating oxygen can help save lives,” said Santosh Noronha, assistant professor, department of chemical engineering, IIT-B, who is one of the 15 members of the team behind reBreather. The prototype has been designed by the staff, students and alumni affiliated with Tata Centre for Technology and Design, department of chemical engineering, and Nex Robotics—a start-up by alumni of the institute.According to the calculations by the team, this recirculation of oxygen can reduce the number of cylinders required by a critical patient from nine to almost one per day. This calculation is based on the assumption that a cylinder holds 7,800L of pure oxygen. “It is a good system on paper and we [doctors] are quite excited about it. However, it has to be put into use in a hospital set up before we can be sure of its working,” said city-based infectious diseases specialist Om Shrivastav, who was not a part of the project. A healthy human inhales 5L of air in a minute, of which one-fifth or a litre is oxygen. The human lungs can absorb only a quarter of this, which is 250 millilitres (ml). This may increase when the person is performing an activity or is ill. For every 250ml of oxygen absorbed, the lungs breath out 225ml of carbon dioxide. reBreather is a semi-closed circular breathing system with an inlet section which pumps in fresh oxygen from an oxygen cylinder or a centralised oxygen system in hospitals. The oxygen flow rate is set on the cylinder with a flow meter. An adjustable venturi valve is given at the input to allow for external air to be automatically pulled in based on the desired oxygen flow rate. A one port mask is attached to the patient. The exhaled air is fed to a container which has medical-grade soda lime. This soda lime selectively absorbs carbon dioxide from the exhaled output and allows the rest of the air to pass through to the inlet section of the system. The soda lime changes colour once it has exhausted its capability to absorb carbon dioxide and can be replaced. “Soda lime is the only consumable item in the system. We are working on modifying the designs further so that this can also be regenerated,” said Noronha. The technical details of the system have been made public under Creative Commons to grant access to healthcare workers across the country.“So far the system has been tested on healthy volunteers. We are planning to start a clinical trial soon. However, as approvals for clinical trials take time, we have made our system public so that if anybody wants to use it in the meantime, they can do so. It is an existing technology used in diving and mountaineering systems,” Noronha added.A single unit of reBreather cost the team around ₹10,000. “As most of it is plastic, the unit can be sanitised and reused. So it is mostly a one-time expense,” Noronha said.City-based pulmonologist Lancelot Pinto said, “When we breathe ambient air, we breathe air with a concentration of oxygen that’s about 21%. The air we exhale tends to have an oxygen concentration of 17%. This applies to healthy lungs. When lungs are affected [by infections or chronic lung diseases], they become inefficient at transferring oxygen, and we add supplemental oxygen so that the higher concentration of inspired air will create a steeper gradient for the oxygen to move across damaged alveolar membranes. However, this extraction is likely to be sub-optimal, resulting in a reasonably high concentration of oxygen in the exhaled air [higher than room air]. If an efficient method were created to reuse this oxygen, enrich it further to match the need while removing the carbon dioxide exhaled, it would be a very promising step in conserving the use of supplemental oxygen, which has become a precious resource.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-designs-prototype-to-reuse-oxygen-for-patients-on-ventilators-101621278070944.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||3 Covid jumbo centres in Mumbai to remain shut for 10 days for repair works||The jumbo centres at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), Dahisar and Mulund will remain closed for the next 10 days owing to the repair and maintenance work.City’s guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray, after meeting BMC officials on Monday, tweeted, “Our 3 jumbo covid care centres that have been vacated as precautions, will now be taken up for maintenance and repairs over the next 10 days.”The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had shifted more than 500 patients over Saturday night and Sunday from the three jumbo centres as a precautionary measure following the cyclone alert for Monday. According to BMC officials, as the patients were already shifted to nearby hospitals, they will now look at the repair and maintenance work required to keep the jumbo centres stable for the upcoming monsoon and also the third wave. BMC officials said that there was no damage to any of its jumbo centres but it would like to undertake several maintenance works as a precautionary measure. Dr Deepa Shriyan, dean, Dahisar jumbo Covid centre, said, “We now have the time and chance as the patients have already been shifted and the daily caseload has gone down in the city. We will carry out necessary structural work and conduct a fire audit as a precaution. The jumbo centres were made for a temporary period but now that we know that this [pandemic situation] will continue for the next one year, we need to be better prepared and planned. We still have to face the monsoons and third wave during which these jumbo centres will play a crucial role in handling Covid-19 patients.”The three jumbo centres have more than 3,000 beds. Overall, the city has six jumbo centres with a total capacity of around 9,000 beds. Three more jumbo centres are coming up in the city amid fears of a third wave between July and September.Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said, “On Monday also, our focus was at the jumbo centres and we ensured that there was no waterlogging outside any of them. Now, as the three jumbo centres will remain closed for the next few days, we will ensure that the routine storm water works ahead of monsoon is completed on a timely basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-covid-jumbo-centres-in-mumbai-to-remain-shut-for-10-days-for-repair-works-101621278011614.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra 1st state to administer 20 million Covid-19 doses; Mumbai to resume drive today||Maharashtra became the first state in the country to cross the landmark of administering 20 million vaccine doses on Monday, since the drive commenced on January 16. Additional chief secretary (health department) Pradeep Vyas has confirmed the development.Amid the depleting vaccine stock, the state administered 99,323 doses till 9pm on Monday, pushing the tally to 20,089,580. The state has so far fully vaccinated 4,256,962 beneficiaries.Mumbai, Pune and Thane are the leading districts that have administered the highest number of doses. Mumbai has administered 2,892,457 so far, of which 731,904 are second doses, while Pune district has given 2,617,059 doses of vaccines, of which 544,902 are second shots. In Thane district, 347,710 beneficiaries are fully vaccinated, followed by 261,138 in Nagpur, 216,998 at Kolhapur and 199,985 beneficiaries in Nashik district.According to senior health department officials, Maharashtra is expecting fresh stock of doses from the Centre. “We are expecting the stock by tomorrow [Tuesday],” said state immunisation officer DN Patil, adding that the state, however, does not know how many doses it will receive.Health department officials said that the current stock would last only for about a day or two. “We have about 300,000 Covishield doses and around 80,000 Covaxin vaccines distributed across the state. Due to the cyclone alert, the vaccination drive was not in full swing in many coastal districts, including Mumbai. The current stock will last us for about a day or two,” a senior official said.Patil added that with the increase in the interval between the two doses of Covishield, the pressure on the administration has reduced. “However, our focus is now to vaccinate more people as and when we receive the stock,” he said. On Monday, the Mumbai civic body had suspended vaccinations in view of predictions of heavy rainfall and gusty winds due to cyclone Tauktae. Mumbai will restart its vaccination drive on Tuesday. However, vaccinations will resume only at selected centres, a list of which will be published by the civic body. Walk-in registrations for senior citizens getting their first dose will be permitted, however they will only be administered Covishield vaccine. Citizens aged above 45 who are getting their second dose of Covaxin as well as for the differently abled citizens can also walk into their nearest vaccination centre, get registered on the spot and get vaccinated, on Tuesday and Wednesday. On Thursday, Friday and Saturday this week, only those who have registered on the CoWIN app can get their vaccine shots. “Vaccination to resume at selected centres on 18 & 19 May’21. The list of CVCs for tomorrow shall be uploaded later tonight. Walk-in for 60+ taking their 1st dose of Covishield while 84 days to be completed after 1st dose of Covishield’s second (sic),” the civic body tweeted on Monday evening. There are currently 260 vaccination centres across the city, of which 166 are operated by the civic body, 74 are private and 20 are operated by the state or central governments.Meanwhile, the senior health department official said that the government could take a call on resumption of the vaccination of citizens in the 18-44 age group later this week. “Serum [Institute of India] had assured state of giving 1.5 crore [Covishield] vaccines every month after May 20. If that is honoured, then the government will restart it by this month end or in June,” he said.(Inputs from Eeshanpriya MS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-1st-state-to-administer-20-million-covid-19-doses-mumbai-to-resume-drive-today-101621278010921.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra issues guidelines for handling rising mucormycosis cases||Taking cognisance of the rise in cases of mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, among recovered Covid-19 patients, the Maharashtra government on Monday issued detailed guidelines over its symptom, medical investigation, prevention and treatment protocol. The state has asked for strict glycemic control during management of Covid-19 patients which means blood sugar levels must be continuously controlled for all patients while systemic steroids are to be used only in patients with hypoxemia.The guidelines have been issued to reduce morbidity and fatality among mucormycosis patients as the state believes its occurrence is triggered by the use of high doses of steroids to treat Covid-19 and in uncontrolled diabetes cases.The guidelines include strict infection control measures including cleaning and replacement of humidifiers. It states that sterile normal saline should be used in the humidifier bottle and changed daily and masks should be disinfected daily. “Local public health laboratories should be asked to take swabs of humidifiers, masks, tubing and common touch areas for culture of mucormycosis,” stated the order issued by Ramaswami N, commissioner, health services and mission director, National Health Mission (NHM), Maharashtra.Doctors have been asked not to miss warning signs and symptoms and also not to consider all cases of blocked nose as cases of bacterial sinusitis, especially in the context of immunosuppression and Covid-19 patients on immunomodulators, it further said.It also described signs and symptoms of mucormycosis comprising pain and redness around eyes and nose, fever (usually mild), epistaxis (bleeding from the nose), headache, cough, shortness of breath, blood vomiting and altered mental status.“During discharge of the patients, advice about early symptoms or signs of mucormycosis such as facial pain, blockage, excessive discharge, loosening of teeth, chest pain and respiratory insufficiency,” it added.Maharashtra has over 400 cases of mucormycosis with around eight to 10 fresh cases daily. “We are getting a few cases of black fungus, around 8 to 10 cases, on a daily basis. On Sunday, around 14 cases were reported across the state,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-issues-guidelines-for-handling-rising-mucormycosis-cases-101621277952776.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Man dies as tree falls on autorickshaw in Ulhasnagar; TMC cancels vaccination drive||One person died after a tree fell down on an autorickshaw at Ulhasnagar on Monday evening due to the heavy winds caused by Cyclone Tauktae. Two passengers, who were in the auto at the time, were taken to the hospital. In another case, a 40-year-old man was stuck in his car at Naupada after a tree fell on top of it. He was injured and was taken to a nearby hospital after the Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) rescued him.Santosh Kadam, chief of RDMC, Thane, said, “Within Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) limits, there were 59 incidents of tree fall and 20 incidents of tree branches falling. Moreover, a portion of a building in Lokmanya Nagar collapsed and the slab plaster of a society in Mumbra also fell down. There were no casualties in both the incidents. There are three cases of waterlogging at Nitin Signal, Court Naka and Rabodi areas.”“There have been 123 incidents of disruptions all around the city on Monday. There was an unfortunate death of a 50-year-old man after a tree fell down on the autorickshaw he was travelling in with a co-passenger. Both were taken to the hospital immediately, but one of them succumbed,” said Dr Yuvraj Bhadane, spokesperson, Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation.Meanwhile, a tree fell down on an overhead wire along the railway tracks near Dombivli station in the afternoon, leading to a tree top catching fire. There were no casualties and the situation was brought under control within a few minutes. However, it affected train services for a few hours. Incessant rains in Thane, Kalyan and Dombivli affected the vaccination drive as well.TMC had scheduled vaccination at 20 centres on Monday but had to cancel the drive due to rains. The decision to this effect was announced around 9am. Some citizens who visited the centre had to return. “Although we stay near the vaccination centre, it was difficult to get a slot for the second dose due to the shortage of vaccines. On Monday, owing to the cyclone alert there were very few crowd outside these centres, so we decided to go ahead with the vaccination and were waiting outside the centre for half an hour when they announced there will not be any vaccination,” said Abhijit DEuskar, 72, resident of Balkum.Sandeep Malvi, deputy commissioner of TMC, said, “Owing to the current situation, we have called off the vaccination drive for Tuesday within TMC limits.” Meanwhile, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation managed to complete the vaccination drive on Monday with only three centres functioning for the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-dies-as-tree-falls-on-autorickshaw-in-ulhasnagar-tmc-cancels-vaccination-drive-101621277952035.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||150 locals rescued, mall roof falls on Virar overhead wire||Around 150 members of 35 families in Arnala were rescued by the local administration and shifted to St Peter’s School, Arnala in Virar on Monday due to Cyclone Tauktae, said Vasai tehsildar Ujwala Bhagat. Meanwhile, a trawler from Pali village in Bhayander (West) with six khalasis was stuck in the Arabian Sea since Saturday, said fishermen leader Bernard D’mello, The fishermen on the trawler have taken shelter on a non-operational rig of the Oil and Natural Gas Company near Bombay High and will be rescued after the intensity of the cyclonic storm reduces, said D’mello. The trawler was returning to shore after the Coast Guard issued a warning, said D’mello. The Coast Guard and the Navy along with local fishermen have launched a search for the trawler.In a review meeting with Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde, Palghar and Thane district officials said the fishermen are safe and will be brought to Uttan coast after storm fades off.Meanwhile, an overhead galvanised iron sheet located at a mall opposite Virar station landed on the overhead wire between Platforms 2 and 3 around 4pm owing to the gusty winds. Western Railway (WR) staffers removed the sheet by 4.30pm, Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR.Cyclone Tauktae also led to heavy rainfall with Dahanu taluka receiving around 32mm rain while Palghar received 29mm and Vasai 10mm. As per the district information office data, around 13 houses were destroyed, 19 electric poles and a transformer got uprooted and four trees were uprooted. There were no casualties. The revenue department will compensate for the damaged and destroyed houses, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/150-locals-rescued-mall-roof-falls-on-virar-overhead-wire-101621277950834.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Biker dies as electric pole falls on him; 122 tree falling cases in Navi Mumbai||A 35-year-old biker died after an electric pole fell on him on Palm Beach road at Sanpada late on Sunday evening. The accident took place due to the strong winds caused by Cyclone Tauktae, the police said.According to the police, Vishal Naralkar, a resident of Airoli, worked as a security guard at Seawoods and he was on his way home on his bike around 9.30pm when the incident took place. His manager, Sunil Rathod, who also stayed in the same area, was riding pillion. After crossing Moraj circle, as they were about to enter the bridge near Vashi station, the electric pole fell down on their bike.Nilesh Rajput, assistant inspector from Sanpada police station, said, “The pole had fallen on Naralkar’s hands and there was no major injury on his body. However, he lost his consciousness just after the accident and was rushed to the civic hospital. He was declared dead after sometime.”“Doctors suspect he got scared after the accident and died of heart attack. We will get a clear picture once we receive the post-mortem report. Rathod suffered minor injuries and was discharged from the hospital after an hour,” he said. Navi Mumbai saw a total of 122 tree falling incidents on Sunday and Monday. Even as no one suffered injuries in these accidents, four vehicles including two cars were damaged.“A glass pane of the Cidco Exhibition Centre shattered due to the strong wind and one of their employees suffered minor injuries,” said an official from the disaster management cell.“Three houses were partially damaged, and four short-circuit cases were also reported till evening. A wall of a housing society collapsed at Sector 15, Kopar Khairane. But no one suffered injuries in these accidents,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/biker-dies-as-electric-pole-falls-on-him-122-tree-falling-cases-in-navi-mumbai-101621277892216.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone effect: Mumbai airport shut for 11 hours, sees 56 cancellations||Cyclone Tauktae forced Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) to stop flight operations for 11 hours on Monday. The city airport, which operated flights in the morning, saw seven flight diversions due to gusty winds. Airport sources said, it was the first time the airport remained completely closed for 11 hours due to bad weather. CSMIA spokesperson said, “With the announcement of the cyclone alert, CSMIA had closed all flight operations with effect from 11am to 10pm on May 17, 2021. The airport has so far witnessed seven diversions. In the wake of the alert, a few airlines have decided to cancel services to Mumbai. CSMIA has registered cancellations of 34 arrivals and 22 departures.” As status of flights kept changing, CSMIA advised passengers to connect with the airlines before leaving their homes. Among the diversions, a SpiceJet flight was diverted to Surat, one IndiGo flight returned to its origin airport at Lucknow and an IndiGo flight was diverted to Hyderabad, airport officials said. According to airport sources, 38 flights were operated to/from CSMIA before it shut operations. A pilot, who took off from CSMIA on Monday, said, “The weather was not conducive for flight operations even in the morning. However, flights were taking off around scheduled time due to lesser air traffic.”A senior AAI official said, “Gusty winds are dangerous for aircraft arrivals. Hence it is better to pause flight operations till weather gets better.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-effect-mumbai-airport-shut-for-11-hours-sees-56-cancellations-101621277891511.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Electricity, water supply affected in some parts of Thane||Shahad, Murbad, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath and Badlapur areas witnessed power cuts for more than 30 hours due to the gusty winds and rainfall caused by Cyclone Tauktae. Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) officials said the overhead wires in these areas make it difficult to provide continuous power supply during bad weather. Water supply has also been affected in many areas of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) due to lack of power supply. MSEDCL officials said they received more than 150 calls regarding fallen electricity poles and trees falling on electric wires in Ambernath, Badlapur and Murbad areas. A team of electricity board officials have been working round the clock from Sunday evening to Monday night to resolve the issues. Anil Kamble, public relation officer of MSEDCL, said, “We have been getting so many calls about fallen electric wires and poles due to the heavy wind. Wind pressure is so high that even if we repair the wire and pole, they break again within a few hours. There is tremendous pressure on the team owing to the current situation and we are working round the clock. The disaster management team has small manpower therefore it is taking time to remove fallen trees from wires and poles.” Several houses were also damaged. Sunil Burman, a resident of Ambernath (East), said, “We do not have electricity from Sunday evening and do not even have water also. All of us have called water tanker for a day. Every year Badlapur, Ambernath and Murbad areas face electricity issues as most of electric poles or wires are affected.” An MSEDCL official said, “Electric wires in these areas are all overhead wires. Taking the cables underground is a huge process, for which we are not getting funds. We have been requesting the authorities to sanction the same, but the process has been delayed further due to the pandemic.” As electricity supply stopped in Shahad, water supply was affected within the jurisdiction of the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). A senior official from TMC’s water department said, “Due to electricity supply issues in stem water distribution facility, we could not supply water for some hours on Monday. Although it was restored within a few hours, an overall impact in the flow of the water will be noticed for the next 24 hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-electricity-water-supply-affected-in-some-parts-of-thane-101621277832031.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||IMD’s weather radar goes defunct when needed most, again||The city’s doppler weather radar (DWR) operated by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) in Colaba became defunct late on Sunday, drawing the ire of several independent meteorologists tracking the path of Cyclone Tauktae which passed by Maharashtra coast on Monday.This is not the first time that the instrument has become dysfunctional at a crucial moment. On December 4, 2017, when Cyclone Ockhi brushed past the Mumbai coast, the radar was not functional. The radar was also not functional on multiple days during extreme rainfall events in June and July 2019, and also on June 1, 2020, about 48 hours before Cyclone Nisarga made landfall in Maharashtra. “There are five doppler radars on the west coast, two in Kerala, one in Goa, one in Mumbai and another in Bhuj, Gujarat. While they no longer play as crucial a role in modelling paths of cyclones, DWR’s are important instruments that allow us to map these systems in real time. They are extremely valuable for planning disaster management responses. Unlike the east coast, where cyclones are extremely common, we do not have a very extensive network along the west coast. We need to actively invest in them,” said Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist and PhD student at the University of Reading, England.IMD officials confirmed that DWR had stopped working on Sunday evening, but did not cite reasons for the same. “The doppler radar has run into a technical snag. Technicians are looking into the matter. We cannot say by when it will be up and running again,” said a scientist who did not wish to be identified.Mumbai’s only DWR was installed in 2010 for weather surveillance up to 400kms from the coastline and was first recommended soon after the floods of July 26, 2005. While satellite pictures can be used in lieu of radar images, experts said, the latter is limited in value. “If an x-ray is a satellite image, then a doppler radar is a CT scan. The quality and range of data it gives is simply much better, allowing us to make better predictions about where the cyclone’s spiral banks will be located, where they will bring more rain,” said Deoras.“With radar service not available, it becomes extremely difficult to track rain bands,” said Vineet Kumar, a scientist who researches cyclones in the north Indian Ocean for Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/imds-weather-radar-goes-defunct-when-needed-most-again-101621277830848.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Light rains to continue as Cyclone Tauktae recedes from Maharashtra coast||Moderate rains and strong winds, which began on Monday under the influence of Cyclone Tauktae, are likely to continue on Tuesday as well but with significantly less intensity, according to official forecasts.After touching a record-breaking speed of 114kmph (kilometre per hour) at 2pm on Monday, wind velocity had slowed down to about 78kmph at 8pm on Monday, and is likely to hover between 40 to 50kmph on Tuesday with heavy rainfall at isolated locations in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts.“It is the north Konkan region which will continue to see some precipitation while parts of the coast are likely to have seen gale winds touching around 90kmph during the night, but the daytime will see consistent improvement in the situation. In Mumbai, the situation was considerably calmer by 10pm on Monday,” said a meteorologist with India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.Not only did Mumbai see record levels of rainfall — 194mm in 12 hours, leading to its wettest day in May yet, it also recorded its lowest daytime temperature for May in at least a decade on Monday at 26.9 degrees Celsius, which was seven degrees below normal.This is down sharply from 37.4 degrees Celsius recorded on Saturday, which marked Mumbai’s hottest May day in at least a decade, due to a dense cloud cover which acted as a heat trap and pushed up the temperature.As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai, the maximum temperature on Monday is expected to rise to about 28 degrees Celsius and will climb sharply during the week as the cyclone moves away, touching 35 degrees Celsius by next weekend.“Generally cloudy skies with moderate to light rains and drizzles” are expected to prevail till May 19, after which skies will become clearer and sunnier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/light-rains-to-continue-as-cyclone-tauktae-recedes-from-maharashtra-coast-101621277771481.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: 20 local trains cancelled, 50 delayed||Tree falls and falling of loose banners owing to gusty winds and heavy showers from cyclone Tauktae led to cancellation of 20 local trains and delay in 50 on Monday. Mumbai Metro train services were functional, however, monorail services were suspended as a precautionary measure. The BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) also diverted its buses on 72 routes owing to waterlogging on 19 roads, including Hindmata Cinema, Dadar; SV Road; National College, Bandra, Grant Road station road; Gandhi market, Sion; Sheetal Cinema, Kurla West and Navy Nagar, Malad West. On the Western Railway, a tree fall was reported on the railway tracks between Churchgate and Marine Lines, disrupting the services. The services were restored at 8.10pm on Monday. On the Central Railway, a tree branch fell on a local train between Ghatkopar and Vikhroli railway stations on Monday morning. Slow local train services were shifted on the fast line. A loose banner fell on the overhead wires near Chunabhatti and GTB Nagar railway stations on the harbour line. Local train services were also suspended between Wadala and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) after waterlogging was reported at Masjid Bunder railway station. The services were resumed after two hours. Train services resumed at 2.40pm on Monday, but were suspended again after branches of a tree fell on railway tracks between Sewri and Cotton Green railway stations. “Due to gusty winds, tree branches fell on the overhead equipment on the sixth line near Dombivli station. Branches were removed immediately in one hour. No repercussions were felt on mail express or suburban local trains.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway. A plastic fibre sheet came on the railway tracks near Dahisar railway station on the Western Railway. Train services were halted and the fibre sheet was removed. At Umroli railway station, due to heavy wind, the station cover shed fell on the overhead wire at 6.05 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-20-local-trains-cancelled-50-delayed-101621277770925.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: 8 die; 3K houses damaged||At least eight people died, more than 3,000 houses were damaged, while electricity supply and internet connection to hundreds of villages were disrupted as cyclonic storm Tauktae wreaked havoc in parts of Maharashtra’s coastal districts such as Ratnagiri, Raigad, Sindhudurg, Palghar, Thane and Mumbai on Monday. More than 12,500 residents in coastal areas of three districts – Raigad (2,299), Ratnagiri (4,563), Sindhudurg (144) – were shifted to safer places, although they started to return as the cyclone started to recede on Monday evening. Among the six deaths caused due to various incidents related to the cyclone, four are from Raigad, two from Thane and two from Sindhudurg. Nine people from four districts have sustained injuries. Transport to a few villages in Raigad and Ratnagiri was cut-off because of the blockades created by tree falls. Ratnagiri and Raigad districts were badly hit among the coastal districts, with its tehsils like Dapoli, Mandangad, Guhagar, Lanja seeing the most damages. About 1,028 houses and structures, including government offices and schools, received severe damages. Many orchards were damaged in Ratnagiri, known for its alphonso mangoes. A fisherman in Devgad in Sindhudurg lost his life trapped under the vessel anchor during his attempt to save fellow fishermen on a boat on Sunday evening. In another incident, three fishermen are missing from two boats that capsized in Devgad. Besides Devgad, tehsils like Vengurle, Malvan in Sindhudurg witnessed damage to their structures. Hundreds of electricity poles and transformers were damaged owing to the velocity of the wind since Sunday evening, leading to power outage. It also led to disconnection of internet services. Hundreds of villages in Ratnagiri and a few in Raigad saw disruption of mobile and internet services. In Ratnagiri, 357,409 families from760 villages were in the dark till 3pm on Monday. “More than 15 transformers and over 190 electricity poles were damaged across the district. Power supply companies restored the electricity on a war footing in most of the villages, although some villages are still in the dark,” said Datta Bhadakwad, resident deputy collector, Ratnagiri. In Raigad, of the 55 Covid care centres in rural parts, 26 operated on direct supply and 29 on generator back-up after the power outage on Monday morning. In Panvel Municipal Corporation, 44 of the 45 Covid facilities were given direct supply, while one was operational on generator back-up. A total of 1,784 houses were damaged in the district. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the situation was expected to normalise by late Monday evening. “The CM spoke to senior officials from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and he was apprised about the weather conditions in coastal parts of the state. According to the information given to him, the cyclone was 180km away from Mumbai coast at 5pm and the wind velocity was on the decline, and expected to reach at 70-80 km per hour in few hours. By Monday night, the situation is expected to normalise in Maharashtra,” statement issued by the CMO stated. Higher and technical education minister and guardian minister of Sindhudurg Uday Samant said he has demanded a special package, keeping the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) norms aside. “I have spoken to Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. The state had given special package for losses sustained in Cyclone Nisarg last year. Mango growers have sustained huge losses in the middle of alphonso season,” he said. The administrations of these districts have been directed to begin spot assessment of the losses. The officials from the relief and rehabilitation department said the exact quantum of the damage will be known only once the assessments are completed over next three-four days. By contrast, Nisarga, which made landfall last June near Diveagar and Shrivardhan — south of the coastal resort town of Alibag — in Raigad district was a severe cyclonic storm which left at least six dead, 16 injured and nearly 13000 hectares of cropland damaged in northern parts of the state as well as its coastal districts. It also left behind a trail of destruction in Raigad district with power cables snapped, trees and electric poles uprooted, thatched, kutcha and pucca houses destroyed or partially damaged and roads blocked prompting the state to announce a relief package of nearly ₹400 crore to the district alone. Raigad’s guardian minister and minister of state Aditi Tatkare said total restoration of electricity and internet services will take a couple of more days. “All roads connecting to villages have been cleared, but the restoration of electricity may take some time,” she said. According to the statement issued by the energy department, 1,816,744 consumers were affected with disconnection of power supply in seven districts, of which 51% were restored. A total of 210 Covid-19 facilities or vaccination centres were affected, of which power supply has been restored in 82% or 173 units. The power supply of all four oxygen generating plants, which were affected, has been restored. A total of 765 of the 1,124 telecommunication towers affected in cyclone have been restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-8-die-3k-houses-damaged-101621277710890.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||City feels Tauktae’s fury||Cyclone Tauktae on Monday passed Mumbai’s coastline, followed by heavy rain and gusty wind at speed of up to 114kmph in several areas, especially south Mumbai and suburbs, which saw heavy rainfall waterlogging. Two people are feared to have drowned in boat mishaps off Mahim and Madh. Owing to high wind speeds through the day, a total of 479 tree falls were reported in the city. In the city, 26 incidents of wall collapses were reported, in which eight people were injured in three separate incidents. This was followed by 17 incidents of short circuit. However, no injuries were reported due to the same. Of the eight injured, four were injured due to a wall collapsing on four family members during repair in their house, followed by three injured in Borivli (East) as part of a crane fell on their house. All three were discharged from the hospital post treatment. Further, another incident of slab collapse was reported in Andheri where a woman was injured due to the same. According to BMC, the woman’s condition is stable, and her treatment is ongoing at a private hospital.On Monday, in two separate incidents at Mahim and Madh, 10 people were stuck inside a boat, of which two people are feared to have drowned, according to BMC’s disaster management cell. In the case of Madh, five people were stuck in a boat due to rough sea, of which four were rescued, however, one is feared to have drowned. In the case of the incident at Mahim, five people were stuck in a boat of which two people came back to Madh jetty by swimming, one is feared drowned and two are still stuck inside the boat for which rescue operations are ongoing by the coastal police.Further, low lying areas like Hindmata, Parel, Dadar reported water logging on Monday followed by Peddar Road, Mahalaxmi, Mumbai Central, Oval Maidan, Warden Road, Colaba also reported water logging on Monday. According to BMC officials, south Mumbai was the most hit as the cyclone went from south to north further towards Gujarat.In central Mumbai, several areas like Hindmata, King Circle, Dadar TT followed by several areas in Worli including Worli Koliwada also reported water logging on Monday. In South Mumbai and central Mumbai, 13 locations reported waterlogging, according to the BMC, followed by seven locations reporting waterlogging in the suburbs.In case of suburbs, Milan subway, Santacruz; Andheri subway; Malad subway; Vakola, Malwani, Borivli, Dahisar also reported waterlogging due to heavy rainfall. Several areas in eastern suburbs, including Kurla, Ghatkopar, Chembur also reported waterlogging on Monday. According to BMC officials, waterlogging was reported more in south and central Mumbai, considering it received more rainfall at isolated locations. The intensity of cyclone and its after effects was felt more in south Mumbai. On Monday, the highest wind speed of 114 kmph was reported around 2pm near the Afghan Church area in Colaba. In areas like Worli, Malabar Hill along with Grant Road, Mumbai central, overall more than 400mm rain was recorded. In the city, on an average, 105 mm of rain was reported on Monday between 8am and 5pm, followed by 61mm in eastern suburbs and 114mm in western suburbs.Activist Nikhil Desai, from Dadar said, “Like every year even this year we had water logging in King Circle and Hindmata area. Though the rainfall was not expected this early, but this shows that we are not prepared for the monsoon like every year. I do not know how much underground rainwater storage tank work is completed, but it is the truth that minutes of rainfall resulted in Hindmata and King Cricle’s Gandhi Market got flooded.” In the city, out of the total 479 tree fall reported, 245 were in western suburbs, 156 in south Mumbai and 78 in eastern suburbs. During the day, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar took stock of the situation by visiting several locations followed by guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray taking a meeting with the BMC officials to plan the way ahead.Following the meeting, Thackeray posted on Twitter: “We are doing everything we can to keep you safe. The BMC has begun to clear out fallen trees with every breather we get in the pattern of strong winds and heavy rain. We are working to ensure normalcy at the earliest. Today’s cyclone hit wind speeds of 114kmph, highest ever for Mumbai in any recent records. This is a climatic pattern that we have started studying, along with its maximum impact points, water logging areas and types of trees that are damaged. Our 3 jumbo covid care centres that have been vacated as precautions, will now be taken up for maintenance and repairs over the next 10 days.”Following the shifting of over 500 Covid-19 patients from three jumbo centres at BKC, Dahisar and Mulund, the BMC on Monday said these centres will now remain shut for maintenance. According to BMC officials, they will undertake overall fire and structural audit of the centres to ensure to be prepared for the upcoming monsoon season to align with the anticipated third wave between July and September. However, no citizens from the coastal areas such as Worli, Bandra, Versova and Gorai were shifted owing to the cyclone. According to BMC officials, they had undertaken preparations for shifting of the citizens but there was no such requirement for the same. Hence, we did not shift them.Meanwhile, on Monday, the BMC’s disaster management cell received 4,848 calls for civic emergency owing to the heavy rainfall and high wind speed.Meanwhile, the opposition Congress and the Samajwadi Party (SP), slammed the BMC over its monsoon preparedness.Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and leader of opposition in the BMC, said, “Everything got exposed on Monday as there were waterlogging and tree falls across the city. The drainages across the city were cleaned and their silt was kept outside, but after today’s rainfall all the silt went inside the drains again.”SP corporator Rais Shaikh said, “Tauktae cyclone put Mumbai on high alert on Monday and every year crores of rupees are spent for pre-monsoon work, yet we experience overflowing sewage lines. I have requested BMC commissioner to inquire into the same and take action against the officers who have delayed pre-monsoon work.”P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “What happened on Monday was bound to happen considering the intensity of the rain was too much in a span of four hours when city received maximum rainfall. Between 10am and 2pm on Monday in several areas more than 120mm rain was recorded, and if such intensity of rainfall is received waterlogging may be reported...We had installed water-sucking pumps at 15 locations in the city and five pumping stations were activated. In case of Hindmata, the work for rainwater tunnel work is ongoing and is expected to be completed by June 10, due to which we reported water logging there.”Heavy rain led to power cuts in various parts. The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) undertaking, which supplies electricity to the island city, received 60 complaints of power disruptions through the day. There was no major outage, said the BEST in a statement. Suburbs, too ,saw power cuts. Many areas like Andheri (W), Vile Parle, Kalina, Versova and Kurla experienced power cuts. Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) which distributes power to rhe suburbs said its teams rushed to the spot and restored electricity within an hour. “To ensure the continuity of power supply and mitigate any disruptions owing to the cyclone Taukte and heavy rains, team AEML took all the necessary precautions. Our specialized Quick Response Teams were on standby and ensured, wherever there was power disruption complaints, the supply was restored with the minimum interruption,” said an AEML spokesperson.Supply in eastern suburbs like Mulund, Bhandup and Vikhroli too was disrupted in various parts. Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) in its press statement said that maximum impact was felt in Sindhudurga and Ratnagiri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/city-feels-tauktae-s-fury-101621277651550.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: 3 Navy ships on rescue op to save 410 on two barges||The Indian Navy has deployed three warships in high sea for search and rescue (SAR) assistance of two ships — barge P305 and barge GAL Constructor — with 410 people on board, after they were stranded in Bombay High due to Cyclone Tauktae on Monday afternoon. INS Kochi, INS Kolkata and INS Talwar have been pressed into carrying out the rescue operations.The Indian Navy rescued 38 people of the 273 on-board barge P305, adrift off Heera Oil Fields in Bombay High. The search and rescue operation has been carried out by INS Kochi and INS Kolkata in extreme weather conditions and very rough seas. INS Kolkata, which was headed for barge GAL Constructor, had been diverted to attend to the situation of barge P305.Meanwhile, rescue operations for barge GAL Constructor, stuck around 8 nautical miles from Mumbai coast with 137 people on board, could not be started due to extreme weather condition, said a Navy officer.Several other ships have been prepared for disaster recovery task in the wake of Cyclone Tauktae which has wreaked havoc along the west coast of India, said Commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer (CPRO), Western Naval Command, Indian Navy. The Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard (ICG) are on high alert as severe cyclonic storm Tauktae passed the Mumbai coast towards Gujarat on Monday. The Navy has kept its flood rescue teams at INS Shikra in Colaba, INS Trata in Worli, Material Organisation in Ghatkopar, INS Tanaji in Mankhurd, and INS Hamla in Malad ready for deployment. The Navy can also operate its Chetak and Sea King helicopters from INS Shikra depending on the weather, said Karnik. He added the Navy was prepared and was on standby as no request had yet been received from the civil administration for immediate help.Timely weather alerts ensured that as many as 4,526 boats from Maharashtra and 2,258 from Gujarat which were out in the sea for fishing have safely returned to the harbours.ICG has also geared up for preventive and response measures along the western coast. ICG ship Samarth, responding to a distress call, rescued 15 crew from a fishing boat named Milad off Goa coast in a swift operation. All crew members are safe, said an ICG official. Apart from that, 40 coast guard disaster relief teams with inflatable boats, lifebuoys and life jackets are on standby along the western coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-3-navy-ships-on-rescue-op-to-save-410-on-two-barges-101621277650927.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Worst cyclone to come closest to Mumbai in over 40 years||Cylcone Tauktae, an extremely severe cyclonic storm (ESCS) that passed Mumbai shortly after noon on Monday, was the worst cyclone to have skirted the city in at least four decades leading to a cancellation of flights, bringing sections of the public transportation network to a halt, and disrupting the work from home schedules of residents due to power-cuts and poor mobile connectivity. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) confirmed that Tauktae began crossing Mumbai’s latitude at about 12.37pm on Monday, at a distance of about 120-130km from the coast. Independent experts said the cyclone, which intensified into an extremely severe storm early on Monday, was likely the first such category of storm to venture this close to the port city since 1891. By comparison, cyclone Nisarga, a severe cyclonic storm (a category of lesser intensity) that made landfall in the state’s Raigad district last June, glanced 110 km off Mumbai’s coast, but left the city largely unscathed. “It can be safely assumed that in the satellite era -- from 1980 onwards -- Tauktae is the most intense tropical cyclone to venture so close to Mumbai. It is a Category 4 system, as per global standards of the Joint Typhoon Warning Centre whereas Nisarga was a significantly weaker Category 1 tropical cyclone, which in turn had also become weaker by the time it made landfall at the Diveagar coast in Maharashtra,” Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist associated with the University of Reading, United Kingdom, said. “In November 1948, a severe cyclone had landfall north of Mumbai. The IMD doesn’t mention in their cyclone dataset whether it was an ESCS, but it was probably not. So, if that’s ruled out, Tauktae is the first ESCS to come so close to Mumbai since 1891. It is significant because it may be sooner than 100 years before such an incident happens again,” said Matthew Roxy Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology. Impact of the storm When it achieved peak intensity off the Mumbai coast, the cyclone itself was traveling at a speed of 120 knots, or 222kmph, as it travelled north-westward toward Gujarat, unleashing gale winds touching upwards of 100kmph in the city.Tauktae’s intensity was felt across the city as residents shared videos of fallen trees, broken power cables and choppy waves in the Arabian Sea as wind speeds of 114 km/hour were reported at around 2 pm by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s weather station at Afghan Church in Colaba. Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) closed all flight operations starting 11 am on Monday and diverted at least seven planes through the day. Airlines cancelled services to Mumbai, including 34 arrivals and 22 departures, and the airport resumed services late Monday night. During the day, nearly 20 local trains were cancelled and 50 delayed owing to the disruption in both the Central and Western Railway suburban train networks, due to waterlogging and tree falls, while the BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) diverted buses on 72 routes in the city due to waterlogging in 19 arterial roads. Eight people were injured in 26 incidents of wall collapses in three separate incidents, while 17 incidents of short circuit and at least 479 tree falls – 158 in south Mumbai alone -- were reported in the city. A wall of house collapsed injuring four members of a family in Borivali east, while in Andheri, a woman was injured when a slab of a wall fell over her. According to the BMC, the woman’s condition is stable, and she is admitted to a private hospital. Two people are feared to have drowned in two separate incidents in Mahim and Madh, where 10 people were stuck in their boats due to the rough seas and coast guards had to go to their aid, the BMC disaster management cell confirmed. Some of the survivors swam back to safety. Power supply was interrupted in many areas like Andheri west, Vile Parle, Kalina, Versova and Kurla. “To ensure the continuity of power supply and mitigate any disruptions owing to the cyclone Tauktae and heavy rains, team AEML took all the necessary precautions. Our specialized Quick Response Teams were on standby and ensured, wherever there were power disruption complaints, the supply was restored with the minimum interruption,” a spokesperson for Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) which distributes power to the suburbs, said. Eastern suburbs like Mulund, Bhandup and Vikhroli, which the state-owned Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) supplies power to, were also affected. The company later said in a statement said that disruptions were experienced in other districts too, including Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri, and that it aimed to restore normalcy by late Monday with a focus on Covid Care Centres and vaccination centres. BMC officials said that south Mumbai was the most hit as the cyclone went from south to north further towards Gujarat, leading to severe waterlogging in areas including Oval Maidan, Warden Road, Colaba as well as low-lying areas such as Hindmata, King’s Circle, and Dadar TT in central parts of the city.Civic activist Nikhil Desai from Dadar said, “Like every year even this year we had water logging in King’s Circle and Hindmata area. Though the rainfall was not expected this early but this shows that we are not prepared for the monsoon like every year. I do not know how much underground rainwater storage tank work is completed, but it is the truth that minutes of rainfall resulted in Hindmata and King Circle’s Gandhi Market got flooded.”Wettest May Mumbai also recorded the highest rainfall for the month of May, with its Santacruz observatory registering 194mm in 12 hours. The last time the city had experienced a wetter May was in 2000, when on May 19, it registered 190mm of rain. Private forecasters recorded close to 276mm and 252mm of rain in Juhu and Worli – both areas close to the sea -- though the IMD did not confirm these numbers separately. The city, however, was spared the fate wrought by the extreme rainfall event (an altogether different climatic event) on July 26, 2005, when it recorded 644mm in a 12-hour period between 8 am and 8 pm, which led to floods and brought life to a standstill. Jayanta Sarkar, meteorologist and head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai, said, “At Santacruz weather station, which is representative of the whole city, we recorded the highest rainfall for May ever at 194mm. It is possible that other locations may have exceeded this amount. The same goes for wind speeds. At the IMD’s Colaba observatory today we recorded a maximum wind speed of 108kmph, but it is possibly higher in other locations.” State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray held a meeting with BMC officials on Monday following which he posted on Twitter: “We are doing everything we can to keep you safe. The BMC has begun to clear out fallen trees with every breather we get in the pattern of strong winds and heavy rain. We are working to ensure normalcy at the earliest. Today’s cyclone hit wind speeds of 114 kmph, highest ever for Mumbai in any recent records. This is a climatic pattern that we have started studying, along with its maximum impact points, water logging areas and types of trees that are damaged. Our 3 jumbo covid care centres that have been vacated as precaution, will now be taken up for maintenance and repairs over the next 10 days.”“One does not see a cyclonic storm with such high intensity hitting the coast. Above threshold sea surface temperatures across the Arabian Sea, particularly over east central and adjoining northeast Arabian Sea, have kept on strengthening Cyclone Tauktae. Essentially, due to global warming, the tropical storm which would have otherwise degraded to a cyclonic or low-pressure depression prior to landfall can now sustain the strength of very severe to severe cyclonic storms very close to the coast. This change is here to stay, and we might see more devastating storms in the future that are more damaging than even Tauktae,” said Mahesh Palawat, VP Meteorology at private forecaster Skymet Weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/worst-cyclone-to-come-closest-to-mumbai-in-over-40-years-101621277590927.html
18-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra University to ask govt to allow offline MBBS exams from June 2||Days after state’s medical education minister Amit Deshmukh convened a meeting to take a final call on the pending second-and third-year MBBS exams, officials from the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) are now approaching the state government, seeking permission to commence exams from June 2.The state had said that the exams will be conducted in the first week of June. “As the lockdown in Maharashtra officially ends on June 1 at 7am, we are sending a proposal to the state government for permitting to conduct exams without any further delay,” said Dr Ajit Pathak, controller of examinations, MUHS. “We are ready and so are the institutes. As the lockdown has been extended from May 15 to June 1, we will wait to get guidance from the government before conducting exams,” he added.Usually scheduled to take place in the month of December-January, the second-and third-year MBBS exams were postponed thrice this academic year due to the rising Covid-19 cases across the state. To make use of this time, MUHS in a circular released in the last week of April, asked all its affiliated colleges to start regular lectures and academic activities from the next academic year, even though final exams for the second-and third-year batches are yet to be conducted for the current academic year. “The teaching schedule of the next academic year should continue uninterrupted as these students are carried over to the next academic year, irrespective of the exam results,” stated the MUHS circular dated April 29.The dean and principals of colleges have been directed to ensure strict compliance of Covid-19 safety protocols while conducting academic activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-university-to-ask-govt-to-allow-offline-mbbs-exams-from-june-2-101621265650365.html
