19-05-2021||Mumbai||‘Will permit door-to-door vaccination if Centre doesn’t’: Bombay HC tells Maharashtra||The Bombay High Court has directed the state government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) not to wait for the central government’s permission to conduct door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination for the elderly and disabled persons who cannot go out to get themselves inoculated, HT has learnt. “They (expert committee members) are all academic experts but they seem to have zero knowledge about the ground reality. If this decision is taken from Delhi, you should think about the local situation... If the corporation wants to start door-to-door vaccination. If the centre does not permit it, we will. Saving lives is more important,” said the bench.The HC, while rapping the Centre for consulting experts who did not recommend the door-to-door vaccination initiative, said that the experts were probably unaware of ground realities wherein people live in such houses where even a stretcher cannot be manoeuvred. The court has asked the state and the BMC to file an affidavit on how it proposes to conduct the door-to-door vaccination by Thursday. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, was informed that the Centre was to respond to the court’s direction in an earlier hearing on May 12 on whether the door-to-door vaccination could be implemented. The PIL sought directions to the Centre, the state government and the BMC to provide door-to-door vaccination for people ageing over 75 years, the specially-abled and the bed-ridden. Kapadia further added that the BMC had failed to devise a formula to identify beggars without photo IDs required for vaccination and that helpline numbers should be provided to enable senior citizens to book an appointment for a home visit for vaccination stating that all citizens cannot access the online platform.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Union of India informed the court that the direction was referred to the committee of experts and they had filed a response stating that as there were post-vaccination protocols to be observed and the same could not be facilitated at individual homes, door-to-door vaccination could not be permitted. He, however, added that transport arrangements could be made to take elderly citizens to the centres. However, Kapadia submitted that some of the elderly and disabled persons lived in extremely difficult conditions and if they had to go to centres they would have to be taken on wheelchairs or stretchers. However, due to the constrained spaces they lived in, it was not possible to take such people to the centres. Thus, in light of the committee’s denial, such persons would not be able to get vaccinated at all. After hearing the submissions, the court expressed dissatisfaction at the expert committee’s recommendations, termed it to be the opposite of door-to-door vaccination and said, “I am not aware of Mumbai, but in North Kolkata, there are buildings wherein even stretchers cannot be taken inside. If somebody is bedridden and there is no room for a stretcher to manoeuvre, how will you bring them outside for vaccination?” Justice Kulkarni then pointed out that there are old buildings in congested areas with wooden staircases even in Mumbai and elderly citizens and specially-abled persons living there may not be able to come out. The bench then directed the BMC Commissioner to apprise it as to whether the civic body could introduce door-to-door vaccination under proper medical care and upon the consent of citizens/beneficiaries to be administered being well aware of the consequences. HC will hear the PIL next on May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-permit-door-to-door-vaccination-if-centre-doesn-t-bombay-hc-tells-maharashtra-101621448015397.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s once infamous underworld den to be replaced by skyscrapers||Dagdi Chawl, the once infamous den of underworld don Arun Gawli in Mumbai is all set to be redeveloped. Ten chawls in this compound at Agripada in south-central Mumbai and owned by Gawli will be replaced by multi-storey towers, HT has learnt.Geeta Gawli, the corporator and daughter of Arun Gawli confirmed the development. “We have approximately 350 tenants in our chawls and they will get houses of 450 square feet area,” said Geeta. “We are at the planning stage and we have finalised a local builder to undertake this redevelopment,” she said.The redevelopment will take place mostly under the cluster redevelopment scheme.Arun Gawli ruled the underworld from Dagdi chawl and held regular darbars for the people. People would dread coming to Dagdi chawl due to its ill-reputation. It was also often in news due to police raids in the mid-nineties after the Mumbai Police decided to take the underworld head-on.Currently, the Gawli family, which lives in the redeveloped building on the 4th floor, will also be part of this project. The ground floor houses the office of the Akhil Bhartiya Sena (ABS) which was founded by Gawli.The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) has given the initial sanction for the project. “We have given the Letter of Intent (LOI) for the redevelopment of Dagdi Chawl,” said MHADA Chairman (Repair Board) Vinod Ghosalkar. This was issued after the residents of Dagdi chawl gave their consent to the revamp process.The chawl is a virtual fortress and no one is allowed inside without the mandatory checks by Gawli’s men. After 1987, when gang wars erupted in the city, Gawli and his men remained confined to these chawls. Most tenants were supporters of Gawli. In fact, police officials point that the gang members constructed tunnels, holes and cavities in their houses as their hideouts.Gawli also had a stint in politics when he formed the ABD and contested assembly as well as municipal elections. He was elected an MLA in 1999. His daughter is a corporator of the city’s civic body the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The Saat Rasta-Byculla area around Dagdi Chawl has seen vertical development in the past two decades with several old buildings making way for skyscrapers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-once-infamous-underworld-den-to-be-replaced-by-skyscrapers-101621445015288.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||A day after dipping below 30K, Maharashtra fresh Covid-19 cases rise to 34,031, 594 deaths recorded||Maharashtra on Wednesday found 34,031 people infected with coronavirus disease (Covid-19), while 594 lost their lives to the illness, according to the state health bulletin. The state reported a rise of 5,593 cases in the last 24 hours, as 28,438 infections were reported on Tuesday. The number of daily deaths fell by 367 in the last 24 hours.Also read| New RT-PCR kit 97.3% sensitive in detecting Covid mutants: All you need to knowAt present, the state's Covid-19 case tally stands at 5,467,537, with the active caseload at 401,695. The new mortalities pushed the overall toll to 84,371, the bulletin showed. The case positivity rate also increased marginally from 11.36 per cent on Tuesday to 11.91 per cent on Wednesday.The case fatality rate of the state with one of the highest deaths in the country remained the same in the last 24 hours at 1.54 per cent, as per the bulletin.More than 51,000 patients recovered from the virus in comparison to 52,898 recoveries registered on Tuesday. A total of 285,647 samples were tested for the viral infection in the past 24 hours. The number of testing has increased as 250,310 tests were conducted across the state on Tuesday.Mumbai on Wednesday reported 1,329 new Covid-19 cases, an incline from the previous day's infections, as on Tuesday 961 new infections were reported, according to the data.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The new fatalities rose in the last 24 hours, as 57 people succumbed to the deadly virus, the data showed. On Tuesday, 44 deaths were reported in the state capital.Maharashtra, which is under stringent lockdown-like restrictions to contain the spread of the virus, is recording a steep decline in its infection rate. The state that used to be the number one contributor to the daily new cases has now dropped to the fourth spot. Maharashtra also reported the second-highest recoveries in the country on Wednesday, according to the Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/a-day-after-dipping-below-30k-maharashtra-fresh-covid-19-cases-rise-to-34-031-594-deaths-recorded-mumbai-sees-1-329-new-cases-101621434592192.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||How are celebrities, politicians procuring Covid-19 drugs? asks Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Maharashtra government and the Centre to file affidavits explaining how celebrities and politicians were procuring anti-Covid-19 drugs, medical oxygen and other relief materials for coronavirus patients.A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni had asked for such details last week as well from the the Maharashtra government and the Centre, who faced flak during hearing for non-compliance of previous orders.However, on Wednesday the state government submitted a report merely saying it had served show cause notices (on procuring Covid-19 relief materials) to Mumbai Congress MLA Zeeshan Siddique and the Sood Charity Foundation (an NGO of actor Sonu Sood), but was yet to receive their replies.Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh told the HC the Union government had not filed any report since procurement and distribution of Remdesivir (a key Covid-19 drug) and medical oxygen, among other items, were the prerogative of a state and the Centre merely allocated such resources to states based on the latter's demands.The bench took an exception to the responses of the state government and the Centre (represented by Singh).The HC said it had expected better replies and compliance of its previous orders from both the respondents."These persons (celebrities) have no licence (to procure Covid-19 drugs, medical oxygen), who will take the guarantee? There should have been a report."You (the state government)) have only issued show cause notices, we said place a report on this. We are not happy with this," the HC said.The bench said its primary concern was that the needy must not miss out on getting relief since all were not in a position to make appeals on social media."Who will guarantee that drugs being given by these personalities are of proper quality?" the HC said."The allocation is by UOI (Union of India), collection is by State, then where is the window for collection or procurement by these personalities? That is our anxiety," the bench observed.The HC directed the state and the Centre to file their detailed reply affidavits by next week.It also directed the Maharashtra government to submit details on the requirements for medical oxygen (needed to treat serious Covid-19 patients) and Remdesivir, among other items, across the state, the supplies it was receiving from the Centre and other entities.The HC was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs) on the management of issues connected to the Covid-19 pandemic.It also praised the model devised by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to tackle the infection spread, procure, produce and store oxygen, and anti-Covid-19 drugs.Senior Counsel Anil Sakhare, who appeared for the BMC, told the bench that the civic body was making arrangements for vaccinating citizens and improving paediatrics health infrastructure in Mumbai (in view of a possible third Covid-19 wave).He said the BMC had invited a global expression of interest for procuring 1 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines."Bombay (Mumbai) corporation has had unique vision since ages," the HC said.The court will continue hearing the PILs on May 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/how-are-celebrities-politicians-procuring-covid-19-drugs-asks-bombay-hc-101621428871828.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Hospital hides Covid-19 patient's death for money, case filed||A case has been registered against a private hospital in Maharashtra for allegedly taking money in the name of treatment from family members of a Covid-19 patient even after his death, police said on Wednesday.The man died on April 21 while undergoing treatment but his death was announced by the hospital authorities only on April 24 until his family members paid the amount asked by the facility, the official said quoting the FIR.The man was admitted in the hospital and his relatives had paid a deposit of ₹50,000."On April 20, he was shifted to the ICU for further treatment. His wife was told to pay ₹35,000 for injections on April 21. However, she requested more time to arrange the money, following which the hospital asked her to pay by April 24," the official said.The complainant claimed she had paid ₹40,000 in cash and ₹50,000 via online mode to the hospital administration on April 24 morning, as per the FIR."The death of the patient was declared by doctors at noon on April 24," the FIR said.The complainant claimed the hospital, however, mentioned the timing of her husband's death as 11 pm on April 21, in the documents.She alleged the hospital authorities were demanding more money from her and not providing her copies of detailed bills.She also alleged the hospital charged exorbitantly in violation of the government norms.The FIR was registered after the complainant approached a local court."A case has been registered at Shivajinagar police station of Nanded city on Tuesday against doctors and employees of the hospital under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for forgery and cheating," the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hospital-hides-covid-19-patient-s-death-for-money-case-filed-101621426561290.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Have 3 proposals for supply of Sputnik V vaccine to Mumbai: BMC||Mumbai’s civic body, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has received proposals from three companies for supplying Russian Sputnik V Covid vaccine, said its commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal in an interview with a news channel on Wednesday. Chahal’s comment comes a day after the civic body extended the deadline for submission of bid to supply 10 million Covid vaccines to the city. The last date for submission of the bid was May 18, but after failing to receive any, the BMC extended the deadline up to May 25.In an interview with Bloomberg TV, Chahal said the BMC estimates to spend about ₹700 crore to buy the shots. “Once we get 15 million vaccine shots, I plan to vaccinate the entire city in the next 60 days and by doing so, I am very sure we will be able to stop the third wave from coming.”Also Read | How Mumbai’s city officials made their city more Covid-ready than DelhiMeanwhile, the three proposals for Sputnik V vaccines have come from a UK-based firm and two companies from India having authorised distributorship of Sputnik. According to BMC officials, their paperwork was incomplete so the companies have been asked to send revised proposals as formal bids.Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu told HT, “We have received three proposals. All of them are for Sputnik vaccine but have come with incomplete paperwork. So we have given the extension.”According to the BMC’s tender document, any interested supplier or manufacturer can bid for the tender. However, it has restricted China from bidding. Further, the vaccines that do not have Central government’s approval will have to get the same on their own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/have-3-proposals-for-supply-of-sputnik-v-vaccine-to-mumbai-bmc-101621419857890.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae damages Olive Ridley nests in Maharashtra, at least 2,000 eggs feared lost||The passage of Cyclone Tauktae along Maharashtra’s coast damaged a total of 29 Olive Ridley nests in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districtsLocals appointed by the state forest department operate hatcheries for sea turtle conservation in these districts. Experts fear that 2,000-3,000 Olive Ridley eggs, which were to hatch this month, may be lost owing to the damage. HT had reported, on May 9, that the number of Olive Ridley nests doubled this year in state. During nesting season (which runs from December to March), a total of 451 nesting sites were recorded, up from 288 during the same period last year. “Fortunately, most of the eggs have already hatched during April and May. Some nests which had not hatched, were significantly damaged on Monday due to the cyclone,” said Harshal Karve, a marine biologist with the Mangrove Foundation.In Ratnagiri, these include nine nests on Kolthare beach, eight nests in Guhagar, two nests in Dabhol and one each on Karde, Velas, Anjarle and Gaohkhadi. The hatchery in Kolthare alone was incubating an estimated 861 eggs, while Guhagar had about 776 eggs. At Sindhudurg’s Vayangani and Shiroda beaches, four and two nests, respectively, were damaged.Though forest department officers had fenced the nests and covered them with tarpaulin, the sheer strength of tidal waves and torrential rains on Monday could not keep water out of the hatcheries. “The season for hatching is not over yet. We are going to continue to watch over the nests for another two weeks, but it is unlikely that the eggs will hatch. Existing literature shows that freshly laid eggs, and even eggs on the verge of hatching, suffer complete mortality when exposed to any flooding over a period of 24 to 48 hours,” said Karve. Mangrove Foundation on Tuesday morning also received an information about common dolphins, including one juvenile, being stranded at Murud-Janjira beach in Raigad district. Though officials did not reach the spot, local fishermen were instructed on how to release them back into the sea. “The dolphins were successfully released. There are no other reports of stranded cetaceans or other marine animals due to cyclone,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests, Mangrove Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-damages-olive-ridley-nests-in-maharashtra-at-least-2-000-eggs-feared-lost-101621365134144.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||IITs help students with medical, financial aid during pandemic||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in several parts of the country, various Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) are helping students financially to tide through medical emergencies.Many IITs have set up benevolent funds, raising funds from alumni networks, to help their students pay for hospitals, oxygen cylinders and ventilators. Last week, IIT Kanpur launched a donation drive ‘Covid-19 Relief Fund’ for the purpose.IIT-Bombay (IIT-B), is currently undertaking a student survey to identify those who are in financial emergencies or have lost earning members of families. Students are being primarily classified into three categories- those who have tested positive and are under economic distress, those who haven’t tested positive but are in financial distress, and those whose family members have tested positive and are in financial distress.“We will soon kick off a drive to raise funds from alumni to take care of such students. On a priority basis, students from these categories will be provided with help to pay for their fees and other charges,” said Tapanendu Kundu, professor and dean, student affairs, IIT-B. This is aside from the benevolent fund that takes care of students with their hostel and mess charges.Since the pandemic broke out last year, IIT Madras has formed a Covid Relief Fund to support students and faculty who are in distress due to the medical exigencies caused by the pandemic. “In the last financial year (FY’21), IIT Madras raised as much as Rs. 96 lakh to cater to the Covid relief requirements of students and employees of IIT Madras. There is also a clear proposal to upgrade the medical infrastructure within the campus to cater to any potential requirements that may arise as it re-opens the campus to receive students, as and when the lockdown conditions are lifted and the threat of the pandemic eases out,” said professor Mahesh Panchagnula, dean (alumni and corporate relations), IIT Madras.Besides this, IIT Madras launched campaigns to raise funds for procuring oxygen concentrators in the United States of America. The Institute exceeded its goal of raising $1 million in 48 hours.“The total funds raised is $1.25 million (as of 10th May 2021). The institute has also received close to ₹15 lakh from Indian alumni. In the first phase, the institute plans to donate oxygen concentrators to the government of Tamil Nadu. Its senior alumni who are IAS officers and working with the government are helping the institute to coordinate the whole gamut of activities. These oxygen concentrators will subsequently be deployed in government hospitals. The institute plans to extend support to other state governments in the subsequent phases as it continues to receive donations from alumni,” Panchagnula added.IIT Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao said the institute set up a benevolent fund last year. “We have spent over ₹30 lakhs from this fund to support everyone dependent on the institute since April last year. We need to do more,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iits-help-students-with-medical-financial-aid-during-pandemic-101621365074712.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Maha CM seeks financial aid from Centre||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray sought financial assistance from the Centre on Tuesday after cyclone Tauktae, an extremely severe cyclonic storm that skirted the western coastline between May 16 and 17, left at least 18 people dead in Maharashtra, destroyed more than 9,000 hectares of farmland and caused damage to properties across several districts of the state. Thackeray spoke to Union home minister Amit Shah over the phone to apprise him of the storm which made landfall between Porbandar and Mahuva in Gujarat late Monday night. A state cabinet meeting will be held on Wednesday following which the government is expected to announce a relief package. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar held a review meeting as authorities of 10 districts, including coastal Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Raigad assessed the losses on Tuesday, due to havoc caused by the cyclone that intensified into an extremely severe category early Monday morning. Of the 16 deaths, 14 were from seven coastal districts, while two were in Jalgaon in north Maharashtra. 13.415 people from five coastal districts, Raigad (8,409), Ratnagiri (4,563), Sindhudurg (190), Palghar (200), Thane (530) were shifted to safer places. They have now started returning to their houses.“Apart from completing the spot assessment of the losses, the district administration should also ensure that the repair works of the houses and other structures be completed before the monsoon was set in. The relief should be extended to the people at the earliest. We are directing the district administration to give exemptions from the Covid-19 curbs to the shops and establishments that supply the material required for the repair and maintenance of the damaged structures,” he said. Wadettiwar said that a memorandum for the central relief will soon be sent to the Centre. The Indian Army also launched columns to assist civil administration in cyclone-hit areas, which included moving trees and debris from roads to enable toe movement of essential supplies and civil vehicles Ratnagiri, Raigad and Sindhudurg districts were badly hit with at least 3,783 structures including houses, and government buildings reported as being partially or fully damaged, even as high-speed winds, which reached up to 185kmph gusting to 200kmph, damaged power infrastructure and plunged large tracts of these districts into darkness. An official release by the state said that the storm disrupted power supply to 4.64 million consumers in Thane, Raigad, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and other districts of Maharashtra. The electricity supply of 3.41 million consumers has been successfully restored, it stated. On Monday, a total of 5,500 electricity poles fell, transmission cables got snapped, and feeders tripped due to heavy rains coupled with high-speed winds. Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut earlier said 13,172 staffers are working tirelessly to restore the supply of the remaining consumers. Roughly 30% of the villages in Raigad and Ratnagiri and other affected districts were yet to have their power supply returned late Tuesday evening after damage to transformers, sub stations and electricity poles. Internet services were disrupted, and officials said that it was likely to take a few more days to restore connectivity. In all, 3,571 villages and 215,266 people were affected in seven coastal districts that were hit by the storm. At least 17,657 structures were partially or fully damaged and crop and horticulture on 8,830 hectares – including orchards growing Alphonso mangoes and Chickoo fruit -- was damaged, across these districts. Three fisherfolk in Sindhudurg died after their boats capsized in rough sea. Five persons were killed in Thane and Palghar districts in various incidents related to the cyclonic storm, including a 51-year-old auto-rickshaw driver who was killed after a tree fell on his vehicle on Monday, and a 40-year-old man who died after being crushed by cement blocks that fell from the roof of a house due to high winds. Raigad district bore the brunt of the storm for the second year in a row, as four persons died in separate incidents due to the storm. Last June, severe cyclonic storm Nisarga had caused widescale damage in this coastal district, as it made landfall between Diveagar and Shrivardhan, left at least six dead, 16 injured and nearly 13000 hectares of cropland damaged in northern parts of the state as well as its coastal districts. The four fatalities in Raigad district on Monday occurred in the incidents of falling of a tree and collapse of a wall in Uran and Roha. Altogether, 8,383 people from 2,299 families were shifted to safer places in Raigad district till Monday night. District Collector Nidhi Chaudhary has directed all tehsildars to assess the damage caused by the cyclone. At least 200 people from 57 families from Vasai taluka were evacuated to safety on Monday, the Palghar collector said. MSEDCL superintending engineer Kiran Nagavkar said nine of the total 38 sub-stations in the Palghar district were affected due to the cyclone. He said the work to restore power slowed down as transmission cables got snapped after trees fell on them due to high-speed winds. The state requested the Centre for assistance from its Cyclone Risk Mitigation Programme and to deploy a team to assess losses, at the earliest. Shah spoke to the Thackeray, as well as his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani and Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot to take stock of the situation in their states after the landfall of cyclone Tauktae, and extended support of the Union government in aiding and mitigating challenges, officials said. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-maha-cm-seeks-financial-aid-from-centre-101621365074107.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Alphonso farms in Konkan badly damaged by Cyclone Tauktae||With Konkan coast, home to the popular Alphonso mangoes, battered by Cyclone Tauktae, the mango plantation is badly damaged as gusty winds and heavy rain lashed the area.Already hit by a drop in production because of climatic conditions and slowed down market, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the mango growers in Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Raigad sustained huge losses after the cyclone.The tree plantation of areca nut, coconuts and even chikoo in parts of the coastal districts on hectares of land have also been destroyed, leading to losses to the farmers.“I have a list of many mango growers whose hundreds of trees have been uprooted and thousands of fruits ready to harvest or market, have been destroyed.”“They will be literally on the roads because of the loans they borrowed from the banks for cultivation. The losses to the mango growers from these districts are expected to be  ₹500 crore as per the rough estimate,” said Sanjay Yadavrao, Konkan Bhumi Pratisthan, the organisation engaged in the promotion of the tourism and business activities in Konkan.Yadavrao said that the mango production was about 25% of its annual average owing to changes in weather and unseasonal rains, besides the drop in demand and logistical constraints in the market amid the pandemic. “The economy of the coastal districts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, Raigad is dependent on tourism, mango business and fishing with the annual collective turnover of ₹19,000 crore. The consecutive cyclones over the last three years have destroyed this economy completely.” “It’s time for the government to give a stimulus package to the people engaged in these sectors as they give it for sugar factories in Western Maharashtra,” he said.Umang Salvi, a mango grower who has orchards of more than 4,000 trees said he sustained the loss of around ₹15 lakh due to the cyclone. “At least 1,000 crates full of mangoes were ready to market, but the stock is damaged in the cyclone on Monday. Hundreds of trees have either been uprooted or damaged badly which would affect their production capacity for the next few years,” he said.Like mango growers, the fisherfolk in coastal areas along the 720-km shore of the state have sustained losses because of the damages to fishing nets, trawlers, boats and watched away fish. “Dozens of anchored boats have been damaged by collision during the cyclone in each of the koliwadas in these districts. This is the end of the season when tonnes of fish are kept for drying to market during monsoon. Tonnes of such stock has been washed away and we even would not be able to claim the losses for it as there is no proof left behind to the claims,” said Rajhans Tapke, general secretary of Koli Masangh.Tapke said that the state government gave them peanuts as compensation after Cyclone Nisarga last year||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/alphonso-farms-in-konkan-badly-damaged-by-cyclone-tauktae-101621365014073.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Ventilators in a’bad: Cong alleges scam; health ministry refutes claims||Citing the hospital’s report, the Maharashtra Congress alleged that ventilators supplied to the Aurangabad Government Medical College and Hospital were useless and of substandard quality. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant called it a scam, saying all efforts were being made to save the accused firm from Gujarat which supplied these ventilators. The Union health ministry has refuted the allegations, saying the ventilators were not funded under the PM Care Fund. The Aurangabad Government Medical College’s committee formed to investigate the matter gave the following observations. “100 ventilators had arrived in the hospital on April 12 this year. The engineers who had come on that day were able to install just one ventilator which again was found not suitable to be used for patients. After that they installed 25 ventilators on April 18 in the ICU. However, these were found to be faulty as the patients were not getting enough oxygen supply from them and hence were not of much help to the patients. After that the engineers came again on April 23 and tried to start two machines in the ICU but they too failed,” it stated. Sawant, quoting the report, said it was shameful that when the state is fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, such incidents were taking place. “The company had no experience in making ventilators and still was given the contract just because of its links with the BJP,” said Sawant. He has demanded a joint audit by the central and state government and inquiry by the state government. He said that 58 machines have been opened and are lying idle while 37 were still to be opened. The Union Health Ministry’s statement on Friday said: “Ventilators manufactured by Jyoti CNC were supplied to Aurangabad Medical College. Jyoti CNC is one of the manufacturers of Make in India Ventilators. They have supplied ventilators centrally for Covid-19 management, as per the directions of Empowered Group-3. These ventilators were then made available to states as per their requests. This supplier is not funded under PM CARES fund.” Sawant called the whole statement misleading. “If the state did not pay, how come these ventilators came,” asked Sawant. The BJP has refuted the allegations saying it has become a fashion to blame the central government. “The Maharashtra government is unable to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic and it has become a fashion to blame the central government for all its shortcomings. The central government is extending maximum help but the state is ungrateful,” said BJP legislator Ram Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ventilators-in-a-bad-cong-alleges-scam-health-ministry-refutes-claims-101621364954113.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra receives 300,000 doses from Centre for its vaccination drive||Maharashtra on Tuesday received a stock of 300,000 doses from the Central government, allowing it to continue its vaccination drive for 45 years and above for a few more days. However, the drive will have to be limited, officials said. The state inoculated 104,313 beneficiaries on Tuesday, according to the Co-Win portal.For the past two days, the state was inoculating less than 100,000 beneficiaries, as the state had limited stock till Monday. On May 16 and 17, the state administered doses to 68,800 and 99,699 beneficiaries, respectively. It has already suspended the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group and diverted 310,000 doses of Covaxin for the second dose for those above 45 years of age last week. “We have received 200,000 doses of Covishield and 100,000 doses of Covaxin today,” confirmed Dr Archana Patil, director, Directorate Of Health Services.On April 26, the state set a record of inoculating 534,228 beneficiaries in a day. On Monday, it became the first state to cover 20 million beneficiaries across the country. In all, the state has covered total 20,200,747 beneficiaries till Tuesday, according to the Co-Win portal.“Till Monday, we were left with only 380,000 doses (300,000 Covishield and 80,000 Covaxin) that were distributed across the state. Today, we have received another stock of 300,000 of doses but as we don’t know when the next stock is going to come, we will have to continue the drive in the restricted manner,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said it will provide 19.99 million doses of Covishield and Covaxin from May 16-31 to all the states and union territories for free. This includes 16.25 million doses of Covishield and 2.949 million doses of Covaxin, stated a release of ministry of health and family welfare issued on May 14. However, it did not mention a detailed bifurcation of allocation to the states. “The delivery schedule for this allocation will be shared in advance,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-receives-300-000-doses-from-centre-for-its-vaccination-drive-101621364774666.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||PIL challenging cancellation of SSC exams, delays HSC decision||A recent public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the cancellation of Class 10 (SSC) board exams in the state has delayed the education department’s decision concerning Class 12 (HSC) exams that are scheduled at the end of this month.Officials at the state education department said that while it seems like the HSC exams cannot be conducted as per the earlier schedule due to rising Covid-19 cases and the resultant lockdown, a decision regarding this cannot be taken with the recent PIL. The major bone of contention is the fact that the rulebook of the Maharashtra State Board does not consist of a provision to cancel exams altogether under any circumstance. “Exam cancellation and alternate assessments are thus likely to be challenged even in future. This rule needs to be amended to ensure that there is an exception created for the current situation,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.Dhananjay Kulkarni, a retired teacher from Pune had recently moved the Bombay high court (HC) challenging the cancellation of exams by various boards including SSC, CBSE and ICSE. The petitioner said that this could lead to problems in Class 11 admissions as different boards will declare results based on different formulae. Meanwhile, the Indiawide Parents Association filed an intervention application in the court stating that offline exams are risky for students.While the state education department had earlier announced that the exams for Class 12 will be held at the end of May, it has not declared the timetable even now, barely a few days to go for the month to end. This has led to a large number of parents and students anxious. “We understand that this is not an easy decision because there are legal and technical hurdles involved, but in the absence of a timely decision, students are just waiting endlessly. Their future is at stake and a decision should be made as early as possible,” said Siddharth Shah, a Kandivli based parent.Nearly 15 lakh students appear for the HSC exam every year while around 17 lakh students appear for SSC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pil-challenging-cancellation-of-ssc-exams-delays-hsc-decision-101621364714846.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Hold exams online or promote us: Second- and third-year MBBS students to govt||A day after officials from the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) said that they will seek the state government’s permission to start offline exams for second -and third-year MBBS students, several aspirants took to social media to raise concerns over the idea. In several posts addressed to the state medical education minister, MUHS, National Medical Commission (NMC) as well as the Union health minister, students have requested authorities to either hold the upcoming exams online or promote them to the next academic year based on their performance in the current year.“Most of us are part of the Covid-19 workforce and many are currently infected by the virus. Several students also have family members fighting for their life at present. So holding exams in such a scenario will be unfair on us all,” said third-year MBBS student Anup Thorve. He added that at present, Covid-19 cases are on the rise and the different variants are leaving patients with severe issues, including the black fungus, which has made more students go against the idea of physical exams any time soon.Usually scheduled to take place in the month of December-January, the second -and third-year MBBS exams were postponed thrice this year due to the rising Covid-19 cases recorded across the state. As per the state government, the exams will now be conducted in the first week of June. A senior official from MUHS told HT that they as the lockdown restrictions in Maharashtra ends on June 1, the university approached state government seeking permission to start physical exams for MBBS students from June 2.Students said the move will create more trouble for them. “Many aspirants already fear the 14-day quarantine period and are hiding their symptoms, which has led to an increase in the cases amongst students. The fear of losing out on exams has added to the anxiety of students, and many are currently unable to prepare,” said Ruchita Jadhav, a second-year MBBS student.Several students have also highlighted how the lack of doses in the state of Maharashtra has left at least 75% of second -and third-year MBBS students without vaccination, and expecting such students to appear for physical exams will be unfair to them all. “Many youth have succumbed to this deadly virus in the second wave. Most of us are living on multiple-sharing basis in hostel rooms with common shared bathroom facilities. If any one student is infected, the virus will spread among others in no time. We, therefore, suggest that exams be either held online or that the authorities promote us to the next academic year,” said Piyush Dusane, another MBBS student.While clarity on the exams is yet to come from MUHS, in a circular released in the last week of April, it has asked all affiliated colleges to start regular lectures and academic activities for their students from the next academic year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hold-exams-online-or-promote-us-second-and-third-year-mbbs-students-to-govt-101621364714093.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 961 fresh Covid cases||Reporting below 1,000 Covid-19 cases in a single day for the first time since March 2, Mumbai on Tuesday recorded 961 fresh infections and 44 deaths due to the virus, taking the tally to 690,023 and the toll to 14,316. The testing numbers, however, were low. On Monday, Mumbai conducted 17,920 Covid-19 tests, with a daily positivity rate of 5.3%. There are now 31,790 active cases in Mumbai. So far, Mumbai has conducted 5,934,165 tests, with an overall positivity rate of 11.8%. About 35% to 40% of the tests conducted per day are rapid antigen tests, which on an average have a lower positivity rate than RT-PCR tests. On March 2, Mumbai reported 849 new cases, following which, the figures of cases reported per day began to increase. According to experts and authorities, the second wave began around March 11. The highest number of cases reported in Mumbai so far was on April 4 (11,204 cases). However, in the past two weeks, the number of cases in the city has gone down steadily, and the positivity rate has also dropped to 6-8%, from the previous 18-20% reported in April and first week of May. Positivity rate is the percentage of tests that are positive.Mumbai’s recovery rate is now 93% and the overall growth rate is now 0.27%, and the doubling rate has now gone up to 255 days. So far in May, Mumbai has reported a total of 41,552 cases, as opposed to 164,713 infections reported in the same period in April. About 59% of the total active cases in the city at present are asymptomatic patients, 36% are symptomatic, and about 3% are critical cases.Out of the 31,306 beds in Mumbai, 17,745 are available. 384 ICU beds and 85 ventilator beds are vacant, according to information from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-961-fresh-covid-cases-101621364654706.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha sees 28,438 new Covid cases||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 28,438 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 5,433,506. The daily positivity rate in the state is on a constant decline since May 8, showing the drop in viral activity. However, health experts said some districts still show high positivity rate, while some of the districts have shown a sharp decline. Mumbai reported under-1,000 cases after 77 days with 961 fresh cases on Tuesday. The city’s low numbers are due to a drop in testing on Monday, due to cyclone Tauktae that brushed past the city on Monday. The city’s death toll rose by 44, taking it to 14,316, while its active case load came down to 31,790. The state’s active caseload reduced to 419,727, while the death toll rose to 83,777 with 679 fatalities on Tuesday. With the data reconciliation, 612 deaths have been added to the cumulative death tally, the state health department said. A chunk of the fatalities reported on Tuesday came from Kolhapur which reported 130 deaths (115 in rural Kolhapur, 15 in Kolhapur city), in the past 24 hours. Vasai-Virar, on the outskirts of Mumbai, reported 58 deaths. Satara reported 34 deaths, while Beed saw 27 fatalities. Of the 679 deaths reported on Tuesday, 422 occurred in the past 48 hours and 257 in the past week. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 250,310 samples and had a positivity rate of 11.36%. Since May 8, the daily positivity rate in the state has seen a consistent drop from 22.56% to 11.35% on May 17. On Tuesday, the state saw a marginal increase. In the first week of May, the daily positivity rate swung between 22.97% (May 3) and 20.64% (May 5). The overall positivity rate in the state stood at 17.2%, which means for every 100 samples tested the state records 17 positive cases. The overall positivity rate in the state too has shown a decline since April when it was 27.5% on April 6. Health experts and state health department officials said the decline is a positive sign for the state, however, it will take three weeks more for some “normalcy” to return. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director-general of health services and advisor to the state on Covid-19, said that while the state’s positivity is reducing, some districts are still not. “Some districts like Mumbai, Thane and Pune are showing sharp decline in positivity rate, but there are many districts which are not showing a downward trend yet,” Salunkhe said. According to state health department officials, districts such as Satara, Sangli, Sindhudurg, Buldhana, Kolhapur, Beed and Ahmednagar still show viral activity. “These districts are recording higher cases and have high positivity rate. While the overall rate is witnessing a drop, it will take two-three weeks to regain normalcy. The viral activity will go on for that period, so we cannot let our guard down,” the officer said, who did not wish to be named. On Monday, Kolhapur district saw 1,501 fresh cases, while Ahmednagar saw 2,045 new cases. Beed saw 1,295 fresh Covid cases and Amravati district saw 1,041. Satara saw 1,270 new cases, while Sangli district saw 1905 new cases. Over 80% of the new cases from these districts are from the rural part of the districts, while the urban areas are not reporting as many cases, data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-28-438-new-covid-cases-101621364654159.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||3 jumbo centres in Mumbai to be shut for 2 weeks||A day after a cyclone passed the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday said three jumbo centres – Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), Dahisar and Mulund – will remain shut for admission of Covid-19 patients for nearly two weeks, as the centres are being made monsoon-ready. Sanjeev Jaiswal, additional municipal commissioner, held a meeting the heads of nine departments, including storm water drainage, solid waste management, mechanical and electrical department, fire department, etc. The three jumbo centres have over 3,000 Covid beds, including oxygen, ICU and ventilators.Jaiswal told HT, “In the past one year, we never got all three jumbo centres empty. But this time, due to the cyclone, we shifted the patients, which has given us a chance to undertake all preventive repair and maintenance works. There was no damage to the jumbo centres. We are now going to act on the recommendation of our consultant who had, before the cyclone, submitted a structural audit report. In this report, several recommendations were made, which will now be executed to make the three jumbo centres monsoon-ready.”According to BMC officials, the works include sanitation of the area, changing water pipelines at several spots, fixing leakages, storm water works, sewage related issues, flooring works and installing additional ropes to the hangars to ensure the makeshift hospital sustains longer.The BMC over Saturday night and Sunday shifted over 500 Covid patients to nearby hospitals namely SevenHills and NESCO jumbo centres, considering there was a threat of damage owing to the high wind speed.Meanwhile, although shut for patients, the BKC jumbo centre will remain operational for vaccination. “Vaccination at Mulund and Dahisar jumbo centres will remain shut for now. However, the BKC jumbo centre will continue with the vaccination drive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-jumbo-centres-in-mumbai-to-be-shut-for-2-weeks-101621364474742.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||City may see drizzles, thundershowers: IMD||Light rain and isolated thundershowers are likely to be felt at isolated locations across the city till Wednesday night, as per the India Meteorological Department’s forecast for the day. Thane and Palghar districts are also likely to see light to moderate rain on Wednesday, while the southern leg of the Konkan coast will continue seeing light rain. Cyclone Tauktae, which passed Mumbai on Monday after rapidly intensifying into a Category 4 cyclonic storm, made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night, and its influence on city weather is likely to fizzle out by Thursday morning, when clear and sunny skies are expected to take over. Partly cloudy, overcast skies were reported across the city on Tuesday as well, for the third consecutive day. As per the IMD’s automatic weather station in Santacruz, the city had received about 230mm of rain until 8:30am on Tuesday, surpassing the previous 24-hour rainfall record (190mm in May 2000). The IMD’s AWS in Colaba, meanwhile, saw 207mm of rain in the 24-hour period up to 8:30am on Tuesday, breaking the May 2000 record of 190.8mm. Both observatories have recorded rain in the month of May only for the second time in a decade. The last was 3mm of rainfall in May 2017. Meanwhile, some parts of the city registered over 300mm of rainfall within 24 hours (as of 8:30am), including Borivli and Juhu, as reported by independent meteorologists. Other districts received more torrential rainfall, such as Ratnagiri, which got 364mm of rainfall within just 15 hours, between Sunday night and Monday morning. Palghar, lying north of Mumbai, recorded 298mm rain in 15 hours between Monday and Tuesday. The city woke up to a minimum temperature of 23.7°Celsius (four degrees below normal) following heavy rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/city-may-see-drizzles-thundershowers-imd-101621364414035.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Rescued from barges P-305 and Gal constructor, survivor relive horror||“A 15-20 minute delay by the naval rescue team would have cost me my life,” said Satish Narwal, 32, one of the workers on-board P-305 – a barge carrying 273 workers on-board which got disconnected from an oil rig in Bombay High owing to the winds from cyclone Tauktae and sank about 35 nautical miles from Mumbai on Monday – who was found almost 18 hours after he jumped into the Arabian Sea. At the time of going to press, search for the remaining 93 workers was on. Narwal floated and drifted in the sea with life jacket as his only support, saying his body would have given up if the Navy team wouldn’t have reached in time. The 32-year-old, who worked as a gas cutter for seven months, didn’t expect to survive the rough sea, which is why he took care to put his Aadhaar card in his pocket before jumping into the sea. “I thought it would make it easier for the authorities to identify me, in case my body was found somewhere,” he said. On Sunday, after work, he went to his makeshift residential quarters on P-305, an accommodation barge. “We were aware of the warnings about the cyclonic storm that was likely to hit the west coast. We realised it was more windy than usual,” said Narwal, “After 10pm on Sunday, perhaps the time when the cyclone passed the city’s coast and moved towards Gujarat, the sea became very stormy. Soon, our barge got disconnected from the oil rig and started floating away. We were not worried initially, as the power supply was on and everything seemed normal. However, soon, the lights went off and water started gushing into the compartments on the barge, forcing the occupants to gather on the deck wearing life jackets in the dark.” Narwal and his co-workers waited for hours for external help. “As the water level inside the barge increased on Monday afternoon, some jumped into the rough sea, when the winds were blowing at a high speed,” said the father of two. “I could hold on till 3pm and finally jumped, with the hope that Navy or Coast Guard will come to our rescue by sunset.” Narwal stayed afloat the entire night, remembering his wife, 9-year-old son and 4-year-old daughter and every family member and friend. Soon, he felt drained, which made him disoriented. “The sunrise gave me some hope. Finally, I saw a helicopter hovering around me around 9am. I gathered all my strength and waved my right hand in air and succeeded in attracting attention of the naval rescue team,” he said. Khopoli resident Pramod Barai, 36, a senior engineer, who was on barge P-305, also had to spend hours in the sea before he was picked up by a Navy helicopter at 11.30am on Tuesday. He was so traumatised when he was brought by the naval rescue team at INS Shikra in Mumbai that he could barely speak. The nightmare ended early for Leenas Alphonse, 50, a native of Tamil Nadu, who worked on Mumbai High oil rigs as a crane operator and was on Gal constructor, another barge that was being tugged to the Mumbai harbour. On Saturday, they took their dinner early and started their journey towards Mumbai. The barge was being tied by a tugboat, to bring the 137 workers on-board to safety. On Sunday evening, rough weather disconnected the barge from the tugboat and Gal Constructor started drifting away. After floating for some distance, foreman Anand Menon put the four anchors to hold the barge in place, but the anchors broke due to high waves and gusty winds around 11pm on Sunday and the barge started drifting northward. It floated towards Satpati in Palghar district and went aground about 48 nautical miles away from Colaba. The workers on-board spent the night and day without power and food. They started worrying when water started to enter the engine room around 8pm on Monday. “I called my wife and spoke to my 23-year-old daughter on her phone. I narrated the entire sequence of events and instructed her to take care of herself and her mother, as I wasn’t expecting to survive the rough sea. Both of us cried, but my daughter promised me that she would not immediately tell her mother about the situation,” said Alphonse. The Coast Guard (CG) on Tuesday rescued all 137 crew on-board the barge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-rescued-from-barges-p-305-and-gal-constructor-survivor-relive-horror-101621364354105.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone mayhem in city: 2 killed, nine injured||Two persons died and nine were injured over a span of 24 hours as Cyclone Tauktae passed Mumbai, civic officials said on Tuesday. Two persons were reported missing and are suspected to have drowned in two separate boat accidents. Cyclone Tauktae, an extremely severe cyclonic storm (ESCS) that passed Mumbai shortly after noon on Monday, was the worst cyclone to have skirted the city in at least four decades. Tautke, which began crossing Mumbai’s latitude at about 12.37pm on Monday at a distance of about 120-130km from the coast caused huge tidal waves in the Arabian Sea that threw up heaps of garbage near the iconic Gateway of India in Apollo Bunder, Colaba. A Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said they picked up four trucks of garbage from the premises of the monument in south Mumbai after the storm subsided. Sangeeta Kharat (45) succumbed to her injuries following a tree collapse. The resident of BDD chawl, Worli, was injured when a banyan tree collapsed on her following which she rushed to KEM hospital for treatment. Four people were injured in Suman Nagar, Chembur, after a wall of their house which was undergoing repairs, collapsed on Monday. Three of them -- Akshay Mali (21), Sudarshan Mali (23), and Aakash Mali (26) were discharged after treatment, while Sagar Hanuman (22) is being treated at Sion hospital and is said to be in a stable condition. In Kajupada, Borivali East, Kunda Sakpal (40), Sagar Sakpal (25) and Devayani Sakpal (whose age is not known), were injured after a crane from an adjoining construction site fell on their home. They were treated at Krushna hospital and discharged. In Andheri east, a portion of a ground and one storey building collapsed, and a woman was injured. She is being treated at a private hospital, and her condition is stable, the BMC’s disaster management department said. A boat anchored near Madh Jetty was set loose, trapping five people inside. While four were rescued, one is missing. In a similar incident at Mahim causeway, a boat carrying five people was carried into the sea due to gusts of wind. While two swam back to the shore and two were rescued, and one is missing. Search operations have been suspended, the civic body said in a release on Tuesday. The storm damaged a sea-facing safety wall and iron gates near the Gateway of India and some jetty stones in the vicinity also got dislodged due to its impact, civic officials said on Tuesday. However, the main structure of the historic monument did not suffer any damage. “A number basalt stones near the Gateway of India have got dislodged with the impact of the cyclone and a small portion of the footpath there caved-in,” the official said. The area has been barricaded and the stones collected for repairs, he said. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar visited the monument on Tuesday and reviewed the damage caused in the premises and the cleanliness work undertaken there by the civic body. “Two large basalt rocks were broken away from the jetty and crushed in the sea. These are capable of accomodating ten people. So we can imagine the intensity of wind and waves. The main structure of Gateway of India has not been damaged,” she said. A senior civic official of the heritage department said, “The parapet on the sea side has been damaged severely, and the iron railing that encloses the entrance on the sea side has also broken. No damage was done to the monument. Repair work has already started.” The rough sea also dumped tonnes of garbage near the iconic Marine Drive in south Mumbai, the mayor said. Residents across Mumbai complained of power outages, interrupted internet services, and disruptions in mobile phone networks even on Tuesday. The BMC’s disaster management department’s helpline number 1916 received 9,817 calls from citizens, reporting tree collapses, water logging, diverted traffic, asking for updates, and other incidents. Sion Koliwada, Matunga, Mahim, and Dharavi experienced power outages for several hours on Monday and Tuesday. “Many areas in Dharavi did not have power intermittently on Monday and Tuesday. Civic authorities carried out repair work on damaged meter boxes as trees or branches fell on them,” Tilak Singh, a resident of Dharavi said. “Our local internet was cut off on Tuesday, due severe water logging, and tree collapses on Monday,” Nikhil Desai, a resident of Matunga said. The BMC recorded water logging at 56 places as well as 43 incidents of house collapse, wall collapse or partial house collapse. The civic body also received 39 reports of short circuit, and 2,364 reports of tree collapse or branch collapse due to winds. Out of the 2,364 incidents of tree or branch collapse, 666 were reported in the island city, 595 in the eastern suburbs, and 1103 in the western suburbs. Maximum wind speed was recorded at Colaba pumping station – 114 km/hr -- followed by Britannia pumping station (107 km/hr) and Malvani (101.4 km/hr) between 8am on Monday and 8am on Tuesday. Several areas in Mumbai reported over 200mm rainfall during this same time, according to data from BMC. The mayor who visited the jumbo vaccination centre at BKC on Tuesday refuted reports of damage to the facility. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-mayhem-in-city-2-killed-nine-injured-101621364294585.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Navy rescues 180 from barge, search on for remaining 93||In a massive air and sea mission, the Indian Navy rescued 180 of the 273 crew members from sunken barge P305, which de-anchored from an oil rig in Bombay High into the Arabian Sea, hours before the “extremely severe” cyclone Tauktae made landfall on the Gujarat coast late on Monday. According to officials, search operations are going on for the remaining 93 workers of the accommodation barge that sank about 35 nautical miles off Mumbai. Tauktae, the most powerful storm to hit the region in more than two decades, packed sustained winds of up to 210km per hour when it came ashore in Gujarat. The barge was deployed at the Heera platform, the largest of the ONGC rigs in Bombay High, the largest oil and gas assets of the national energy major. Deputy chief of naval staff, vice admiral Murlidhar Sadashiv Pawar said the barge sank at 7pm on Monday in a very choppy sea. The subsequent search and rescue was one of the most challenging operations undertaken by the Navy in four decades, he said.Indian Naval Ships (INS) Beas, Betwa and Teg have joined INS Kochi and INS Kolkata in the search and rescue (SAR) operations for the barge. The SAR had also been augmented with P-8I and naval helicopters, which held an aerial search and since the commencement of the SAR from May 17, 180 have been rescued so far, said commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer, Western Naval Command. Karnik, however, clarified that helicopters cannot be used for aerial search at night and the search will continue by naval ships after ascertaining the distance and direction the survivors could have drifted into the sea. P305, according to some rescued workers, got disconnected from the rig around 10.15pm on Sunday and went adrift as Tauktae struck the Konkan coast. Survivors said water started entering the accommodation barge from Monday morning and they were forced to get out of their compartments and move to the deck of the barge.From Monday afternoon, survivors started jumping from the barge, as it started sinking and since then they were waiting for the Navy to rescue them. A naval officer said that the extremely bad weather due to Tauktae had considerably delayed the SAR.After getting an alert from the barge, Indian Navy sailed warships along with other assets for the ongoing SAR. A Seaking helicopter was sent in Tuesday morning from INS Shikra, Mumbai, to support rescue efforts. The SAR operation is also being carried out by warships INS Kochi and INS Kolkata with the help of other offshore support vessels (OSV) like Greatship Ahilya and Ocean Energy in extreme weather conditions and very rough seas. The SAR operation continued throughout Monday night and 111 people were rescued by INS Kochi and INS Kolkata, and 17 and 18 people were rescued respectively by Greatship Ahilya and by Ocean Energy till 6am on Tuesday, said Karnik. Thereafter, 34 more people from the barge were rescued and brought to INS Shikra in Mumbai by Tuesday evening, taking the total of rescued persons to 180. “Four of our Indian Naval Ships are on site and for last more than 20 hours, the naval staff have been battling to search and rescue as many people as they can through the dark night and in challenging weather conditions,” said Pawar. Meanwhile, in another operation, an Indian Navy Seaking helicopter was launched to rescue crew members of GAL Constructor, another barge which ran aground north of Mumbai, near Satpati in Palghar district. The barge, with 137 persons on-board, was being brought to Mumbai, when it got off from the tug boat that was toeing it to Mumbai harbour on Sunday evening. The crew members tried to hold the barge in place by putting all its four anchors, but the cyclonic storm cut off the anchor, setting it adrift. All the 137 people on board the cargo barge GAL Constructor have been rescued. Search and rescue was also in progress off the coast of Gujarat for three vessels, namely Support Station 3, Great Ship Aditi and Drill Ship Sagar Bhushan, which were 15-20 nautical miles south-east off Pipapav on Gujarat coast. INS Talwar has arrived in the area and taken over the duties of “on-scene co-ordinator” for coordination of search and rescue efforts. The Western Naval Command said, it has in coordination with ONGC and director, general shipping, diverted five tugs to render assistance in the rescue operation. Great Ship Aditi and Support Station 3 have been able to drop anchor. Meanwhile, OSV’s Samudra Sevak and SV Cheel are connected to manoeuvre Sagar Bhushan, and the situation at present appears to be stable, said a naval officer. He added that even after passing of Tauktae, the sea continues to be extremely rough, posing a challenge to the ships and aircraft involved in the search and rescue operations. The main operation pertained to search and rescue of the people from P305, said Pawar. As regards the operation along Gujarat coast, he said the main assistance required was to prevent the three vessels of southern coast of Saurashtra, off Pipvava, from running aground. He added that all the three vessels were safe presently and INS Talwar was on the site and four Tugs were also mobilised by ONGC and shipping corporation of India to insure that these ships don’t run aground. He said the main challenge of course was weather itself and it was very severe cyclonic storm with the winds gusting to 80 to 90 nautical miles and wave heights of around 6 to 7m, incessant rain, zero visibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navy-rescues-180-from-barge-search-on-for-remaining-93-101621364175088.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt floats global tenders for 50 million vaccine doses||After the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the Maharashtra government, too, has floated a global tender for procuring 50 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United States Food and Drug Administration, and are being manufactured in other countries. In its expression of interest (EoI), which was issued on Monday, the state government has put the onus of getting Central approvals on bidders. Though the state has floated the global tenders, there is no clarity on many aspects, including legal indemnity, whether to procure from the source country, the transportation of the stock, duties on them, among others. The state government is aiming at importing the doses of the vaccines manufactured by Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Zydus Cadilla, among others. “The biggest hurdle would be the storage and transportation of the vaccines, which need to be kept at minus 70 degrees Celsius. None of our cities have such infrastructure to maintain the shots at that temperature. Since it has now become the sellers’ market with huge demand from across the globe, the manufacturers have been asking us to procure from manufacturing facilities. It will need robust logistical means to procure the shots that need to be kept at minus 70 degree celsius,” said an official. requesting anonymity as he was not authorised to speak to the media.The official said that though the centre has allowed the state to import the vaccines even before they are given clinical approvals, there is no clarity on other issues. He said that the issues like legal indemnity, import related nods and duty/taxes on import of such stocks are still grey areas.Another official from the health department said that price we are expected to pay per dose for these imported vaccine would be huge and may throw the government budget for a toss. “Most of these vaccines are expected to cost us more than ₹2,000 a dose against our local level procurement of ₹300 and ₹400 a dose. There would be limitations on import of vaccines due to this aspect too. Since the Centre has allowed private sector hospitals and corporate houses to directly procure the vaccines from two domestic players, we cannot even divert the imported stock to the private sector too,” he added. The officer also expressed apprehension over the response to the bids amid all these factors related to the import. Meanwhile, the Centre has not responded to state government’s request for permission to develop its own app for vaccination. Last week, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had sought permission since there have been lots of complaints about the Cowin portal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-floats-global-tenders-for-50-million-vaccine-doses-101621364054081.html
19-05-2021||Mumbai||No response yet, BMC likely to extend deadline for global vaccine bid||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday extended the deadline for participation in the tender floated for procurement of Covid-19 vaccine from the international market. As BMC failed to get any bids from vaccine manufacturers yet by the last date – May 18 (Monday) – the civic body revised the deadline by a week to May 25. BMC did receive three proposals for licences of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine but they were not formal bids, said civic officials. Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said, “We have extended the bid date by one week. We have received three proposals. All of them are for Sputnik vaccine but are incomplete in paper work. So we have given the extension.”On Monday, Velrasu had said, “We have not got any response yet, and we are likely to extend the last date for bidding by one more week. A final decision will be taken on Tuesday evening.”Also Read | Padma Shri awardee Dr KK Aggarwal succumbs to Covid-19The BMC has planned to procure 10 million vaccine doses from the international market in order to speed up the drive in city. For this, it floated a global expression of interest on May 12. According to officials, any interested supplier can bid for the tender. China has been restricted from bidding. Further, the vaccines that do not have Centre’s approval will have to get the same on their own, according to BMC’s tender document.Meanwhile, Shiv Sena MP (Member of Parliament) Rahul Shewale has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding that a uniform set of guidelines for global tenders of vaccine procurement be formed. “Through a state-wise global tender, the states are only pitting against each other. This is creating unhealthy competition between states and the only entity that is most likely to benefit from this is vaccine manufacturers, “Shewale stated in his letter.  He added, “I suggest that the Central government step in and frame guidelines for procuring these vaccines that would suffice the needs of the country. The government should create a single-window clearance to fast track the system for vaccine-related approvals.”Shewale also highlighted that due to shortage of vaccines, immunisation for the 18-44 year age group has been suspended.” On Tuesday, 16,754 citizens were vaccinated in the city of which 4,274 were in the age group of 18 to 44 years of age, 2,514 in the age group of 45 to 59 years of age group and 9,474 were above the age of 60 years. This followed by 98 beneficiaries being health care workers and 394 being front line workers. Overall, in the city 2,858,103 citizens were vaccinated.“According to our estimates, around 300,000 senior citizens are yet to take their first dose of vaccine. Based on the response this week, we will decide whether to continue vaccination for senior citizens on a walk-in basis or not. On Tuesday, the response was probably low due to rainfall but we expect the response to get better from Wednesday,” said Suresh Kakani, additional BMC commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-response-yet-bmc-likely-to-extend-deadline-for-global-vaccine-bid-101621313772732.html
