20-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 29,911 new Covid-19 cases and 738 deaths, 1,433 fresh infections in Mumbai||Maharashtra on Thursday reported a further dip in the number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases as 29,911 registered as infected with the virus in the last 24 hours. The state reported 738 mortalities, pushing the death toll to 85,355, according to the state health bulletin. On Wednesday, Maharashtra saw a rise of 34,031 new cases in the tally.Thursday's additional cases took the coronavirus tally of the state to 54,97,448. Presently, 3,83,253 infections are active across the state, according to the bulletin.Also read: Shortage of black fungus drug Amphotericin B to be resolved soon, says CentreMaharashtra reported the highest recoveries in the country on Thursday, as 47,371 patients recovered from the disease. The number of fresh discharged decreased in a day, as on Wednesday 51,457 patients recovered.Testing for coronavirus plunged in the last 24 hours by over 5,000. On Thursday 2,79,911 samples were tested for the virus in contrast to 285,647 samples on Wednesday. The total number of tests done so far in the state amounts to 3,21,54275, the bulletin showed.Mumbai found 1,433 people infected with the deadly virus in the last 24 hours, as compared to 1,329 on Wednesday. The state capital saw a rise of 104 cases.The casualties from the virus in Mumbai amounted to 59 on Thursday, an incline of two from the previous day when 57 died from the illness, according to the data.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The total caseload of Mumbai currently stands at 6,92,785, with the new deaths taking the toll to 14,410, the data showed.The Union health ministry recognized Maharashtra as one of the states showing a declining trend in the number of Covid-19 cases and positivity rate in the last three weeks. The state reported the highest decline in active caseload in the last 24 hours, as it reduced by over 18, 000, according to the ministry's data. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday also commended the efforts undertaken by the authorities in the Ahmednagar district of the state to control the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-29-911-new-covid-19-cases-738-deaths-101621519505395.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: At least 26 dead on Arabian Sea barge amid rescue ops||The Indian Navy and Coast Guard’s ships and aircraft trawled the waters off Mumbai’s coast on Wednesday after Cyclone Tauktae sank a barge and battered at least three other vessels and facilities in the Arabian Sea, with 26 confirmed dead and 49 still missing more than 48 hours into a challenging rescue operation.The “extremely severe” cyclone, the most powerful one to barrel through the region in over two decades, caused gusts of wind up to 210kmph and nine-metre waves as it raced past Mumbai and made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night. It led to the evacuation of hundreds of thousands of people in coastal states, with at least five dozen others losing their lives in storm-related incidents.“Indian Navy’s Search and Rescue (SAR) operations off Mumbai and Gujarat entered their third day today (Wednesday). Indian Naval ships and aircraft are presently undertaking SAR of the missing crew members of Accommodation Barge P305, which sank on May 17, 35 miles off Mumbai… As of now, 186 crew members of Accommodation barge P305, and two from Tug Varaprada have been rescued by Indian Navy ships and aircraft,” the Indian Navy said.Also Read| PM Modi reviews Tauktae damage in GujaratThe barge named P305 (Papaa 305), with living quarters for 261 people working offshore, sank after the storm battered the Bombay High oilfield on Monday near Mumbai, where some of the country’s biggest offshore oil rigs are located. The facility and two other barges that were hit by the cyclone were deployed by Afcons for a contract from state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC).All 137 people on board barge Gal Constructor, which ran aground about 90km north of Mumbai’s Colaba Point, were rescued on Tuesday by the navy and the Indian Coast Guard, a person involved in the operation said. The 196 people on barge SS-3 and 101 personnel on board oil rig Sagar Bhushan were also brought to safety, he added. The three barges and the oil rig housed 695 people in total.In a challenging air and sea mission, rescuers secured 180 of the 261 crew members from P305 by Tuesday evening, about 20 hours after they were forced to jump into the extremely rough sea after the barge sank.Six more people were picked up by the rescuers on Wednesday, the navy said. An officer said search and rescue operations were on for the remaining 49 crew members of the accommodation barge.“Search and rescue operations are still on. However, the chances of finding more survivors are getting bleaker by the hour,” the official said, asking not to be named.The oil ministry on Wednesday constituted a high-level committee to investigate the sequence of events leading to the stranding of three vessels of the contractor of ONGC.“The stranding, drifting and subsequent events have led to loss of several lives,” a ministry statement said without giving details.The Mumbai Police will conduct a probe as to why P305 stayed in the area despite warnings about Cyclone Tauktae, an official said on condition of anonymity.Also Read| Firm that ran cyclone-hit barges says people on board had life jackets, raftsIn a statement, Afcons said: “P305 had a full complement of safety equipment including life jackets and life rafts for all persons on board.” ONGC said it was extending help to the navy and coast guard in the rescue effort.Hundreds of thousands of people were evacuated on Monday, with electricity supply and transport services badly hit on land as the most powerful Arabian Sea cyclone in over two decades moved up the country’s western coast, making landfall in Gujarat after leaving a trail of destruction in Kerala, Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra, and killing dozens of people.According to deputy chief of naval staff, vice admiral Murlidhar Sadashiv Pawar, the barge sank at 7pm on Monday in choppy waters and rough weather.The navy received SOS calls from P305 on Monday morning. Warships INS Kochi, INS Kolkata, INS Beas, INS Betwa, INS Teg, P8I maritime surveillance aircraft, Chetak, ALH & Sea King helicopters are involved in the operation.“INS Kochi which entered Mumbai harbour on Wednesday to disembark 125 survivors and mortal remains of four crew members, was immediately sailed out in the evening again to continue the search effort,” the navy said.On completion of its operations off the Gujarat coast, INS Talwar has also been diverted to join other three naval ships searching for the missing crew of barge P305 off Mumbai. INS Talwar assisted in securing SS-3 and Sagar Bhushan, which were now being safely towed back to Mumbai by ONGC support vessels, the navy said.The navy also rescued two crew members of a tugboat, Varprada. They were picked up by INS Kolkata on Monday while it was on its way to join rescue efforts at P305. The two people informed naval officers that they were part of the crew of a tugboat that went missing along with 11 other crew members. It wasn’t immediately clear if this was the same tugboat that was being used to secure the barge named Gal Constructor.“No one would have had survived if not for the help that came... We are thankful they saved our lives,” a survivor told news agency ANIAnother survivor said he jumped into the sea with his life jacket and was later picked up by the navy. “We saw our ship sink and several people on the deck were falling into the sea. [We] spent more than 10 hours in stormy water when the Navy rescued 12 people out of our group of 14 on Tuesday morning. Two are still missing,” said 22-year-old Sunil Kumar Madhesia, who worked as a helper on the barge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-at-least-26-dead-on-arabian-sea-barge-amid-rescue-ops-101621476292908.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Got proposals from 3 firms for import of Sputnik V, says BMC||Mumbai’s civic body, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has received proposals from three companies for supplying Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccines, its commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said in an interview with a news channel on Wednesday.Chahal’s comment comes a day after the civic body extended the deadline for a global tender for the supply of 10 million Covid vaccine doses to the city. The last date for submission was May 18, but after failing to receive any bids, BMC extended the deadline to May 25.Mumbai has 11 million people over the age of 18 years, the current eligible group for vaccines.In an interview with Bloomberg TV, Chahal said BMC estimates that it will spend about ₹700 crore to buy the shots. “Once we get 15 million vaccine shots, I plan to vaccinate the entire city in the next 60 days and by doing so, I am very sure we will be able to stop the third wave from coming.”Meanwhile, the three proposals for Sputnik V vaccines have come from a United Kingdom-based firm and two companies from India. According to BMC officials, their paperwork was incomplete so the companies have been asked to send revised proposals as formal bids. The identity of the companies was not revealed by BMC; nor was it immediately clear.Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasuadded: “We have received three proposals. All of them are for Sputnik vaccine but have come with incomplete paperwork. So we have given the extension.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/got-proposals-from-3-firms-for-import-of-sputnik-v-says-bmc-101621474110215.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: HC allows Hany Babu to be shifted to Breach Candy Hospital for treating eye infection||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state prison authorities to shift Elgar Parishad accused Hany Babu who is lodged in Taloja jail since his arrest on July 28, 2020, to a private hospital of his choice, provided his family is willing to foot the bill for treating an opthalmology problem due to an infection. While Babu was taken to Sir JJ Hospital to examine his eyes, he tested positive for Covid-19, and was hence shifted to GT Hospital.However, after GT Hospital said that they were not equipped to treat Babu’s opthalmology problem, he was to be shifted back to Sir JJ Hospital for further treatment. Babu’s family sought permission from the court to transfer him to Breach Candy Hospital on the assurance that they would foot the bill for treating his eye problem, which the court allowed. Babu will be shifted to Breach Candy Hospital on Thursday. A division bench of justice SJ Kathwalla and justice SP Tavade, while hearing the urgent bail application of Babu on medical grounds, was informed by advocates Yug Choudhary and Payoshi Roy that the Delhi University associate professor had developed a swelling in his left eye on May 3, was having double vision and was in pain. After repeated requests by Babu’s family, the prison authorities took him to Sir JJ Hospital for examining his eye on May 12 where he tested positive for Covid-19.Choudhary submitted that as Babu was to be shifted to Sir JJ Hospital for treating the eye problem the family wanted him to be moved to a private hospital and hence sought bail for him.However, the application was opposed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for NIA submitted that Sir JJ Hospital, KEM and Nair hospital were well equipped to treat the eye problem, hence the application should not be allowed. He further submitted that allowing Babu to be shifted to a private hospital would set a wrong precedent and other prisoners would also seek such facilities.After hearing the submissions and speaking to Babu over video conferencing wherein he said he was satisfied with the treatment at GT Hospital, the court directed that he be shifted to Breach Candy Hospital. In response to NIA’s objection, the court said, “Let the family get the psychological satisfaction at least that he is treated in a hospital of their choice. There is nothing wrong if this becomes a precedent, more so in these times.”The court further stated that as Babu’s family had assured of footing the bill at Breach Candy hospital he should be shifted there on Thursday and also allowed Babu to communicate with his family and lawyers and posted a hearing of his application on June 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-hc-allows-hany-babu-to-be-shifted-to-breach-candy-hospital-for-treating-eye-infection-101621454436952.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: HC directs Stan Swamy to be checked at JJ Hospital on May 20||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Taloja jail superintendent to take Elgar Parishad accused Fr Stan Swamy, 84, to Sir JJ Hospital for his medical check-up on May 20 at noon. The HC has also directed the dean of Sir JJ Hospital to constitute an expert committee which includes a neuro physician, orthopaedic surgeon, ENT specialist and any other doctor to examine Swamy and submit its report by May 21. The court also directed the state prison authorities to bring Swamy before the court through a video conference on May 21. The vacation bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade was hearing the bail application on the medical ground which was filed in the HC by Swamy’s relatives after the special court rejected his application for substantive bail in March 2021. On May 4, while hearing the appeal by Swamy against the special court order the court had directed the relatives to file a separate application for interim bail on the medical ground which was heard on Wednesday. Swamy was arrested in October 2020 and has been kept at Taloja jail since then. Senior advocate Mihir Desai informed the bench that on Monday a note seeking urgent hearing of Swamy’s medical bail application was moved as his condition had deteriorated over the past week and he had developed cough and fever and he was not even tested for Covid though 26 jail inmates and staff had tested positive. The note also claimed that the jail hospital did not have proper medical facilities to treat and monitor the octogenarian who had underlying conditions. Desai further submitted that as Swamy was in an advanced stage of Parkinson’s disease and could not hear or stand on his own and hence in light of the spread of Covid-19 in prisons he should be released on temporary bail or shifted to a private hospital.The note also claimed that as per statistics posted on the Maharashtra State prison website on April 13, Taloja prison had 3,251 inmates while its capacity was of 2124 inmates only. The note further stated that while the jail required to have 2/3rd of its capacity to maintain physical distancing norms it was not complying with the decongestion norms laid down by the Supreme Court (SC). The note also stated that Swamy was taking allopathic medicines along with the antibiotics prescribed by Ayurveda doctors in Taloja Jail hospital. The lawyer further submitted that given his ill health and severe comorbidities, Swamy is at risk of getting infected by Covid-19.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the National Investigation Agency (NIA), a probing agency opposed the plea and submitted that Swamy was being provided proper medical treatment and his health was being regularly monitored. Singh’s submissions were corroborated by the prison report which stated that the general condition of Swamy was stable and that he was provided with a high protein diet, hot water for bathing and provided two attendants- the prisoners at their willingness. Additional public prosecutor JP Yagnik for the state referred to the report and stated that Swamy had been provided with a mattress, bed sheet, pillow, sipper, walker and walking sticks, commode, was being examined by psychiatrists at regular intervals and had a stable pumping heart and good blood circulation. However, Desai disputed the accuracy of the report and said that there was no mention of Swamy’s complaint of abdomen pain and pain due to lumbar spondylitis, in the report. After hearing the submissions, the bench ordered Swamy’s health checkup and sought a report to be submitted by 11 am on Friday. “In the event of Taloja prison having video conference facility, it shall produce appellant Swamy before the court on May 21,” said HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-hc-directs-stan-swamy-to-be-checked-at-jj-hospital-on-may-20-101621454436267.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Firm that ran cyclone-hit barges says people on board had life jackets, rafts||Afcons Infrastructure said on Wednesday that 26 bodies recovered by the Indian Navy during its search operations in the Arabian Sea were crew members of the barge Papaa 305 (P305) that sank off the coast of Mumbai on Monday evening.Three barges of Afcons, a contractor working on Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) fields off the west coast with more than 600 people on board, were stranded in offshore areas during the cyclonic storm.ONGC said “all possible measures in coordination with ODAG (Offshore Defence Advisory Group) and MRCC (Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre)” were being taken to ensure the safety of personnel and vessels in the aftermath of Cyclone Tauktae.The barge P305 was anchored near a rig in Heera Oil Fields, roughly 72km west of Mumbai in the Arabian Sea. On May 16, at around 10.15pm, all its 12 anchors broke away, causing it to set adrift. On the afternoon of May 17, water began to enter the barge, forcing many of its 261 occupants to jump off deck. By 7pm, the barge sank.Afcons said P305 “had a full complement of safety equipment including life jackets and life rafts for all persons on board”.“We are anguished and deeply distraught by the loss of lives and share in the grief of the bereaving friends and family members,” Afcons said in a statement on Wednesday. “We know nothing can ever compensate for the loss of a loved one, but we will extend our fullest support including financial assistance to the bereaved families in this hour of their need,” it said.Afcons and consortium partner Halani-TES-Nauvata chartered the barge to work on a project for ONGC in the Western Offshore fields in the Arabian sea. The barge, owned and operated by M/s Durmast Enterprises Limited, had 261 personnel onboard when it sent out a distress call on Monday morning. The people on board comprised marine crew, labourers on contract, and employees of Afcons. Till Wednesday night, 186 of them were rescued, while 49 were still missing.“Our immediate focus is to locate and rescue the remaining missing personnel as quickly as possible,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/all-on-board-p305-had-life-jackets-afcon-101621454256187.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||INS Kochi baack with 125 survivors of P305||Two days after conducting search and rescue operation (SAR), the Indian Naval Ship (INS) Kochi returned to Tiger Gate in Mumbai harbour on Wednesday morning carrying 125 survivors of Barge P305, one of the three barges that was carried adrift after Cyclone Tautkae, an extremely severe cyclonic storm, passed over the Arabian Sea between May 16 and 17. The barge, anchored near a rig in Heera Oil Fields, roughly 40 nautical miles (72 km) west of Mumbai in Arabian Sea, began to drift around 10.15pm on Sunday after all of its 12 anchors broke off. As the cyclone began to cross Mumbai latitude at 12.37 pm, 120-130 km off the coast of the city, water began to enter the barge, forcing all of its 261 occupants to move to the deck. Around 2 pm, the barge began to tilt and go underwater. Within five hours, it sank completely. Some, like Indrajeet Sharma, 33, started jumping into the water before the barge finally went underwater at 7pm. “I had no other option except jumping into the sea to save my life on Monday. I jumped around 6pm, an hour before the barge sank,” Sharma, a senior engineer who had been working on the barge since last May, said. “After spending 8 hours in the water, I was rescued by INS Kochi at 2am on Tuesday. I could not open my eyes for almost 24 hours as I spent several hours in the salty water,” he said. The barge, owned and operated by Durmast Enterprises Limited, had been chartered by a consortium led by Afcons Infrastructure Limited for an Oil and Natural Gas (ONGC) project in the Western Offshore fields in the Arabian Sea. The people on board comprised marine crew, labourers on contract, and employee of Afcons. On Monday morning, the Indian Navy received a distress call from P305 and immediately dispatched three ships -- INS Kochi, Talwar and Kolkata -- to rescue the people, even as inclement weather made the search and rescue operations difficult. INS Kochi, which left Mumbai harbour around 10am on Monday, was the first to reach the site at 4pm. INS Kolkata reached around midnight. The Navy also deployed helicopters and aircraft to conduct aerial surveys. Other ships, including offshore support vessels, multipurpose support vessels and Coast Guard vessels got involved in the SAR operations the following day. “Our employer thought that nothing would happen in the cyclone due to which we faced the most terrifying day of our lives,” said Faraz Nadkar, 22, an architect who joined the barge a few months ago. “We waited till the last moment when the ship was just about to sink. We (five to six people) jumped in wearing life jackets. We held each other’s hands for courage. We decided that if we would die, we’d die together. We spent around 12 hours in the water and for most of the time we spoke of our families,” Nadkar said. “The Indian Naval Ship reached in the evening and rescued us at 6am on Tuesday,” said Nadkar. “I lost everything including my passport and prayed to God all night that I would live to see my parents again,” said Sunil Kumar Madhesia (22), who hails from Kushinagar, Uttar Pradesh. “We saw our ship sink and several people on the deck were falling into the sea. [We] spent more than 10 hours in stormy water when the Navy rescued 12 people out of our group of 14 on Tuesday morning. Two are still missing,” said Madhesia, who worked as a helper on the barge. “It is the mistake of the company to not take the decision to send us to Mumbai from the high sea,” said Dombivali resident Deepak Ingle, 30, a technician who started work on the barge in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ins-kochi-baack-with-125-survivors-of-p305-101621454196099.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||HC restrains BMC from felling trees for coastal road till next hearing||The Bombay high court restrained the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Wednesday from felling and transplanting 61 and 70 trees, respectively at Tata Garden at Bhulabhai Desai Road, based on the January 6 order of the BMC’s tree authority. The permission was granted by the authority to make way for the coastal road interchange. A division bench of justice S J Kathawalla and justice S P Tavade while hearing the petition filed by NGO Society of Improvement of Greenery was informed by advocate Ankit Kulkarni that it was not aware of the January 6 permission granted by the tree authority to fell 140 trees at Breach Candy for the coastal road. He informed the court that while an earlier proposal involved fewer trees, it was opposed to the decision and wanted to challenge it. However, senior advocate Aspi Chinoy and advocate Joel Carlos for the BMC and coastal road project opposed the submission of the NGO and said the order was uploaded on the civic administration’s website on January 19, and the NGO could not claim it had no knowledge of it to seek a stay. Chinoy further submitted that when the NGO’s petition had come up for hearing in March and the BMC had mentioned about the decision in its affidavit, the NGO had not raised any objection against it. Kulkarni, however, informed the court that the BMC served the affidavit on the NGO only on Wednesday morning hence it wanted time to challenge the decision. After hearing the submissions, the bench restrained the BMC from going ahead with the felling till the NGO added the challenge to the authority’s order in its petition filed in March 2020 and posted the hearing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-restrains-bmc-from-felling-trees-for-coastal-road-till-next-hearing-101621454075993.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Sena compares WB-Centre tussle to Israel-Palestine conflict||Comparing the ongoing tussle between the Centre and West Bengal government to Israel-Palestine conflict, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece on Wednesday said that PM Narendra Modi-home minister Amit Shah duo has taken the defeat in the Assembly polls to heart and have decided to make Mamata Banerjee bow before the Centre. Amid Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) action against Trinamool Congress legislators and West Bengal ministers in the Narada sting operation case, an editorial on Wednesday said that West Bengal governor was acting unconstitutionally and that he should be recalled. On Monday, the CBI arrested West Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, TMC MLA Madan Mitra and former party legislator Sovan Chatterjee in the Narada bribery case sparking another row between the Centre and the Mamata Banerjee government. The editorial said that the attempts were being made to create political instability in the state.Taking on WB governor Jagdeep Dhankar, the editorial said, “Dhankar said that he gave the go-ahead for action against the legislators. The conduct of the governor is against the constitution… Attempts are being made to create instability and unrest in West Bengal ... the governor should be immediately recalled,” said the editorial. It further said that the political career of Dhankar has not been “sparkling”. “He has not done anything great in his politics. Therefore, if he has been given a specific brief to harass a woman chief minister given by the Centre, then the National Women’s Commission must take cognizance of it.”The editorial Marathi daily added that the action against TMC MLAs is “political vendetta”. “They were caught on camera taking bribes in the 2014 Narada string operation. But why no action against the other two accused - Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari - who are now with the BJP? Have they become clean since they are now in the BJP?” it asked.It added that the struggle between the Centre and Banerjee will give a “new direction to the country”. “There was no reason for Modi-Shah to take the victory of Mamata Banerjee to heart... If the Centre has decided to make the victorious Mamata bow before them, it is not good democracy.”The Pydhonie police on Tuesday registered a case against chief managing director and editor-in-chief of Sudarshan News TV Suresh Chavhanke and two others panelists of a TV show aired on May 13, for allegedly showing objectionable content on the ongoing Israel-Palestine conflict and outraging religious feelings of a community. The FIR is based on the complaint filed by Irfan Shaikh, joint secretary, Raza Academy, Mumbai. Raza Academy president Saeed Noori said, “The content has hurt the religious sentiments of the community.” “Senior police officers will take call on the probe,” said Subhash Dudhgaonkar, senior inspector, Pydhonie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-compares-wb-centre-tussle-to-israel-palestine-conflict-101621454016808.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||HC to hear state petition against CBI FIR in graft case against ex-home minister||The Bombay high court (HC) heard the petition filed by the Maharashtra government alleging that the first information report (FIR) filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI,) based on the complaint by advocate Dr Jaishri Patil, after completing the preliminary probe as directed by the HC in the allegations of corruption and interference in police posting and appointments made by former Mumbai Police commissioner against former home minister Anil Deshmukh is aimed at destabilising the government. In a late night hearing which started around 11pm on Wednesday, the division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade was informed by senior advocate Rafique Dada and Darius Khambatta that they would require around 45 minutes to argue. Additional solicitor generals SV Raju and Anil Singh, for CBI, submitted they would require another hour to respond to the arguments made by the state of Maharashtra. While apprising the bench of the contents, Dada submitted that the CBI FIR filed after completion of the preliminary probe had dealt with the issue of former deputy general of police (DGP) Rashmi Shukla’s claim that there was political interference in posting and transfer of police officers. Dada submitted that as the issue had been heard and the inquiry was closed, negating the claims of Shukla by a high-power committee, there was no need for CBI to include the issue in the FIR. He added that as per CBI manual, it could only investigate issues with the consent of the state, which was withdrawn in October 2020. Raju referred to the two unnumbered paragraphs in the order passed by the division bench headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta on April 5 and said the order did not put any restrictions on CBI from investigating any aspect of the case and had left it to the discretion of CBI director to take appropriate action after completion of the preliminary probe. In view of this, he said CBI was justified in including the issues which were being opposed by the state. He further submitted that the Apex court had, in numerous cases, permitted investigation agencies to go beyond the ambit of the rules. After hearing the preliminary arguments, the bench said it wanted to understand the matter and asked both counsels to furnish their arguments in short written submission by Thursday evening and posted hearing of the matter on Friday 3 pm.Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday recorded statement of advocate Jaishri Patil in connection with the money laundering case against Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-to-hear-state-petition-against-cbi-fir-in-graft-case-against-ex-home-minister-101621454016157.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases on decline, lockdown unlikely to be extended in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 34,031 daily infections pushing the count to 5,467,537. The tally of active cases dipped to 401,695 as 51,457 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours. Significantly, state health minister Rajesh Tope also hinted that the state may not extend complete lockdown as the situation in the state is improving.The state saw 594 casualties taking the toll up to 84,371. Kolhapur reported the highest toll with 80 deaths. The district recorded 68 deaths while the city reported 12 fatalities. It was followed by Mumbai and Pune with 57 and 49 casualties respectively.Dr Rahul Pandit, member of the state task force, said that those who are succumbing to the disease are not new patients and were admitted to the hospital at least three weeks ago. He also said that the virus is fatal and patients are coming in a critical position. “The deaths that are happening are of the patients that were admitted a few weeks ago. These are the patients who were admitted almost three weeks ago but could not be recovered and succumbed to the disease. They are not new patients,” Dr Pandit said, who is also director, critical care, Fortis Hospital, Mulund. After over three months of surge, the daily cases in Maharashtra have started declining gradually. The situation started changing ever since the state government imposed a complete lockdown on April 22, which has been extended till the early morning of June 1. For the straight six days, Maharashtra is reporting less than 40,000 cases.However, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the state has been on the rise for the first time since July 2020. This is because the state is reporting a significant number of casualties daily. Till May 19 — 14,462 fatalities have been reported in this month alone, which is record highest in any of the months since March 2020 when Covid-19 hit Maharashtra, according to the statistics provided by the state health department.There are 12 days still left for this month to be completed.Previously, April had reported the highest number of fatalities — 12,496.On May 19, the case fatality rate (CFR) recorded at 1.54% from 1.49% reported on May 1. In the last three months — February, March and April, CFR were 2.42%, 1.94% and 1.5%.The average daily casualties of this month also reached an all-time high — 770. In April, it was 416.Four districts — Nanded (9.17%), Nandurbar (7.74%), Hingoli (5.46%) and Bhandara (4.92%) — have reported the highest death rate across the state past week (between May 12-18). Districts having the highest number of casualties are — Mumbai — 14,373, Pune — 8,987, Nagpur — 6,252, Nashik — 3,940 and Solapur — 3532, according to a weekly analysis report prepared by the state health department.Mumbai also clocked 1,329 cases and reported a total 691,352 cases to date.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 285,647 samples and had a positivity rate of 11.91%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 17.15%, according to the data issued by the state health department on Wednesday.Tope said, “Our tally of active cases has come down to around 400,000 from close to 700,000 in 25 days. Our daily growth rate has also declined to 0.5% and Maharashtra is currently at 34th position among states in the terms of growth rate across the country.”He also hinted that the current lockdown restrictions could be eased to some extent, subject to the prevailing situation towards the end of the month when the ongoing lockdown is scheduled to end.“Lockdown will remain in force till early morning of June 1. The thumb rules for imposing lockdown are the availability of beds, medicines and in case healthcare services are likely to get crumbled. Today, we have beds and medicines available in all the districts. We also have an adequate number of doctors and healthcare workers,” he said in response to a question related to extending lockdown restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-cases-on-decline-lockdown-unlikely-to-be-extended-in-maharashtra-101621452876428.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||At 1,329 new cases, Mumbai sees a slight jump||A day after the city reported below 1,000 cases - the lowest in the last two months, the daily case figure jumped by 38% as the city recorded 1,329 cases on Wednesday along with 57 deaths compared to 44 deaths being reported on Tuesday. However, the silver lining is that the daily positivity rate has remained around 5%.The number of cases on Wednesday increased owing to the increase in the number of testing. On Tuesday, 961 cases were reported out of the 17,920 tests that were conducted in the city meaning a daily positivity rate of 5.36%. On Wednesday, the testing went up to 22,788 of which 1,329 were positive meaning a daily positivity rate of 5.83%.According to state health department data, the city’s total case tally is 691,352 followed by a death toll is 14,373. The city’s recovery rate is 93.37% with 645,516 recoveries. The city’s fatality rate is 2.07% and there are 29,445 active cases.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We have directed our officials to ramp up testing as they had gone down in the last few days. We have not set any target but have asked officials to ensure proper contact tracing. Though the test has gone down, our daily positivity rate has not increased, which is a good sign.”The city had increased its testing since March 23 owing to the second wave and for one straight month, there were above 40,000 tests being reported in the city. But the number of tests started falling in the last 10 days owing to the positivity rate going down. According to BMC officials, the number of cases is going down as there are very less citizens who are taking up self-testing.Meanwhile, Dr Siddarth Paliwal a city-based physician said, “This means citizens are not getting tested on time, and are waiting for their condition to get worse. This in a way also leads to an increase in fatality rate to a certain point. Hence, BMC has to ensure that the testing number does not go down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-1-329-new-cases-mumbai-sees-a-slight-jump-101621452756839.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Mucormycosis claims 90 lives in Maharashtra||Maharashtra has recorded 90 deaths of recovered Covid-19 patients owing to mucormycosis, also called black fungus. So far, Maharashtra has reported around 1,500 infections and has around 850 active patients across the state, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. He also asked the Centre to immediately release allocation of Amphotericin B injections, which is used to treat the disease, as the state is getting around 300-400 cases every week.The issue was also discussed in the state cabinet meeting as ministers raised concern over rising cases of mucormycosis. The state has a stock of only 16,000 doses which were distributed among the districts based on the number of active cases, officials said.Mucormycosis is a rare fungal infection that is found in immunodeficient patients.The state government has placed an order of 190,000 doses of Amphotericin B, but the companies are unable to supply the stock as the Centre has decided to regulate its supply and will determine its allocation based on the availability in the market, Tope said.“Around 1,500 patients are found infected with mucormycosis in the state till date. Of them, the state has around 850 active patients who are getting treatment in various districts, the rest have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. There are also 90 casualties recorded owing to the disease thus far,” Tope told reporters on Wednesday after the cabinet meeting.“We want the Centre to make allocations of Amphotericin B immediately as its cases in the state are rising continuously. Last week, the state clocked around 400 cases. We have also floated a global tender to get doses from the international market. There is no reason for the state to take it lightly and we are exploring all the possible options available with us,” he added.Covid patients who were treated with excessive use of steroids and those with high diabetes are usually found infected with the disease. This is the reason the state government has recently issued detailed guidelines on its symptom, medical investigation, prevention and treatment protocol for local authorities and doctors on May 17. HT was the first to report this on May 18.The guidelines were issued with an aim to reduce morbidity and mortality among mucormycosis patients. It asked for strict glycemic control during management of Covid-19 patients which means blood sugar levels must be continuously controlled. It added that systemic steroids can be used only in patients with hypoxemia, and if used blood sugar level should be monitored.The state government has also declared to treat patients suffering from mucormycosis under Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Jan Aarogya Yojana (MJPJAY) for free. It has also decided to remove the cap of ₹150,000 for treating a patient under the scheme only for this disease, Tope said.“Strict infection control measures including cleaning and replacement of humidifiers (to be implemented). Sterile normal saline should be used in the humidifier bottle and changed daily and masks should be disinfected daily. Local public health laboratory should be asked to take swabs of humidifiers, masks, tubing and common touch areas for culture of mucormycosis,” stated the order issued by Ramaswami N, commissioner, health services and mission director, National Health Mission (NHM), Maharashtra on May 17.It has asked the doctors not to miss warning signs and symptoms and also to not consider all cases of blocked nose as cases of bacterial sinusitis, especially in the context of immunosuppression and Covid-19 patients on immunomodulators.It also described signs and symptoms of mucormycosis comprising pain and redness around eyes and nose, fever — usually mid, epistaxis (bleeding from the nose), headache, cough, shortness of breath, blood vomiting and altered mental status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mucormycosis-claims-90-lives-in-maharashtra-101621452275787.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Verbal spat between MVA ministers over quota in promotion for reserved category govt staff||Two Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ministers — deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and energy minister Nitin Raut of the Congress — were involved in a verbal dual over quota in promotion in government jobs for reserved category employees. The state government had, on May 7, issued an order to scrap reservation in promotions in accordance with a Bombay high court (HC) order given in August 2017. The issue was about quota in promotions in government jobs which, according to Dalit activists, was introduced nationally to ensure that employees do not face discrimination in promotions. It was meant for government employees from Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other sections in the quota. During a cabinet sub-committee meeting on Wednesday, Raut questioned the order which scrapped the reservation saying it was unjust. He also asked Pawar how could the government issue the order without taking the sub-committee of ministers, appointed to take a decision on reservation, into confidence. He also said that despite the court order, the Central government has been implementing reservation in promotions on the basis of the Supreme Court ruling in Jarnail Singh case. Raut demanded that the order be immediately scrapped and a fresh legal opinion be sought on the issue. Pawar is head of the cabinet sub-committee.Raut’s office issued a press statement saying that the May 7 order has been scrapped. However, the deputy chief minister’s office clarified that no such decision has been taken and Pawar has agreed to the legal review of the decision.Maharashtra government has given 33% reservation in promotion in government jobs to SC, ST, VJNT and SBC employees. It was challenged in the Bombay HC which, in 2017, ruled against it and asked the government to reverse the promotions given under the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/verbal-spat-between-mva-ministers-over-quota-in-promotion-for-reserved-category-govt-staff-101621452215811.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||HC lauds BMC, pulls up Centre, state for lapses in dealing with Covid||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday lauded the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for its great vision of having civic-run hospitals with affiliated medical colleges which enabled it to control the number of Covid-19 cases in the city, and said the same should be emulated by other civic bodies. The HC then pulled up the state for not complying with its earlier orders pertaining to alleged mismanagement of Covid-19 treatment during the second wave and for not taking steps to curb black-marketing and profiteering during procurement and distribution of Covid-19 drugs. The bench also blasted the Centre for allowing politicians and celebrities to procure and provide antiviral drugs and oxygen. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing public interest litigations (PILs) citing mismanagement of Covid-19 second wave by the state and civic authorities, was informed there was little to no compliance of the court’s earlier orders by any of the respondents. The bench was told the replies and affidavits filed were incomplete and vague as they failed to address the issues raised in the petitions conclusively. The affidavit filed by the state while pointing out that there was no shortage of remdesivir was silent on the administration of the drug in private hospitals. The bench took note of the same and questioned the state as to how they could substantiate its claim of no shortage. The court also noted that though Covid-19 cases were going down, the need for oxygen had not reduced and hence there was a doubt about the facts and figures furnished by the state. In light of concerns raised by advocate Rajesh Inamdar for one of the petitioners over celebrities and politicians procuring drugs and oxygen to help patients, HC asked the Centre, “Allocation is by Union, collection is by state. Where is the window of collection by these personalities? That is our anxiety.” Additional solicitor general Anil Singh submitted that the Centre would file a report on the issue along with compliances of the earlier orders of HC. He added that the Central authority had asked all state drugs controllers to conduct investigation drives to prevent hoarding and black marketing of remdesivir. Senior advocate Anil Sakhare for BMC informed the bench that the civic body was taking measures for expanding the scope of vaccination and infrastructure for paediatric treatment.After hearing the submissions, the bench said, “We make it clear that we are concerned with the lives of citizens; there cannot be any mileage for popularity or for other things. We are deeply pained if needy patients are being deprived of it. This is sorry state of affairs.” The bench then warned, “By the next hearing, if we find you (state) are not serious in compliance of our orders, we will be compelled to seek presence of the chief secretary of Maharashtra.”Lauding the BMC’s vision of having big hospitals and affiliated medical colleges, the HC said other civic bodies should have followed such mechanism.It observed that while every district has civil hospitals, all of them did not have medical colleges. “The pandemic is an eye opener. Think of future generations. They should not be under fear of doctors not being available to treat. It is high time for policymakers to sit down and decide. We can only echo our sentiments,” said the bench. Seeking affidavits in reply to its queries from Central and state governments, the court posted hearing to May 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-lauds-bmc-pulls-up-centre-state-for-lapses-in-dealing-with-covid-101621452155805.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Why is PM visiting only Gujarat when Maharashtra too is hit by cyclone, asks MVA||Ruling parties in Maharashtra on Wednesday asked why Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi did not visit Maharashtra and announced aid only for his home state Gujarat when both the states were hit by Cyclone Tauktae. Meanwhile, politicians from ruling parties as well as opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) started touring cyclone-hit coastal districts.In the backdrop of PM Modi’s Gujarat tour on Wednesday, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders criticised him for giving Maharashtra a different treatment.The Congress asked why Modi gave a miss to other states hit by Cyclone Tauktae. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole asked why Modi did not visit Maharashtra which was one of the worst-hit states due to the cyclone. “Coastal districts (in Maharashtra) have sustained huge losses due to losses of coconut, mango trees and damages to fishing boats and housing structures. Despite this, the PM visited parts of his home state and announced relief package. Is he the PM of only Gujarat,” he questioned.Shiv Sena MP and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that PM Modi visited Gujarat because the government in his home state was weak. “I do not want to say anything on his Gujarat tour, because the prime minister should visit the battered parts of the country. Maharashtra has faced similar losses as other states due to the cyclone, but he must have thought of Gujarat first because of the weak leadership in that state. He knows that Maharashtra is in able hands of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, but it may not be the case of Gujarat. He must have felt about more need of giving helping hands to the people of Gujarat,” he said.Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) chief spokesperson and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said, “Is this not clear discrimination towards Maharashtra?”BJP vice-president Madhav Bhandari has hit back and asked why the chief minister did not visit the affected districts in his own state. “Before raising questions about Modi’s tour, MVA leaders should first reply why the CM did not visit Ratnagiri or other districts hit by the cyclone immediately, as the PM did. They should also reveal about the quantum of losses Maharashtra has sustained while comparing it with Gujarat. The losses in Gujarat are many times more than here. MVA leaders are busy in politicising everything including a natural calamity like this, without maintaining even a minimum amount of decency,” he said.Meanwhile, leaders from ruling as well as opposition parties have started touring coastal districts hit by the cyclone. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will visit Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg on Friday and Saturday, while relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar will tour five districts over the next four days. Patole too is visiting parts of Konkan on Thursday. Leader of opposition in the legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis is on three-day tour of Konkan. After visiting affected villages of Raigad on Wednesday, he took stock of the relief work at the district collectorate. “Villagers in Raigad sustained huge losses as crops and horticulture across around 5,000 hectares have been destroyed. 70,000 households in 172 villages are still in the dark owing to disconnection of electricity supply. The villagers have been complaining about not having received compensation for their losses in Cyclone Nisarga last year. The state government should announce a sizable package to give relief to these residents,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-is-pm-visiting-only-gujarat-when-maharashtra-too-is-hit-by-cyclone-asks-mva-101621452096371.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Compared to Cyclone Nisarga, 150% more trees fell during Cyclone Tauktae: BMC data||Over 150% more tree falls were reported in the city during Cyclone Tauktae when compared to the figured during Cyclone Nisarga that hit the city last year, according to data of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). This, BMC claims, was due to high wind speed of 114kmph (kilometer per hour) during Cyclone Tauktae.BMC on Wednesday said that between May 16 and 18, 812 tree falls was reported in the city compared to 323 tree falls reported between June 3 and 6, 2020 at the time of Cyclone Nisarga. The civic body claims that during both the cyclones, the majority of the tree falls were reported in private properties and not on public roads or places where trees are maintained by BMC. According to BMC data, of the total 812 trees that fell during Cyclone Tauktae, 504 were in private areas and 308 were in public spaces. During last year’s Cyclone Nisarga, of the total 323 trees that fell, 221 were in private areas and 102 trees were in public spaces. The data further adds that this year the highest tree fall was reported in Chembur followed by Bandra and Kurla. The civic body in a statement on Wednesday said, “About 70% of the fallen trees between May 16 and May 18 are of foreign species. These mainly include tree species like Peltoforum, gulmohar, thespesia, rain-tree, royal palm (nautal palm) etc. With this in mind, it has been underlined once again that while planting trees in the BMC area, it is necessary to give priority to native species.”BMC has been appealing citizens to plant native species that include kusum, also known as lac tree, which is a large forest tree with smooth green bark, followed by krishna’s buttercup which is associated with the legend of child deity Krishna.However, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) slammed BMC over tree falls in the city. Abhijit Samant, BJP corporator in BMC’s tree authority, said, “The number of tree fall increased this year when compared to last year. This means BMC did not learn anything form Cyclone Nisarga. Even after tree falls, there is not enough manpower available to come and pick the trees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/compared-to-cyclone-nisarga-150-more-trees-fell-during-cyclone-tauktae-bmc-data-101621452095807.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||We’ll permit door-to-door vaccination if Centre does not: HC to BMC, state||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Maharashtra government and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) not to wait for the Central government’s permission to conduct door-to-door vaccination drive for the elderly and differently abled persons who cannot go out to get inoculated. The HC, while rapping the Centre for consulting experts who did not recommend door-to-door vaccination initiative, said the experts were probably unaware of ground realities such as people living in houses where even a stretcher cannot be manoeuvered. The court has asked the state and BMC to file an affidavit on how it proposes to conduct the door-to-door vaccination by Thursday. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, was informed that the Centre failed to give a favourable response to the court’s direction in an earlier hearing on May 12 on whether the door-to-door vaccination could be implemented. The PIL sought directions to the Centre, the state government and BMC to provide door-to-door vaccination for people over 75 years of age, differently abled people and those who are bed-ridden. Kapadia further added that BMC had failed to devise a formula to identify beggars without photo IDs required for vaccination and to provide a helpline number to enable advanced age senior citizens to book an appointment for home visit for vaccination as all citizens cannot access the online platform.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, for the Union of India, informed the court that the direction was referred to the committee of experts and they had filed a response stating that as there were post-vaccination protocols to be observed and the same could not be facilitated at individual homes, door-to-door vaccination could not be permitted. He, however, added that transport arrangements could be made to take elderly citizens to the centres. Kapadia submitted that some of the elderly and differently abled persons lived in extremely difficult conditions and if they had to go to centres they would have to be taken on wheelchairs or stretchers. However, due to the constrained spaces they live in, it was not possible to take such persons to the centres. Thus, in light of the committee’s denial, such persons would not be able to get vaccinated at all. After hearing the submissions, the court expressed dissatisfaction at the expert committee’s recommendations and termed it to be the opposite of door-to-door vaccination and said, “I am not aware of Mumbai, but in north Kolkata, there are buildings wherein even stretchers cannot be taken inside. If somebody is bedridden and there is no room for stretcher to manoeuver, how will you bring them outside for vaccination?” Justice Kulkarni then pointed out that there are old buildings in congested areas with wooden staircases even in Mumbai, and that the elderly citizens and differently abled persons living there may not be able to come out. “They (expert committee members) are all academic experts, but they seem to have zero knowledge about ground reality. If this decision is taken from Delhi, you should think about the local situation...if the corporation wants to start door-to-door vaccination. If the Centre does not permit it, we will. Saving lives is more important,” said the bench.The bench then directed the BMC commissioner to apprise it as to whether it was possible for the civic body to introduce door-to-door vaccination under proper medical care and upon consent of citizens/beneficiaries to be administered being well aware of the consequences. HC will hear the PIL next on May 20.Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department, said, “We have currently allowed walk-in vaccination for those wanting first dose among senior citizens and differently abled persons. If the court is allowing us to do door-to-door vaccination, we will make our stand clear by filing affidavit after discussing it with senior officials.”BMC had, two months ago, sought permission from the Central government to start door-to-door vaccination, but the Centre had not given permission for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/well-permit-door-to-door-vaccination-if-centre-does-not-hc-to-bmc-state-101621452036336.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Mucormycosis claims 19 lives at 3 Mumbai hospitals in the second wave amid medicine shortages||Since the beginning of the second wave in February, a total of 19 recovered Covid patients have succumbed to the black fungus—mucormycosis – at three major government and civic-run hospitals in Mumbai. Doctors attribute the death to the delay in diagnosis and unavailability of life-saving antifungal medicine — Liposomal Amphotericin B – which delayed the timely treatment. Mucormycosis is a serious, but rare fungal infection caused by a group of mould called mucormycetes. It causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and even death if not treated in time, as per doctors. “This infection has a 50% mortality rate. Since the second wave, we have treated over 45 patients suffering from mucormycosis. Of these, 15 have succumbed, which makes the mortality rate 33%,” said Dr Renuka Bradoo, head of department of ENT, Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, which is also known as Sion Hospital. Additionally, three deaths have been reported at government-run Sir JJ Hospital since February. At present, the hospital is treating 51 patients with mucormycosis. Another patient from King Edward Memorial (KEM) hospital in Parel died of the infection last week. Almost 80% of the patients are not residents of Mumbai. BYL Nair Hospital is currently treating 11 patients, but none of them are Mumbai residents. After Covid-19 recovery, patients often hesitate to visit hospitals, even if they develop symptoms such as headache, stuffy nose and droopy eyes, according to doctors. “When it aggravates and they develop black patches on noses or eyes turn completely red, they rush to hospitals. Doctors then have to debride the dead tissues and patients lose their noses, eyes and palate,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of Nair Hospital. “In severe cases, when the infection reaches the brain, patients die,” he added. Due to the sudden rise in mucormycosis cases, hospitals are running out of the life-saving drug. “We are seeing a lot of patients. We have to monitor the patients for four-six weeks. The best medicine is Liposomal Amphotericin B injection, which is not available for weeks now. Similarly, the other Amphotericin B has also gone off the shelves. Now, we are mostly treating patients with another anti-fungal medicine—Posaconazole,” said Dr Bradoo. Dr Hetal Marfatia, head of the department, ENT at KEM hospital, also confirmed the shortage of medicines. “There is a shortage of medicines. Our procurement department is working on it.” The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also taken note of the shortage and floated tenders last week to procure the medicines. FDA commissioner Parimal Singh said currently they had around 16,000 vials of Amphotericin B. “We are in talks with the Central government to procure more injections,” he said. Dr Bradoo emphasised that the authorities need to expedite the process as these are life-saving drugs. “Earlier, we used to get around 10 cases annually. But since the start of the second wave, we are getting three-four cases on a daily basis. These antifungal medicines have become as essential as oxygen to save the lives of patients,” she added. The Retail and Dispensing Chemists Association has also requested the manufactures to increase the production to meet the sudden demand. “As we have been informed, individuals won’t be able to procure the injection directly from the chemists. They will have to approach their respective collectors’ offices. The admitted patients will get it through the hospitals,” said Prasad Danave, president of the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mucormycosis-claims-19-lives-at-3-mumbai-hospitals-in-the-second-wave-amid-medicine-shortages-101621452035768.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: 4 dead, 9 injured in Palghar||Four persons, including a 3-year-old boy, were killed and nine were injured during Cyclone Tauktae which wreaked havoc in Palghar and Vasai on Tuesday.In the first incident, Siddharth Singh, 3, died on the spot when an overhead tin roof fell on him in his kutcha house in Pelhar, Nallasopara.In the second case, Alagprasad Yadav, a 41-year-old labourer, died when a few bricks fell on him from the fourth floor of an under-construction building on Tuesday noon. Meanwhile, Mohammed Alam Ansari, 51, died when a huge tree fell on the autorickshaw in which he was travelling. The auto driver suffered injuries and is being treated at a hospital.In another case, Manoj Shivaji Pawar, 42, a Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) lineman, died while repairing a technical fault of an 18-foot electric pole in Sandor area in Vasai on Tuesday evening during the heavy downpour and gusty winds caused by the cyclone. MSEDCL will pay compensation to the kin of the victim, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-4-dead-9-injured-in-palghar-101621451916290.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Storeroom of Vasai school catches fire, two teachers rescued||A storeroom located on the ground floor of the 23-year-old St Anne’s Convent High School and Junior College, Vasai (West) caught fire on Wednesday morning. Avinash Kushe, a citizen who was having tea opposite the school, managed to rescue two teachers who were suffocating due to the dense smoke which reached the second floor. Kushe also informed the Fire Brigade, which reached the spot to douse the fire.The storeroom had wooden articles, iron cupboards and other inflammable articles. “I could hear screams from the second floor and got to know that two teachers, who were doing administrative work, were stuck in a room filled with smoke and they had difficulty in breathing. I reached the room and rescued them. They are safe,” said Kushe. The school did not have any fire-fighting devices near the storeroom which led to the fire spreading rapidly, he added. He further said that as the school was shut in view of the lockdown, the situation did not turn fatal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/storeroom-of-vasai-school-catches-fire-two-teachers-rescued-101621451915753.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||NIOS cancels Class 10 exams, postpones Class 12||With the rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country and the resultant lockdown restrictions in many states, the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) has decided to cancel its Class 10 board exams and has said that Class 12 exams under the board shall be postponed. The board issued a notification to this effect on Wednesday. “The NIOS is keeping a close watch on the situation and will be reviewed by June 20, 2021. The notification in this regard will be issued 15 days before the actual date of examinations,” stated the notification while announcing the postponement of Class 12 exams. For Class 10, “the NIOS will devise suitable criteria for assessment and result will be prepared in the best interest of learners. Any learner who is not satisfied with the result so computed will be allowed to appear in public examinations or through on-demand examinations as and when the situation becomes conducive to hold the examinations,” it states about Class 10 exams. As per the earlier scheduled exams for the board, exams were held in June. However, due to Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown, the board has decided to cancel and postpone them respectively. Parents said that the decision comes as a relief to them and the students. “It was becoming very stressful for students because of the risk involved in writing an offline exam. The board has taken the right decision,” said a parent. A large number of students from the board are students with special needs and those with learning challenges. “It is especially good for such students to be evaluated on internal assessments,” added the parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nios-cancels-class-10-exams-postpones-class-12-101621451855719.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra MBBS exams to be held offline between June 10 and 30||Putting an end to the ambiguity regarding the pending second- and third-year undergraduate as well as first-year postgraduate medical and dental exams, state minister of medical education Amit Deshmukh on Wednesday announced that exams will be conducted between June 10 and 30 in physical mode. This decision affects at least 6,000 undergraduate and a few hundred postgraduate medical students in the state.A circular to this effect was released by the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) on Wednesday evening, and a detailed schedule will be released soon, said officials.“This decision was taken after a series of discussion with several stakeholders. In a meeting with the MUHS controller of examination on Wednesday, we finalised the exam period,” Deshmukh said via a post on a social media network. This decision will be applicable for all pending undergraduate, postgraduate and certificate courses under MUHS, he added.Second- and third-year MBBS exams, which usually take place in December-January, were postponed three times this year due to the rising Covid-19 cases recorded across the state. At first the exams were postponed to February from January, and then to April. However due to the second wave of Covid-19 gripping the nation, these exams were once again postponed to first week of June by the state government.Earlier this week, MUHS had approached the state seeking permission to start all pending exams from June 2. Since the current lockdown restrictions are in effect across Maharashtra till June 1, MUHS had requested that state allow MBBS and postgraduate medical and dental exams to be conducted with proper social distancing and safety regulations in place.Students and parents have raised concerns about the state’s decision to conduct physical exams. “Most of us are part of the Covid-19 work force and many of us are currently infected by the virus. Several students also have family members fighting for their life at present, so holding exams in such a scenario will be unfair to us all,” said Anup Thorve, a third-year MBBS student. He added that at present, Covid-19 cases are still on the rise and the different variants of the virus are leaving patients with severe issues, including black fungus, which has left more students against the idea of physical exams any time soon.Many students also highlighted how lack of vaccine in the state has left at least 75% of the second- and third-year MBBS students without vaccination, and expecting such students to appear for physical exams will be unfair. “Most of us are living on multiple sharing basis in hostel rooms with common shared bathroom facilities. If any one student is infected, the same will spread among others in no time. We, therefore, suggest either online exams or that the authorities promote us to the next academic year,” said Piyush Dusane, another MBBS student.Officials have assured anxious students and parents that exams will be conducted keeping in mind all safety precautions. “All affiliated colleges are ready and students, too, have been aware that exams would begin in the first week of June. All MBBS and postgraduate students will have enough time to prepare for their exams now, and they can do so knowing that their health and safety is of utmost importance to us,” said a senior official from MUHS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mbbs-exams-to-be-held-offline-between-june-10-and-30-101621451796327.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav to visit cyclone-hit districts this weekend||The state cabinet on Wednesday took stock of the losses caused by cyclone Tauktae, which hit the coastal districts of Maharashtra on Sunday and Monday. The state government is expected to announce a relief package after the tours of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray this weekend, by when the assessment of losses is expected to be completed. Thackeray is visiting the cyclone-affected districts on Friday and Saturday.The cyclone that affected 11 districts, including seven in coastal parts, has so far claimed 18 lives. Of them, 16 are from coastal districts (four in Raigad; three each in Sindhudurg, Thane, Palghar; two in Ratnagiri and one in Mumbai) and two from Jalgaon in north Maharashtra. The three who died in Sindhudurg are fisherfolk who died in two separate boat mishaps in Devgad tehsil. Two fisherfolk are still missing. Some deaths were due to tree falls or electrocution.According to primary estimates, crops and horticulture on more than 10,000 hectares have been damaged. Orchards of alphonso mangoes and plantation of chickoo and betelnut have been damaged to a large extent, against which the losses to the seasonal crops were minimum as the coastal parts of the state do not grow summer crops. As per the figures collated by Wednesday evening, highest agricultural losses were registered in Sindhudurg as crops on 3,375 hectares has been affected, followed by 2,500 hectares in Ratnagiri and 1,500 hectares in Raigad.“In comparison with the losses sustained due to cyclone Nisarg last year, the damages due to the cyclone Tauktae is less. The actual monetary losses are not expected to be more than ₹20 crore, as per the preliminary estimates,” said an official from Mantralaya.In Ratnagiri, the financial losses estimated as per the assessment done till Wednesday was ₹3.75 crore. “The spot punchanamas are being held and are expected to be completed by Thursday. All the 4,563 residents who were shifted to safer places have returned to their homes. Until 7 am on Wednesday, power supply of 478,000 of 745,000 affected households were restored,” said Datta Bhadkamwad, resident deputy collector, Ratnagiri.According to the energy department, 4.64 million consumers in Thane, Raigad, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and other districts of Maharashtra faced power outage. “More than 25% of them are still waiting for the restoration of the supply. We have deployed more than 13,172 workers on the restoration work by diverting staff from other districts as well,” said an offiicla from energy department.The state government is expected to announce relief package for the affected people in coastal districts in the next few days. “As per the set norms of National Disaster Relief Fund, the compensation for the crop losses ranges between ₹6,800 and ₹18,000 per hectare. It’s from ₹6,000 to ₹95,000 for the damages to the houses and ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh is given to the next of kin of the deceased. We have currently decided to go ahead with the set norms and distribute compensation. There may be a special package announced later after the visits of the political leadership,” said a Congress minister, requesting anonymity.Guardian ministers of coastal districts affected have demanded special package for the affected districts, keeping the NDRF norms aside. The state government had announced a special package by increasing amount of the compensation last year after Nisarg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-to-visit-cyclone-hit-districts-this-weekend-101621451375625.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai airport transports 387 tonnes of Covid aid||As the country struggles to fight against the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) facilitated the transportation of over 387 tonnes of Covid relief supplies.Ever since the outbreak of the pandemic, CSMIA facilitated the arrival of over 17,700 oxygen concentrators, 319,800 vials of Remdesivir injections and 113,900 vials of Tocilizumab injections between April 26 – May 14 to cater to the increase in demand for these goods for the treatment of patients in India.CSMIA saw the arrival of essential pharmaceutical supplies from 20 countries including Singapore, Mauritius, Netherlands, Indonesia, China, Scotland, South Korea, Malaysia, England, France, Papua New Guinea, Australia, Poland, Turkey, Germany, Dubai, South Africa, Thailand, California and Hong Kong. CSMIA supported around 110 domestic and international arrivals in the transhipment of essential pharmaceutical goods to Mumbai. “In the wake of the pandemic, the team at CSMIA has been relentlessly operating the cargo handling activities to cater to the greater need to mobilize and supply essential life-saving commodities across India and the world. The airport has been prioritising the shipments of essential medical supplies and achieved an overall processing time of 15 minutes, including offloading and storage,” the airport spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-transports-387-tonnes-of-covid-aid-101621450595454.html
20-05-2021||Mumbai||April saw most air passenger plaints for refunds in six months: DGCA Report||While India has been struggling to fight the second wave of Covid-19, air passengers continue to fight against airlines for their refund. According to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s (DGCA) monthly report, 75% air passengers have registered their complaints against the airlines, making them the highest in six months. These passengers are either the ones who are affected due to travel restrictions in their destination states or the ones who have been tested positive for the virus themselves and despite such challenges, airlines are seen to be deducting a major amount of cancellation charges. According to previous DGCA reports, October had seen 83.9% passenger complaints on refund, November had seen 62.4%, December had seen 61.4%, January saw 41.%, February saw 54.6% and March saw 65.7% refund-related complaints. According to DGCA’s monthly report, domestic carriers together registered 57.25 lakh air travellers in April compared to 78.22 lakh in March. In April 2020, commercial flight operations were suspended due to the nationwide lockdown.A recovering Indian aviation industry went back into hazy skies after the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic was largely seen in April. As a result of this, the air traffic across the country declined, especially after foreign countries banned travel to/ from India. While the government has allowed the airlines to operate 80% of their seating capacities, it is learnt the airlines are seeing poor seating capacity, due to the fear of getting exposed to the virus. The second wave of the pandemic has also brought in several travel restrictions/lockdowns in various states, not allowing people to travel. Moreover, a significant number of passengers are also seen avoiding travel voluntarily. Due to these, passengers are demanding a full refund, whereas few airlines allegedly are charging cancellation amounts from them, leading to an increase in such complaints.Saurabh Jain, a Malad resident who was to travel to Jaipur, could not go ahead with his travel plan as he along with his wife was detected with Sars CoV-2 last month. He was however not considered to have had a valid reason for not being able to board. “Initially the airline did not bother to refund me and even refused to consider our covid positive reports. I had to chase GoAir for twenty days to get my full amount back. They have however given me in the form of credit shell which is valid for a year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/april-saw-most-air-passenger-plaints-for-refunds-in-six-monthsdgcareport-101621450535496.html
