21-05-2021||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray visits cyclone-hit Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday visited Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, the districts hit the most by Cyclone Tauktae early this week, and assured relief to those affected, once the assessment is completed. Although the CM did not spell out the details, the Maharashtra government is expected to announce a package early next week. Thackeray visited two affected villages in Vengurle and Malvan tehsils in Sindhudurg and held a meeting with the district administration. He also held a review meeting with Ratnagiri district administration and took stock of the damage caused by the cyclone and the Covid-19 situation. Thackeray said the spot assessment of the losses is expected to be completed in the next few days. “We have started giving compensation as per the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) norms. We will ensure that nobody goes without relief. The additional relief will be determined after the assessment is completed. Although the coastal parts have sustained damages, it was less severe this time, compared to last year’s Cyclone Nisarga,” he said. Cyclone Tauktae, that hit the coastal districts on Sunday and Monday, claimed 19 lives and caused damage to structures and horticulture in the state. According to preliminary estimates, crops and horticulture on more than 12,000 hectares (ha) have been damaged. Hundreds of villages in Ratnagiri and Raigad are still without electricity and internet. “As per the assessment so far, crops and horticulture on more than 12,500 hectares have been damaged. As per the set norms of NDRF, the compensation for crop losses ranges between ₹6,800 and ₹18,000 per ha and ₹6,000- ₹95,000 for damage to houses. The state government had increased the relief amount as special case for the damages in last year’s Cyclone Nisarga. But it would not be possible to give that much this time. The total losses are expected to be around ₹60 crore,” said an official from Mantralaya. Coastal districts do not grow any seasonal crops, so there was not much damage to the crops. However, plantations of Alphonso mango and chickoo were damaged largely. Thackeray said the state will press for long-term measures that will help the coastal districts that face such cyclones. He said the state government has requested the Centre for assistance for cyclone-risk mitigation measures, including underground power supply infrastructure and anti-erosion measures. “I am sure Prime Minister Narendra Modi will help Maharashtra, similar to how he announced a package for Gujarat,” he said. Bharatiya Janata Party leaders slammed the CM for his short tour of the cyclone-affected districts. “I do not want to politicise the issue, but one should answer why the CM visited only two districts? His tour lasted for just three hours and travelled just a few kilometers. The ruling parties have questions about Modi’s Gujarat tour. They should first look at Thackeray’s tour,” said leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis. Thackeray took a dig at Fadnavis, saying that he was not frustrated like the opposition leader. “I have not come here for a photo session. I want to give true relief to the affected people from coastal areas. I did not restrict myself to the aerial tour,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cmuddhav-thackeray-visits-cyclone-hit-ratnagiri-sindhudurg-101621621730756.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Crime branch arrests history-sheeter on the run for 28 years||A 58-year-old history-sheeter, who had been absconding for over 28 years, was arrested by Mumbai police’s crime branch on Thursday evening. The accused, Suresh Ganpat Jamsandekar, had fled when a non-bailable warrant was issued against him in a murder and robbery case by the sessions court more than two decades ago.According to officers from unit 11 of crime branch, Jamsandekar was booked by Goregaon police for dacoity and murder under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and of the Arms Act after he had shot and killed a shopkeeper in Goregaon (West) during robbery in 1992.Officers said they received information that Jamsandekar had been hiding in Tembipada area in Bhandup (West), following which a team of five police officers kept watch on the locality with the help of informers and arrested Jamsandekar when he was spotted outside his house.The officers said that under “Operation All Out” which is carried out every month, the police are expected to get a status update on the criminals in their areas and search for absconding and wanted accused. “We had been keeping a tab on all the wanted and absconding accused of past cases and had given a description of those criminals to our informers,” said an officer from the crime branch.Vinayak Chavan, inspector from unit 11 crime branch, said Jamsandekar has been handed over to Goregaon police for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/crime-branch-arrests-history-sheeter-on-the-run-for-28-years-101621621431260.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Forest department extends scheme linked to sustainable use of mangrove ecosystems||The state forest and revenue department this week extended its Mangrove Protection and Employment Generation Scheme for a period of five years, by way of a general notification issued on May 19. First cleared by the state cabinet in September 2017 at a cost of ₹15 crore and launched in the same year, the scheme aims to generate employment opportunities linked to sustainable use of mangrove ecosystems, whether on government or on private land.It is so far active in five of the seven coastal districts in the state including Palghar, Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. The scheme is funded through the mangrove foundation established by the state government and the district development fund. Though originally launched only for a three-year period, the scheme has now been extended to 2024-2025, which will be its second phase. In its first phase, the scheme enrolled an estimated 3,000 beneficiaries across 103 villages or wards where mangroves are present. This was done by instating an equal number of joint mangrove management committees which are responsible for identifying sustainable livelihoods — whether through aquaculture, eco-tourism or other means — for communities that live nearby and have been historically reliant on mangroves.“Under the scheme, if a person or group wants to conduct some sustainable business that also aids in conservation of mangroves and coastal areas, they are given subsidies by the state up to 90% of their capital cost. If a person, who owns private land with mangroves, wants to take on a similar business, the state may provide subsidies up to 75%,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests, mangrove cell.These businesses, according to the general resolution issued on May 19, largely include aquaculture projects, such as crab, shellfish, jitada and oyster farming, as well as rearing of ornamental fish. There are a total of 1,024 villages where this scheme can be made eligible, but so far around 103 steering committees have been formed. In the next phase of the scheme, the forest department is aiming to set up at least 40 additional committees every year.“Our goal is that within 10 years, at least 50% of all eligible villages should have a joint mangrove monitoring committee to provide guidance in business planning, budget management and implementation of sustainable businesses. The main objective is to link community livelihoods with mangrove conservation. The scheme will also deter violations,” said Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/forest-department-extends-scheme-linked-to-sustainable-use-of-mangrove-ecosystems-101621621430681.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||MVA parties attack Centre over ‘bias’||With little over six months left for the politically crucial elections to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the tug-of-war between the ruling and opposition parties kicked off over the discriminate treatment given to Maharashtra as compared to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state Gujarat. Issues ranging from PM Modi’s recent tour of Gujarat after Cyclone Tauktae to vaccine allocation to the state have once again triggered the comparison over the treatment to the two states; and it may intensify ahead of BMC elections.The ruling parties in Maharashtra have criticised PM Modi and his party for the step-motherly treatment to Maharashtra. All the three ruling parties — the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress — slammed the PM for not visiting Maharashtra and other cyclone-hit states and choosing only Gujarat to take a review of damages this week. Modi on Tuesday did an aerial survey of parts of the Gujarat which was hit by Cyclone Tauktae on Monday and announced a relief package of ₹1,000 crore for the state. Congress’s state unit chief Nana Patole, NCP leader and state minister Nawab Malik, and Sena MP Sanjay Raut raised questions over PM’s bias. “Why did Modi not visit the cyclone-affected areas of Maharashtra? Is he the prime minister of Gujarat only,” Patole remarked. Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Friday said that Gujarat and Maharashtra are twins but when it comes to relief packages, the former is treated as a stepchild. An editorial in Saamana questioned as to why the PM has not conducted an aerial visit in Maharashtra, adding that Cyclone Tauktae has left a trail of destruction in Goa and Maharashtra. “Why should the Centre, which has given ₹1,000-crore relief package to Gujarat, discriminate against Maharashtra and Goa?… Gujarat is Maharashtra’s twin brother. The stepbrother treatment given to Maharashtra of late is not correct. Keeping in mind that Mumbai contributes ₹2.5 lakh crore annually to Delhi, there is no harm in expecting that the rulers of Delhi will provide relief of around ₹2,000 crore for the people who were displaced in Konkan,” it said.The Sena mouthpiece said that Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, who is on a tour of affected areas in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, should tell the Centre to provide help to the state. “Fadnavis has demanded that the state government give an abundant package for affected areas. He should make this demand forcefully with the Centre. He is from Maharashtra, he must forget political lines and tell Modi saheb to give relief like the Centre gave to Gujarat,” the editorial said.Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said, “First, it is the duty of the state to provide immediate relief. They have not announced any relief but are expecting the Centre to give. The Centre will definitely give relief packages to the states which have been affected by the cyclone.”On Friday, Congress raised questions over the “step-motherly” treatment to Maharashtra while allocating Covid vaccines. After a spat between the leaders from both the sides over short supply of vaccine and its wastage in Maharashtra last month, Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant alleged that the Centre supplied vaccines to Gujarat disproportionately. Sawant asked as to why the Modi-led Centre allotted 16.2 million vaccine doses to Gujarat, against just 20.15 million doses to Maharashtra when the latter’s population is double than Modi’s home state. “The distribution of vaccines should have been in the proportion of population, active cases, total Covid-19 cases and inoculation rate. Against 404,229 active cases of 4,978,337 infected people in Maharashtra, Gujarat has just 669,490 cases including 92,617 active cases. Similarly, Maharashtra has reported 84,371 deaths while Gujarat reported 9,340 deaths, as on May 19. In vaccination Maharashtra tops in the country, while its population (around 130 million) is double than Gujarat’s population. Despite this, Maharashtra has got much less vaccine doses from the Centre,” he said.Sawant also questioned Fadnavis and other BJP leaders to reply over the discrimination. “BJP leaders have been claiming Maharashtra received highest number of doses, because of which it could achieve the top positon in vaccination. They should speak about the special treatment given to Gujarat,” he said.MVA leaders have upped the ante against the BJP by attacking the Centre over the alleged discrimination in allocation of the Covid-related medical equipment and vaccines. State public health minister Rajesh Tope has been attacking the Centre over short supply of vaccines and oxygen to Maharashtra by the Centre. The leaders feel the political rhetoric and comparison between Maharashtra and Gujarat is expected to intensify as BMC elections near. “High stakes are involved for both Sena and BJP in the polls for one of the richest civic bodies in Asia. The attack and counter-attack will go on increasing between ruling and opposition parties. The card of Marathi pride is always played by the Sena during elections and it has the old backdrop of six decades, since the days of fight for unified Maharashtra. The incidents of favouritism to Gujarat at the cost of Maharashtra may play a crucial role in this political game plan,” said a NCP leader.The ruling parties have always been playing up incidents such as shifting International Financial Services Centre from Mumbai to Gujarat, shifting National Institute of Coastal Policing from Palghar to Dwarka in Gujarat five years ago. The Sena has staunchly opposed Modi’s dream project of Bullet train between Mumbai and Ahmedabad, saying it was meant to benefit Gujarat. Political analyst Hemant Desai said that though Gujarat has been given an upper hand by the PM, it would not emerge as Maharashtra versus Gujarat or Marathi versus Gujarati in the BMC elections. “The Sena, under Uddhav or Aaditya Thackeray, had never taken anti-Gujarati or anti-north Indian stand over all these years. It is true that Gujarat has got favoured treatment under Modi, be it shifting of IFSC, bullet train designed to give advantage to Gujarat, shifting of RBI offices to Gujarat and now the relief package to the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mvaparties-attack-centre-over-bias-101621621370707.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Navy man arrested for raping colleague’s wife||Cuffe Parade police arrested a Navy man for allegedly raping wife of another Navy personnel who had gone to Kerala on a five-month training. Police said the 29-year-old complainant, while resisting the accused, had slit her wrist with a blade. The accused was arrested from INS Agnibahu after being on the run for over a week.The complainant and her husband reside in a shared Navy staff quarter with the accused. The quarter is allotted to the accused by the Navy administration. The complainant and her husband live in one room while the arrested accused lives in another room while washroom and kitchen were shared. On April 23, the complainant’s husband had gone to Kochi, Kerala for training for five months. The police said that on the night of April 29 the complainant had high fever and severe headache. She did not have food and was weeping in pain while trying to sleep.When the accused had come to use the washroom he heard her and asked if she was okay. After she said she had severe headache, he offered to get her pills for the same, which she refused. “A few minutes later, the accused, who was drunk, entered her room and offered to help her relax. When she asked him to leave, he gagged her and raped her,” said a police officer. After she managed to free herself, she grabbed a blade and threatened him. upon seeing that he was not scared, she threatened to kill herself and slit her wrist with the blade. The accused then, in order to scare her, told her that he would shoot himself and frame her husband in a false case, the officer added.Next morning the complainant contacted her husband and asked him to return. After he returned on May 4, the woman narrated the ordeal and the couple reported it to Navy police, who asked them to file a police complaint. The two then lodged a complaint with Cuffe Parade police.“He was caught on INS Agnibahu by Navy police and handed over to us recently,” said Rajkumar Dongre, senior inspector, Cuffe Parade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navy-man-arrested-for-raping-colleague-s-wife-101621621310730.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Governor should decide on nominee list, cannot sit on it: HC to state||The Bombay high court (HC) observed that the governor cannot sit on the list of 12 nominees submitted to him by the council of ministers in November 2020, and directed the state and other respondents to file their replies to a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought directions for a decision to be taken on the list as per the stipulations of the Constitution of India. On November 6, the council of ministers had submitted the list of 12 nominees to be nominated by the governor to the Maharashtra Legislative Council after the cabinet approved it. A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade while hearing the PIL filed by Ratan Luth, a social worker from Nashik through advocate Gaurav Srivastav, was informed that as per Article 171 (2) (2) and 171 (5) of the Constitution, the 12 members to be nominated by the governor included persons having special knowledge or practical experience in literature, science, art co-operative movement and social service. The plea submitted that as per the said articles of the Constitution, the governor has an obligation to decide on the recommendations of the council of ministers, but as he had not done so even after a passage of four months, there was a loss to the cabinet and the citizens of Maharashtra as they could not benefit from the expertise of the 12 members having expertise in various fields. Additional public prosecutor Geeta Shastri for the state informed the court that as the governor could not be expected to respond, the secretary to the governor should be added as a respondent. The court agreed and directed the petitioner to carry out amendment in the PIL. The court then refused to allow advocate Satish Talekar, who has filed two separate petitions opposing the list of 12 members suggested by the council of ministers, to make submissions and observed, “The governor has to approve or reject the list and cannot sit on it and let it lie in his drawer.” The bench then directed the state to file an affidavit in response to the PIL within two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/governor-should-decide-on-nominee-list-cannot-sit-on-it-hc-to-state-101621621250681.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyberattack hits Air India: Data of 45 lakh fliers leaked||A cybersecurity attack on Air India’s passenger service system has compromised the data of lakhs of passengers, according to a message sent out by the national carrier on Friday. In a text message, the airline said the SITA PSS data processor of the passenger service system, which is responsible for storing and processing of personal information of the passengers, was subjected to a cybersecurity attack which led to a leak of personal data leak of around 4.5 million passengers in its system. The data leak reportedly took place on February 25.SITA confirms that it was the victim of a cyber-attack, leading to a data security incident involving certain passenger data that was stored on SITA Passenger Service System (US) Inc servers,” SITA said in a statement on March 4, according to media reports.Cybersecurity experts said they were yet to see specifically Air India data being sold on dark web forums, but added that since the hack did not include passwords, the data may instead be sold as a tranche of credit and debit card data. “The credit card data may show up as individual tranches of card information based on limits etc”, said Yash Kadakia, founder and CTO of Security Brigade.Experts have separately said that sensitive person information like contact and passport data could potentially lead to impersonation attacks and allow perpetrators to break into people’s bank accounts by using such data for verification.According to Air India, personal data registered between August 26, 2011, and February 3, 2021, including name, date of birth, contact information, passport information, ticket information, Star Alliance and Air India frequent flyer data as well as credit card details, were leaked due to the breach. The information did not include CVV/CVC numbers, the carrier clarified in a message posted on their website.The airline said the identity of the affected data subjects was only provided to them by their data processor on March 25 and April 5. “The present communication is an effort to apprise of accurate state of facts as on date and to supplement our general announcement of 19th March 2021 initially made via our website,’ the airline’s media statement uploaded on their website read.“However, in respect of this last type of data, CVV/CVC numbers are not held by our data processor,” the statement read.Air India said to ensure the safety of the data, investigations of the breach incident were immediately ordered, compromised servers were secured, and external specialists of data security incidents were engaged.The national carrier said that it notified credit card issuers and reset the passwords of Air India’s frequent flying programme. Air India said, “Our data processor has ensured that no abnormal activity was observed after securing the compromised servers. While we and our data processor continue to take remedial actions including but not limited to the above, we would also encourage passengers to change passwords wherever applicable to ensure the safety of their data. The protection of our customer’s personal data is of the highest importance to us and we deeply regret the inconvenience caused and appreciate continued support and trust of our passengers.”Air India spokesperson did not comment when asked about the update on the investigation findings. A senior airline official said, “We do not know the extent of misuse of the data. This is a serious matter and is being investigated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyberattack-hits-air-india-data-of-45-lakh-fliers-leaked-101621620951332.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 29,644 new Covid-19 cases, 555 deaths||Even as the state government planned various methods to rein the fatality rate, the high number of deaths continue to remain a concern. The state on Friday recorded 29,644 new Covid-19 cases and 555 deaths. The total number of deaths till May 21 stood at 15,755, while the total number of deaths in April was 13,835.The death toll has now reached 86,618, with Mumbai leading with 14,464 deaths, followed by Pune with 11,015 deaths. The total number of Covid cases stand at 55,27,092.Currently, there are 367,121 active patients across the state, of which, Pune tops with 58,840 patients, followed by Mumbai with 28,579 active cases.Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management said the major focus now is to reduce the number of deaths. “We are planning micro-management measures where we will decentralise our whole efforts to contain the virus as well as the death rates. We are making people aware that they need to test after they develop any symptoms. We are also ramping up the number of tests, and have asked the labs to fast-track the reports. We are also beefing up the hospital infrastructure, like increasing the number of beds along with ensuring adequate oxygen supply as well as medicines for the patients,” said Salunke.According to Dr Amin Kaba, who is associated with various city hospitals, several reasons contribute to the high fatality rate in the second phase. “The current mutant is more infective and virulent compared to the previous ones. In addition, we saw large youngsters dying as many believed they had stronger immunity and hence, they neglected the initial symptoms. In rural areas, the casual attitude of the people along with lack of proper hospital infrastructure added to the toll,” said Dr Kaba.He said that government needs to speed up the vaccination process if it wanted to control the deaths. “The lockdown should have ideally coincided with large scale vaccination but that was not the case. Vaccination impairs the severity of the virus,” Kaba added.The state government has imposed a severe lockdown in the rural parts of Solapur, which has been witnessing a surge in cases.Meanwhile, the Aurangabad police have raided a prominent cloth store that was conducting the business and detained the staff and consumers, for violating Covid-19 guidelines. In Nagpur, the police tightened its drive-by catching those roaming without valid reasons and conducted the Covid-19 test on violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-29-644-new-covid-19-cases-555-deaths-101621620771811.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Hold exams in the online mode: MBBS students urge Maharashtra govt||Less than three weeks before their exams are scheduled to take place in offline mode, second- and third-year medical, dental and para-medical students are demanding that the upcoming exams be held online. In a series of online petitions and letters addressed to the state government as well as officials at the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS), students have highlighted that offline exams could prove dangerous for staff as well as students who will participate in the examination process.These demands come days after state medical education minister Amit Deshmukh announced that the long-pending winter examination session for undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses will be held between June 10 and 30.“These exams have been postponed three times already because it was not feasible to hold an offline exam for 6,000-8,000 students at the time when the state is grappling with a pandemic. The situation hasn’t changed still, then how is the state planning to conduct physical exams in June?” asked a student, requesting anonymity. He added that time and again, students have highlighted the need for these exams to be conducted in the online mode, but the authorities have not paid heed.Second- and third-year MBBS exams, which usually take place in December-January, were postponed three times this year due to the rising Covid-19 cases recorded across the state. At first the exams were postponed to February from January, and then to April. However due to the second wave of Covid-19 gripping the nation, these exams were once again postponed to first week of June by the state government. “Many students are presently in their hometowns, away from the college campus, because all lectures were being held online this academic year. In order to appear for exams in the physical form, we will all have to travel to our college, share hostel rooms with at least three other students and share bathrooms as well. What guarantee does the state or university give us that we will not contract the virus,” asked another student.In a letter marked to MUHS officials, students highlighted how at present, at least 3,000 students across MUHS-affiliated institutes have tested positive for Covid-19, or have a close family member fighting for their lives. Conducting exams in the offline mode in such times could make the situation worse, students said.“All affiliated institutes have already started ensuring that safety measures are implemented during exams as well as at the hostels. Taking exams online will be difficult for several students and therefore exams will be conducted in offline mode,” said an official from MUHS. In a previous circular, the National Medical Commission (NMC) had clarified that in case students are unable to appear for their MBBS exams due to their health status or travel restrictions, those students be given the chance to appear for these papers at a later date by the examination authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hold-exams-in-the-online-mode-mbbs-students-urge-maharashtra-govt-101621620710584.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Week before exam, Mumbai university releases sixth merit list for LLM course||Merely a week ahead of semester exams, the University of Mumbai (MU) released the sixth and final merit list of candidates admitted to the Masters of Law (LLM) course on Wednesday.The first semester exams for LLM students are scheduled to kick off on June 1 and newly admitted students will have only a week to prepare. “It is unfair of the university to expect students to prepare for exams in a week,” said a student on the condition of anonymity. On May 15, the university’s department of law issued a notice allowing candidates, who couldn’t make it to the five merit lists, to apply afresh to vacant seats for spot admissions. On the same notice, the department announced that the sixth merit list would be the last one. Rajeshwari Varhad, head of the department of law, did not respond to calls or messages. Meanwhile, the final merit list states that nine seats reserved for students from marginalised backgrounds would remain vacant for want of applicants. There are around 800 seats for LLM in six divisions—Constitutional and administrative law, business law, intellectual property and information technology law, human rights law, criminal law and criminal administration and environmental and legal order. The sixth merit list states that since there are no applications from Vanjari nomadic tribes (NT-D category) and as well as from other backward classes (OBC Category), one seat in the intellectual property law course will go vacant. Eight seats will go vacant in environmental law and order. Applicants claimed that until last year, all unclaimed seats were converted into general category seats in the final round of admissions. “This is an arbitrary rule brought in by the department this year that seats will go vacant if there are no applications from that category. As it is, the number of seats are precious few,” said an applicant, who had applied for environmental law and order after the fifth round. He didn’t make it to the sixth merit list despite scoring 70 marks in the entrance exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/week-before-exam-mumbai-university-releases-sixth-merit-list-for-llm-course-101621620650686.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Vax and wane: Mumbai sees sharp dip||The vaccination drive in Mumbai slowed down in May, with the average number of beneficiaries vaccinated per day dropping to 20,000 or lower, in comparison to 45,000 to 50,000 beneficiaries vaccinated per day in April. A total of 22,686 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Mumbai on Friday, of which 19,863 got their first dose, and 2,823 their second dose. On Thursday, a total of 19,361 beneficiaries were vaccinated, of which 16,769 got their first dose and 2,592 got their second dose. Over the past few weeks, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has introduced newer rules to streamline vaccination, avoid crowding at centres and achieve internal targets for certain age groups on priority, leading to confusion among beneficiaries. The BMC has pointed out that there are days during the drive when all vaccine slots are not filled up, and citizens are unwilling or unable to get their shots. Shortage of vaccine doses is another reason for reduced numbers. The BMC started vaccination of healthcare workers on January 16, of beneficiaries above age 60 years and those between 45 years and 59 years on March 1, and for beneficiaries in the age group of 18 years to 44 years on May 1, in line with the Centre’s directives. Until March, the BMC was vaccinating about 25,000 to 30,000 beneficiaries per day. However, by the end of March, the civic body set a target of 100,000 beneficiaries per day, and allowed walk-ins to accelerate vaccination in April. Subsequently, vaccination was stepped up to over 45,000 beneficiaries per day. However, in May, the BMC briefly stopped walk-in vaccination for all age groups to avoid crowding. Beneficiaries could opt for vaccination only by registering online and pre-booking a slot, posing a challenge to senior citizens. Saloni Sikdar, 26, a resident of Goregaon, said, “I booked slots on the Cowin application for my parents. Both of them have now received both their vaccine shots. But even for me, it was tedious to book a slot online. It is like a lottery, and you get virtually five seconds to manage your booking. It took a lot of research to understand the process. But one of my relatives, who is 50 years old, has been trying to register herself and her 70-year-old mother, but is unable to figure out the process. For those without younger family members at home, it is very challenging.” From Monday, the BMC will restart walk-in vaccinations for beneficiaries above the age of 60 years for the first and second dose, to increase the turnout and speed up the vaccination. Of the 1,100,000 beneficiaries in this age group, 300,000 have still not got their first dose. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the public health department, said, “Shortage of vaccine doses is one reason. The BMC also wants to prioritise vaccinating citizens above age 60 years, especially those who are due for their second dose. To avoid crowding at centres, some days, we limit the drive only to senior citizens. On some days, all our slots are not booked, indicating there is still some hesitation among citizens to get vaccinated. “ Anjum Shaikh, 28, a resident of Mumbai Central, who is a healthcare worker, said, “I booked slots for my parents, and my uncle and aunt. While my parents got the vaccine shots, my uncle and aunt were hesitant to get vaccinated and missed their appointment. They fall in the 45-60 age group. Now we are unable to book slots for them. There is also a lot of confusion about which days the drive is open for 45 years and above. We were trying to book slots again last week, but we found out the BMC had paused vaccination for this age group.” Vanita Kawale, 78, got her first dose of covaxin in March. When she was due for her second dose, Covaxin was not available at many centres, and Vanita had to run pillar to post to get her second dose in time. According to data from the state government, in the first week of May, a total of 190,074 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Mumbai, of which 122,654 received their second dose and 67,420 the first dose. In the second week of May, a total of 209,428 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Mumbai, of which 104,973 received their second dose and 104,455 received their first dose. In the third week of May, 69,490 beneficiaries were vaccinated, of which 61,395 received their first dose, and 8,095 their second. On the contrary, in the last week of April, 263,461 beneficiaries were vaccinated, of which 113,967 got their first dose and 149,494 their second dose. In the third week of April, 280,735 beneficiaries were vaccinated, in the second week, 309,578 beneficiaries were vaccinated, and in the first week of April, 340,461 beneficiaries were vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vax-and-wane-mumbai-sees-sharp-dip-101621620590581.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 29,644 new Covid cases, 555 deaths as tally crosses 5.5 mn||Maharashtra, which has been witnessing a drop in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), recorded 29,644 infections on Friday, taking the tally to 5,527,092, the state’s health department bulletin showed. The state reported a drop of 267 cases from Thursday’s count of 29,911 Covid-19 cases. The state also recorded 555 related fatalities, which took the death toll to 86,618. The case fatality rate in the state is currently at 1.57%. Maharashtra’s marginal drop in the number of Covid-19 cases comes in the backdrop of 287,501 tests done in the last 24 hours.This means 7,590 fewer people were tested in the last 24 hours which could mean lower identification of cases. The state tested 279,911 people between May 19 and May 20. Maharashtra currently has 367,121 active cases.Pune remains among the worst affected with the highest number of active cases in the state with 58,840 cases but the district recorded a drop of 5,244 cases. Mumbai and Thane have more than 27,000 active cases but recorded marginal drop in the number of active cases. Kolhapur, Beed and Ahmednagar also reported a spike in active cases as these districts currently have more than 10,000 active cases. Satara reported a drop in the number of active cases but Sangli reported a slight surge. Ahmednagar and Nagpur have more than 18,000 active cases of Covid-19. Nagpur also reported a slight increase in the number of active cases.The recovery rate in the state rose to 91.74% as total recoveries reached 5,070,801 with 44,493 recoveries.The state while fighting the pandemic second wave is also facing challenges posed by mucormycosis and vaccine shortage. The state is under strict Covid-19 curfew as the state government tries to break the chain of transmission in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-29-644-new-covid-cases-555-deaths-as-tally-crosses-5-5-mn-101621608714503.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: In The Eye of The Cyclone||This Monday, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief Iqbal Singh Chahal woke up at his usual hour of 6am at his stately official bungalow on tree-lined Carmichael Road, but despite his salubrious surroundings, the senior bureaucrat was circumspect. Four days earlier he had received an alert from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) of the very severe Cyclone Tauktae that would be approaching Mumbai that day. Chahal, who credits his Army officer father for his ethic of never leaving anything to chance, had immediately convened a meeting with his senior colleagues where standard operating procedures (SOPs) to tackle flooding, tree falls and damage to life and property had been established. The next day, at a four-hour meeting called by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, these preparations were reviewed and finessed. As a matter of abundant precaution, it was decided to shut the sea link and the airport and shift all 580 Covid patients from jumbo facilities into hospitals. As soon as he awoke, Chahal began receiving half-hourly updates from his colleagues. Then, at 8am he set off on his rounds to assess the situation himself, first stopping at Worli Koliwada, then Bandra and Andheri. By 11.30am he was headed back to BMC headquarters, from where he began monitoring developments on the mammoth screen at the central control room adjoining his office. Its 5,500 camera feeds afforded him a real-time, vantage view of the unfolding situation. Despite the gathering storm, things seemed under control, except for a small hiccup at 6pm, when he received a red alert that an 18-kilometre-thick cloud had appeared over Mumbai. Fortunately, the crisis was managed and by 11pm, realising that the worst was over, the father of triplets returned home. “Despite a wind speed of 130kms and the highest recorded rainfall since 1948, there wasn’t a single fatality in the entire BMC area of 406 square kms with a population of 16 million,” he said when we spoke the next day. Most importantly, the decision to move the 580 Covid patents had been a crucial one as there had been considerable damage and flooding at the jumbo centres. Extreme challenges and catastrophes are no stranger to Chahal, who has the distinction of clearing his IAS entrance exam on his first try at the age of 22. Consider his first month as Mumbai’s municipal commissioner: When he took over on May 8 last year, the city was reeling from the blow of the first wave of the pandemic; positivity was at its highest, with Dharavi on fire and corpses being found on footpaths and road dividers. “My friends and relatives sent me WhatsApp messages asking if they should congratulate or commiserate, as I had inherited a deadly situation in what was considered the most difficult job in the country,” he said. A lesser man would have been daunted, but not Chahal — a national-level swimmer, half-marathon runner and yoga practitioner. Realising that Mumbai’s 3,700 beds would be woefully inadequate to service the expected demand, Chahal managed to convince CEOs of private hospitals to surrender 80% of their beds, telling them that their short-term commercial losses would be nothing compared to the long-term pain of losing a foothold of the future medical tourism industry. Their compliance had immediately taken the bed count to almost 9,000. Simultaneously, with support from Thackeray, who he credits for his visionary, empowering leadership, he requisitioned the construction of eight new jumbo centres across the city, taking the bed count to a staggering 23,000. It was in the same month that Chahal took the controversial decision to scrap BMC’s central Covid control room and instead created war rooms in the city’s 24 wards — a decision that earned him much criticism. “Every day by 7pm, when about 1,500 patients would be informed by labs that they were Covid positive they would generate around 10 panic calls each,” he explained. “Our 30-line control room would collapse between 7pm and 9pm under their onslaught of 15,000 calls. Then, the media and opposition would begin relaying that Mumbai’s health system had collapsed creating more panic,” he says. Chahal’s next move was even more controversial. He decided to scrap direct communication between labs and positive patients, making Mumbai the first city in the country to do so. The plan was that the city’s daily results would instead be fed by the labs into a software which would split the list. “If 10,000 cases came in one day, they got divided into roughly 400 cases per ward, and with each war room having 10 dashboards, every doctor would get about 40 names, of which 80% would be asymptomatic, requiring allotment of only seven to eight beds,” he says. But the plan would only work if Chahal could find 1,000 doctors to man those dashboards. Overnight, he enlisted medical interns from across Maharashtra. “We hiked their stipend from ₹11,000 to ₹50,000 deciding that money was not an issue. And they were housed in five-star hotels, with free boarding and lodging, at walking distance from their ward war rooms,” he says, adding, “And they worked remarkably well.” With all this in place, Chahal began to get a grip on Mumbai’s out-of-control pandemic. Dharavi was the first to benefit from his strategy, attracting international attention and winning praise from WHO when its positivity rate dropped significantly. Chahal further explained this “Chase the patient” approach of the now-renowned Mumbai model, “Once the doctors in the war rooms received confirmation of positive patients, they would visit them at their homes, check their markers and find them an appropriate hospital bed for treatment. The same ambulance would then transport them to the hospital, where a universal subsidised rate had been organised.” Sangitaa Advani, founder-director of Skill Shakti Institute, is one among the many beneficiaries of this strategy. When members of her household tested positive, they were pleasantly surprised to receive daily calls from BMC doctors, enquiring about their condition. “What’s more,” she said, “They were always polite, professional and caring.” The efficiency of Chahal’s plan had been further tested when one Sunday the oxygen level of Advani’s staff member began dropping alarmingly. Recollecting the episode, she describes it as a miracle. “Within 20 minutes, BMC had sent a well-equipped Covid ambulance and transported the patient to a jumbo centre.” That wasn’t all. Once admitted, the patient was made comfortable and received nourishing timely food and medicines. “Most importantly, he received humane, thoughtful care from the entire medical team,” said Advani. For an organisation notorious for being at the receiving end of the city’s wrath for its apathy and inefficiency, this validation, shared by many, is perhaps among Chahal and Thackeray’s greatest achievements. But, even as Mumbai’s success at tackling Covid-19 has won it praise and new cases are down to almost three digits, a devastating tragedy is unfolding across the country as the pandemic wreaks havoc across rural India, where 70% of India’s population resides. This surge has been marked by dire shortages of hospital beds, oxygen and medicines, and media reports of hundreds of corpses floating in the Ganges and of thousands of unmarked graves. What’s worse is that many suspect there is a deliberate attempt to undercount and underreport the extent of fatalities. “It’s as if we are saying these people have not mattered much to us when they were alive, and they don’t matter now that they’re dead,” said Dr Rajesh Parikh, one of the authors of The Coronavirus: What You Need to Know about the Global Pandemic, adding “Future generations will regard it as a genocide as shameful as the Holocaust.” Who will come to the rescue of India’s rural poor in their hour of dire need? Who will save the loved ones of these simple, hardy, men and women from dying, one by one? When he was appointed as the head of BMC, Chahal recalls thinking, “A pandemic like this comes once in a century. Hundred years before me and hundred years after me, no municipal commissioner will get this opportunity to serve humanity and save thousands of lives. Maybe I am the blessed one chosen by God.” If only Chahal’s mother had given birth to another hundred like him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-in-the-eye-of-the-cyclone-101621605290236.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Amphotericin-B: States race against time to procure mucormycosis drug||As the challenge of mucormycosis grips the country, the health ministers of Maharashtra and Karnataka on Friday said that both states are working hard to acquire Amphotericin-B drug which is required for its effective treatment.Karnataka and Maharashtra have both reported a surge in cases of mucormycosis, a disease which happens due to a fungus called mucormycetes which can enter the body through breathing or skin injuries, and has been widely reported in Covid-19 patients. The disease can be fatal if left untreated and requires several vials of Amphotericin-B to be administered to the patient. Experts say high blood sugar and unregulated administration of steroids during Covid-19 treatment increases the risk of contracting the disease.Pune, which reported a high number of Covid-19 cases, currently has 300 cases of mucormycosis. “Currently, there are more than 300 cases of mucormycosis in Pune, which also includes people of other districts. We are facing a shortage of injections for these patients. If there are 300 patients, we will need more than 1800 injections per day which is not available in the required numbers,” Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He also highlighted that patients require 6 injections a day and said that the state will include its treatment in Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. He also said that health minister Rajesh Tope asked the Prime Minister to ensure adequate injections are released to treat patients.According to the treatment protocol, when Mucormycosis infects the nose, sinus or palate, doctors will administer a 5mg dose per kilogram (kg) of body weight. For example, if a person weighs 60kgs, he would require 300mg of the dose. Each vial has 50mg of the drug. Hence, a patient suffering from the disease will require six vials which costs ₹60,000 on a daily basis. If the infection reaches the brain, doctors have to administer 8-10mg per kilogram of the patient’s body weight, according to a report by HT.Maharashtra currently has 1,500 cases of mucormycosis and 90 deaths have been reported due to the deadly fungal disease.Karnataka, which has reported at least 97 cases of mucormycosis, is also taking measures to contain the disease. Deputy chief minister Dr. Ashwathnarayan CN said that the state is working hard to procure Amphotericin-B. “Based on the number of Mucormycosis cases, we are trying to procure Amphotericin-B drug to address the demand. The allocation of the drug by the Centre will be done based on the number of cases in Karnataka,” the deputy chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Karnataka chief minister later on Friday said that the government hospitals will treat mucormycosis patients for free, according to news agency ANI.Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a meeting held earlier today with frontline workers from his constituency highlighted the need of taking precautionary measures against the disease. He also said that amid the battle against Covid-19 second wave, Mucormycosis has arisen as a fresh challenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amphotericinb-states-race-against-time-to-procure-mucormycosis-drug-101621603819294.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: CM Thackeray visits Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg; assures of relief||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is on a visit to cyclone affected Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, said on Friday that the decision over relief over the damages will be taken once the assessment of losses is done in the next two days. CM Thackeray headed a review meeting with district administration at Ratnagiri on Friday morning before leaving for the cyclone-hit villages in Vengurla and Malvan in Sindhudurg. He was scheduled to hold a review meeting with the district administration at Sindhudurg airport in the afternoon before leaving for Mumbai.Thackeray said after the Ratnagiri review meeting that the decision over relief to the coastal districts will be taken in the next few days. “I have come here to offer relief to the citizens. District administration has been directed to complete the spot assessment and submit reports in two days so that the decision on financial assistance can be taken,” he said. Thackeray was also briefed about Covid-19 situation in Ratnagiri.Also Read | Maharashtra records 29,911 new Covid cases, 738 deathsCyclone Tauktae, that hit the coastal districts on Sunday and Monday, claimed 19 lives and caused damage to structures and horticulture in the state. According to preliminary estimates, crops and horticulture on more than 12,000 hectares (ha) have been damaged. “The total losses are expected to be around ₹60 crore this time. Coastal districts do not grow any seasonal crops, and thus there was not much damage to the crops. Horticulture sector has sustained losses as Alphonso mango and chikoo plantations were damaged largely. We have asked district collectors to immediately release the ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh to the next of kin of the people who died due to the cyclone,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-cm-thackeray-visits-ratnagiri-sindhudurg-assures-of-relief-101621599229445.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||‘No Bewakoofiyaan’: Mumbai Police cautions citizens on Covid-19 in Bollywood style||The Mumbai Police has yet again used its social media handle in a smart way to convey the seriousness of the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Mumbai Police, which is known for their wit and humour on social media, has been on point with their Twitter game.The Mumbai Police on Friday put out some funny takes on Bollywood actors and their movie names in order to send across the message of the coronavirus infection.Starting from late actor Rajesh Khanna to Ayushmann Khurrana, the Mumbai Police made puns with their names and movie titles.Khanna got featured in one of the tweets, where the Mumbai Police was urging people to order ‘Khanna’ (a pun on ‘Khaana’ - the Hindi word for food) at home in order to avoid risking going out amid the Covid-19 lockdown. A popular dialogue from Khanna's movie was also used in the tweet.Pushpa, we hate rule-breakers!Stay home rey...#BeBollyGood#KakaWouldSay#StayHomeStaySafe#TakingOnCorona pic.twitter.com/TD3kaKdHZGTaking a hint from Bollywood actor Ayushmann Khurrana's movies, the Mumbai police in its Twitter handle said, No ‘Bewakoofiyaan’, let’s meet the ‘Dream Girl’ some other day! (No stupidity, let's meet the dream girl some other day).Be 'Zyada Saavdhan' today to ensure everything’s ‘Shubh Mangal’ everyday. No ‘Bewakoofiyaan’, let’s meet the ‘Dream Girl’ some other day!#BeBollyGood#TakingOnCorona#StayHomeStaySafe pic.twitter.com/4vY557ccDNThe Mumbai Police also used pun with Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan's name. Asking people to wear their masks properly, another tweet of the Mumbai Police said it’s a “‘Big B’ lunder" to keep the facemask below your nose.ऐसे मास्क पहनना भी कोई मास्क पहनना है ‘लल्लू’?#BeBollyGood#StayHomeStaySafe#MaskUp#takingoncorona pic.twitter.com/6E4YaKoI8LMumbai on Thursday recorded 1,425 new Covid-19 cases and 59 deaths due to Covid-19. With this, Mumbai's infection tally rose to 6,93,664. Now, there are 29,525 active cases in the city. The fatality count rose to 14,468, as per the data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-bewakoofiyaan-mumbai-police-cautious-citizens-on-covid-19-in-bollywood-style-101621594248859.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Antilia bomb scare: Vaze’s colleague Riyazuddin Kazi dismissed from service||Assistant police inspector Riyaz Hisamuddin Kazi, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Antilia bomb scare and subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, has been summarily dismissed from service. Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale on Friday issued an order under Article 311(2) (B) of the Constitution of India, dismissing Kazi without a departmental inquiry.Kazi is former colleague of Sachin Vaze, also arrested by NIA for allegedly being the mastermind of Antilia bomb scare and the murder of Hiran, an auto parts dealer. Vaze has already been dismissed from service on May 11.Kazi was arrested by NIA on April 11 in connection with the cases and is in judicial custody.He was posted in the crime intelligence unit (CIU) of the Mumbai crime branch, which Vaze headed when, on February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near Antilia, the South Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note addressed to the industrialist’s family.Also Read | Bombay HC declines Deshmukh’s plea for interim protection from CBIVaze was the investigating officer of the case which was eventually transferred to Maharashtra anti-terrorism sqaud (ATS). NIA took over the case on March 8, three days after Hiran, to whom the SUV was linked, was found dead in creek near Mumbra. It arrested Vaze on March 13, after his alleged involvement in the bomb scare came to light.NIA claimed that as his colleague Kazi was aware of Vaze’s plans and purportedly took active part in destruction of evidence during initial investigation of the bomb scare case. They allegedly seized several CCTV footages and DVRs under the garb of investigation and destroyed the same.Kazi was shunted out of CIU last month after NIA arrested Vaze allegedly for devising the plan to regain his lost glory in Mumbai Police by parking the explosive-laden SUV outside Antilia. Kazi was transferred to Tardeo local arms division, which is considered a side branch.Beside Kazi and Vaze, the NIA has also arrested police inspector Sunil Mane, also from Mumbai Police.Former constable Vinayak Shinde, a convict serving life imprisonment in a fake encounter killing of Lakhan Bhaiya, and bookie Naresh Gaur have also been arrested in the case for alleged aiding and abetting Vaze in executing the crimes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-bomb-scare-vaze-s-colleague-riyazuddin-kazi-dismissed-from-service-101621593589172.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||FIR registered in Mumbai against captain of barge P305||Mumbai Police have registered a case of negligence against the captain of Papaa-305 (P305), the barge that sank in the Arabian Sea amid Cyclone Tauktae, leading to the loss of at least 49 lives. The Yellow Gate police station have based the case on a complaint lodged by the barge engineer.The First Information Report is lodged under sections 304(II) (an act done with knowledge that it is likely to cause death), 338 (causing grievous hurt by an act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against the barge captain and others.“We have registered a complaint against the captain (of the barge) and others on the basis of a statement given by chief engineer Rahman Shaikh who has complained that an alert was issued by the meteorological department but was not taken seriously by the captain and others who should have moved the barge to a safer place,” said joint commissioner of police Vishwas Nangre Patil (Law and Order).“It is at a very preliminary stage but investigation has started,” added Patil.Also Watch | Navy officers recall rescuing survivors of sunken barge Another police officer said they have recorded the statements of more than 100 survivors who were rescued by Indian Navy and Coast Guard from barge P305. The concerned company has also been asked to submit the details of employees working on the barge, he added.According to Afcons Infrastructure, which leads the consortium that had chartered the barge along with its marine crew, the master of P305 chose to stay in the sea despite instructions for returning to Mumbai harbour in the wake of warnings for Cyclone Tauktae.The barge was deployed at a platform in Heera oil fields, one of the largest of the ONGC rigs in the Arabian sea. It got de-anchored on Sunday night and according to deputy chief of naval staff, vice admiral Murlidhar Sadashiv Pawar, sank at about 7pm on Monday, forcing most of its 261 crew members to jump in a very choppy sea and rough weather that made the Navy’s search and rescue operation one of the most challenging operations the force has undertaken in four decades.The Navy has so far rescued 186 crew members of the barge and recovered 49 bodies even as search is on for 37 missing persons -- 26 from P305 and 11 crew members of a tug boat, Varaprada, who also went missing during the cyclone.The Navy has so far rescued two crew members of Varaprada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fir-registered-in-mumbai-against-captain-of-barge-p305-101621582968337.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Case filed against captain of barge P305 that sank off in Arabian Sea||The Mumbai Police on Friday registered a case against the captain of the barge which sank in the Arabian Sea during Cyclone Tauktae. As many as 51 lives were lost in the incident that took place on Monday. The captain was booked on the basis of the complaint of rescued barge chief engineer Rahman Shaikh.Mumbai's Yellow Gate police station registered the case under sections 304(II) (an act done with knowledge that it is likely to cause death), 338 (causing grievous hurt by an act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Also Read: 11 more bodies recovered, search on for 47 after cyclone sank barge off Mumbai“We have registered a complaint against the captain and others on the basis of a statement given by chief engineer Rahman Shaikh. He has complained that alert was issued by the meteorological department but it was not taken seriously by the captain and other people concerned who should have taken the alert seriously and move the barge to a safer place," said joint commissioner of police Vishwas Nangre Patil (Law and Order).According to Afcons Infrastructure, which leads the consortium that had chartered the barge, the captain of P305 chose to stay in the sea along with his crew despite receiving instructions to return to the Mumbai harbour in the wake of Cyclone Tauktae.The Indian Navy and the coast guard have so far rescued 188 crew members and recovered 51 bodies. Out of the rescued members, 186 are crew members of P 305 and 2 are crew members of a tug boat, Varaprada, which too went missing during the cyclone. Search operation for the missing persons entered its fifth day on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/case-filed-against-captain-of-barge-305-that-sank-off-in-arabian-sea-101621569735780.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Barge toll now 49, hope fades for 37 still missing||The Indian Navy on Thursday recovered 23 more bodies of crew members of accommodation barge P305, which de-anchored and sank in the Heera oil fields in the Arabian Sea, hours before the powerful cyclone Tauktae battered the region late on Monday. The toll has risen to 49, as rescuers continue to search for 37 more personnel.Three barges and an anchor boat deployed by private contractor Afcons for a project it was doing for the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), and a drillship of a state-owned firm lost anchors and drifted away in cyclonic winds of up to 210 kmph. While 440 personnel on two barges and the drillship were brought to safety, barge P305, carrying 261 personnel, sank. Of the 261, 186 were rescued and the bodies of 49 have been recovered, officials said. Search for the remaining 26 is still on. Of the 13 on anchor boat Varaprada, two have been rescued, while the search for the remaining 11 is on.Also Read| Cyclone Tauktae maintained intensity even after landfall, affected hit 9 statesCommander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer of the Western Naval Command, said search and rescue (SAR) operations were renewed from Thursday morning and the SAR involves Indian Navy Ship (INS) Kochi, Talwar, Tejas, Betwa and Beas.The efforts are being augmented by the aerial surveys undertaken by P-8I surveillance aircrafts and two Sea King helicopters, Chetak and advanced light helicopters. Coast Guard units have also joined the search for the missing crew.Navy officials said the search was initially limited to an area of 550-750 square kilometres, and after bodies were found to have drifted further, the search area was increased from Wednesday night and by Thursday evening it was widened to 1,800-2,300 square kilometres. Officials said the area would be further increased, if required.Barge P305 was deployed at a platform in Heera oil fields, one of the largest ONGC rigs in the Arabian Sea. It got de-anchored on Sunday night and according to deputy chief of naval staff, vice admiral Murlidhar Sadashiv Pawar, sank around 7pm on Monday in a very choppy sea and rough weather, making the subsequent search and rescue operation “one of the most challenging operations undertaken by the Navy in four decades”.Also Read| Firm that ran cyclone-hit barges says people on board had life jackets, raftsAfcons Infrastructure, which leads the consortium that had chartered barge P305, along with its marine crew — mostly skilled and semi-skilled labourers — said there were in all 261 crew members on board the barge, including 13 Afcons employees. The Navy had received an SOS from the barge on Monday morning, following which, three warships — INS Kochi, INS Talwar and INS Kolkata — were dispatched for the SAR operation, along with two Sea King and two Chetak helicopters. The aerial surveillance was augmented by two P-8I surveillance aircrafts.Meanwhile, the Yellow Gate police station in Mumbai registered 22 accidental death reports (ADRs) after 22 bodies were brought to Mumbai, of the 49 recovered, on Thursday. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem to JJ Hospital. Police sources said 16 of the 22 bodies were identified and the process of identification of the remaining 6 was going on at JJ Hospital, where relatives of the deceased have arrived to claim the bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-toll-now-49-hope-fades-for-37-still-missing-101621540966162.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 29,911 new cases, 738 deaths||Maharashtra witnessed a drop in the number of Covid-19 cases on Thursday with 29,911 new cases. The cases have remained less than 35,000 for the sixth consecutive day. There were 188,233 new cases in the last six days (May 15-20) which averaged 31,372 cases per day.This is a sharp decline as the previous six days (May 9-14) recorded a total number of 255,879 which averaged 42,646 cases daily.Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor, government of Maharashtra on Covid-19 management said, “Both Maharashtra and Delhi have crossed the peak and we will now see only decline from here,” said Salunke.The state recorded 738 deaths reported Thursday, taking the toll to 85,355. The total number of tests conducted were 279,911.Salunke said, “Though cases have started reducing in urban pockets, we are seeing them increase in rural pockets. The focus should be to concentrate on such areas and beef up the entire medical infrastructure there.”. He said now the main thrust should be to reduce the number of deaths.Also Read | Coronavirus self-testing kit to be in market next week: Here is how to use itThe state currently has 383,253 active cases, while the total number of people affected by Covid-19 to date has reached 5,497,448. There are currently 383,253 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 64,084 patients, followed by Mumbai with 28,987 active patients. The death toll has now reached 85,355 with Mumbai leading with 14,410 deaths, followed by Pune with 10,728 deaths.Dr Jeevan Jain, a medical practitioner at Lalbaug said that the second wave is gradually fading out. “We are seeing the decrease in the virulence of the Covid-19 virus and people are no longer needing to rush to the hospital. They are getting cured at home,” said Jain.However, Jain warned against social gatherings due to the decline and cited a recent case where a high-end building in south Mumbai saw seven Covid-19 cases. “Some 15 people had come together, after which seven contracted the virus. This needs to be avoided,” said Jain.In a shocking incident, three members of the family—father, mother and son all died within 13 hours due to the Covid-19 at Sangli. Meanwhile, at Tadoba tiger reserve, care is being taken to ensure that tigers do not get infected with Covid-19, by ensuring minimal contact with human beings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-29-911-new-cases-738-deaths-101621538564917.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Final-year MBBS students with ATKT wait for summer exam schedule to start working||A day after state minister for health education Amit Deshmukh clarified that exams for undergraduate medical and dental students will be conducted in the physical mode between June 10 and 30, a bunch of final-year MBBS students, who cleared their degree exams with one or two subjects in Allowed to Keep Term (ATKT) in April, are still waiting for their degree. There are 240 such final-year students who now have to wait for the summer exams session to be conducted, in order to appear for the pending exams and gain their MBBS certificates.“Our results were announced in April and only 240 of us have failed in one or two subjects which, as per rule, is conducted in the summer session. However, this year, the pending winter session exams from December-January are being scheduled to take place in June, so we are not sure when our exams will be conducted,” said one of the students, requesting anonymity. He added that without clearing the ATKTs, these students do not get their degrees from respective institutes. While second- and third-year medical, dental and para-medical exams were postponed due to high number of Covid-19 cases, final-year MBBS exams were conducted in March and the results for the same were announced in the last week of April. “The idea behind conducting final-year MBBS exams in March despite rising Covid-19 cases was to ensure more students clear the degree and join the work force across the state. However, with no degree in hand, we are stuck at home unable to be of any help at present,” said another student, with one ATKT. Since May this year, these 240 students have approached the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) as well as the Directorate of Medical Education & Research (DMER) for clarity in this matter, but no official word has come out yet. “As per rules, we can conduct supplementary exams for this with ATKTs only after a 90-day period. So as per that, exams for summer session should be conducted in July and students will be informed about this soon,” said Dr TP Lahane, director, DMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/finalyear-mbbs-students-with-atkt-wait-for-summer-exam-schedule-to-start-working-101621537845355.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 1,433 new Covid-19 cases, 59 deaths||Mumbai on Thursday recorded 1,433 new Covid-19 cases and 59 deaths, taking the tally to 692,785 and the toll to 14,410. Thursday’s case fatality rate (CFR) was 4.1%, while the overall CFR so far is 2%. There are now 28,987 active cases in the city. The number of cases recorded on Thursday was slightly higher in comparison to Tuesday’s and Wednesday’s figures. On Wednesday, Mumbai conducted 29,391 Covid-19 tests, which resulted in Thursday’s cases, with a positivity rate under 5% for the first time in almost three months. On Tuesday, Mumbai had reported 961 cases, which were under 1,000 cases for the first time since March 2. Mumbai had conducted 17,920 on Monday, with a positivity rate of 5.3%. On Wednesday, Mumbai reported 1,329 Covid-19 cases and had conducted 22,788, with a positivity rate of 5.8%. Positivity rate is the number of Covid cases reported, as a per cent of the total number of tests done. So far, Mumbai has conducted 5,986,344 tests, with a positivity rate of 11.56%. Between 40% and 60% of the tests conducted on any day are rapid antigen tests. Since the beginning of May, active cases in Mumbai have gone down by 51%. On May 1, Mumbai had 59,318 active Covid-19 cases. The highest active cases were recorded on April 11, at 92,464 cases. According to data from BMC, around 64% of the active cases as of Wednesday are asymptotic, 31.3% are symptomatic and around 4.4% are critical. Out of the 22,202 Covid-19 beds in hospitals across Mumbai, 10,967 are vacant; 420 ICU beds and vacant and 113 ventilator beds are vacant, as of Thursday morning. According to BMC, 1,460 patients recovered and were discharged on Thursday. Mumbai’s recovery rate is now 93%, the overall growth rate of Covid-19 cases is 0.23%, and the doubling rate is 297 days. There are 73 containment zones and 276 sealed buildings in Mumbai at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-1-433-new-covid-19-cases-59-deaths-101621536584785.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Housing societies, private establishments rush to private hospitals for Covid vaccination||While Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has expressed its inability to start door-to-door vaccination in absence of guidelines from the state government, several housing societies and private establishments in the city are approaching private hospitals in the city to set up vaccination camps in their premises.Private hospitals like Fortis, HN Reliance, Nanavati and Apollo Hospitals are receiving a significant number of queries for setting up vaccination camps for residents of housing societies or employees of private establishments.The BMC had on May 10 issued a circular allowing vaccination sessions for housing societies and private establishments for those above 18 years of age. The vaccination would be on a payment basis and the payment per vaccine would need to be mutually decided by the private centre (hospital) and private establishments/housing societies, as per the BMC guidelines.Post this, several housing societies and private establishments have started approaching private hospitals for vaccination but it has not yet taken off due to shortage of vaccines.A spokesperson for Fortis Hospital said, “We have received several requests from housing societies and workplaces to begin Covid-19 vaccination drive for its residents and employees. Following the local municipal guidelines, we are working on the logistics that will be needed to initiate these camps. We hope to start with this engagement very soon.”Under the guidelines, private hospitals will organisation vaccination session at the premises of the housing society or private establishment. Beneficiaries are needed to be registered with the Co-Win app. The vaccination team would be needed to have a doctor, vaccinator, vaccination officer to verify Co-Win details and one person to manage the crowd. An ambulance is mandatory to be stationed at the place of vaccination drive be it housing society or private offices. It is expected to be used to rush vaccine beneficiary to the hospital in case of adverse effects post-inoculation.Dr Santosh Shetty, executive director, Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital said, “We are in touch with corporate house and housing societies for the administration of Covid vaccines, and we will start it once we get a fresh stock by month-end. Currently, we have got few request letters and are in touch with 10-12 big housing societies nearby our hospital and the same number of corporate houses.”Borivli resident Ankit Arora said, “We contacted several private hospitals but they expressed their inability to start such a drive. Unless we have sufficient stock, I don’t think it is of any use to have such facilities.”Meanwhile, from Friday, vaccination for all age groups will be conducted on an appointment basis. The BMC has decided that vaccination will be done on a walk-in basis for three days for those above 60 years of age between Monday to Wednesday and appointment basis between Thursday to Saturday, while the vaccination drive will remain shut on Sunday.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “Currently, for next week we will continue walk-in vaccination for those above 60 years of age, but in the week after that, we might change our policy depending on the vaccine doses that we will get from the global tender that we have floated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/housing-societies-private-establishments-rush-to-private-hospitals-for-covid-vaccination-101621536465439.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Kin of patients affected by Mucormycosis shelling out lakhs for treatment||Even after winning the battle against Covid-19, there is no respite for many patients who are falling prey to a black fungus infection — mucormycosis. A serious but rare fungal infection, mucormycosis is caused by a group of molds called mucormycetes. It causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and even death if not treated on time, said doctors.Due to the sudden surge in the price of life-saving antifungal medicines, patients at private hospitals have to shell out lakhs during their treatment that stretches between four-six weeks.Siddhesh Parulekar, 71, who recovered from Covid-19, lost his left eye to mucormycosis. The Girgaum resident was detected with Covid-19 in April. With moderate infection - his oxygen saturation levels were around 92 -he underwent treatment at the Worli Covid care centre for almost two weeks and returned home. But within a month, his left eye started drooping and he started squinting. When he was rushed to an ophthalmologist, his MRI report revealed that he had been infected with mucormycosis. On May 9, he was admitted to Saifee Hospital. Struggling to arrange ₹10 lakh for the treatment, the family has started a campaign on the crowdfunding portal—Impactguru.com.“Last week, he underwent surgery where his left eye was removed. His condition is quite critical as the fungus has reached his brain. Currently, he is in the intensive care unit (ICU),” said his son Sunil Parulekar.In another case, Sudhir Mishra, 56, is raising funds for his father’s treatment who has been diagnosed with mucormycosis. Only last month, Mishra spent ₹4 lakhs on his father Anand who was tested positive for Covid-19. Currently, Anand is at Lotus hospital, Borivali that has given the family an estimate of ₹12lakhs towards the treatment of mucormycosis.Pre-Covid-19, patients with mucormycosis were treated at half the current expense. With the sudden surge in mucormycosis cases, however, there has been a severe shortage of life-saving drug — Liposomal Amphotericin B in the market. Taking advantage of the increasing demand, drug suppliers have increased the price of one injection from ₹8,000 to over ₹10,000, said doctors.“There are two types of drugs—Liposomal Amphotericin B and plain Amphotericin B.During pre-Covid days, the first one used to cost ₹3000-5,000. The latter one was ₹150. However, we preferred giving Liposomal Amphotericin B as it is more effective even for Rhino mucormycosis when the infection reaches the brain. So, during the second wave, when cases increased, suppliers surged their price to over ₹10,000. While the price of Amphotericin B has been raised to ₹500,” said Dr ChandraVeer Singh, consultant otorhinolaryngologist, head and neck onco-surgeon, Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road.As per treatment protocol, when the black fungus infects the nose, sinus or palate, doctors give 5mg dose per kilogram (kg) of body weight. For instance, if a person is 60kgs, he would require 300mg of the dose. Each vial consists of 50mg of the drugs. So, a patient needs six vials which costs ₹60,000 daily. But when the infection reaches the brain, doctors have to give 8-10mg per kg of the body weight. This doubles the daily medical expenditures.Dr Milind Navalakhe, consultant ENT, Global Hospital, Parel said that plain Amphotericin B often affects the kidneys so patients who can afford the medical expenditure opt for Liposomal Amphotericin B. “Patients have to spend a minimum of ₹60,000 daily on the medicines for four-six weeks,” he said.After receiving several complaints of overcharging and channelise the supply of these drugs, hospitals have been instructed to procure the injections directly through the collector’s office.“For the last two-three days, case wise, we send the details to the collector’s office who then supply us the injections. This has helped break the chain of middlemen and over-pricing of doses,” said Dr Singh.Abhay Pandey, national president of All Food and Drug Licence Holder Foundation (AFDLHF) said mucormycosis before Covid-19 was considered an extremely rare fungal infection. A handful of pharmaceutical companies produce the Liposomal Amphotericin B. Now, with the surge in cases, companies are struggling to meet the demand and arrange for raw materials. “When the pandemic started in March last year, the suppliers increased the price of masks and sanitisers for their profit. So now, as cases of mucormycosis have increased, they are using the opportunity by surging prices of the injections,” he said.A spokesperson from Cipla which is one of the manufacturers of the injection said, “The demand for the antifungal medicines has increased by 3-4 times. We are getting orders from all across the country. We have escalated the production and we believe the demand will soon be met.”Meanwhile, doctors said unlike last year the black fungal infection during the second wave is more aggressive which deteriorates the condition of the patients faster.“In the second wave, the infection rate is not only more but it is also affecting younger patients. I have a patient who is just 25-year-old. Also, the infection is so aggressive that it is quickly spreading to eyes, palate and even brain,” said Navalakhe.Doctors said incidences of mucormycosis can be controlled by stopping the unregulated usage of insulin. “This black fungus was earlier visible among patients with immunosuppressants like diabetes and cancer. Patients with Covid-19 are unnecessarily given a large number of steroids which compromises their immunity. So, it (dispensing steriods) needs to be controlled,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, part of the state’s Covid-19 task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mucormycosis-treatment-costs-lakhs-say-patients-kin-101621536404706.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: 6 Uttan fishermen return after 3 days||After battling Cyclone Tauktae, six fishermen aboard trawler New Help Mary finally returned to the coast after spending two days and three nights at sea, 35 nautical miles off Uttan coast.The owner of the trawler, Justin Miranda, said, “The trawler left Uttan on May 14 for fishing. After covering around 35 nautical miles, we got a message on the wireless to return to the nearest coast due to the cyclone warning. Following this we started to return, but around 15 nautical miles off Uttan, we were caught in the cyclone. We conveyed this to Bernard D’mello, fishermen leader, so that our family members would get some hope.”The fishermen initially decided to go to Dahanu coast, but as it would take around 12 hours, they decided to drop the anchor and stay at the spot. “We dropped the anchor after we covered only nine nautical miles in three hours. However due to the gusty winds, it broke. The second and third anchor also broke, and we were drifting four nautical miles in the opposite direction. Our boat was tossing in the sea and we just had a long rope for support,” said Miranda. Due to the tossing, the steering wheel of the trawler also got partially damaged. After the condition improved on Tuesday, they decided to move towards Uttan and reached Chowk village in their partially damaged boat around midnight.“We could see the Indian Navy chopper coming to our rescue, but they had to return thrice due to inclement weather and we were at the mercy of Mother Nature,” said Miranda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-6-uttan-fishermen-return-after-3-days-101621536345314.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Mira Road resident arrested for illegal sale of travel passes||DN Nagar police arrested a 31-year-old man for allegedly illegally selling travel permits or e-passes to people wanting to travel within the state amid the restrictions on movement. The accused was arrested from Mira Road where he sold the e-passes for ₹400 each.According to DN Nagar police, the accused, Amir Imtiyaz Munshi, had sold around 400 e-passes since the beginning of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Police officers said that when travel restrictions were announced during the second wave, the government started a portal for e-passes for emergency travel within the state and districts. The officers said they had received information that a person had been selling online e-passes illegally.On tracking the IP address of the computer, police reached Munshi’s house and arrested him after seizing his computer.During interrogation, Munshi confessed to selling e-passes and also revealed that an employee of the collector’s office used to take ₹300 for each pass.“We are now looking for the government employee who was helping Munshi in procuring the e-passes. We are also looking for people who have bought the passes from Munshi,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mira-road-resident-arrested-for-illegal-sale-of-travel-passes-101621536286731.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Man hits wife on head with rock, arrested||Byculla police arrested a man for allegedly hitting his wife on the head with a rock and killing her, after a dispute.The police arrested the accused within 12 hours after he left for Uttar Pradesh after the murder.According to the police officers on patrolling duty, on Wednesday, they received information about a woman lying in a pool of blood near Masina Hospital.On reaching the spot, the officers saw the woman’s head bleeding and a bloody rock lying next to her body on the footpath.“With no CCTV or eyewitness, we enquired around the area if anyone knew the woman. After two hours, we found out that the woman’s name was Sunita Santosh Yadav,” said an inspector Chimaji Adhav, from the Byculla police station.The police later learnt that the woman resided with her husband in Mumbai, but did not have a permanent address. “We learnt that her husband had fled to his village somewhere in UP,” added Adhav.The police then tracked Yadav’s phone and within minutes traced him.“A team left for UP immediately and within 12 hours of the murder they arrested Yadav and brought him to Mumbai on Thursday,” added Adhav.On questioning Yadav, he told the police that he had suspected that his wife was having an affair with another man due to which the couple fought daily.On Wednesday, the two had a fight, after which, Yadav picked up a rock and clobbered Sunita’s head.The police have arrested Yadav for murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-hits-wife-on-head-with-rock-arrested-101621536286047.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Centre must allot Amphotericin B injections to Maharashtra under any circumstances: Tope||As cases of mucormycosis are increasing in Maharashtra, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that the Centre must allot Amphotericin B injections to Maharashtra at the earliest. Looking at the increasing cases, the state Covid task force has prepared guidelines for the treatment of such cases in the state. Tope said that the guidelines will soon be issued and the department will also hold training programmes across districts.“Maharashtra has several cases [of mucormycosis]. Depending on the severity of the case, a patient needs anywhere between 60 to 100 injections during the treatment. The task force has prepared a detailed guideline for the treatment of mucormycosis. It will be issued soon and the state will be holding training programmes for districts as well,” Tope said.The minister said that rising cases of mucormycosis is a “real concern” for the state government and have therefore pressed for the Centre’s approval to get the injections needed for the treatment of mucormycosis, which is also referred to as Black Fungus, colloquially. So far, Maharashtra has about 1,500 cases and have reported around 90 fatalities due to it. The state, according to Tope, has placed orders for over 200,000 injections but the manufacturers need permission from the Centre to supply it to the State. “The real concern for us now is mucormycosis and our stress remains that Centre must allot Amphotericin B injections. We have given purchase orders for 200,000 injections to various companies that manufacturer these injections, but the Centre is not allocating the quota and till then these companies cannot deliver these orders,” he said.The minister said that another challenge for the pharma companies is the availability of the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) or raw material to manufacture the drug, which has to be imported from Germany. “The Centre must overcome these issues and make Amphotericin B injections available to Maharashtra under any circumstances,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centre-must-allot-amphotericin-b-injections-to-maharashtra-under-any-circumstances-tope-101621536285399.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks NEGVAC to check possibility of door-to-door vaccination for elderly, disabled||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) to look into the possibility of door-to-door vaccination for those who are above the age of 75 and differently-abled. The expert committee, under the aegis of the health ministry, is required to submit its report before June 2. The bench further observed that if the NEGVAC comes out with a policy favourable to the select group of citizens, then the same may be implemented immediately without waiting for the high court order. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, was informed by the counsel for Brihanmumbai Mumbai Corporation (BMC) that as per the directions of the bench on Wednesday it had filed a response. The HC had asked the BMC commissioner to inform it whether the civic body was in a position to conduct door-to-door vaccination for elderly and disabled citizens and if the response was in the affirmative the court would permit it to do so even if the centre did not permit it. The affidavit filed by Dr Mangala Gomare stated that the civic authority was willing to implement door to door vaccination if the Central government comes out with a policy for the same and issued guidelines to that effect. Dissatisfied by the response the bench observed, “What was the praise in the newspaper and media for.. publicity? You cannot think for the elderly and bedridden. If you do not have stock, you stop vaccines for all. Why is this selective vaccination going on? Can you discriminate like that?” The latter observation was in light of the petition on issues for booking of vaccination slots on the Co-Win vaccination portal which is also being heard by the bench. Kapadia, a petitioner-in-person submitted that the village of Behrampur in Odisha had a door to door vaccination policy which was discontinued today morning. To this, the court noted that the reason for discontinuation of the door-to-door vaccination drive was not because of some Adverse Effects Following Immunization (AEFI) but because the centre did not have a policy. Suggesting a change in approach for the vaccination drive the court said, “Officers are thoroughly insensitive. Instead of having people rush to the centres, you should chase them for vaccinations. Why can’t this approach be thought of? This is not how you deal with such an important issue. Your officials have disappointed us.” The bench then noted that as NEGVAC had been constituted in August 2020 specifically for dealing with Covid vaccination directed it to consider the possibility of the door to door Covid vaccination policy for elderly and disabled citizens. The court further directed additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Union of India and NEGVAC to get instructions from the chairman of NEGVAC and ask him to submit their opinion on the door to door vaccination policy to the court within two weeks. With regards to the plea to have a separate Co-Win portal for Mumbai in light of complaints of registered patients not getting vaccines though they have been given appointment slots due to walk-in vaccines being administered at centres, the court directed BMC to give preference to online registrants who have confirmed appointments over the on the spot registrants. They also added that the respondent authorities will make “honest endeavours to ensure that the elderly citizens are not made to wait in long queues and that immediate steps are taken to vaccinate them at the centre”. The court has posted a hearing of both petition on June 2, 2021, and has asked the authorities to respond to the specific queries raised by them by then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-negvac-to-check-possibility-of-door-to-door-vaccination-for-elderly-disabled-101621536224703.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||God save education system: HC raps Maharashtra govt on SSC tests||The Bombay high court (HC) has rapped the state government for not having a contingency plan in place for assessing students before cancelling the Class 10 exams and asked it to file an affidavit on the measures it plans to take to address the issues raised in public interest litigation related to admission to Class 11 given the cancellation of the Class 10 exams.The court said that as the Class 10 exams were the last schooling examination for students, they could not be promoted without having been assessed, as it would have an adverse effect on their future. A division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade, while hearing the PIL filed by retired professor and Pune resident Dhananjay Kulkarni, was informed by advocate Uday Warunjikar that though the notification announcing the cancellation of Class 10 exams in the state was issued on May 12, as per news reports the decision was taken on April 15. He added though the government resolution was issued a month after the decision was taken, the state had not prepared a plan for assessing the students. Warunjikar added that while other boards like CBSE, ICSE and IB had an internal assessment to evaluate their students and declare their class 10 results, the students of the state board were not assessed from class 1-8 as the Right to Education (RTE) Act did not permit exams till then and due to the pandemic, Class 9 students were also not assessed last year and promoted to Class 10, hence there was no internal assessment based on which the state board students could be assessed like students from other boards. Government pleader Priyabhushan Kakade for the state submitted that the issue of coming up with an evaluation system for students of the state board had been referred to the State Council for Education Research and Training (SCERT) and their response was awaited. He submitted that SCERT had control over the marking system and performance standard in Maharashtra, hence the state would have a formula on marking within a week. When Kakade said did not respond to the court’s query on whether an examination would be held for class 10 state board students, the court said, “Are you thinking of promoting them without examination? God save the education system of this country. This is the only examination and the last examination of their schooling. If you are waiting for suggestions from them (SCERT), who took this decision?”After the court sought to know whether such Class 10 examinations were cancelled in other states as well both Kakade and an intervenor informed that the states of Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh had also done so. The court then questioned as to why Class 10 exams were being cancelled while Class 12 exams were being conducted and then sought to know from other boards how they would be assessing and promoting students if they had also cancelled Class 10 exams. Advocate Mihir Joshi for CBSE said that the board had conducted internal assessments which is part of the final assessment. He added that the performances of students of the last three years would be considered to ensure no student gets over and above what they usually get. Advocate Pratik Kothari for ICSE submitted that the board conducted internal assessments and had exams till Class 9. He added that the board would appoint experts and come up with a formula like they had done last year which was approved by the Supreme Court. After hearing all submissions, the court addressed Kakade and said that as a decision was yet to be taken on how to assess the state board students for Class 10 the state should have had a blueprint in place before making the decision. “Exams have to be conducted now or later. If you are cancelling then you have to have some blueprint, not just some getaway for students. Checks and balances have to be in place. There are law firms which say we will not take students who get above 90% in exams.” The court then permitted the state to submit the decision of SCERT within a week and posted a hearing of the PIL thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/god-save-education-system-hc-raps-maharashtra-govt-on-ssc-tests-101621536164725.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Congress, Sena demand petroleum minister’s resignation over barge tragedy; NCP calls for case against ONGC officials||Terming the barge incident wherein at least 37 workers drowned in Arabian Sea a “manmade tragedy” and a failure of the Narendra Modi-led Union government to avert it, Maharashtra Congress has demanded resignation of petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on moral grounds.Former chief minister and senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan has asked as to why the 600 people on-board the barge were not brought to offshore immediately after cyclone warnings. He said the responsibility should be fixed for criminal negligence. State Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant has demanded for Pradhan’s resignation on moral grounds. “The tragedy in which 37 people have lost their lives is manmade. More than 38 people are still missing. This is clearly a manmade tragedy as warning of cyclone was given in advance. It is the responsibility of the people who put the lives of 700 people in danger, and action should be taken against the people responsible. The moral responsibility should be taken by the minister by resigning from the post,” he said.Sawant said it was negligence of the people at the helms of the affair due to which the tragedy took place. “Lakhs of people of lost their lives because of the mishandling of the Covid-19 crisis in the country. Similar failures have come to the fore from the irresponsible management in other ministries too. We want to ask whether the Modi government is going to learn anything from its blunders it has committed so far,” he said.Chavan has said ignoring Coast Guard warnings has led to the tragedy. “Ignoring Coast Guard warnings has caused a huge tragedy. Why did the 3 accommodation barges hired by #ONGC with more than 600 persons on board not forced to return offshore. Responsibility must be fixed for this criminal negligence and compensation given (sic),” he tweeted on Thursday. Shiv Sena MP from south Mumbai Arvind Sawant, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanded that he seek resignation of Pradhan and ONGC CMD. Sawant, who is also Sena’s chief spokesperson, demanded an inquiry under a retired Supreme Court or high court judge over the “callousness” of ONGC management and the ministry of petroleum and natural gas as to why they could not alert the staffers who were on duty on the barge. He also sought financial assistance for the families of the deceased and the 52 missing employees.The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), too, has demanded that a culpable homicide case be registered against ONGC officials responsible for risking the lives of the 700 employees working at the barge. “There were alerts of Cyclone Tauktae from concerned authorities, but ONGC chose to overlook them and risked the lives of 700 employees. Around 37 employees lost their lives after the sea barge drowned in the cyclone and over 40 are still missing. Search and rescue operations by the Coast Guard and Indian Navy are still on. Declaring a probe by Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan in the matter is not enough. We want the responsibility of the officials concerned to be fixed. They should be suspended with immediate effect and should also be booked for culpable homicide,” said Nawab Malik, state minority affairs minister and NCP chief spokesperson.P305 barge had gone adrift off Heena oil fields in Bombay High area. The oil fields are located around 70km southwest of Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-sena-demand-petroleum-minister-s-resignation-over-barge-tragedy-ncp-calls-for-case-against-ongc-officials-101621536044687.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Barge master chose to stay close to oil field: Afcons Infrastructure||Afcons Infrastructure, the company which chartered Papaa 305 (P305) that sank off the coast of Mumbai on May 17 due to Cyclone Tauktae claimed on Thursday that the barge master chose to stay close to the oil field where P305 was anchored though he was warned of the storm three days in advance.The weather forecast received on May 14, 2021 “predicted sustained wind speed of maximum 40 knots (classified as a “Tropical Storm” by our service provider) was likely to occur at our specific work location late 16th or early 17th May 2021.”“While the other barges moved to Mumbai port or outer anchorage, the Master of P305 chose to move 200m away from the platform where they were working, and to remain at that location, deciding this as a safe location since the maximum predicted wind speed was only 40 knots and his location was 120 NM [nautical miles] way from the eye of the tropical storm,” a statement issued by Afcons on Thursday read.“Durmast is the owner and the responsibility for marine operations rests with the vessel owner and his marine crew stationed on the vessel... Afcons, as charterer deploys its construction workmen and supervisors, who stay on the barge and carry out construction or revamp work on the platform,” the statement added.Afcons further claimed that the responsibility for the marine side of the operations, namely safe vessel operation, navigation and vessel management, come under the scope of work of the vessel owners, carried out through the vessel’s master, officers, and the crew appointed on the vessel by the owner.A statement from Durmast Enterprises is awaited.P305, an accommodation barge with 261 personnel on-board, sent out a distress call on Monday morning, following the intensification of Tauktae to an extremely severe cyclonic storm. The people on board comprised marine crew, labourers on contract, as well as 13 employees of Afcons. Till now, 186 people have been rescued, while 49 bodies have been recovered in the Search and Rescue (SAR) operations launched by the Indian Navy and the coast guard late Monday.The barge, owned and operated by M/s Durmast Enterprises Limited, was chartered by Afcons and consortium partner Halani-TES-Nauvata to work on a project for the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) in the Western Offshore fields in the Arabian sea. The barge was located 72 km off the coast of Mumbai in the Heera Oil Fields in Bombay High, where some of the country’s biggest offshore oil rigs are located. Two other barges chartered by Afcons were battered by the cyclone, but all on board were rescued, including 137 on board barge Gal Constructor, which ran aground about 90km north of Mumbai’s Colaba Point, and 196 on board barge SS-3. The 101 on board oil rig Sagar Bhushan, which was also set adrift due to the gusty winds, were brought to safety as well, an official involved in the SAR operations said. However, a tugboat with 11 members on board, remains missing.The statement said that the consortium followed the standard practise of offshore contractors to hire a service provider for location-specific weather forecast, which is issued twice a day.“The sudden deterioration of weather left no time at all for any further action to be taken by the Master of the vessel,” the statement added.Afcons has also set up a 24-hour help desk to address concerns of all distressed family members of the affected crew. The helpline provides updates to family members about every development of the rescue operation. “We’re fully committed to stand in this crisis together and offer our full support to the families, including financial assistance,” Afcons stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-master-chose-to-stay-close-to-oil-field-afcons-infrastructure-101621535984773.html
21-05-2021||Mumbai||Barge tragedy: Kin identify bodies, some wait for missing family members||Thirty-five-year-old Satyendra Singh, a resident of Devaria district in Uttar Pradesh, survived Cyclone Tauktae — the most powerful storm to hit the west coast in more than two decades that packed sustained winds of up to 210km per hour and nine- to 10-metre-high waves. Singh and two of his cousins reached to the safety of Mumbai port in nick of time, but on Thursday he learnt that his elder brother, Upendra, who was working as a rigger on the ill-fated barge Papaa305 (P305), died. Singh and his two cousins were on another barge —Trinity Nissi — deployed in the same area in the Arabian Sea before Cyclone Tauktae hit Mumbai coast. Their barge left high sea in the evening of May 14 as they received warning for the cyclone and reached Mumbai coast the next morning. He, however, wandered as to why P305 chose to remain where it was and expose the 261 crew members to the vagaries of the storm. Singh was angry at his brother’s employer for failing to bring barge P305 back to the harbour. “There were around 250 people on barge Trinity Nissi who had to wait till 9pm on May 19. Later we were allowed to go from Barge. After coming out from the ship, I heard my brother is missing and P305 has sunk and several people died. I inquired with the company who hired us and came to Sir JJ Hospital, identified the body,” he said. He added, “He was everything to me. We lost the main person of the family.” Upendra has three children — two daughters aged 12 and 3 years and a 5-year-old son. Ajay Singh, a 39-year-old from Ajagara village, Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh, who was working on Barge P305 since a few months is among those missing. His distant relative JP Singh, who resides in Koperkhairane, said, “I got a call from the family after the company informed them about the incident and asked them to come to Mumbai to identify Ajay. We were shown few bodies and photos at Sir JJ Hospital but I could not identify Ajay, as I had not seen him in the past 20 years. Last I saw him was at his wedding. We informed Ajay’s father and are now waiting for the family to come from their hometown.”Ajay, who is listed as a missing person, has two kids — a son studying in Class 10 and a daughter studying in Class 7. He is the only earning member of the family.Arjun Pandey, 29, is another person listed as missing. Pandey, a resident of Gopalganj in Bihar, worked on barge P305 since January this year. “He came to Mumbai on January 10 and stayed at his brother-in-law’s house in Navi Mumbai. He went to work on the ship in the last week of January through a company which provides manpower to these ships,” said his cousin Prince who has been waiting at the hospital to identify the body since morning, without eating anything. Prince said, “Arjun last called his wife, who is expecting, on May 17 around 7am. He informed her about the condition on the ship. We got no news of him since. He is the only earning member of the family.”Prince had visited the Nerul office of the company Pandey worked at to check the list of survivors, but as he could not find his name there, he came to identify the body at Sir JJ Hospital on Thursday. “We were asked to reach JJ hospital to identify the bodies. But so far we have not found him,” he said.Prince, in tears, said the family has been calling him every hour but he is yet to inform them about Pandey.Meanwhile, the body of 44-year-old Nilesh Pitale, a fire safety officer of barge P305, was identified by his younger brother Vishwanath at the hospital, but he and his relatives claimed they will not accept the body till the company assured them of compensation. “Pitale was the only earning member in the house. Both his father and mother are heart patients. He has a 17-year-old daughter and a 12-year-old son,” said his cousin Dinesh Madhukunta, adding, “We have not informed parents till now and his wife.”“The cyclone alert was given, so why was the barge not sent to Mumbai coast? Who will take care of the families of the people who died? It is a complete failure of the company due to which many people lost their lives,” said Madhukunta. Of the 49 bodies recovered from P305, 26 have arrived at Sir JJ Hospital. Among them, 16 have been identified by their family members, relatives and colleagues, said an officer from Yellow Gate police station. So far, only one body has been handed over to the family. Most of the people are from outside the state, so the hospital has been conducting Covid tests of the deceased so as to ensure there will be no hurdle while traveling from Mumbai to another state, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-tragedy-kin-identify-bodies-some-wait-for-missing-family-members-101621535924716.html
