22-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ACB arrests two cops on corruption charges||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Friday arrested an assistant police inspector (API) and a sub-inspector from Dharavi police station for allegedly taking bribe from a private construction contractor to shield him from severe legal action.ACB claimed to have arrested API Prabhakar Joshi, 44, red handed while accepting the bribe amount. ACB officers also arrested sub-inspector Amol Gade, 27, in the case.ACB officers said that the complainant contractor was booked last month by Dharavi police in a case for assaulting a public servant and obstructing him from performing his duty. In this case police had seized ₹40,000 cash and other belongings of the complainant. However, when the complainant recently went to the police station to collect the money and belongings, Gade told him only ₹30,000 was seized from his possession back then. Gade also retained ₹15,000 as bribe and returned only ₹15,000 to the complainant, ACB said.Later, Gade produced the complainant before Joshi, who demanded ₹12,000 for not initiating externment proceeding against him. The complainant then reported the matter to ACB. The agency, after due verification of facts, laid a trap on Friday and arrested Joshi while accepting ₹12,000 bribe from the complainant at the police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-acb-arrests-two-cops-on-corruption-charges-101621707958692.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Steel firm directors booked for tax default of ₹92 crore||MRA Marg police booked two directors of a Fort-based steel product manufacturing company for allegedly defaulting ₹92.92 crore worth Sales Tax and Value Added Tax to the state government between 2014 and 18.Chetan Mehta and Mahadev Shringare, directors of Opera Steel Private Limited, have been booked on the complaint of Shrikant Gavare, a sales tax officer. Gavare in his statement to police has stated that the company defaulted in paying the due tax to the state government between 2014 and 18, and that the amount has now become ₹92,92,66,312 with interest and penalty. Various letters, summons, notices, reminders, warning summons and police prosecution notice have been slapped to the company and its directors, but the tax department never received any response from company officials, a police officer said.The company moved the Bombay high court against the tax department’s order, but the same was rejected by the court. They then filed an appeal in higher court and the matter is currently subjudice. But, the court has not passed any stay order on the tax department’s action and the company, too, had not approached the department with any court order. As per the first information report (FIR), a copy of which is with HT, tax officials also claimed that sufficient time and fair opportunity was given to the company for paying the tax, but they failed to do so. “From this, it prima facie appears that the accused company and its directors have committed an offence as per section 74(2) of the Value Added Tax Act, 2002,” Gavare said in the police complaint. Hence, as a last resort, the department on Thursday registered a criminal case against two directors of the company under sections 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, section 9 of the Central Sales Tax Act and 74(2) of the Value Added Tax Act, 2002. The police are now going through the document and communication details submitted by the complainant. The accused would soon be summoned for questioning, and if they fail to respond to the summons they may face arrest, another police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-steel-firm-directors-booked-for-tax-default-of-92-crore-101621707898766.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Four bodies found along Raigad beaches, suspected to be of those missing from barge P305||Raigad authorities have found four bodies along three different beaches of Raigad in the past two days, suspected to be of those still missing from barge P305. The authorities are now trying to establish the identity by matching it with the identification marks of missing crew members. Raigad superintendent of police Ashok Dudhe said, “The first body was found at Murud beach on Friday evening, following which Yellow gate police station and ONGC officials were alerted. On Saturday morning, two more were found from Nagaon beach and one from Sasawne beach in Alibag taluka. Decomposed and bloated, the bodies are beyond identification.” All four are suspected to be in their 40s. Of the four of them, three had no garments on the body when found ashore while one of them found at Nagaon had a jacket like clothing on the body. The bodies have been sent to Alibag civil hospital for post-mortem. “We are in touch with ONGC officials and Yellow Gate police. Till now, they have not been identified. We have been provided with a list of people missing from the barge along with their identification marks. We are trying to match them with the bodies to establish their identity. If the clothes would have been intact, identifying would have been easier,” Dudhe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/four-bodies-found-along-raigad-beaches-suspected-to-be-of-those-missing-from-barge-p305-101621707839304.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Incidents of wild animals drowning in wells is a matter of concern for experts, activists||Since April 15 this year, 11 wild animals have drowned in open wells in Maharashtra. These include two tiger cubs, a family of four sloth bears (with two cubs), a jackal, one blackbuck, a jungle cat, a leopard and a nilgai. Another 33 animals, including 10 wild boar, 16 nilgai, a tiger cub, a rock python and a leopard, were rescued from open wells during the same period, according to data with the forest department, and independent logs maintained by Satpuda Foundation — an Amravati-based wildlife conservation group.All incidents, barring two leopards in Pune’s Junnar taluka, occurred in agricultural fields in Vidarbha districts, within or close to buffer areas around tiger reserves. Earlier, in January 2021, a gaur (Indian bison) in Mahabaleshwar was rescued from a 50-foot-deep well. In November last year, a striped hyena had also been rescued by a volunteer group from an uncovered well in Ane village near Otur, Junnar. A SIMPLE FIX?Experts and activists expressed concern at the frequency of such incidents. These may not pose a significant conservation risk, but are easily preventable with little logistical support.“A few leopards or bears drowning in wells every year is not going to make a huge dent in their overall population. Human beings kill wild animals in larger numbers through various other means. But in this case, the solution is apparently quite simple — you just have to cover the well,” said Dr Aniruddha Belsare, a wildlife veterinarian, conservation researcher and disease ecologist who has previously studied human-leopard conflict in Maharashtra. Another “no-cost band-aid” solution, he said, would be providing “jugaad ladders” in these open wells that animals can use to get out.And yet, animals have been dying in this manner for decades, exclaimed Bandu Dhotre, a Chandrapur-based wildlife activist and non-government member of the State Board for Wildlife (SBWL). Satpuda Foundation, for example, has scattered records of bears, deer, nilgai, leopards and tigers drowning in irrigation canals and tube-wells going back to 2011.In 2012, when Dhotre had staged a hunger strike in front of the forest department’s district headquarters for better protection of tigers around protected areas in Vidarbha, one of his demands was that open wells in buffer areas be covered.“This has been done at a lot of places around Tadoba Tiger Reserve where the wells are now covered with wire mesh or fenced. But we’ve started seeing such accidents in places where they were not happening earlier,” said Dhotre, referring to the recent casualties.While Dhotre speculated that wild animals in these areas may be expanding their ranges, leading them to agricultural fields and eventually to uncovered wells, experts cautioned against accepting this hypothesis without further study.Nevertheless, activists, experts and even officials agreed that such deaths are likely being grossly underreported. “We only hear about it when a large or exotic animal dies in this manner in areas where the forest department is active. But you cannot track every casualty. There are still places remote enough, and animals that are not glamorous enough, that we may never see the full scale of the problem,” said Kishor Rithe, head of Satpuda Foundation and a non-government member of SBWL.ANIMALS LIKELY ENDURE PROLONGED DISTRESSThough experts, particularly wildlife veterinarians, cautioned against anthropomorphising these accidents, they conceded that most animals that drown in wells are sure to have experienced painful and prolonged deaths. A veterinarian who has conducted dozens of post-mortems for such cases said he first looks to an animal’s claws for such indications.“One of the first things I check is nails. I’ve seen leopards and bears where the animal has struggled so much, trying to grab onto something, that their sharp nails become extremely blunt. It really gives you a sense of how much the animal has struggled,” said Dr Nikhil Bangar, veterinarian at the Mandikoh Leopard Rehabilitation Centre in Junnar. Even Belsare, who was more reluctant to use words like pain and suffering in this context, said, “Most wild animals are great swimmers. They will do all they can to stay afloat, before they develop hypothermia, fatigue and other medical conditions leading to drowning. These deaths are not instant, or easy , and often involve prolonged stress.”Though forest department officials did not share post-mortem reports of the 11 casualties referred to at the outset of this report (citing confidentiality), the cause of death in all cases has been attributed to drowning, they confirmed. This is done on the basis of a simple forensic test, in which a small piece of lung tissue is set in a glass of water. “If the tissue floats, the animal did not drown. It may have been poisoned, poached and then thrown into the well, opening up another line of investigation. But if the lung sinks, it means the animal did indeed drown,” Dr Belsare explained. But, he also emphasised that the process of drowning itself is not as simple as the test which confirms it. There is, in fact, a more complex sequence of events that eventually culminates in death for the animal.HT also spoke to a wildlife veterinarian currently employed with the forest department at a tiger reserve in Vidarbha who has conducted post-mortems in such cases for all manner of wildlife, including leopards, sub-adult tigers, bears and deer. “In case of drownings, we do not typically ask questions beyond the lung test. It is time consuming and we need specialised vets to conduct post-mortems and interpret the data. The drowning conclusion may be reductive, but further investigation is not encouraged.”THE MECHANISM OF DROWNINGFrom a coroner’s perspective, one of the first physiological responses an animal might experience in such a case is hypothermia, followed by exhaustion. “There could be a drop in body temperature due to the water, and as the animal struggles to stay afloat there will be a build-up of lactic acid in the muscles. Eventually the airway will become submerged as fatigue sets in. Water will enter the lungs, causing air-hunger, leading to asphyxiation,” said Dr Naveen Pandey, wildlife veterinarian with the Corbett Foundation. .Metabolic changes that occur during drowning may also cause cardiac arrhythmias or cardiac arrest. “Sometimes, in case of more delicate animals like deer, the creature may even die before asphyxiation. In this case we look for certain lesions on the heart called petechial haemarroaghes, which broadly indicate cardiac arrest,” said Pandey. A drowning animal may develop a range of other conditions in combination with one another, from aspiration pneumonia which is caused by entry of oral or gastric contents into the lungs, to pulmonary edemas where air sacs in the lungs fill up with fluid, explained wildlife veterinarians who spoke to HT for this story. Experts described five broad stages of this process — struggling; violent intentional movement and breathlessness; deep respiratory movements, swallowing of water, immobility and convulsions; loss of corneal reflexes and hampered vision; and slowing down of respiratory movements, unconsciousness, and finally drowning.“During the first phase, the muscles get overworked. In the second phase, the animals may experience laryngospasms, where the trachea involuntarily closes. As the animal struggles to breathe, respiratory acidosis occurs when the body is not able to remove carbon dioxide due to a lack of oxygen. Then oxygen depletion leads to unconsciousness, and this further allows water to enter the lungs and airways, making them bulky and distended. Lungs get inflammation, leading to pneumonia-like conditions and pulmonary edemas,” said Dr Bangar.Eventually, the lack of oxygen leads to irreversible brain damage, putting the animal in a coma. “No longer able to struggle or see, the animal drowns. But as I’ve said, there is a lot that happens before that final moment of death,” he added. A 2016 paper in the peer-reviewed journal Veterinary Pathology describes the process as such: “The drowning process is complex, involving sequential, concurrent and overlapping cardiorespiratory reflexes, electrolyte and blood gas abnormalities, aspiration and swallowing of liquid, vomition, struggling, involuntary movements and physical exhaustion, breathlessness, or air-hunger, eventually culminating in death.” ADMINISTRATIVE WILL REQUIREDSince 2011, there have been at least three general resolutions (GR) passed at the state level pertaining to joint forest management practices in wildlife dense areas which have recommended that wildlife-proofing of wells be expedited in protected and non-protected areas. The latest of these was passed by the forest department under Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherji Jan Van Vikas Yojana in August 2015.“As per these GRs, zilla parishads are tasked with the responsibility of covering open wells. An amendment to the last GR in 2017 even devolved powers to the forest department to take up the issue, but the administration has been extremely slow on the uptake. Meanwhile, animals continue to drown, and we simply write them off with obligatory post-mortems,” said Rithe.Responding to these concerns, Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forests (Maharashtra), drew attention to various administrative challenges faced by the department. The main issue, he said, is that these wells are located outside the boundaries of protected areas, where the forest department has no administrative jurisdiction. Moreover, there is no legal consequence for an individual, say a farmer, who leaves their well uncovered, causing death of an animal.“Many of these wells are built under various government schemes, which do not have strict mandates for protection of wildlife. But we are making efforts to plug the gaps. We regularly raise the issue with zila parishads. In Bhandara, where two tiger cubs drowned in a siphon well this month, we have identified 32 such wells and temporarily covered 28 of them. The irrigation department has been instructed to find a permanent solution,” said Kakodkar.Experts, on the other hand, were not inclined to laud these measures. “It is just a hole in the ground. The fact that stakeholders have still not found a way to just cover them up strikes me as extremely lazy,” said Dr Belsare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/incidents-of-wild-animals-drowning-in-wells-is-a-matter-of-concern-for-experts-activists-101621707778667.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Look after pilots who have lost lives due to Covid: Air India pilots||After Air India pilots recently lost three senior pilots to Covid-19, the Indian Pilots Guild, a Boeing pilot’s union of Air India wrote to their chairman requesting to immediately provide a befitting compensation to their colleagues who have died due to infection. They also requested to immediately attend to and mend the gap in the company’s HR policy so that their family will be looked after by the airline, in case the worst happens to one of them.Late Capt. Prasad had operated San Francisco-Bangalore, landed on April 15, 2021, and travelled as staff on duty to Mumbai. He was shifted to a Mumbai-based hospital after he tested positive, but gradually his condition worsened and succumbed to the virus on May 9.Stating a staff notice dated July 17, 2020, that pays ₹10 lakhs to a pilot who dies of Covid-19, the pilots pointed out that this is the only measure Air India takes to compensate the next of kin of an active employee who lost life due to Covid-19, in the line of duty.“Whilst the intent of the company may be good, let us not overlook the reality of the situation. Nationwide, PSU’s (public sector undertakings) have policies in place for such tragedies. Ex-gratia payment and compassionate employment being the most common. Why is Air India the only PSU that is relatively complacent towards compensation in the case of the death of an employee? We were surprised to learn that a well-respected Indian private airline runs a benevolent scheme with its employees where it covers a deceased pilot to the sum of ₹5 crores in case of death. Why can’t the flag carrier create and provide something similar?,” said an IPG pilot.“The Central government has an active scheme called Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package insurance scheme for health workers fighting Covid-19. Why shouldn’t something similar be offered to a serving PSU employee,” he added.The unions asked the airline about the steps being taken by Air India to ensure the aircrew/employees will be taken care of in case Covid-19 is contracted. They also questioned, how will the next kin be looked after in the unfortunate event of the demise of an employee.Three senior Air India commanders have lost their lives to Covid in a span of five days in this month - Capt. Amitesh Prasad, Capt. Sandeep Rana and Capt. GPS Gill. “The gravity of the situation will amass when one is to note that a total of three active pilots in Air India lost their lives to Covid-19 under similar circumstances within five days, between the 9th and the 14th of April, 2021..we request you to immediately attend to and mend this dismaying gap in the company’s HR policy so that we may know that our loved ones will be looked after by our company should the worst happen to one of us,” the letter concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/look-after-pilots-who-have-lost-lives-due-to-covid-air-india-pilots-101621706197736.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||195 children lost one parent to Covid, 108 lost both: Maharashtra task forces||At least 195 children in Maharashtra have lost their parents due to Covid-19, so far. Of them, 108 have lost both their parents, the task forces appointed by the state government informed.After the Supreme Court (SC) directives taking cognisance of the reports in the social media that children orphaned after losing their parents due to the virus were being illegally adopted, the state government’s woman and child welfare department (WCD) formed task forces in every (36) district to identify such children two weeks ago.This was to ensure that the orphaned children are in safe custody and are given their financial and property right. The step also assures that the children are safeguarded from illegal custody and trafficking.The task forces have found at least 195 such children in the state have lost their parents, of them, 108 have been orphaned after losing both their parents. 42 children have been brought to the child care institutes (CCIs) run by the state government.According to the figures collated by the WCD, Mumbai had no such children, while Nandurbar had the highest 93 children, of which 66 have lost both their parents. Hingoli, Jalna and Gondia have 18, 16 and 12 children who have lost one of their parents. Thane has 11 children who have lost both their parents due to the Covid-19.WCD minister Yashomati Thakur said that the number of affected children is expected to be 400 in the state. “We have galvanised the machinery to take care of all these children with the help of the child care institutes we have at district levels. First, we try to give the children family parenting with the help of Bal Sangopan and foster parenting schemes. If that is not possible then these children are brought to the child care institutes. We have increased the age limit of their stay in these institutions to 23 years from 18 years so that they are protected until they stand on their feet. We are guardians of these children and will continue to take their care,” Thakur said.The district administrations have started visiting their houses to take review and extend the help required by the children.“As the basic principle of the Juvenile Justice Act (JJ Act), we prefer the custody to be retained by the extended family of the children who lost both their parents. Family care is important for their upbringing. Such children in custody with relatives like uncle or grandparents are given financial assistance of ₹1,125 per month under our Bal Sangopan scheme. In case such custody in the extended family is not possible, the children are brought to CCIs by following due process,” said an official from the department.In a government resolution issued on May 11, the state government has made it mandatory for the hospitals to note the information from the Covid-19 patients about their minor children about their custody during the treatment. The districts level task forces, headed by district collectors, have been assigned with the task to keep a tab of the custody of the children of the parents admitted for treatment or in case of their deaths. The task force has also been directed to take steps to avoid any illegal adoption and extending legal aid to such children to protect their rights. The GR also has mandated counselling wherever required.Manisha Birasis, assistant commissioner, woman and child development department, said that the district level task forces will take care of the legal rights of the children. “The GR is self-explanatory on various fronts. It also has stated how to safeguard the rights of the children in a property once they attain a majority of their age. The district authorities will ensure that their property rights are not entangled in family disputes,” she said.The WCD has also directed the district authorities to take action against the people involved in the illegal adoption of such children. Cases have been filed in such attempts under various sections of the JJ Act and Indian Penal Code.Besides this, the department has also directed the district administrations to extend the counselling to women who have lost their spouse due to Covid-19. “Such women can be given aid through 130 counselling centres and 31 shelter homes for women in the state,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/195-children-lost-one-parent-to-covid-108-lost-both-maharashtra-task-forces-101621705274619.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Two accountants of Mumbai hospitals siphon off ₹5.23 crore, one held||The Bhoiwada police have arrested an accountant of Seth GS Medical College and KEM Hospital for allegedly siphoning off nearly ₹5.23 crore from the hospital trust’s bank account. The accused used bogus signatures of the hospital’s deans and transferred money in 25 other bank accounts. According to police, the accused have been siphoning off money for the past 11 years and is believed to have invested the amount in lands in rural areas.Ex-assistant accountant Rajan Rawool has been arrested on Thursday and presently in police custody, while the main accused ex-accountant Shripad Desai is still at large. “We shall soon arrest him in the case,” said Vijay Patil, deputy commissioner of police, zone 4.The matter came to the light after a secretary in the Trust Sandhya Kamath raised suspicion over a cheque. She then got a preliminary forensic audit done. After discovering huge irregularities, she informed the concerned officials, following which, Desai and Rawool were sacked from the service last year. But as the two assured that they would return the money, an immediate police complaint was not lodged. But after waiting for five months KEM’S Dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh finally lodged an FIR with the police recently. Desai and Rawool have been employed with Diamond Jubilee Society Trust, which was established by Seth GS Medical College and KEM Hospital to provide medical relief and undertake development, research programmes in health services, medicine, applied science and upgrading healthcare facilities to various sectors of the society. The trust receives government funds for medical researches, donations from foreign countries. These funds are further used for research purposes and charity for helping poor medical students.“Since 2009, the two have been forging signatures of the KEM Hospital’s deans and indulging in misappropriation of funds. So far probe has revealed that they forged signatures of at least two deans including Dr Avinash Supe,” said inspector Sushil Gaikwad of Bhoiwada police station.They transferred money to 25 bank accounts belonging to various people known to them. Details of these bank accounts are being obtained, Gaikwad said.Desai and Rawool have been booked on the charges of cheating forgery, criminal breach of trust by an employee. Desai has been summoned for questioning, the police said. “We would be investigating how they managed to hide such huge irregularities and no one noticed it. We will find out how they used to dodge the regular auditing,” Gaikwad said.Rawool has been sent to police custody up to May 27 by a local court on Friday, Gaikwad added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-accountants-of-mumbai-hospitals-siphon-off-5-23-crore-one-held-101621705498456.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||195 children lost at least one parent to Covid-19: Maharashtra task forces||At least 195 children in Maharashtra have lost their parents due to Covid-19, so far. Of them, 108 have lost both their parents, the task forces appointed by the state government informed.After the Supreme Court (SC) directives taking cognisance of the reports in the social media that children orphaned after losing their parents due to the virus were being illegally adopted, the state government’s woman and child welfare department (WCD) formed task forces in every (36) district to identify such children two weeks ago.This was to ensure that the orphaned children are in safe custody and are given their financial and property right. The step also assures that the children are safeguarded from illegal custody and trafficking. The task forces have found at least 195 such children in the state have lost their parents, of them, 108 have been orphaned after losing both their parents. 42 children have been brought to the child care institutes (CCIs) run by the state government.According to the figures collated by the WCD, Mumbai had no such children, while Nandurbar had the highest 93 children, of which 66 have lost both their parents. Hingoli, Jalna and Gondia have 18, 16 and 12 children who have lost one of their parents. Thane has 11 children who have lost both their parents due to the Covid-19.WCD minister Yashomati Thakur said that the number of affected children is expected to be 400 in the state. “We have galvanised the machinery to take care of all these children with the help of the child care institutes we have at district levels. First, we try to give the children family parenting with the help of Bal Sangopan and foster parenting schemes. If that is not possible then these children are brought to the child care institutes. We have increased the age limit of their stay in these institutions to 23 years from 18 years so that they are protected until they stand on their feet. We are guardians of these children and will continue to take their care,” Thakur said.The district administrations have started visiting their houses to take review and extend the help required by the children.“As the basic principle of the Juvenile Justice Act (JJ Act), we prefer the custody to be retained by the extended family of the children who lost both their parents. Family care is important for their upbringing. Such children in custody with relatives like uncle or grandparents are given financial assistance of ₹1,125 per month under our Bal Sangopan scheme. In case such custody in the extended family is not possible, the children are brought to CCIs by following due process,” said an official from the department.In a government resolution issued on May 11, the state government has made it mandatory for the hospitals to note the information from the Covid-19 patients about their minor children about their custody during the treatment. The districts level task forces, headed by district collectors, have been assigned with the task to keep a tab of the custody of the children of the parents admitted for treatment or in case of their deaths. The task force has also been directed to take steps to avoid any illegal adoption and extending legal aid to such children to protect their rights. The GR also has mandated counselling wherever required.Manisha Birasis, assistant commissioner, woman and child development department, said that the district level task forces will take care of the legal rights of the children. “The GR is self-explanatory on various fronts. It also has stated how to safeguard the rights of the children in a property once they attain a majority of their age. The district authorities will ensure that their property rights are not entangled in family disputes,” she said.The WCD has also directed the district authorities to take action against the people involved in the illegal adoption of such children. Cases have been filed in such attempts under various sections of the JJ Act and Indian Penal Code.Besides this, the department has also directed the district administrations to extend the counselling to women who have lost their spouse due to Covid-19. “Such women can be given aid through 130 counselling centres and 31 shelter homes for women in the state,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/195-children-lost-at-least-one-of-their-parents-to-virus-maharashyra-task-forces-101621705258506.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||IIP Dehradun sets up compact oxygen plant at Pune for treating Covid-19 patients||As several parts of the country struggle with a shortage of oxygen for treating Covid-19 patients, CSIR-Indian Institute of Petroleum (IIP), Dehradun, has set up a compact medical oxygen plant in Pune that can be configured for monitoring in real-time.The plant, an upgraded version of the traditional pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technology, was started on Friday at the Aundh Chest Hospital, Pune. By adding a vacuum element to the PSA technology, scientists at IIP, a constituent laboratory of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), an autonomous body under the Government of India, have been able to make the plant more compact, more efficient and operationally economical. “The PVSA innovation is intended to support the national crisis response to the pandemic. A compact oxygen plant will require less energy and less space. Such a smaller machine is ideal for hospitals where space is a constraint,” said Anjan Ray, director of CSIR-IIP, who led a team of nearly a dozen people involved in various aspects of the project. The oxygen purity level of this system was found to be 96%, as against the medical requirement of 90-96%.The unit was fabricated by CSIR-IIP’s licensee and engineering partner, Gaskon Engineers, in New Delhi. Bharat Forge Ltd, a Pune-based engineering company, helped integrate the new plant with the hospital’s ongoing oxygen supply network. The CSIR team from National Chemical Laboratory, Pune, provided on-ground expertise to ensure oxygen purity, flow rate and pressure were delivered to patient requirements.Nitin Bilolikar, civil surgeon of Pune and joint head of the health department of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) confirmed that the oxygen plant has been set up at Aundh Chest Hospital and attached to the supply for patients.In a regular PSA system, the air is sucked in, pressurised and passed over adsorbents that can separate nitrogen and other component gases. The purified oxygen is then supplied to oxygen tanks and cylinders. However, the adsorbents or molecular sieves which trap the nitrogen, have to release this nitrogen (“desorb”) towards the end of each cycle so that fresh air can be taken in again for separation. This is a time-consuming process.“Vacuum is one of the best ways of rapid desorption, enabling the bed of sieves to be emptied of the adsorbed nitrogen. Compared to PSA systems that simply depressurise for nitrogen release, vacuum makes the system more efficient. The advantage is at a very molecular level,” said Ray.For every 100 molecules of oxygen present in the air taken in by a traditional PSA system, around 15 molecules of pure oxygen is generated. The PVSA, on the other hand, can deliver 30-35 oxygen molecules per 100, Ray explained.“Professor Ray had sent a plant to Pune and our job was to enhance the performance of the plant for improved reliability of oxygen supply and safe connectivity to patients,” said Moonish Ghuge, vice president, Kalyani Centre for Technology and Innovation, the research and development wing of Bharat Forge. Ghuge and his team ran the plant in their lab for 72 hours and simulated situations to ensure the supply was consistent and a failure would not affect patients. Another feature of the system is that it can be monitored remotely. “The system works on the principle of Internet of Things. The idea is to get the system to talk to us and give us real-time analysis. This will help us in predictive maintenance and for further design improvements over time,” said Ray, adding that a patent has been filed for the system.The PVSA system is supported with the principles of supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA), which is a control system architecture comprising computers, networked data communications and graphical user interfaces (GUI) for high-level process supervisory management.“While the first unit at Aundh was set up as a field demonstration unit and first run for several months on the CSIR-IIP campus at Dehradun, we plan to scale it up and deploy larger sizes of 500 LPM and more over the next few months. The long-term goal is to build an intelligent oxygen delivery and management network,” said Ray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iip-dehradun-sets-up-compact-oxygen-plant-at-pune-for-treating-covid-19-patients-101621705139655.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 1,283 Covid cases, 52 deaths||Mumbai on Saturday recorded 1,283 cases and 52 deaths, taking the tally to 695,483 and the toll to 14,516. Mumbai presently has 28,232 active Covid-19 cases. The case fatality rate (CFR) on Friday was 4%, higher than on most days this month. Mumbai’s overall CFR is 2%. On Friday, Mumbai conducted 29,264 tests, with a positivity rate of 4.3%. Overall, Mumbai has conducted a total of 6,048,686, with a positivity rate of 11.4%. within the past week, Mumbai’s positivity rate has dropped below 5%, in contrast to April when it was as high as 20%. Positivity rate is the number of positive cases as a per cent of total Covid-19 tests done. Four wards in Mumbai has more than 2,000 active Covid cases, as per data from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), corresponding to areas of Andheri East, Andheri West, Borivli, and Kandivli. Eleven wards have more than 1,000 active cases. The least number of active cases are in the B ward (167) corresponding to areas of Mohammad Ali Road and Pydhonie, followed by the C ward (197), corresponding to areas of Marine lines, in south Mumbai. Fifteen wards have a growth rate over Mumbai’s average growth rate of 0.22% with wards corresponding to Colaba and Byculla area showing the highest growth rate, and wards corresponding to Mulund and Marine Lines showing the lowest growth rate. On Saturday, 1,827 positive patients recovered or were discharged from hospitals post-recovery. Mumbai now has a recovery rate of 93% that had dipped to below 85% in April, when the city was reporting around 8,000 new cases per day. The doubling rate in Mumbai has now gone up to 326 days. Doubling rate is the number of days taken for present Covid-19 cases to double. Meanwhile, Mumbai has 62 containment zones which are slums or chawls, and 246 sealed buildings at present. Of the 22,090 Covid beds in hospitals across Mumbai, 13,729 are vacant. A total of 613 ICU beds are vacant, and 208 ventilator beds are vacant, as of Saturday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-1-283-covid-cases-52-deaths-101621705078453.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 26,133 fresh Covid-19 cases, 682 deaths take toll to 87,300||Maharashtra’s daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases dipped further on Friday as the state recorded 26,133 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 5,553,225. The state’s death toll due to the pandemic reached 87,300 with 682 fresh fatalities over the last 24 hours. The case fatality rate in the state increased to 1.57%. The state’s daily number of cases dropped by 3,511 cases as the state had recorded 29,644 on Friday. The drop in the number of cases came in the backdrop of 281,585 tests which means 5,916 less people were tested between May 21 and May 22. The state had tested 287,501 people between May 20 and May 21. Case positivity rate dipped to 16.97% in the state. Financial hub Mumbai reported 1,283 cases on Saturday as the tally reached 695,483. Mumbai also reported 52 deaths which took its death toll to 14,516.Maharashtra number of recoveries also saw a slight drop as the state recorded 40,294 recoveries which took the tally of recovered people to 5,111,095. Maharashtra recorded 44,493 recoveries on Friday. The recovery rate in the state rose to 92.04%. Maharashtra along with Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, UP, Punjab and Delhi was among the six states and Union Territories which reported most fatalities. Pune, Satara, Ahmednagar, Mumbai Metropolitan area and satellite towns, Kolhapur, Sangli, Nagpur and Nashik added new infections with Pune reporting 6,652 new cases. While Aurangabad and Beed reported a decline in new cases, Latur saw a rise in the number of new cases||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-26-133-fresh-covid-19-cases-682-deaths-take-toll-to-87300-101621695949094.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Navy rushes diving teams to search 26 missing crew members of barge, tugboat||The Indian Navy on Saturday dispatched two specialised diving teams from Mumbai to augment the search for 26 missing crew of a barge and tugboat Varaprada that sank during Cyclone Tauktae on Monday.The teams on board INS Makar, which is also equipped with a side-scan sonar, and INS Tarasa sailed out early morning on Saturday from Mumbai, said commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer of the Western Naval Command. The barge was deployed at an unmanned platform in Heera oil fields, one of the largest ONGC rigs in the Arabian sea. As Cyclone Tauktae hit the Mumbai coast, the barge got de-anchored on Sunday night. The barge sank around 7 pm on Monday in a very choppy sea and rough weather, which made the search and rescue operation one of the most challenging operations undertaken by the Navy in four decades.Afcons Infrastructure, which leads the consortium that chartered the barge and hired its crew, said there were 261 members on board. The barge sank about 40 nautical miles west off Mumbai.The Navy and the Coastguard have so far rescued 286 barge crew members and recovered 60 bodies. The search is going on for the remaining 15.On Monday afternoon, INS Kolkata rescued two crew members of the tugboat, Varaprada. Varaprada too is believed to have sunk during the cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navy-rushes-diving-teams-to-search-26-missing-crew-members-of-barge-tugboat-101621659895903.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Petrol inching to Rs100-mark in Mumbai||The price of petrol is inching closer to ₹100 in Mumbai, after it surged by 18 paise to reach ₹99.32 per litre on Friday. Diesel price went up by 30 paise, following which the fuel was available for ₹91.01 per litre. On Thursday, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹99.14, while diesel was available for ₹90.71.The surge in fuel prices has been witnessed after remaining constant for two days.Among the metro cities, fuel prices in Mumbai are the highest. In Delhi, petrol and diesel were available at ₹93.04 and ₹83.80, respectively. Petrol and diesel were priced at ₹96.70 and ₹91.35, respectively, in Hyderabad on Friday, while at Chennai, a litre of petrol was priced at ₹94.71 and diesel at ₹88.62. The prices of fuel remained stable from April 15 to May 3 in Mumbai. On April 15, petrol was priced at ₹96.83 per litre and diesel at ₹87.81 against ₹96.98 and ₹87.96, respectively a day earlier. Following May 3, the prices have witnessed a steady surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petrol-inching-to-rs100-mark-in-mumbai-101621627251483.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Elgaar Parishad case: Would prefer to die in jail instead of going to hospital, accused Stan Swamy tells HC||Tribal rights activist Stan Swamy – arrested in the Elgaar Parishad case – has refused to get shifted to any government hospital to undergo treatment for his frail health. The Jesuit priest said that he would prefer to die at Taloja jail, where he is currently lodged, instead of getting shifted to Sir JJ Hospital. Swamy, while speaking to the Bombay high court (HC) bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade through video-conferencing from Taloja jail said that when he was arrested eight months ago, he could walk, bathe and eat by himself. However, owing to the “bad conditions” at the jail, his health slowly deteriorated, and hence, he would prefer to be sent to Ranchi rather than being shifted to some hospital. In an earlier hearing, the bench while hearing Swamy’s bail application of on medical grounds was informed that as the 84-year-old was ailing from several health problems, and should be granted interim bail. His lawyers had approached HC after the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court had rejected Swamy’s bail application in March. After hearing the application on May 19, the bench had directed Taloja jail authorities to take Swamy to Sir JJ Hospital and asked its dean to constitute a committee of expert doctors to examine the octogenarian and submit its report on Friday. The court had also sought Swamy’s presence through video-conferencing. On Friday, the court perused Sir JJ Hospital’s report which stated that Swamy’s parameters were normal, but he had severe hearing and lower back problems and general weakness. When the bench asked Swamy about his health condition, he said, “I was brought healthy to Taloja jail eight months back but over that period all my body functions have deteriorated. Though I have been getting medicines it has not helped.” On the judges’ suggestion to shift him to Sir JJ Hospital for improving his health condition, Swamy said, “The economic condition of prisoners is not good and I would prefer to die here rather than be shifted to Sir JJ Hospital. I have seen JJ hospital and would prefer to remain in Taloja jail.” When the bench suggested that Swamy be shifted to some other hospital, also he again declined. His counsel, senior advocate Mihir Desai, requested the court to grant him some time to convince the Jesuit priest, which the court allowed and posted the hearing of the application on June 7. The bench permitted Desai to approach the court prior to that if Swamy agreed to get shifted to any other hospital, like Holy Family hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgaar-parishad-case-would-prefer-to-die-in-jail-instead-of-going-to-hospital-accused-stan-swamy-tells-hc-101621627252010.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Barge P305 tragedy: Toll rises to 60||Four days after barge P305 (Papaa 305) sank off the coast of Mumbai in the Arabian Sea due to the extremely severe cyclonic storm that skirted the coastline earlier this week, the Indian Navy’s Search and Rescue (SAR) operations recovered 11 more bodies of crew members on Friday, taking the death toll to 60. Afcons Infrastructure Limited, which led a cornsortium that chartered P305 to complete a contract with state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) in its Western Outshore fields, announced on Friday that it would provide compensation to the families of the deceased that would be a combination of ex-gratia pay-outs and insurance compensation and would range from ₹35 lakh to ₹75 lakh per family. The compensation would be “equivalent to balance period of service up to 10 years’ salaries” and would be paid to “not only the families of the deceased persons on its direct rolls, but also families of all deceased persons who were employed with its subcontractors,” a statement released Friday said. It also stated that it will set up a trust to support the education of the children of the deceased. ONGC on Friday also announced that it would extend an immediate relief of ₹1 lakh to the survivors and ₹2 lakh to the families of the deceased and missing crew members of P305.Afcons had on Thursday issued a statement claiming that the P305 was owned by Durmast Enterprises, and the master of the barge remained near the location even though the storm warning had been issued and conveyed to the barge on May 14. The master, Rakesh Ballav, against whom a complaint was registered at the Yellow Gate police station for endangering the lives of crew members on Friday, remains missing. The barge with 261 persons on board got unmoored on Sunday evening and sank on Monday at 7pm near Heera Oil Fields, 40 nautical miles off the Mumbai coast even as Cyclone Tauktae crossed the Konkan coastline making its way north towards Gujarat. It intensified early Monday with wind speed of 185 km/hour gusting to 200 km/hour. Five naval ships, two helicopters, an aircraft and coast guard vessels began to conduct rescue operations late Monday night onwards. So far, 186 persons have been rescued, while 15 are missing. The operations are also searching for 11 members onboard Varaprada, a tugboat which was reported missing after Cyclone Tauktae. As of Friday night, 16 bodies have been handed over to the families by the civic-run JJ Hospital, and at least 26 bodies have been identified. The Coast Guard said that the fisheries department, fishermen’s association and the coastal police of Maharashtra and Daman Diu have also been alerted to keep a lookout in shallow waters for survivors or bodies of crew members. Commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer of the Western Naval Command, said that the SAR on Friday involved INS Kochi, Talwar, Tejas, Betwa and Beas. Their efforts were augmented by aerial survey undertaken by P8I surveillance aircraft and two each of Sea King, Chetak and advanced light helicopters. Coast Guard units have also joined the search for the missing crew of P305. The Indian Navy said that it was going to deploy INS Survey to start conducting underwater searches to locate the wreckage of the barge, and Varaprada. Naval officers said that they have widened the search to a rectangular area of around 3,200 square miles (80 miles north-south by 40 miles east-west). The search area, the officers said, leans more towards north of the spot where P305 capsized, as more bodies were found there. The Navy is relying more on visual search and aerial surveillance, but they are also using radars to track lifeboats or inflatable rafts floating in the sea. They added that possibility of the bodies of some crew members being trapped in the barge cannot be ruled out. The officers said that coastal police stations have been alerted about the possibility of bodies reaching the shore and instructed to immediately inform the Yellow Gate police in Mumbai in case they find any unidentified body or bodies along seashore. Of the 261 personnel on board the barge, 13 were Afcons employees while others were employees of the barge, including its marine crew as well as skilled and semi-skilled labourers on contract. “While the other barges moved to Mumbai port or outer anchorage, the Master of P305 chose to move 200m away from the platform where they were working, and to remain at that location, deciding this as a safe location since the maximum predicted wind speed was only 40 knots and his location was 120 NM [nautical miles] way from the eye of the tropical storm,” a statement issued by Afcons on Thursday read. “Durmast is the owner and the responsibility for marine operations rests with the vessel owner and his marine crew stationed on the vessel... Afcons, as charterer deploys its construction workmen and supervisors, who stay on the barge and carry out construction or revamp work on the platform,” the statement added.(With inputs from Vijay Yadav)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-p305-tragedy-toll-rises-to-60-101621627193121.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Provide prisoners with medical reports, says Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed the state prison authorities to ensure that prisoners who have been taken to a hospital for a check-up should be given their medical reports, test results and medicines prescribed as it is their right under Article 21 of the Constitution. The court further directed the prison authorities to also allow the prisoner to make a phone call to an approved family member after a visit to the hospital, outside the jail by following protocols. The directions were issued while hearing a petition filed by Maaysha Singh, the daughter of Elgar Parishad accused Sudha Bharadwaj. Singh had filed the petition seeking medical treatment for her mother who is lodged at Byculla Women’s prison and bail on medical grounds as she was not being provided medical attention and referral to a government hospital despite numerous requests. Singh informed the bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade through advocate Yug Choudhary that after the petition was filed Bharadwaj had been taken to a hospital and was made to undergo several tests. Choudhary said that before filing the petition in HC, Singh and Bharadwaj had sent numerous requests to the prison authorities to refer Bharadwaj to a hospital outside the jail, however, the same was not heeded by the prison authorities till the petition was filed. Choudhary submitted that after the petition was filed, Bharadwaj was taken to a hospital outside the jail, hence one of the requests in the petition had been satisfied. He added that he was not pressing the second request for bail on medical grounds. He said that he had two suggestions which, if the court would accept, would apply to thousands of prisoners and cut down on the number of petitions being filed in the HC. The first was to provide medical report and prescription of medicines to the prisoner as it was his/her right under Article 21 of the Constitution and the second, was to allow the prisoner to call an approved family member after hospital visit. Additional solicitor-general Anil Singh did not oppose the suggestions by Choudhary but said the prisoner should be allowed to call the approved family member but not a lawyer. Additional public prosecutor JP Yagnik for state prison authorities also did not oppose the suggestions. HC directed Byculla prison authorities to provide medical reports to Bharadwaj, and as Choudhary was not pressing for second plea of bail, it disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/provide-prisoners-with-medical-reports-says-bombay-hc-101621627131390.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha vaccination drive slows down||With inadequate supply from the Centre and lack of clarity from suppliers, the current vaccine shortage in Maharashtra is likely to continue for a few more weeks, according to state officials, which means, the vaccination drive for those above 45 years of age will go on at a slow pace, while it will remain suspended for the 18-44 age group. To make matters worse, the global tender floated by the government to import 50 million vaccine doses haven’t got a response from any vaccine manufacturer or supplier till May 20, forcing it to extend the date for submission of tenders till May 25. The Central government provides free vaccine doses for those in the 45 and above age group, but for the beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group, the stock has to be procured by the state government. So far, the state has procured a total of 1,989,150 doses for the 18-44 age group and has inoculated 661,016 people with first doses. The remaining stock of 1,328,134 doses is diverted for people in the 45+ age bracket, as it is not getting adequate supply from the Centre, said a senior health department official. Officials say the decision to suspend the drive for the 18-44 age group was taken owing to two reasons – Indian manufacturers have not given any confirmed supply schedule and shortage of doses for those above 45, especially for those who are due for second dose. They said the decision to resume vaccination for the 18-44 age group will be taken only when the supply is regular, which does not seem possible in the coming weeks. On Saturday, the state expects to get another stock of 521,000 doses purchased by it, but it will also be used for the 45+ age group. In addition, it will also get 26,460 doses from the Centre’s allocation. “We are expected to receive a stock of 547,460 Covishield doses on Saturday. The entire stock will be used for beneficiaries in the 45+ age group. This will continue until the state government decides to resume vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group,” said Dr Archana Patil, director, Directorate Of Health Services. “The responsibility of making the vaccine stock available is of the Centre. The state government had prepared to vaccinate people in big numbers. We have ramped up our capacity to cover 8-10 lakh beneficiaries a day, but are vaccinating with whatever is being made available to us. This is the reason we have decided to prioritize those due for the second dose and whatever is left is being used for the first dose of beneficiaries from the 45+ age group,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope. “We are following up on the issue of shortage with the Centre. We decided to suspend the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group only to cover those who are due for second dose from 45 and above age group,” said Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister in Pune. Serum Institute of India (SII) had promised to supply 10 million doses of Covishield per month for 18-44 age group and Bharat Biotech too had assured to provide a Covaxin stock of 2.5 million doses a month, but both are yet to give any supply schedule to the state, said a senior official, requesting anonymity. In the meantime, the Centre has also decided to regulate the 50% stock expected to be divided among the states and private hospitals etc. It means that stock will also be allocated by the Centre. This is being done to ensure adequate supplies to all states,” he added. By inoculating a total of 20,593,148 beneficiaries, Maharashtra is still at the top among all the states. The state government was also hoping to import vaccine to ramp up the vaccination drive but its move to invite bids from international market has not yielded anything yet. The state floated an express of interest (EOI) on Monday (May 17) to procure 50 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United States Food and Drug Administration, and are being manufactured in other countries. The closing date was May 20. “As we have not got any response, the state government has decided to extend its deadline to May 25,” health minister Tope said on Friday. The state government is aiming at importing the doses of the vaccines manufactured by Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Zydus Cadila, among others. “We have tried to bring in laxity in tender rules for procuring the stock, but whatever comes under the Centre’s jurisdictions will have to be decided by them only. We want the Centre to formulate an integrated policy over distribution of vaccine stock and also decide which foreign vaccine is suitable for our country,” he stressed. The shortage of vaccines resulted in a drastic drop in the weekly vaccination rate. Between May 15 and 22, 842,501 people were inoculated, against 1,834,369 in the preceding week of May 8-14 and 1,433,165 during May 1-7. In the last week of April, 2,080,998 doses were given. On Friday, 119,973 beneficiaries were inoculated, according to the Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-vaccination-drive-slows-down-101621627131903.html
22-05-2021||Mumbai||Health deteriorated after arrest, says Stan Swamy; seeks bail||Activist Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case who has been in Navi Mumbai’s Taloja jail for eight months, told the Bombay high court on Friday that his health had deteriorated rapidly after his arrest and that he would rather “suffer and possibly die” than get hospitalised in Mumbai.The 84-year-old told a bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and SP Tavade that his health was severely affected after his arrest on October 2020, and the previous two bouts of hospitalisation in Mumbai had not helped improve his condition. Instead, he said he wished to go back to his home town Ranchi on bail.“The main issue is that eight months ago I could take a bath by myself; I could take a walk; I could do some writing by myself. But all of these are disappearing...,” the Jesuit priest said.The bench asked if Swamy would prefer to get “general treatment” at the state-run JJ Hospital, to which the 84-year-old responded that he didn’t think admission to the medical facility would do him any good.“What medicines will the JJ Hospital give me? I have been there twice. I know the set-up. I don’t want to go there,” Swamy said. “I would rather suffer and possibly die,” he said, insisting that he be granted interim bail.The court, however, said it was hearing arguments on the issue of hospital admission, and not on bail, in Friday’s hearing.Swamy is among the prominent activists arrested in the case related to the violence that erupted in Maharashtra’s Bhima Koregaon village in January 2018. He has been booked under the stringent UAPA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/health-deteriorated-after-arrest-says-stan-swamy-seeks-bail-101621622705065.html
