23-05-2021||Mumbai||‘Study in India’: The slogan for foreign university aspirants||With the travel restrictions amid the Covid-19 pandemic and uncertainty, students are dropping their plans to study abroad altogether, making India their top choice instead. For example, Renuka Bankar from Sangli had plans of pursuing a PhD at the University of Colorado, after completing her Masters in Science in Virology from the National Institute of Virology in Pune last year. After clearing a series of interviews, she began her application process, when the first lockdown was announced in March last year. Without wanting to waste any time, she soon took the National Eligibility Test (NET) for admissions to Indian institutes. Since then, Bankar has been working as a Junior Research Fellow for a Covid-19-related project at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay. “This is a project-based work that will extend for a few more months. After that I will start applying for PhD in an institute in India,” she said, adding that her plans of going abroad have been cancelled. Like Bankar, many are making India their top choice. “One of the biggest advantages of going to a foreign university is that we get to interact with people from all over the world. Studying online is not the same. Most of us pursuing research do not have a lot of time to wait around, so it makes sense to get admitted to an Indian institute of repute,” said another research scholar, from IIT Bombay, on condition of anonymity. For admission to PhD seats as Junior Research Fellows (JRF) at various institutes in the country, candidates must qualify the NET exam, which is held in June and December every year. However, with the lockdown, the June 2020 session was postponed and held in December last year. The December 2020 session was held this month. According to Anjan Ray, head, Human Resource Development Group-CSIR, which conducts the NET exams, the pandemic has only accelerated the existing phenomena of more researchers choosing India over foreign countries. In 2016, the June session saw applications from 1.57 lakh candidates for JRF positions at institutes affiliated to both CSIR and University Grants Commission (UGC). This dropped to 1.63 lakh in 2017, 1.55 lakh in 2018, 1.53 lakh in 2019. However, in 2020, the June session received 1.71 lakh applications, of which 2,247 qualified for CSIR JRF and 1,638 for UGC JRF. “As a conservative estimate, we have usually seen that half or one-third of those who qualify apply for jobs or PhD in India. A majority of the rest are expected to go abroad,” Ray explained. He said that over the past few years, however, this number has come down. For instance, in 2017, a total of 2,920 candidates applied for PhD in India. In 2018 and 2019, 1,601 and 1,127 candidates applied, respectively. However, those who qualified in 2018 and 2019 are still eligible to apply as results are valid for three years. “This means more people are expected to apply. This can be attributed to the fact that India is not able to retain more talent through a good fellowship programme. Another reason could be that many Indian senior researchers, working abroad, are returning and are now available as PhD guides to more students,” said Ray, adding that this is a gain for Indian academia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/study-in-india-the-slogan-for-foreign-university-aspirants-101621794543716.html
23-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fake call centres fleecing US citizens busted at Malad||Bangur Nagar police busted a fake call centre in Malad (West) and arrested eight people for selling sex enhancement supplements to American nationals on Saturday. Earlier on April 29, Malad and Bangur Nagar police had raided three such call centres for similar offences and arrested 10 people. Police said they had received information about few fake call centres, which duped foreign nationals, in their jurisdiction, following which a raid was carried on under the supervision of Vishal Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (zone 11). A police team raided the premises at Vijay Industrial Estate at Chincholi Bunder, Malad and found eight people working there. Upon investigation, the police found out the call centre was operating using a VOIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol) software to make calls to American citizens and sell sex enhancement supplements. Police officers seized the computers and arrested the owner and manager of the outlet along with the eight employees. Thakur said the owners of the call centre used to steal data and phone numbers of American nationals from the dark web, called them with the help of VOIP and lured them into buying sex enhancement supplements. The employees then used to ask the customers to transfer the amount online through money transfer apps. Police also arrested owners of another fake call centre in Bangur Nagar for allegedly selling Google Play apps at a lesser price. The police had detained the employees and released them after giving a notice to be present in court. “We have arrested the owners of the fake call centres and are now looking out for more such establishments which were run by the accused,” said Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fake-call-centres-fleecing-us-citizens-busted-at-malad-101621791963567.html
23-05-2021||Mumbai||Barge P305 tragedy: Four more bodies recovered; toll touches 70||The Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard (ICG) found four more bodies of crew members of barge Papaa305 (P305), which capsized in the Arabian Sea hours after cyclone Tauktae hit the Mumbai coast on May 17, on the seventh day of search and rescue (SAR) operation. The toll of the mishap has now touched 70. Meanwhile the wreck of barge P305 was located on the sea bed. Barge P305, which was deployed at an unmanned platform in Heera oil fields, one of the largest ONGC rigs in the sea, sank about 40 nautical miles west off Mumbai. As Cyclone Tauktae hit the Mumbai coast, the barge got de-anchored on the night of May 16, and hit a platform while drifting in the rough sea. It sank around 7pm on May 17 in choppy seas amid rough weather, which made search and rescue one of the most challenging operations undertaken by the Navy in four decades. Afcons Infrastructure, which leads the consortium that chartered the barge and hired its crew, said 261 members on board and Indian Navy and ICG rescued 186 members and found 70 bodies. A tugboat Varaprada carrying 13 crew members also capsized the same day. Two of its members were rescued by the Navy, while 11 are still missing. The agencies claimed on Sunday they found 17 more bodies at different beaches in Raigad district, Palghar and Valsad at Gujarat. Four of them were found to be of the P305 crew. Officials said seven bodies were recovered from Valsad, one from Daman at Gujarat, one from Arnala beach in Palghar district and eight bodies were found at Alibag, Murud, Nagaon and Sasawne in Raigad district, Maharashtra. A police team from Yellow Gate police station, along with those rescued from P305 and Varaprada, went to Valsad to establish the identities. “We are co-ordinating with the local authorities in Raigad, Daman and Valsad to check if the bodies are of any crew members of the cyclone-hit barges or other fishing boats. The team has also gone with rescued crew members for identifications,” said Suhas Hemade, senior inspector, Yellow Gate police station. Some of the bodies are in decomposed condition and bloated so DNA tests are being conducted to ascertain the identity, said an officer from the Yellow Gate police station. “Barge P305 was located on the seabed after systematic search by INS Maker employing advance side scan sonar. The diving started in the morning and managed to pinpoint the sunken wreck of P305 by specialised teams on board INS Maker and no bodies have been found,” said a Navy officer. INS Maker is proceeding to locate the wreck of tug Varaprada and diving operation will be conducted on Monday, added Navy officials. The search and rescue operation by naval and coast guard ships and helicopters will continue in the area to locate the remaining crew of the sunken vessels, said the officer. So far, 45 bodies have been identified in JJ hospital and 44 handed over to their respective families. Several other recovered bodies are in JJ hospital, but the police are securing DNA samples to ascertain their identity for the families, said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-p305-tragedy-four-more-bodies-recovered-toll-touches-70-101621791903554.html
23-05-2021||Mumbai||Barge P305 tragedy: Families of deceased identify bodies||The Prajapati family was devastated after the body of their 28-year-old son, who worked as a welder on the ill-fated barge P305, which sank on May 17, due to Cyclone Tauktae, was identified at Sir JJ Hospital on Saturday. The deceased Krishna Kumar Prajapati’s body was identified by his cousin Anil, 33, who was also on the same barge but had returned to land on February 28. “It was his bad luck. My cousin Anup, 22, who also worked as a helper on the same barge, was brought to land 10 days before the cyclone, as his parents were unwell. Krishna also wanted to return. He had not seen his one-year-old son for eight months. However, he did not get leave,” said Anil. “It was my destiny that my passport expired in March and I had to return in February to renew it. During the lockdown, I managed to earn more money selling vegetables, hence I did not return to the barge, where I made a mere ₹20,000,” said Anil. “Krishna had sent a message on May 16, ‘cyclone ki wajah se barge full out hai (due to the cyclone, the barge has moved away from the rig). After that, there was no interaction with him. He was the only son and earning member of the family. His father is a farmer in Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh and makes ₹600 per day after 12 hours of duty. He gets ₹150 to ₹200 extra after working overtime for three to four hours,” added Anil.Anil had visited the hospital on Thursday and Friday too, in search for his cousin, however, Krishna’s body arrived on Saturday.There are several others like Anil who wait the entire day at JJ Hospital to get clues about their missing family members. Anil Yadav came from Surat on Friday to search for his 32-year-old brother-in-law Santosh Yadav who worked as an electrician on barge P305. Yadav, along with his two relatives have been visiting the hospital every day in the morning and wait till the night. “There is no update till now,” said Yadav. Santosh, a native of Jaunpur, Uttar Pradesh, has three children- two sons and a daughter, aged between 11 to 6 years.Similarly, family members of Ranalucky Kumar, 28, who was a technician on the barge, have also been making regular visits at the hospital since Thursday, to enquire about him. Kumar had jumped in the sea, during the cyclone, when the barge was about to sink. “He has not been found yet,” said his cousin Rana Singh, who was on another barge Trinity Nissi. Singh works as a technician and was also deployed in the same area at the high sea. However, his barge, carrying around 250 people, returned due to the cyclone and anchored near Mumbai harbour. “Few of them were released on May 19 from Trinity Nissi barge after we fought with the employer that we wanted to go Mumbai to search our family members. Others had to return to work soon after the impact of the cyclone ended,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-p305-tragedy-families-of-deceased-identify-bodies-101621791843610.html
23-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 26,672 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours; 594 deaths take toll to 88,620||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 26,672 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 594 deaths in the last 24 hours, which pushed the state’s cases tally to 5,579,897 and the death toll to 88,620.As many as 29,177 patients recovered from the disease on the day and the overall recoveries so far reached 5,140,272 with a recovery rate of 92.12 per cent.The active caseload currently stands at 348,395, a decrease of 3,852 cases from the 352,247 reported previously on Saturday.Meanwhile, the capital city of Mumbai reported 1,427 new Covid-19 infections which took the cases tally to 696,910. Also, 1,427 patients succumbed to their infections in the city as the death toll climbed to 14,565, the latest data showed.Also read | 'Maha to begin 24-hr vaccination once production increases in June’: UddhavThe state has been witnessing a decreasing trend in the number of new cases detected after being battered by the second wave. Previously, the state detected 26,133 new cases on Saturday (May 22), 29,644 new cases on Friday (May 21) and 29,911 new cases on Thursday (May 20). However, the daily new fatalities have shown no signs of receding and have remained above 500 in the week. The worst was reported on Thursday (May 20) when 738 patients lost their lives to the disease.Medical workers in the state conducted 290,155 tests on the day. So far, 33,013,516 samples have been tested for the disease in Maharashtra.Pune with 51,182 active cases, followed by Mumbai (28,284 cases), Thane (24,894 cases), Sangli (19,211 cases) and Solapur (18,487 cases) remain the five districts that contributed the most to the state’s active caseload on Sunday, according to a bulletin from the state government.Earlier in the day, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the Covid-19 vaccination drive for beneficiaries in the 18 to 44 years age group has been halted due to issues with the supply of vaccines. “Covid-19 inoculation drive for people under 18-44 years age group is suspended as supply of vaccines isn't smooth. I am hopeful that from June production capacity of vaccines will increase following which we can run 24-hour vaccination drives in the state,” news agency ANI quoted the chief minister as saying on Sunday.On the vaccination front, 20,710,911 people have been inoculated in the state as of 7am on the day, of whom, 16,324,914 people have received their first shot and 4,385,997 have received their second dose, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-26-672-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-594-deaths-take-toll-to-88620-101621781120449.html
23-05-2021||Mumbai||'Maha to begin 24-hr vaccination once production increases in June’: Uddhav||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that the vaccination for people aged between 18-45 years is temporarily suspended due to lack of smooth supply of vaccines. The chief minister said that Maharashtra will soon begin 24-hour vaccination in the state as production capacity is likely to ramp up starting June.“Covid-19 inoculation drive for people under 18-44 years age group is suspended as supply of vaccines isn't smooth. I am hopeful that from June production capacity of vaccines will increase following which we can run 24-hour vaccination drives in the state,” the chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Thackeray was interacting with paediatricians from across the state.The chief minister also said that he is ready to make a one-time payment for 12 crore doses for beneficiaries of that particular age group. People aged between 18-45 years account for six crore of the state's total population, according to a report by news agency PTI.The chief minister also highlighted that the state was well-equipped for tackling a possible third wave. Uddhav Thackeray said that the state government has ramped up its infrastructure to ensure that Maharashtra is self-sufficient in terms of medical oxygen production and availability. He also said that the state’s success in controlling cases in the recent weeks has come due to everyone’s united efforts. He said that children should be saved from the effects of the third wave.“Even though we were not successful in defeating the virus, we have been able tokeep the number of Covid-19 cases in control. It is the success of our state as a united force comprising all stakeholders. We have to be alert to protect children from the possible third wave. The first wave hit senior citizens, the second one targeted youth and now children are under threat,” Uddhav Thackeray further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-to-begin-24-hr-vaccination-once-production-increases-in-june-uddhav-101621765599614.html
23-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid-19 vaccine centres being run by BMC to remain shut today||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination centres run by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation Municipal Corporation (BMC) will remain shut on Sunday, the civic body said in a tweet on Saturday. The vaccination centre details for Monday will be shared by the BMC on their Twitter handle on Sunday, the tweet added."Dear Mumbaikars. There will be no vaccination at any of the centres tomorrow. Hope you all have a wonderful Sunday. The details for Monday will be shared tomorrow by this handle & the respective wards too," the civic body tweeted.Dear Mumbaikars. There will be no vaccination at any of the centres tomorrow. Hope you all have a wonderful Sunday. The details for Monday will be shared tomorrow by this handle & the respective wards too. #MyBMCVaccinationUpdateEven as the vaccination drive has slowed down across the state due to vaccine shortage, the shutting down of BMC centres for the day is on account of being Sunday. The state has complained of inadequate vaccine supply from the Centre and vaccination centres in some parts, including Pune, were shut on Saturday due to shortage of doses. "Vaccination will not be done on May 22 at all vaccination centers in Pune Municipal corporation area due to shortage of vaccine stock," Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol posted on Twitter in Marathi.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn an attempt to meet the high demand of vaccines, the state floated a global tender to import 50 million vaccine doses approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United States Food and Drug Administration, but it did not elicit a response from any vaccine manufacturer or supplier till May 20, which was the closing date of the tender. “As we have not got any response, the state government has decided to extend its deadline to May 25,” health minister Rajesh Tope said on Friday.Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 26,133 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total infection tally in state to 5,553,225. As many as 682 people died of the virus in 24 hours, pushing the total toll to 87,300. The case fatality rate in the state increased to 1.57%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-covid-19-vaccine-centres-being-run-by-bmc-to-remain-shut-today-101621729885230.html
23-05-2021||Mumbai||Navy recovers 6 more bodies of barge’s crew, 20 missing||The Indian Navy on Saturday recovered six more bodies of crew members of the ill-fated barge Papaa305 (P305) that capsized in the Arabian sea hours after Cyclone Tauktae hit the Mumbai coast last Sunday, taking the overall toll in the tragedy to 66.Search is still on for 20 missing personnel -- nine crew members of P305 and 11 who were on board tugboat Varaprada, which also sank during the cyclone. The Navy dispatched two specialised diving teams from Mumbai on Saturday morning to augment the search.“The teams on board INS Makar, which is also equipped with a side-scan sonar, and INS Tarasa sailed out early morning,” said commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer of the Western Naval Command.He added that the actual work of the diving teams will, however, start only after the exact locations of the sunken barge and tugboat are ascertained and preparatory work completed.The barge was located at the seabed after systematic search by INS Makar late on Saturday.Barge P305 was deployed at an unmanned platform in Heera oil fields, one of the largest ONGC rigs in the Arabian sea. As Cyclone Tauktae hit the Mumbai coast, the barge got de-anchored on Sunday night, and hit a platform while drifting in the rough sea. It sank around 7pm on Monday in a very choppy sea amid rough weather, which made search and rescue one of the most challenging operations undertaken by the Navy in four decades.Afcons Infrastructure, which leads the consortium that chartered the barge and hired its crew, said there were 261 members on board. The barge sank about 40 nautical miles west off Mumbai. The Navy and the Coastguard have so far rescued 186 barge crew members and recovered 66 bodies.Search efforts for remaining crews of P305 and Tug Varaprada continue.On Monday afternoon, INS Kolkata rescued two crew members of the tugboat, Varaprada. Meanwhile, police said nine unidentified bodies were found along the coast in Raigad (4), Daman (1) and Valsad (4) over the past two days.“We are co-ordinating with the local authorities in Raigad, Daman and Valsad to check if those bodies are of any crew members of the cyclone-hit barges or boats,” said Suhas Hemade, senior inspector, Yellow Gate police station.Mumbai Police spokesperson, deputy commissioner of police Chaitanya Siriprolu said police have so far received 61 bodies of P305 crew and 31 of those have been identified and 28 handed over to their respective families.The DCP added that police are also securing DNA samples of the unidentified bodies for ascertaining their identity in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navy-recovers-6-more-bodies-of-barge-s-crew-20-missing-101621712119921.html
23-05-2021||Mumbai||I jumped holding hands of my cousins but lost them to the sea, recalls P305 tragedy survivor||Udaram Meghawal was visibly upset and infuriated when he started arguing with a guard at Sir JJ Hospital mortuary on Friday evening. “Show me the mark of cut on the shoulder and the lost finger,” he insisted when the guard and a policeman asked him to check if a body of a matching height and built was that of his elder son, Amararam, 40.The 65-year-old from a remote village in Pali district of Rajasthan was unable to cope with the news that he had lost both his sons — Amararam and Pappuram, 32 — in barge Papaa305 or P305 tragedy.However, the guard informed him that such marks will not be visible, as the body was swollen due to drowning. Meghawal reluctantly took three rounds of the mortuary and examined the body again and again, but did not identify the body as that of his elder son.“My world is devastated and I am feeling as if all my cognitive functions are dead,” said Meghawal. He said he was “afraid of facing his two daughters-in-law and their four children aged between three and 11 years”. What bothered him the most was this: “Now, who will provide for them, who will take care of them?”He left the hospital mortuary late on Friday evening with the body of Pappuram and performed last rites on Saturday afternoon at his hometown. Now, one of his nephews will visit the mortuary on Sunday to ascertain if any of new the bodies at the mortuary is that of Amararam.Both Amararam and Pappuram were working on P305 along with their cousin Mahendra Ranawat, 19. All three of them had jumped in the sea around 4pm on Monday (May 17) when water had entered the ill-fated accommodation barge and it was about to sink.Ranawat was rescued by INS Kochi, 16 hours later at 8am on Tuesday, while Pappuram’s body was recovered during search and rescue operation and Amararam is still missing.“Amararam and Pappuram were doing piping work on the barge when they took me on the ship as a helper, said Mahendra. The 19-year-old comes from a farming family and is one of the five siblings — two elder sisters and two younger brothers. After completing Class 12, he decided to work to help his father financially for his sister’s marriage. Pappuram brought him to Mumbai and after completing paperwork, they went on to the barge on November 4. His salary was being deposited in his father’s bank account to ensure maximum savings.Ranawat said that on May 15 all of them were informed about the incoming cyclone. On Sunday evening, wind speed started increasing and the gusty sound gave an indication of what lied ahead. The crew members were, however, not mentally prepared for what happened next. All eight anchor cables of the barge gave way by Monday morning, leaving the barge at the mercy of the stormy weather. The barge drifted and hit a platform; soon water started entering the barge from the damaged side and the vessel began tilting, said Ranawat, adding that by 2pm on Monday water level reached the deck and crew members started jumping in the choppy sea.Following suit, he and his two cousins jumped in the sea together so as to avoid drifting at 4pm, about an hour before the barge capsized. “However, as we jumped from the barge, water gushed in the wind pipe of Pappuram and he started gasping for breath,” said the 19-year-old. “We tried to help him stay above water level, but the high waves made it difficult and eventually Pappuram breathed his last around 6.30pm.”Ranawat and Amararam, however, continued to hold hands. “Both of us were crying and pleading for help,” said Ranawat who, around three hours later, realised that Amararam’s movement stopped. As wind speed increased further and waves roared higher, he got separated from his cousins and drifted away.Exhausted and famished due to the rough seas and lack of food since Sunday afternoon, he again saw Pappuram floating a few metres away from him. He tried to reach Pappuram, but couldn’t because of the high waves. Completely helpless and alone, the 19-year-old let the sea take him wherever it wished and floated with the help of the life-jacket.Around 8am on Tuesday, May 18, the naval ships engaged in search and rescue operation noticed Ranawat and rescued him. He was one of the 125 survivors brought to Mumbai by INS Kochi on May 19.“I had lost all my belongings. I remembered the mobile number of a cousin who lives in Pune. I called and informed him about the incident,” he said, with tears rolling down his eyes. The cousin then informed their family about the tragedy.Meghawal said he came to Mumbai by train after hearing about the incident and reached the city on May 21. He directly went to the Sir JJ Hospital with one of his nephews, Kishor Ranawat, and shortly identified the body of his younger son, Pappuram.“Nothing can be more burdensome and agonizing than the bereavement of one’s own children,” said Kishor, adding, “Now we have to bear the grief and sorrow of the death my brothers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/i-jumped-holding-hands-of-my-cousins-but-lost-them-to-the-sea-recalls-p305-tragedy-survivor-101621708935714.html
