24-05-2021||Mumbai||Fuel prices get closer to ₹100 in Mumbai; 1 litre petrol now costs ₹99.49||Fuel prices in the city hiked on Sunday again, with one litre of petrol priced at ₹99.49, while diesel was available at ₹91.30. The petrol and diesel prices increased by 17 paise and 29 paise, respectively.On Saturday, one litre of petrol was available at ₹99.32, while one litre of diesel was priced at ₹91.01.In Thane, one-litre petrol was priced at ₹99.61 and one litre of diesel was available at ₹91.42 on Sunday.With the petrol inches closer to ₹100 per litre in the city, citizens have urged the government to reduce the fuel prices.“We request the state government to lower the Value Added Tax (VAT) on fuel and the Central government to reduce prices of petroleum products,” said Adi Jain, a Byculla resident.“The transport sector, while providing yeoman service during these critical times, is also at the receiving end and rising diesel cost only adds to its misery. We fail to understand why it is insensitive towards the miserable conditions of the people of our country,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress.Prices of petrol and diesel were stable from April 15 till May 3.On April 15, petrol was priced at ₹96.83 for one litre and diesel at ₹87.81, as opposed to ₹96.98 and ₹87.96 for petrol and diesel on April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-prices-get-closer-to-100-in-mumbai-1-litre-petrol-now-costs-9949-101621796223753.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha aiming for 24x7 inoculation, says CM||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the state plans to conduct the Covid-19 inoculation drive around-the-clock once they start getting a regular supply of vaccine doses as he wants to immunise the entire population at the earliest. Thackeray said manufacturing companies have informed the state that production will start augmenting from June and subsequently, supply will improve.Maharashtra is facing a shortage of doses and has suspended the drive for the 18-44 age group. It is the state most affected by the pandemic, with over 5.57 million cases. “We are hoping, from what has come from discussion with manufacturing firms, that production will start increasing from June. As soon as supply of vaccine doses becomes regular, we will vaccinate around-the-clock. I want to immunise the entire population at the earliest and have planned things accordingly,” the chief minister said.He was addressing a virtual meeting of expert doctors from the state task force, which was organised considering the expected third wave that may threaten children. He said the state is pursuing the issue of supply and was ready to make a one-time payment for 120 million doses to cover the 60 million population in the 18-44 age group.After the Central government changed the vaccination policy and put the onus on vaccinating those from the 18-44 age group on the states, Maharashtra started vaccination for the group from May 1, but was forced to suspend owing to shortage of vaccine doses.It has also floated an express of interest (EOI) on May 17 to procure 50 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United States Food and Drug Administration, and are being manufactured in other countries. Its closing has been extended to May 25, following no response from the bidders till May 20.The chief minister said there are concerns over the third wave, but there is no need to panic. “The first wave hit senior citizens, the second one targeted youth and now children are said to be under threat in the third wave, if it comes. We need to concentrate on vaccinating those under 18 years of age, but there is not enough guidance by the Centre on which of the vaccines can be used. Clinical trials are going on at some places and when an advisory will be issued by the Centre it will also be implemented. Till then there is no need to panic even if there are concerns. Follow all the instructions from the expert doctors and share them with others as well,” Thackeray said.On Sunday, the state vaccinated 40,756 beneficiaries. It has inoculated 20,764,041 beneficiaries until May 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-aiming-for-24x7-inoculation-says-cm-101621795443798.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 26,672 new Covid cases||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 26,672 daily infections, pushing the count to 5,579,897. It was the fourth day in a row when the number of daily cases was less than 30,000. The tally of active cases continued to fall and reached 348,395, with 29,177 recoveries in the past 24 hours. The state saw 594 casualties taking the toll up to 88,620. Pune reported the highest toll with 93 deaths. The district recorded 84 deaths, while the city reported nine fatalities. It was followed by Mumbai and Ahmednagar with 49 and 47 casualties, respectively. The Covid situation in Maharashtra is improving. The number of daily cases is declining and it is down to around half of what it was in the beginning of this month. In the past one week (May 17-23), the average of new cases recorded in the state was 28,777, whereas in the first week (May 1-7), the average was 56,326. In the second week (May 7-14), it dropped to 44,212 cases a day on an average, according to the statistics provided by the state health department. Maharashtra is currently under complete lockdown, which ends on morning of June 1. The state may not extend it further and start easing restrictions in a staggered manner. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said although the cases have been brought under control, they are yet to get success as the state is gearing up for a possible third wave. He also said the decision of imposing lockdown was a tough call that has brought the situation under control. “I chose to impose lockdown by going against people’s wishes. It was the harshest decision to take as it brings restrictions on their livelihood, but I was ready to face their discontent. Today, the situation has come under control, but we are yet to get success. The success is of the people who have shown restraint, not mine,” Thackeray said. He was addressing an open virtual meeting of expert doctors from the state task force to guide other doctors and parents over dos and don’ts in case a child is found infected with the Covid-19 virus. It was organised considering the third wave, which is said to be dangerous for children of all ages. “The danger is yet to pass. We should be prepared for a possible third wave. In the second wave, we faced a shortage of oxygen and other things, considering which we have started our preparations from now on. I want to make sure the state becomes self-reliant, but it will take some time,” the chief minister pointed out. Mumbai also clocked 1,427 new cases, bringing the total to 696,910. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 290,155 samples and had a positivity rate of 9.19%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 16.9%, according to the data issued by the state health department on Sunday. Recently, state health minister Rajesh Tope had indicated that the state may not extend complete lockdown. “Lockdown will remain in force till the morning of June 1. The thumb rules for imposing lockdown are availability of beds, medicines and in case healthcare services are likely to crumble. Today, we have beds and medicines in all districts. We also have an adequate number of doctors,” he said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-26-672-new-covid-cases-101621794906459.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Make technology part of RTE, say experts||More than a year after schools in the state and the country moved online, there is a pressing demand from educationists and experts to cater to the technological gap in learning, with a large number of students still struggling to get access to smartphones, laptops and computers and thus remaining out of the education system.A 16-page report of the India Task Force under the Lancet Covid-19 Commission titled Reopening Schools after Covid-19 closures has recommended making Right to Technology a fundamental part of the Right to Education (RTE). One of the key recommendations of the report consists of providing digital access to students. “Bridge the divide on a priority basis through a combination of actions including but not restricted to improving access to internet connectivity and devices to poorest children,” states the report.Data on access to technology among students in the state has revealed that a large number of students did not have access to learning due to the unavailability of devices or the inability to pay for the internet. According to a survey conducted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), nearly 60,000 students in the city had no access to online learning as of February. Half of these were students who had no phones.Similarly, as per a survey conducted by the Maharashtra state education department in February 2021, nearly 16% students from the state do not have access to any medium of communication (radio, TV or mobile phone) for online education. As per the data, over 26% students in the state do not have access to even a simple mobile phone. The state of Palghar had the highest number of students without access to any medium – 37.48% followed by Gadchiroli (36.23%) and Nandurbar (29.87%). Even in Mumbai, which has the highest penetration of WhatsApp (70.33%), 3.58% students do not have access to a mobile, TV or radio.Experts said that the studies done so far should be indicators for the government agencies and for educational institutes to address the issue of poor access to technology among students. “The governments have to creatively think of leveraging education budgets for the next three-five years. The current state of education and learning is very different from before. Financial planning, student curriculum, teacher support, and parent engagement need to evolve. The technology gap has to be bridged. State governments should strongly consider repurposing the allocated budgets for textbooks, uniforms, TLMs (teaching-learning materials), school infrastructure, potentially some part of the mid-day meal scheme (if not already supported by other schemes), and other RTE accompaniments towards providing digital equipment access. If we can aspire to provide one quality device for every four students by 2025 - it will set a phenomenal learning infrastructure for the next 10-12 years,” said Madhukar Banuri, chief executive officer and co-founder of Leadership for Equity, a Pune based NGO.Ghanshyam Sonar, convenor of the All India Right to Education Forum said that students need to be provided devices along with internet connectivity on a priority basis in the new academic year that is set to begin for most state schools in June. “A realistic assessment on the requirements is already expected to be in. The government should now work on bridging the gap between the privileged and the underprivileged students because they have got enough time to do so for the last one year,” he added.Nirmala Jadhav, a parent from a civic school in Borivli said that while her son used her phone to attend online classes last year, he ended up missing a lot because she had to go out to work, hence carry the phone with her. “On paper, we have a device with us but it is of no use because the timings of classes and our work clashes. The government should come up with some solution and try and distribute free devices to students,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/make-technology-part-of-rte-say-experts-101621794843727.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Surge in spike protein antibody tests among vaccine beneficiaries||After taking Covid-19 vaccines, many beneficiaries are undergoing spike protein antibody test which detects proteins created by the immune system to fight the Sars-CoV-2 virus. Private laboratories have observed around three-fold rise in people opting for the antibody test as compared to February this year. Initially only healthcare workers (HCL) and frontline workers (FLW) were taking the tests, but over the past few months, private laboratories are seeing a number of general public opting for the test to determine the development of neutralising antibodies after vaccination. However, doctors have overruled the need for testing post-vaccination.Since May last year, Dr Vikrant Singh, 38, has been working with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in city slums. He is responsible for tracing close contacts of infected patients in slums of Govandi, Chembur and surrounding areas. Despite wearing personal protective equipment (PPE), there is always a chance of contracting the infection on the field. So, he stayed away from his family in an empty flat.A fortnight after taking the second jab of vaccine on February 12, he undertook the spike protein antibody test. “My test revealed that my antibody presence was high which gave me some assurance. Finally, after months, I could hug my 70-year-old mother who has diabetes,” he said.The spike protein antibody test has gained quite a buzz among vaccine beneficiaries. Considering the rise in demand for the test, several private labs such as SRL Diagnostic, Metropolis Healthcare, Dr B Lal Clinical Laboratory among others have started the facility. The test costs between ₹500 and ₹1,400.“The test was well-received by the medical fraternity and healthcare workers including doctors, who were among the first to be vaccinated. With the vaccination drive open to the public, there has been a growing interest among common people to go for the spike protein antibody test. Between February and April, there has been a three-fold increase in people opting for the test. They are keen to know how their bodies are reacting to the vaccine in terms of development of antibodies,” said Anand K, chief executive officer (CEO), SRL Diagnostics.Thyrocare Diagnostics has recorded almost 100% growth in the demand of testing between February and April. It has also been observed that the antibodies remain in the body for three to 12 months, though the lab has not made any study on it.“The beneficiaries are interested to know how their bodies are producing the antibodies in reaction to the jab. This provides an assurance to the public. Though the test does not help to determine the efficiency of any vaccine, it helps understand the level of immunity obtained,” said Chandrashekhar Mani, vice-president (operations), Thyrocare.Antibodies are protective proteins produced by the immune system in response to the presence of a foreign substance. These antibodies are produced in the body in two ways — when it is exposed to a virus and after getting a vaccination. The antibody produced after the vaccination neutralises the virus.“Viruses have two different types of proteins — spike protein and nucleo-capsid protein. Spike protein remains on the surface of the virus while nucleo-capsid protein is found inside the virus. The viruses generally enter the human cell through the spike protein domain. Thus, most vaccines such as Covishield have been designed to target the spike protein. This antibody test helps in the detection of the presence of antibodies specific to the Sars-CoV-2 spike protein,” said Dr Sanjay Ingle, zonal technical head (west) and consultant pathologist, Apollo Diagnostics.Spike protein antibodies are generally developed after two weeks of taking the second dose. Dr Anupa Dixit from Suburban Diagnostics said, “To get an assured report, the test needs to be done after 15days of taking the second jab.”No need to do spike protein test post-vaccinationHowever, a certain section of the medical fraternity has advised not to take the test after taking the jabs. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), on its official website, has not recommended the test post-vaccination to determine the level of immunity or protection from Covid-19.Dr Rahul Tambe, senior consultant, Internal Medicine and Infectious Disease, Nanavati Max Super Speciality Hospital, said, “Individuals should not use the antibody test as a tool to gauge their immunity. Antibody level alone is not a reflection of one’s immunity or protection against Covid-19. Several other physiological factors play a vital role in building an immune response.”Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin has an efficacy rate of 81%, preliminary data from its phase three trial shows. Clinical trials of Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield vaccine showed that when people were given a half dose and then a full dose, the effectiveness hit 90%.“These vaccines have undergone clinical trials and then been given approval from the Drugs Controller General of India, so there is no point in undergoing spike protein antibody tests after vaccination,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, part of the state’s Covid task force.Rise in IgG antibody tests in second waveLast year, a large number of people underwent Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody tests to understand if they had ever been infected with the virus.As per the data shared by Thyrocare, on an average around 2,400 people undertook the test daily last year. However, with the fall in the pandemic curve, the number decreased to 1,000 tests per day in January. Since February, when the second wave started, the number rose to an average of 3,000 tests per day. In April, they conducted 4,000 tests per day.When the body comes in contact with any diseases-causing pathogens, the first antibody produced by the internal system is Immunoglobulin M (IgM) and later IgG is produced by the immune system. IgG plays a role in creating memory cells that remain in the body to help fight the virus in case of reinfection.“Last year, many Covid-recovered people increasingly opted for IgG antibody tests. The major motivation behind opting for IgG antibody test was to ascertain whether they could qualify to be plasma donors. However, as the impact of the first wave tapered and cases decreased, the demand went down. With the current wave of Covid-19, the demand for antibody testing has again gained momentum,” said Anand K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-surge-in-spike-protein-antibody-tests-among-vaccine-beneficiaries-101621794783760.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Teenager donates wheelchair worth ₹6,500 to Vasai Covid hospital||Parth Ramakant Patil, a 14-year-old from Palakhane in Bhiwandi taluka, donated a wheelchair worth ₹6,500 to Shramjeevi Covid Care hospital in Usgaon-Dongri village in Vasai. The hospital is run by Shramjeevi Sanghatana, a tribal welfare outfit founded by former Vasai MLA Vivek Pandit.The Class 9 student saved the money over a period of eight months, said his father Ramakant who runs a small eatery in Bhiwandi. He added that Parth would ask him about the pandemic and wanted to do his bit towards fighting the disease. He also used social media platforms to stay updated on the situation and learn more about it. Parth then broke open his piggy bank and found he had saved ₹8,500 so far. The family then called Pandit to tell him that he wanted to contribute but did not know what to do. Pandit told him that the hospital was facing a shortage of wheelchairs, and thus Parth decided to buy one for the hospital.“I contacted a few medical equipment suppliers and narrowed down to a Thane trader who supplied us the wheel chair. It was delivered to us on Saturday and we handed it over to the hospital,” said Ramakant.50-bed paediatric hospital open in UsgaonThe Covid hospital at Usgaon, Virar (East) opened its first Covid-19 paediatric hospital with 50 beds, just off the Mumbai Ahmedabad highway, on Saturday. Pandit, who runs the hospital, said, “We have a total of 137 beds for paediatric patients who hail from far-off locations like Wada, Jawhar, Mokhada, Bhiwandi and other talukas. We are preparing for the third wave of the pandemic and children could be directly affected. As we do not have paediatric medicos in Palghar, it is our small effort to fight the pandemic.”Another hospital is being set up in Usgaon and the foundation stone was laid by cabinet minister Eknath Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/teenager-donates-wheelchair-worth-6-500-to-vasai-covid-hospital-101621794723736.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to get mobile app, vaccine dashboard for Covid vaccine||In a bid to improve the experience of Covid vaccination in the city, Mumbai civic body plans to develop a web portal-based vaccination dashboard on the lines of its Covid-19 management dashboard along with a mobile application which will help citizens get information on vaccination in the city. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also plans to develop a web portal-based chat bot where citizens can get answers to their queries about vaccines. However, citizens will not be able to book appointment for vaccination using the dashboard or the mobile application. Registration and booking of appointments for vaccination will continue to be done on the CoWIN app.According to BMC officials, this plan is similar to its Covid-19 dashboard that is available online for citizens to understand the spread of the virus in the city along with analytical data. For details on vaccination, they are going to develop a mobile application. BMC officials said the app and web portal will help citizens in getting details on vaccine availability, vaccine consumption pattern, adverse effects count etc. The information will also be made in such a way that citizens will be able to share it via social media platforms like WhatsApp, Twitter and Facebook.BMC has already floated bids for the same and the system is expected to go live next month, if all goes as per the plan, civic officials said.The bid document floated by BMC reads, “In order improve citizen experience of getting inoculated, BMC is looking for an application, which will work with close integration with Government of India’s CoWIN application, for vaccination programme management in Mumbai city, primarily focusing on helping efficient logistics for the vaccination drive in the city and transparently sharing real-time vaccination-related information with various stakeholders and citizens.”According to the bid document, features of the mobile app and dashboard will include inventory tracking, centres where vaccination is out of stock, daily consumption, among others. The app will also send notifications to the administration via SMS about changing consumption patterns of vaccine in the city.Dr Managala Gomare, head of BMC’s public health department, said, “We are planning to come up with vaccine dashboard like our Covid dashboard. However, in this dashboard, the information displayed for the administration and the citizens will be divided. Few details displayed will be useful for citizens, whereas the information requirement of the administration might vary.”Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner BMC, said, “We will have the option of both web-based dashboard giving vaccination information and a mobile application. However, both of these will only be for information and not booking of appointment or registration. Citizens will have to continue using CoWIN for registration and booking vaccine appointments.”He added, “In the coming days, we plan to have more vaccine doses by importing from international bidders. The bidding process is on and once we get more vaccine doses, the vaccination drive will get scaled up and the use of these features will be useful at that time.”After receiving additional doses from the international market, BMC plans to take up the vaccination drive aggressively by starting mobile vaccination centres in the city apart from the current over 300 vaccination centres. BMC had, on May 12, floated global expression of interest for procuring 10 million vaccine doses from the international market. Around three parties have expressed their interest for supplying Russia’s Sputnik vaccine to the city. The last day for submitting proposals is Tuesday.Meanwhile, as of Saturday, 2,955,267 citizens have been vaccinated in the city, of which 80,077 are aged between 18 and 44, 1,045,005 are from the 45-59 age group, 1,172,755 are senior citizens and the remaining are healthcare and frontline workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-get-mobile-app-vaccine-dashboard-for-covid-vaccine-101621794724314.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: School students raise funds for mucormycosis patients||Amid growing cases of mucormycosis during the ongoing second wave of Covid-19, two school students from Cathedral and John Connon School, Fort are raising money for the treatment of patients suffering from the black fungus infection.Mucormycosis is a serious but rare fungal infection caused by a group of molds called mucormycetes, and causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and even death if not treated on time, said doctors. Since the beginning of the second wave in February, more than 160 Covid-recovered patients have contracted mucormycosis in the city and 20 of them lost their lives to the infection.With the aim to help such patients financially in their treatment, two Class 10 students — Arnav Gupta and Ranai Loonkar, both aged 15 years — have started an initiative to raise ₹2 lakh. In the past one week, they have been successfully raised over ₹1.89 lakh on the crowdfunding portal Impactguru.It all started when two weeks back, Arnav went for a check-up to an ENT specialist who is associated with the civic-run BYL Nair Hospital, Mumbai Central. While having a general discussion, his doctor told him about the growing cases of mucormycosis among patients who have recovered from Covid-19. This motivated him to raise money to help the patients with treatment along with his friend Ranai.“The treatment is quite expensive, which many people cannot afford. The price of the life-saving antifungal injection, Liposomal Amphotericin B, ranges from ₹5,000 to ₹8,000. So, I decided to help the patients within my own limit by raising the money,” said Arnav.The two teenagers did their research and contacted Impactguru for the campaign. Along with the crowdfunding portal, they are trying to raise awareness through their social media accounts.“Through WhatsApp, we have been dispersing information to our friends and families to raise money. Since the campaign started seven days ago, 30 people have already contributed,” said Ranai.The money will be donated to BYL Nair Hospital to be used towards treatment of patients suffering from mucormycosis.“After starting the campaign, we have been receiving calls from several patients. In fact, we got a call from Jabalpur seeking help with medicines. This shows how people are struggling to get treatment and medicines. This is the least we could do for the society in this pandemic,” said Arnav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-school-students-raise-funds-for-mucormycosis-patients-101621794663707.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Jaijeet Singh who probed Antilia bomb scare case as ATS head appointed Thane police chief||Additional director general of police (ADG) Jaijeet Singh, who headed Maharashtra’s Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) while it probed the Antilia bomb scare case, has been appointed Thane police chief, HT has learnt. Singh’s appointment was made as part of a minor Indian Police Service (IPS) reshuffle three weeks after Vivek Phansalkar was transferred as Thane police commissioner following his promotion.Vineet Agarwal, ADG and principal secretary (home), a 1994-batch IPS, will replace Singh as the ATS chief. Sanjay Saxena, ADG, will take over from Agarwal.ATS, under 1990-batch IPS officer Jaijeet Singh, probed the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran case before they were handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA).The state home department issued the transfer order on Monday according to the Maharashtra Police Act 1951.After Phansalkar’s appointment as the managing director of Maharashtra State Police Housing and Welfare Corporation Limited earlier this month, Suresh Kumar Mekhla, joint commissioner of police, Thane, was given an additional charge of CP, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jaijeet-singh-who-probed-antilia-bomb-scare-case-as-ats-head-appointed-thane-police-chief-101621877529394.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 22,122 new Covid cases; Mumbai's daily tally continues to fall||Maharashtra on Monday reported 22,122 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 361 more deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 5,602,019 and 89,212 respectively, according to the state health department’s bulletin. This is the fifth successive day that the daily cases in Maharashtra remained below the 30,000-mark.Over 42,000 (42,320 to be exact) people recovered on Monday and the cumulative recoveries in the state have climbed to 5,182,592 , the bulletin showed.Monday’s case count in Maharashtra is less 4,550 than that of Sunday’s when 26,672 people were detected Covid positive.Also Read| Bharat Biotech to provide documentation for Covaxin’s emergency use listing by JuneThe capital city of Mumbai also continued to witness a downward trend in its daily tally as 1,049 new cases and 48 more deaths were logged. Mumbai now has 697,959 cases of the Covid-19 disease which includes 14,613 deaths.The coronavirus situation in Maharashtra is improving with each passing day. The major credit for this improvement can be given to the lockdown-like restrictions-- which have been extended till June 1-- and the people’s adherence to them.The Maha-Vikas Aghadi led government has indicated these restrictions will not be further extended and will be eased in a staggered manner, according to Hindustan Times on Sunday.Even though the number of Covid-19 infections are falling in Maharashtra, the state is staring at a huge spike in the cases of Mucormycosis or black fungus. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Monday that Maharashtra has 1,188 cases of the black fungus, the highest in India till now.On May 20, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope requested the Centre to approve allocation of Amphotericin B injections-- used for treating black fungus patients-- as 300-400 people were getting infected on a weekly basis.Over 20.7 million beneficiaries have been administered vaccine doses against Covid-19 in the state till now of which 16,370,365 have been given the first dose and nearly 4.4 million have been given both doses.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced on Sunday that vaccination for the 18-44 age group has been suspended due to a shortage in supply of doses. However, Thackeray said that from June the vaccine production will speed up and therefore, the state government can operate a round-the-clock vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-adds-22-122-new-covid-cases-mumbai-s-daily-tally-continues-to-fall-101621866190459.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC allows medical termination of triplets as 2 foetuses develop anomalies||The Bombay high court last week permitted the medical termination of pregnancy (MTP) of a woman after it was informed that two of the three foetuses she was carrying had abnormalities.The court was informed that the parents were not economically well-off, the mother’s mental health was not sound, and the birth of the infants would result in their mortality. A panel of doctors from Sir JJ hospital recommended the termination to the court, which was informed that the mother who had been undergoing psychiatric treatment realised she was pregnant only in the 19-20th week and the pregnancy was in its 25th week. The pregnancy had crossed the 24-week mark for termination, which was approved by the Parliament in March, so the couple had approached the court for permission. Also Read | ‘Will permit door-to-door vaccination if Centre doesn’t’: Bombay HC tells MaharashtraAfter the court passed the order on Friday, the woman underwent MTP in Parel on Saturday. On Friday, the vacation bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and SP Tavade was informed by advocate Aditi Saxena that after the pregnancy came to light when the woman underwent an ultrasonography. The report showed that the first foetus had anencephaly, which meant that its brain or skull had not developed. The second foetus had a soft chromosomal marker which would result in a genetic disorder due to the condition of the first foetus, while the third foetus did not have any anomaly. In its report, the panel of doctors from Sir JJ hospital confirmed the findings of the ultrasonography report and, as the chances of the two foetuses surviving or leading a normal life after birth was grim, considering the mental condition of the mother, recommended the termination of the pregnancy. After hearing the submissions and perusing the report of the panel, the court passed the order permitting MTP and directed the state government to take responsibility of the infants if they were alive after termination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-allows-medical-termination-of-triplets-as-2-foetuses-develop-anomalies-101621858927839.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae: Navy locates sunken tugboat, sends divers in search of crew||The Indian Navy on Monday located tugboat Varaprada at the seabed about 20 nautical miles away from Mumbai, using advanced side sonar of INS Makar and also sent their special diving team in search of any trapped crew members.“Tug Varaprada has been located during underwater search by INS Makar, which commenced early this morning,” said commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer of the Western Naval Command. He added that divers were looking for trapped crew members.Also Read | Barge P305 tragedy: Four more bodies recovered; toll touches 70The tugboat sank after Cyclone Tauktae hit Mumbai coast on May 17 morning, when it was returning to Mumbai harbour. The fact that it had capsized came to light after INS Kolkata rescued two of its crew members while on way to join an search and rescue operation for barge Papaa305 (P305). Barge P305 was deployed at an unmanned platform in Heera oil fields, one of the largest ONGC rigs in the Arabian sea. It was anchored about 200 meters away from the platform when Cyclone Tauktae hit the Mumbai coast. As stormy weather hit the coast, the barge got de-anchored in the night of May 16, and hit a platform while drifting in the rough sea. Water started entering from a side, as it got damaged and eventually sank around 7pm on May 17, with 261 members on-board.The Navy succeeded in rescuing 186 crew members of P305 and has so far recovered bodies of 70 others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-navy-locates-sunken-tugboat-sends-divers-in-search-of-crew-101621845906916.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||NSUI seeks refund of ‘extra’ fee charged by Mumbai university colleges last year||National Students Union of India (NSUI) on Sunday requested the vice chancellor of University of Mumbai to direct all affiliated colleges to either refund or adjust resources fee collected for the 2020-21 academic year citing financial constraints faced by students due to Covid-19 pandemic. This category includes charges for library, laboratory, gymkhana, sports and cultural activities, among others.“The pandemic has left an undesirable impact on every earning sector, thus creating a financial crisis in many families. Higher education institutes need to offer fee concession to students in such times,” stated the letter. NSUI also shared copies of fee receipts to highlight that students were charged for unused resources/facilities by several colleges in and around Mumbai despite classes and examinations being held online.Earlier in March, another student group had approached the vice chancellor’s office with a similar demand, but it got no official response from the varsity.“In several cases, despite warnings from higher authorities, several higher education institutes have demanded full fees from students, increasing the financial burden on their families,” said Faisal Shaikh, a member of NSUI in Mumbai. He added that the union will also try to meet the vice chancellor in furtherance of the demand.Not just students, many affiliated colleges, too, had approached the Mumbai university for refunds. Last year in November, the Association of Non-Government Colleges (ANGC) sought a refund of 60% examination fees paid by them to the varsity, citing “increased expenses” due to teaching and examinations having shifted online. “Students think just because they didn’t use the college campus the fee should be reduced, but they fail to understand how colleges are incurring larger expenses by investing in digital platforms and ensuring all exams are conducted online. We are only charging the fees needed for proper functioning of the institute,” said the principal of a south Mumbai college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nsui-seeks-refund-of-extra-fee-charged-by-mumbai-university-colleges-last-year-101621841107216.html
24-05-2021||Mumbai||3-day special walk-in Covid vaccination drive begins in Mumbai||People aged above 45-years can walk into 213 centres in Mumbai between 10am to 3pm for three days beginning Monday and receive the first dose of Covishield vaccine in a special drive by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Those above 60 years of age can also walk in at these centres to receive Covishield vaccine but those seeking the second dose will need to have completed 84 days after the first dose to be eligible. Corporation officials added that between Thursday and Saturday, vaccination will only be done on appointment basis, and on Sunday, it will remain suspended.The special drive will also provide the second dose of Covaxin to all age groups. BMC officials said the number of centres and timing will differ during the three day special drive to vaccinate people in the 45 years+ age group.The corporation had suspended walk-in vaccination about two weeks ago citing overcrowding at vaccination centres. The BMC last week resumed walk-in vaccination for those above 60 years. Vaccination for 18-44 years age group remains suspended in civic and government run vaccination centres.As per BMC data, there are 1.1 million senior citizens in the city, out of which, 882,000 have been administered the first dose. The civic body is now focusing on covering the remaining 300,000 senior citizens.On Sunday, Mumbai reported 1,427 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 49 related fatalities, raising the overall count of infections to 696,910 and the toll to 14,565. The Mumbai division, comprising Mumbai and its satellite towns, reported 3,678 new cases and 87 deaths, which increased the overall caseload to 1508,663 and the number of fatalities to 26,855, the state’s health department said.Maharashtra on Sunday reported 26,672 fresh coronavirus positive cases and 594 fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 5,579,897 and the toll to 88,620, the health department bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3day-special-walk-in-covid-vaccination-drive-begins-in-mumbai-101621833486329.html
