25-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 24,136 new Covid-19 cases, 601 fresh deaths; tally over 5.62 million||Maharashtra’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) remained below the 30,000-mark for the sixth consecutive day after 24,136 new cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the caseload to 5,626,155, according to the state health department’s bulletin. As many as 601 people succumbed to the viral disease on Tuesday while 36,176 recovered from it, taking the state’s cumulative deaths and recoveries to 90,349 and 5,218,768, respectively, the bulletin showed.The daily recoveries in Maharashtra continue to outnumber the new cases and the overall recovery rate stood at 93%. The active cases have further declined to 314,368.Tuesday’s case count in Maharashtra is 2,014 more than that of Monday’s when 22,122 cases were seen. The death toll on Tuesday is also 240 greater than that of Monday’s (361 deaths).Also Read| Maharashtra stops home isolation in 18 districts with high Covid positivity rateThe state capital Mumbai, however, continued to report a fall in its daily infections as 1,029 people tested positive for Covid-19 while 37 more died. The city’s caseload is nearing 700,000 with 14,650 deaths, the health department’s bulletin showed.Eighteen districts in Maharashtra including Nashik, Latur, Ahmednagar, Pune and Gadchiroli banned home isolation for all infected patients and would send them to Covid care centres, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday, adding the decision was taken as these districts have reported above-average positivity rates.Collectors of all these 18 districts have been ordered by the Maharashtra government to set up more Covid care centres.The Maharashtra government on Tuesday also said that Mucormycosis has been classified as a notified disease in the state. More than 2,000 (2,245 to be exact) have been infected with the fatal disease in Maharashtra so far, health minister Tope said and all such patients will be treated free of cost at state government operated hospitals.Amid the rising cases of Mucormycosis, there is also a skyrocketing demand for Amphotericin-B injections. To address the demand, Maharashtra will receive 60,000 injections through a tender floated by the state government, Tope said adding this is an additional supply apart from the current allocation of the drug by the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-records-24-136-new-covid-cases-601-fresh-deaths-tally-over-5-62-million-101621953739784.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra stops home isolation in 18 districts with high Covid positivity rate||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday that patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) belonging to 18 districts of the state which have a high positivity rate will no longer be allowed home isolation and will be admitted to Covid care centres. Home isolation is typically suggested for those patients of Covid-19 which are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms.According to the health department’s data, out of the total 36 districts in Maharashtra-- Ratnagiri, Osmanabad, Beed, Hingoli, Akola, Amravati, Thane, Sangli, Gadchiroli, Wardha, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Latur, Satara, Sindhudurg, Raigad, Pune and Kolhapur-- have above-average positivity rates, news agency PTI reported.Speaking to reporters on Tuesday, Tope said home isolation will be completely stopped in these districts and the district collectors have been instructed to set up more Covid care centres in their respective regions.Also Read| Maharashtra mulls relaxation in curbs as Covid cases continue to dropAs rural areas across India have also been impacted under the infectious second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, the Maharashtra health minister said the collectors of these aforementioned 18 districts will use funds from the premium collected on auction of minor minerals to set up Covid care centres in villages, PTI further reported.Tope also said workers from the Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) will be educated on how to carry out Rapid Antigen Tests and use self-testing kits. These workers will further encourage people residing in villages to undergo tests and also spread awareness about getting vaccinated against Covid-19, he said.Also Read| Maharashtra adds 22,122 new Covid cases; Mumbai's daily tally continues to fallMaharashtra- which was once the worst affected region due to the pandemic in India- has seen a significant drop in daily cases and deaths in the recent weeks. On Monday, the state recorded another low of 22,122 new cases and 361 more deaths. This is the fifth consecutive day that the new infections remained below the 30,000-mark. Nearly 5.2 million have recovered from Covid-19 in Maharashtra so far and the recovery rate has climbed to 93%.However, the state is currently grappling with a huge spike in the cases of Mucormycosis or black fungus. Health minister Tope said on Tuesday that 2,245 people have been infected with the fatal disease so far and the state government has classified Mucormycosis as a notified disease.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-stops-home-isolation-in-18-districts-with-high-covid-positivity-rate-101621952135290.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to get 60,000 vials of medicine for mucormycosis from June 1: Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said the state would get 60,000 vials of Amphotericin-B, the key drug for the treatment of mucormycosis patients, from June 1 onwards. There are 2,245 patients of mucormycosis, also known as the black fungus, in Maharashtra, Tope told reporters after attending a review meeting on the mucormycosis and Covid-19 cases in the state. Tope said the state has floated a global tender for procuring Amphotericin-B vials for the treatment of mucormycosis. "The state would get 60,000 vials of the medicine from June 1 onwards. It will be an additional supply apart from the current allocation of the medicine by the Centre," he said. The minister said there are 2,245 patients of black fungus in the state and out of them, 1,007 are already covered under the Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY), he said. “The entire cost of the treatment of mucormycosis patients under the MJPJAY will be free of cost, including the cost of the medicine. The state is also trying to cap the cost of treatment of mucormycosis patients who are admitted in private hospitals,” he said. Tope said the Maharashtra government has issued a GR (government resolution) regarding such treatment and the finance department has allocated ₹30 crore for the same. There have been several cases of mucormycosis, a rare but serious fungal infection, among Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra and some other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-get-60-000-vials-of-medicine-for-mucormycosis-from-june-1-tope-101621933143929.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Illegal phone tapping: Mumbai Police record Rashmi Shukla’s statement in Hyd||The Mumbai cyber police have recorded the statement of Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Rashmi Shukla in connection with the alleged illegal phone tapping and confidential report leak. Shukla, who is presently on central deputation and posted as additional director general of Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) in Hyderabad, has refuted the allegations, people aware of the matter said.Shukla was summoned twice for questioning, but she cited the pandemic and her responsibilities in CRPF to express her inability to have her statement recorded. She later moved the Bombay high court against the summons, but it granted permission to the Mumbai Police to record her statement in Hyderabad.Shukla did not respond to HT’s calls and text messages.Also Read | ATS head for Antilia case is Thane top copThe cyber police on March 26 filed a case on a state intelligence department (SID) complaint against unknown persons for allegedly leaking the report submitted by Shukla, over the purported payments for transfers within the police department when she was the commissioner of intelligence in August 2020. Shukla’s report named senior politicians, middlemen, and police officers, who allegedly sought transfers and postings of their liking. The report referred to “monetary exchange” between officers and middlemen acting in close connection with politicians.Home department officials said that the copy that was reportedly leaked was the SID’s office copy and did not bear Shukla’s signature.Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte submitted a report to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, detailing the circumstances in which Shukla created the report. Kunte’s report added Shukla intercepted calls of six persons in the name of “public safety” and thus “misguided the authorities”. It said no transfers of police officers took place between June 27 and September 1, 2020, the period in which the calls were intercepted.Kunte’s report questioned whether Shukla had leaked the report. It said if that were the case then she would be liable for “strict action”. “The report leak had led to breach of privacy and defamation of the officers whose names have been mentioned in it. The deals for the transfers mentioned in it and actual transfers done by the government differ. This proves that there was no question of any scam in the transfers,” Kunte’s report said.Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has said Shukla sought proper permissions from the then additional chief secretary (home) and intercepted the phone calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/illegal-phone-tapping-mumbai-police-record-rashmi-shukla-s-statement-in-hyd-101621923309893.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||ATS head for Antilia case is Thane top cop||Jaijeet Singh, who headed the state’s anti-terrorism squad (ATS) while it probed Antilia bomb scare case, has been appointed the chief of Thane Police. His appointment was made as part of minor IPS reshuffle three weeks after Vivek Phansalkar was transferred as Thane police commissioner, following his promotion. Vineet Agarwal, ADG and principal secretary (home), a 1994-batch IPS, will replace Singh as ATS chief. Sanjay Saxena, ADG, will take over from Agarwal. ATS, under the 1990-batch IPS officer Jaijeet Singh, probed Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran case before they were handed over the National Investigation Agency. State home department issued the transfer order on Monday according to Maharashtra Police Act 1951. After Phansalkar’s appointment as managing director of Maharashtra State Police Housing and Welfare Corporation Limited earlier this month, Suresh Kumar Mekhla, joint commissioner of police, Thane was given an additional charge of CP, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ats-head-for-antilia-case-is-thane-top-cop-101621886527844.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Hiran murder case: Arrested cop dismissed from city police force||Suspended police constable Vinayak Shinde, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Antilia bomb scare and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, has been summarily dismissed from service. Mumbai police’s additional commissioner (West) Sandeep Karnik issued an order under Article 311(2)(B) of the Constitution of India dismissing the constable, who was already serving life imprisonment for his role in Lakhan Bhaiya fake encounter killing. He allegedly aided and abetted controversial Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze in purportedly committing the two crimes, when he was out on emergency parole.Mumbai police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police Chaitanya Siriprolu on Monday said that Shinde was earlier suspended, now he has been dismissed from the service. An order to this effect was issued by additional CP, West on Saturday. “Based on the findings of NIA’s probe about his role in the serious cases his dismissal procedure was initiated. His act maligned the police’s image in public and his actions also brought shame to the police department. Hence he is fit for dismissal from the police service without holding a departmental enquiry,” said Karnik.Shinde was arrested by the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on March 21. He was later handed over to NIA. Shinde was actively involved in murder of Hiran on March 4, the ATS had said.ATS sources said Shinde was in regular touch with Vaze ever since he got out on parole in May 2020 and, according to ATS remand application, Shinde was looking after Vaze’s “illegal activities” in Mumbai and Thane area. Gujarat based accused Naresh Gaur, also arrested by NIA, had allegedly supplied Sim cards to Shinde who in turn handed them over to Vaze. Shinde would help Vaze in all his illegal works, ATS stated. Sinde had served in Mumbai crime branch. Shinde, an accused in encounter case of slain gangster Lakhan Bhaiyya, had come out on parole. Ramnarayan Gupta alias Lakhan Bhaiya was killed in a fake encounter on November 11, 2006. In 2013, a Mumbai sessions court had awarded life sentences to 21 people, including 13 Mumbai Police personnel, convicted in the case. Presently Shinde is in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hiran-murder-case-arrested-cop-dismissed-from-city-police-force-101621886227809.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||8 days on, Navy calls off SAR op for barge P305 and tugboat Varaprada||The Indian Navy on Monday evening called off the eight-day search and rescue (SAR) operation for missing crew members of barge Papaa305 (P305) and tugboat Varaprada, which capsized in the Arabian Sea last Monday, hours after extremely severe cyclone Tauktae hit the Mumbai coast. Meanwhile, three of the eight bodies that drifted ashore in Valsad and Daman in Gujarat have been identified as crew members of Varaprada. The toll of the P305 tragedy remains 70 and the Varaprada incident three.On Monday morning, the Navy located Varaprada on the seabed, about 20 nautical miles away from Mumbai, following a thorough search using advanced side sonar of INS Makar. “The Navy sent its special diving team in search of crew members, to check if any of Brave Nature’s victims were trapped on the tugboat,” said commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relations officer of the Western Naval Command. “The diving team did not find any crew member trapped, after which Naval officials decided to call off the SAR.” The Navy then withdrew their assets from the SAR in Heera oil fields in the Arabian Sea. The tugboat sank on May 17, when it was returning to Mumbai harbour. The incident came to light after INS Kolkata rescued two crew members of the tug, while on their way to the search and rescue for barge P305. Barge P305 was deployed at an unmanned platform in Heera oil fields, one of the largest ONGC rigs in the Arabian sea. It was anchored about 200m away from the platform when the cyclone hit the Mumbai coast. The barge got de-anchored in the night of May 16, and hit a platform while drifting in the rough sea. It eventually sank around 7pm on May 17, with 261 on-board. The rough weather and very choppy sea made the Navy’s search and rescue operation one of the most challenging operations undertaken by them in four decades. The Navy succeeded in rescuing 186 crew members of P305 and has so far recovered bodies of 70 others during the search. The barge was also located on the seabed in Heera oil fields, but the diving team did not find any body trapped inside. Meanwhile, Yellow Gate police said so far 48 of the 70 bodies have been identified by their relatives. The process of identification of the remaining 22, to find the five missing P305 crew members, is on. The police will also go for DNA fingerprinting, as some of the bodies are decomposed. The agencies claimed on Sunday that they found 17 more bodies over the past two days at different beaches in Raigad district, Palghar and Valsad at Gujarat. Officials said seven bodies were recovered from Valsad, one from Daman, one from Arnala beach in Palghar district and eight bodies were found at Alibag, Murud, Nagaon and Sasawne in Raigad district. Of the eight bodies found at Gujarat and Valsad, three were found to be crew members of Varaprada. The remain bodies are being checked to find the 8 missing people from the tugboat.The body of Nagendra Prajapati, 59, the captain of the tugboat, was identified by his elder brother Surendra, 61, who came from Lucknow on Monday. Surendra identified his brother’s body on the basis of his wrist watch and gold ring. The body was found by local residents of Bhagal village when it landed ashore on May 21, said a police officer. Another body of Umed Singh, 59, who was working as a second engineer on Varaprada, was identified by his elder brother Rajkumar Singh, 63, on Sunday. Rajkumar came from Jalaun district of Uttar Pradesh after the company informed him about the incident. Aadhaar, election card, mobile phone and bank debit cards were found in his pockets. The third body, of Saddam Hussein Ejaz Ahmed, 29, who worked as an electrician on Varaprada, was identified by his elder brother Azad who lives in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/8-days-on-navy-calls-off-sar-op-for-barge-p305-and-tugboat-varaprada-101621885868897.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||LLM students allege discrepancies in admissions as students with lower scores bag seats||Less than a week after the University of Mumbai (MU) wrapped up the final round of admissions to Master of Law (LLM) course for the 2020-21 academic year, a group of students have raised objection to the manner in which seats were allotted. In a letter addressed to the MU vice-chancellor as well as the governor of the state, these students have pointed out discrepancies, showing how non-revealing of vacant seats left some with higher entrance exam scores losing a seat to those with lower scores. “The last spot admission round was announced in mid-May and applicants were asked to once again apply for a division as per the seat vacancy information shared by MU on their website. We applied accordingly, only to later find out that there were more vacant seats in other divisions, which we were not made aware of,” said an applicant. He added that due to this error on the part of the law department at MU, students with a lower score in common entrance test (CET) have bagged seats while those with higher scores have not. On May 15, the university’s department of law issued a notice allowing candidates, who could not make it to the five merit lists, to apply afresh for the vacant seats through spot admission. On the same notice, the department announced that the sixth merit list would be the last one. There are around 600 seats for LLM in six divisions — Constitutional and administrative law, business law, intellectual property and information technology law, human rights law, criminal law and criminal administration, and environmental and legal order. Applicants, however, alleged that the university hid seat vacancy from all divisions before announcing the sixth and final merit list. “The seat vacancy list on the MU website showed only four vacant seats and students applied accordingly. However, once the sixth merit list was out it showed at least a dozen other students were allocated seats across divisions. How did these students find out about more vacant seats without MU officially announcing the same? The university is clearly keeping seats hidden from the common admission process,” said another student.An official from MU told HT that as per law, reserved category seats cannot be converted into general category seats, even though there are no applicants under these categories. “The final round was conducted to give students another chance at applying for LLM seats as the second Covid-19 wave affected the admission process. But in the special round, we still cannot give away seats from reserved categories to those from the open category,” said the official. MU in a statement has refuted all claims, saying the admissions was a virtual process and conducted smoothly without any errors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/llm-students-allege-discrepancies-in-admissions-as-students-with-lower-scores-bag-seats-101621885807764.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Five underground silos to tackle Mumbai’s flooding woes||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is constructing five underground water silos at vulnerable spots in the island city to mitigate the flooding that usually happens during the monsoon. Two chronic waterlogging spots have been identified for the pilot project currently under construction: One at Hindmata Junction in Dadar (East) and the other at Gandhi Market near Matunga, both on Babasaheb Ambedkar (BA) road. Both spots get inundated up to over two feet of water during every heavy spell of rain. The road is one of the main connectors of the eastern suburbs to the island city. According to officials, of the five silos, two will be at Hindmata (one under Hindmata flyover, and one under the northbound carriage of BA road). Water from these silos will be channelled from underground pipes to two other bigger underground silos — one at Pramod Mahajan Udyan on Senapati Bapat Road, near Elphinstone station, and one under St Xavier’s ground in Parel.From these two bigger silos, water will either flow into the sea through underground pipes, or used for non-potable purposes. In the long run, BMC plans to set up water-filling points at the two bigger silos at Elphinstone and Parel, for refilling water tankers for non-potable purposes. One more underground silo is being constructed at Gandhi Market under the south-bound carriageway on BA road, which is yet another low-lying area. Three dewatering pumps will pump the surface water into this tank, from where underground pipes will discharge it at the railway culvert near Matunga. P Velarasu, additional municipal commissioner, in-charge of BMC’s stormwater drains (SWD) department, said, “Since this is the first time we are trying the concept in the city, we have selected these two waterlogging spots. Depending on the success with this project, construction of similar silos in other waterlogging-prone spots will begin after monsoon 2021.” Other similar spots identified by the civic body are Postal Colony, Chembur; Oberoi Mall in Goregaon; and the area around Mahalaxmi in South Mumbai. While the silos at Hindamata with a capacity to hold 1,000 cubic metres of water or 1,000,000 litres, each, and the silo at Gandhi Market with the capacity to hold 1,200 cubic metres of water, will be completed before this monsoon, the two silos at Parel and Elphinstone will be completed by monsoon 2022. Velarasu said, “The two silos at Parel and Elphinstone, where work is going on right now, will be completed and used for monsoon 2021. But we have dug up only a portion of both these open spaces. There is more scope to create another silo at each of these open spaces. This will be phase two of the project, taken up after monsoon 2021. We didn’t want to dig up the entire open space in one go.” The total water holding capacity of the tanks at Parel and Elphinstone alone is 50,000 cubic metres, once completed. The first phase, to be completed before this monsoon, will have a total water-holding capacity of 16,000-17,000 cubic metres, Velarasu said. The cost of the first phase is Rs60 crore, while the cost of the entire project is Rs130 crore. Velarasu added, “The project has been designed by the SWD department of BMC) with a local consultant. A local contractor is constructing the silos. SWD department is taking remarks from the civic bridges department, for the silo under the Hindmata flyover.” BMC has maintained it is safe in terms of the structural stability of the flyover, to have silos underneath it, as they are nowhere near the pillars of the flyover. Manoj Baraskar, independent structural auditor, said, “Foundations of flyovers are Pile foundations and go pretty deep. As long as sufficient distant is maintained between the pillars and the tank, it should cause no problem for the structural integrity of the flyover. As far as structural integrity of the road is concerned (near Gandhi Market) we need to regular inspection chambers. Beams of carriageways are likely to be in contact with water accumulated on the surface of the road, so steal in the beams may rust, and need regular inspection. Otherwise there should be no problem at all, and is a good idea.” The idea to construct underground water tanks to hold monsoon flood water was first mooted for Mumbai in early 2019, along the lines of underground water tanks constructed in Tokyo in Japan, to mitigate flooding. BMC was also in the process of signing a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for the project. Bids were floated in 2019 for constructing underground water silos in Mulund and Bhandup, so as to divert excess rainwater from Mithi river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/five-underground-silos-to-tackle-mumbai-s-flooding-woes-101621885267782.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra mulls unlocking, starting next week||With Covid-19 cases on the decline, the state is planning gradual unlocking from June 1, by allowing shops and establishments dealing in non-essential commodities to operate, albeit with timing restrictions, and government offices to operate with more employees. However, the suburban train network is unlikely to be open for the general public for a few more weeks.Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 22,122 new Covid-19 cases, which was the lowest single-day spike in 69 days (17,864 infections were reported on March 16). The state tally has now touched 5,602,019. The death toll stands at 89,212 after the addition of 361 new fatalities on Monday. The state has witnessed a steady decline in cases over the past three weeks as the daily caseload dropped below 30,000, from it hovering around 55,000 three weeks ago. The active cases in the state dropped to 348,395 on Sunday, from its peak of 699,858 cases on April 22. The daily growth rate dropped to 0.69% on May 18, from 1.45% on April 30. This has led to the rising demand of relaxation from the ongoing lockdown, which has been imposed in a phase-wise manners beginning from April 5. The ongoing lockdown is in force till 7am on June 1.The deliberation over the gradual relaxation from the lockdown has begun at the state government level. The final decision by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to be taken towards the end of the week after due deliberation with his cabinet colleagues and the experts from the state task force. The state is expected to allow the establishments from non-essential sector to operate for limited hours, along with the shops and establishments in the essential sector. The timing of operation of the players in essential sector is also expected to increase. “Industrial units, too, may get some relaxations, while the workforce in government offices is expected to go up from the current permission of 15%. However, the establishments like restaurants, malls, multiplexes will continue to remain shut as they have been proved to be superspreaders in the past,” said an official from Mantralaya.The positivity rate in as many as 23 districts (of total 36) is still more than 10% and relaxations from the curbs there is against the guidelines of the Centre and World Health Organisation (WHO). Satara, Sangli, Parbhani, Osmanabad, Hingoli, Beed, Sindhudurg are among those with a high positivity rate. “We are expecting the positivity rate to fall below the benchmark towards the end of the week, so that they, too, get some relaxations,” the officer said.Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said on Monday that the state government was considering unlocking from June 1. He, however, said that it will continue in the districts where cases are still high. “There are currently at least 14 district which we consider to be in the red zones with high number of cases and the restrictions for them cannot be lifted. But for other districts where cases have fallen, some relaxations will be given. After all the industrial losses, livelihoods of the people need to be considered. The modalities for unlocking will be chalked out in the next 4-5 days,” he said.Wadettiwar said that districts with high number of cases may see more restrictions and containment zones. “The districts, which still are hotspot of cases, will have more containment zones, aiming at restricting the rise in cases. We have also directed strict action against people who step out in public places without valid reasons. We have also been emphasising on institutional quarantine of infected people in these districts to break the chain of infection,” he said.The minister clarified that the local trains in the MMR would not be opened for the general public for at least for few more weeks. “There has been lot of demand for allowing the people from various categories to commute in local trains, but it is not possible at least for next few weeks. One of the main reasons for the drop in the cases in Mumbai and surrounding areas is the restrictions on rail commuting. If we allow all to commute in trains, there would be similar crowding, leading to the spread of the virus. We will continue to allow people in health services and government employees to commute,” he said.There were 263,774 tests conducted on Monday, while the number of recoveries were 42,320. The positivity rate stood at 8.3%. The state currently has 327,580 active cases. There are currently 327,580 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 48,258 patients, followed by Mumbai with 28,299 active patients. The death toll has now reached 89,212 with Mumbai leading with 14,613 death,s followed by Pune with 11,497 patients. Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli remains to log high number of cases. On May 24, there were 1209 cases in Kolhapur region, which is much more compared to 901 new cases a month back. Satara also witnessed an increase in cases as 1,912 cases were recorded last month on April 24, which jumped to 2,470 on Monday. In Buldhana, there were 641 cases last month on April 24, which jumped to 1190 on Monday. In Kolhapur, there was huge queue outside the Regional Transport Office (RTO) to recover the vehicles seized during the lockdown of those who were travelling without valid reason. In Nagpur, citizens heaved a sigh of relief was lockdown was relaxed. Dr Ishwar Gilada, Secretary General, Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), said the problem is Covid-19 has now deeply penetrated to the rural pockets. “Many rural people tend to skip testing as Covid-19 is seen as a stigma. The result is entire family gets infected since this mutant is highly virulent,” said Gilada. “Another issue is the inadequate hospital infrastructure as rural pockets have hardly 30 % of healthcare facility which cater to more than 70 % of the population,” said Gilada. “The entire process is delayed due to which more people get infected and even the death rates increase,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mulls-unlocking-starting-next-week-101621885147746.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||ACB arrests Aarey Colony CEO, his aide over bribe in Mumbai||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) arrested the chief executive officer of Aarey Milk Colony, Nathu Vitthal Rathod, in a bribery case. His aide and staff member has also been arrested while accepting ₹50,000 cash on his behalf. ACB will now probe if the senior dairy development officer has amassed any disproportionate assets during his service, said a senior ACB officer.Rathod, 42, was also holding charge of deputy commissioner of Worli Dairy, considered as post of a senior bureaucrat.According to ACB, the complainant, slum dweller, who owns unit 32, Aarey Colony in Goregaon. The complainant required permission from the CEO’s office (as the state owns area of Aarey Colony) for carrying out repair work in his house, and hence he met with Rathod and was directed to meet staff Arvind Tribhuvam Tiwari, 57.Upon meeting Tiwari, the complainant was told that to get the permission he needed to pay ₹50,000 to Rathod as bribe and that Tiwari would receive it on behalf of his senior. Following this, the complainant informed ACB on May 14. ACB officers laid a trap at the CEO office and arrested Tiwari while accepting the bribe. Soon after this, Rathod was also held. “They’ve been arrested under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act. We’ll now dig into all financial transactions of the accused officer and find out if he has amassed any disproportionate assets during his service,” said a senior ACB officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/acb-arrests-aarey-colony-ceo-his-aide-over-bribe-in-mumbai-101621884787753.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||After mucormycosis, Mumbai sees cases of aspergillosis||Amid rising concerns over mucormycosis cases in the city, doctors are observing growing cases of another invasive fungal infection—aspergillosis– among recovered Covid-19 patients. Doctors attribute it to unregulated usage of steroids among patients infected with the novel coronavirus in the second wave. Mucormycosis is a serious, but rare fungal infection caused by a group of mould called mucormycetes. Similarly, aspergillosis is an infection caused by aspergillus, a common mould (a type of fungus) that lives indoors and outdoors. Doctors said aspergillosis that “mimics mucormycosis” spreads slowly, but also causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and can reach the lungs of the patients. Healthy people breathe in aspergillus spores every day without getting sick due to high immunity. Taking this as a cue, currently many hospitals are routinely performing a nasal endoscopy for all in-house post Covid-19 patients with low immunity for early diagnosis of invasive fungal infections. “There is a sudden and alarming increase in the occurrence of invasive aspergillosis. Those with a weakened immune system, having uncontrolled diabetes, organ transplant recipients, ones with certain types of blood cancer, and those taking steroids or having lung diseases are at a higher risk of developing health problems due to aspergillus,” said Dr Shalaka Dighe, ENT surgeon, Zen Multispeciality Hospital, Mumbai. Civic-run hospitals like King Edward Memorial (KEM), Parel and Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, also known as Sion hospital, also have patients with aspergillosis. “We have got patients with either of the fungal infections or with co-infections of mucormycosis and aspergillosis. These fungi remain in the environment always. Earlier, we used to see these types of fungal infection among patients with immunosuppression like cancer, HIV, TB or organ transplant patients,” said Dr Hetal Marfatia, head of the ENT department, KEM hospital. Dr Amol Patil, senior consultant, ENT and skull-base surgery at Nanavati Max Super Speciality Hospital, said the concept of white and black fungus is misleading. Fungi are mainly differentiated as invasive and non-invasive. “Both mucormycosis and aspergillosis are opportunistic invasive fungal infections, which means they affect people with a weakened immune system. If the infection gets detected at a later stage, both require debridement to remove dead tissues. This leads to loss of patients’ eyes, palate and nose. Mucormycosis is more aggressive than aspergillosis,” he said. Mucormycosis commonly affects the nose and para-nasal sinuses and can very quickly spread to the eye and brain. Symptoms are nonspecific and include a blocked nose, bloody or foul smelling discharge from the nose, cheek swelling or pain, swelling of eyes, double vision, loose teeth and pain in the teeth. Invasive aspergillosis most commonly affects the lungs and causes cough with expectoration, blood in the sputum, fever and breathlessness. Involvement of the nose and sinuses results in symptoms similar to mucormycosis. To rule out any confusion, doctors prefer doing fungal culture. “Patients with aspergillosis are usually treated with an antifungal drug called Voriconazole. But if any patient also has presence of mucor, Voriconazole can lead to a flare-up of mucormycosis. In such cases, we use a newer antifungal called Isavuconazole to treat these patients, as it works against both mucormycosis and aspergillosis,” said Dr Dighe. Some states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are also reporting candidiasis fungus infection. “Candidiasis, which many people have foolishly named as ‘white fungus’, is harmless. It can be treated with normal antifungal medicines and ointments,” said Dr Patil. Why the rise? Covid-19 patients are often given high doses of steroids which compromises their immunity to fight fungal infections. This is as one of the primary reasons for the growth of fungal infection in the second wave of the pandemic. Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist sharing his views on the rising cases of fungal infection stated that there has been a widely held perception the second wave was caused by a virus that was more lethal than the first time around. This, coupled with the fear of a lack of hospital beds, the urgent need to control the infection, and the belief that sicker the patient, higher the dose of steroid should be, potentially could have nudged doctors to prescribing higher and prolonged doses of steroids. “The use of corticosteroids, for a prolonged duration, and in high doses could be contributory (in fungal growth), especially among patients with uncontrolled diabetes, immunosuppressive conditions such as chronic liver disease, kidney disease, and malignancies,” he said. Dr Ajay Doiphode, president, Association of Otolaryngologists (AOI), Mumbai Branch, said Tocilizumab, another immunosuppressive medication that is given to Covid-19 patients is also associated with invasive fungal infections. Abhay Pandey, national president of All Food and Drug Licence Holder Foundation (AFDLHF), said when there was a severe shortage of oxygen for Covid-19 patients in April, many companies producing industrial oxygen (not for human consumption) were forced to produce medicinal oxygen without proper quality check. “There is a possibility that the fungus which remains in the environment may have gotten inside the patients through this sub-standard and polluted oxygen,” said Pandey who has also written a letter to the state health ministry regarding it. Dr Pinto said “There has been speculation around the quality of oxygen, the use of zinc supplements, excessive steam inhalation as being contributory, but these should be considered speculative unless proven.” “It is known that fungus thrive more in moist and damp environments so tropical countries are witnessing more cases of fungal infection. As these molds remain in the environment, it is essential that patients even after recovery maintain proper hygiene and keep wearing masks,” said Dr Patil. Doctors suggest patients remain more vigilant, monitor their blood sugar levels, look for red flags like eye pain, swelling of the eyes and cheek, nose block, cheek pain, and abnormal discharge from the nose. Infected in a week of dischargeSunil Kanal, 62, a resident of Chembur was diagnosed with Covid-19 on April 5. He was admitted to a private hospital on April 9. After 21 days of hospital stay, he was discharged on April 30. But despite repeated requests of his family, the hospital refused to do a CT scan during discharge. Within eight days of discharge, he started having fever which made the family members curious. “I had read about mucormycosis, so I immediately took him to an ENT for a general check-up. Later, he was diagnosed with a similar fungal infection, aspergillosis, which by then had spread to his lungs through his nose and throat,” said Roshan Kanal 38, his son who has already spent around ₹6 lakh on his Covid-19 treatment. Now, the patient is undergoing treatment at Zen Multispeciality Hospital, Chembur. Dr Shalaka Dighe, ENT Surgeon, the treating doctor, said, “At present, we are treating him with an antifungal medicine—Isavuconazole. We are trying to optimise his infected lungs before we can decide on operating upon him. Due to his health condition, we can’t even operate on his infected nose as we can’t put him on general anesthesia. We will do his CT scan in the next two days, depending on the result, we will take the final decision.” THE FUNGAL INFECTIONSBoth mucormycosis and Aspergillosis are opportunistic fungal infections. They affect people with a weakened immune system. The spores of mucor and aspergillus are found in the environment. Inhalation of these spores normally does not have any harmful effects. The body’s immune system destroys them. However, it results in serious infections in immunocompromised patients such as those with uncontrolled diabetes, organ transplant recipients, patients with blood cancer and Covid-19. Mucormycosis commonly affects the nose and paranasal sinuses and can very quickly spread to the eye and brain. Symptoms are nonspecific and include a blocked nose, bloody or foul smelling discharge from the nose, cheek swelling or pain, eye swelling, double vision, loose teeth, pain in the teeth. Invasive aspergillosis most commonly affects the lungs and causes cough with expectoration, blood in the sputum, fever and breathlessness. Involvement of the nose and sinuses results in symptoms similar to mucormycosis. Aspergillosis spreads slower than mucormycosis. Mucormycosis is more aggressive than Aspergillosis. Aspergillosis is normally treated with Voriconazole. Mucormycosis is treated with Liposomal Amphotericin B/ Amphotericin B. The differentiation of fungus as black and white is not scientifically correct, doctors said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-mucormycosis-mumbai-sees-cases-of-aspergillosis-101621884548339.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||BMC to start vaccinating lactating women from Tuesday||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is set to start vaccinating lactating women in the city from Tuesday, said civic officials. The move comes after the Central government allowed the same on May 19.Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department, said, “We will start walk-in vaccination for lactating mothers from Tuesday, as the Central government has allowed it. However, we do not have any permission or guidelines for pregnant women. Hence, they will not be vaccinated for now.”According to BMC officials, they will allow lactating women to get their jabs on walk-in basis and a separate desk will be created for them. They will require a certificate from their doctor and will have to fill a consent form at the vaccination centre. BMC in a statement said, “On the first three days of the week, lactating women can walk in for vaccination. If they wish to get the Covid vaccine, they will need to have a certificate from the gynaecologist treating them on their letterhead regarding vaccination.”The statement added, “Pregnant women must also give their own consent to receive the Covid vaccine after obtaining such a certificate from a gynaecologist. Both the gynaecologist’s certificate and the consent form should be handed over to the vaccination centre.” Consent forms will be available at vaccination centres. Meanwhile, those aged above 45 years will be allowed to walk in for their second dose from Tuesday. The walk-in facility available to this age group for their first dose will continue as well.According to BMC, between Monday and Wednesday, those above 45 years of age will be allowed for both dose of vaccination on walk-in basis and between Thursday to Saturday vaccination will be only on basis of appointment, and on Sunday vaccination will remain suspended.However, the vaccination for 18-44 years of age group remains suspended in civic and government-run vaccination centres.BMC had last week allowed those aged above 60 for walk-in vaccination. however, now it has decided to allow all above 45 years of age to walk in for vaccination on three days.On Monday, 25,211 citizens were vaccinated in the city, of which 9,078 were from the 18-45 age group, 6,007 were aged between 45 and 59, 9,064 were senior citizens and the remaining were healthcare and frontline workers. Overall, 2,980,478 citizens have been vaccinated in the city since January 16.As per BMC data, there are 1.1 million senior citizens in Mumbai, and 0.88 million of them have received their first dose of vaccine. The civic body is now focusing on covering the remaining senior citizens.Meanwhile, those wanting second dose of Covaxin will be allowed on walk-in basis. According to BMC, those requiring second dose of Covishield have to come 84 days after taking first dose, as per the Centre’s instructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-start-vaccinating-lactating-women-from-tuesday-101621884307755.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Daily cases drop to 1,049 in Mumbai, positivity rate at 4.7% but fatality still high||The city on Monday reported 1,049 Covid-19 cases against 21,947 tests conducted on Sunday, with a positivity rate for the day of 4.7%. Mumbai also reported 48 deaths. The total case count has reached 697,959 and toll 14,613. Daily case fatality rate reported on Monday is 4.5%. Mumbai has been reporting a higher daily case fatality rate for the past month. The higher number of deaths has been attributed to the spike in cases reported in April and first part of May as well as a rise in critical patients infected during this period. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of civic public health department, said, “More deaths occur in patients who are in the intensive care unit (ICU). Patients admitted to ICU take longer to be discharged and remain in the hospital for more than 21 days on an average, whereas the normal cycle of the virus in an asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patient is 14 days. At least 25% of our ICU patients have been in the hospital for 28 days or longer.” “ICU bed occupancy is higher when compared to normal Covid-19 bed occupancy. Even though independently, more ICU beds are vacant now in comparison to last month,” he added. Of the total 22,078 beds available for Covid-19 patients, 13,704 or 61% are currently vacant.In case of ICU beds, 532 of the total 2,867 beds or 18% are vacant. Of the 1,471 ventilator beds, only 147 or 9.9% are vacant.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) Save Lives strategy, coined in mid-2020 to reduce the number of Covid-19 deaths, is still in place, Kakani said. In addition, BMC is studying reasons of death in individual cases, and referring the findings to the state task force to come up with solutions. Once the infection reaches the patient’s lungs or other complications related to Covid-19 have reached an advanced stage, it is more difficult to treat them with drugs like Remdesivir, said Kakani. In such cases, the line of treatment doctors opt for takes longer to show its effects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/daily-cases-drop-to-1-049-in-mumbai-positivity-rate-at-4-7-but-fatality-still-high-101621884187705.html
25-05-2021||Mumbai||Palghar admin returns 23-coach Covid train||Western Railway (WR) on Sunday afternoon took back the 23-coach Covid train, which was stationed at platform 3 of Palghar station, to Valsad as only four patients got treated there and the local administration found it a costly affair. The Covid train, which can accommodate 2,000 patients, arrived at Palghar on May 1 in view of the paucity of hospital beds in Palghar. However, only five coaches were used with four patients admitted and later discharged from there.Palghar district collector Dr Manik Gursal wrote to WR on May 12, mentioning that Covid case load was low in Palghar and there was 50% vacancy in hospital beds at the Covid care centres in the district, hence there was no need of the Covid train. “Hence we took the train and it is currently stationed at Valsad,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR, adding, “If needed by the administration, we will send the train back to Palghar.”As on Monday, 107,460 Covid cases and 1,993 deaths were reported in Palghar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/palghar-admin-returns-23-coach-covid-train-101621884068851.html
