26-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 24,752 new Covid-19 cases and 453 deaths, tally tops 5.65 million||Maharashtra recorded 24,752 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which took the state’s infection tally to 5,650,907, according to the health department's bulletin on Wednesday. In the same period, 453 lives were lost due to the viral disease, taking the related death toll in the state to 91,341.The recovery rate has mounted to 92.76% after 23,065 people recovered in the said time period, taking the total number of recovered cases to 5,241,833. The positivity rate stood at 8.73% as the latest cases were out of 283,394 samples tested for the disease, a rise from 264,275 tests mentioned in the previous bulletin. The total number of tests conducted till now stand at 33,824,959.The state’s capital city of Mumbai saw its tally rise above the 700,000-mark, as 1,352 new cases took the city’s total positive cases to 700,340. On Tuesday, 1,029 people tested positive in the metropolis. The related death toll reached 14,684 with 34 more fatalities, as against 37 on Tuesday.This is the seventh straight day when the western state has seen less than 30,000 Covid-19 cases in a day. On May 19, its caseload rose by 34,031 fresh infections, while the related death toll on the day was 594.Among the worst-hit districts, Nagpur saw 685 more positive cases from 16,849 tests, while 1,754 people recovered from the infection. There were 16 related fatalities as well.Maharashtra, whose Covid-19 tally is the highest in the country, is currently under lockdown-like restrictions, which were extended till June 1 earlier this month. The state cabinet, headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is likely to take a call this week on extending the restrictions, extending with certain relaxations, or lifting the curbs completely. Also, the state government has already suspended vaccination against the virus for the 18-44 age group, citing shortage of vaccine doses. The doses meant for the inoculation of this age group are being diverted to be used as second doses for those above the age of 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-24-752-new-covid-19-cases-and-453-deaths-tally-tops-5-65-mn-101622036509061.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Model that helped Mumbai tide over 2nd wave||From being the epicentre of the Covid-19 pandemic to being hailed nationally for its containment model, Mumbai has come a long way. The city with a population of over 20 million had only 10% vacant beds in hospitals and Covid jumbo care centres in the first week of April. Now, over 60% of the beds are empty in the city. To achieve the ‘Mumbai model’, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had to take multiple initiatives not only to handle shortage of beds, but control the mortality rate, and ensure timely supply of oxygen and medicines to the infected patients. In April, when the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak, the country’s financial city recorded more than 10,000 daily cases thrice. But now, the daily average has come down to around 2,000 cases. The BMC has garnered quite a lot of praise from across the nation. The Supreme Court not only applauded the management of medical oxygen supply in Mumbai, but also recommended that the Delhi government replicate the “Mumbai model” to fight the pandemic. On April 1, Mumbai had 50,055 active patients who were on Covid-19 treatment. The number has now fallen to 27,649. This stands a 45% fall in the total active cases. Strengthened health infrastructure On April 1, Mumbai had 15,971 beds in 97 dedicated care centres and hospitals. Of this, only 4,160 beds were available. The city had 1,805 beds for patients on Intensive Care Units (ICU), but 139 of them were available. Of the 1,143 ventilator beds, only 82 were empty. By April 15, the number of total beds was raised to over 20,000, which included ICU and ventilator beds. Along with focusing on strengthening the health infrastructure, the BMC also had to chalk out plans and initiatives to deal with shortage of beds, which could have increased the fatality rate. “When the pandemic curve flattened post November 2020, we used some Covid-19 beds for patients with non-Covid infection. As soon as the number started soaring again, we upgraded our facilities. Initially, we had a limited number of ICU beds which were increased within a fortnight,” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, health. “Almost 40% Covid Care Centre (CCC) were activated and the remaining were kept on standby,” he added. Patients were, however, still struggling to find beds in hospitals and jumbo centres. Private hospitals were instructed to use 80% beds for Covid care. So, acting on war footing, the BMC standardised the system. “We decentralised ward war rooms (24) and each were instructed to manage their own geographical areas. It was mandatory for beds to be allotted only through these war rooms. Hospitals were directed not to allow direct or walk-in admission. The individual wards were responsible for contact tracing, isolation, identifying high-risk contacts,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state task force for Covid-19. The availability of beds was made public through a live bed tracker in both public and private hospitals across the 24 wards. In fact, all wards were provided with their individual ambulances to save time in commute. “Many a times, patients would keep waiting for a bed of the hospital of their choice which often delayed their treatment. When this Standard operating procedure (SOP) was started, it helped channelise the admission process,” said Bhagyashree Kapse, ward officer of R/C that covers Borivali. Private laboratories were even instructed not to inform the infected patients directly. “We were instructed to share the list of infected patients directly with the war rooms. Officials from the war rooms would individually contact the patients and arrange for beds as per their health parameters,” said a senior officer from a laboratory. These on-ground initiatives helped curb shortages of beds like witnessed in the first wake of the pandemic. At present, the city has 22,077 beds in the dedicated care centres and hospitals. As many as 13,704 beds are available. The number of ICU beds has increased to 2,867. Out of this, 532 beds are vacant. If an infected patient was asymptomatic, they were advised to isolate at home. In case, if they didn’t have equipment to check temperature or oxygen levels, the field officers visited them to record all parameters. All elderly above 50 years or people with comorbidities like diabetes, tuberculosis, cancer among others were isolated in CCC nearby. Early detection, isolation and treatment The Opposition criticised the civic body for conducting fewer tests, alleging it led to infected people spreading the virus to others. Till March 21, the civic body was conducting around 18,000 tests daily on an average. But from March 22, the BMC started increasing the testing to over 40,000 daily. “We were instructed to test as many people as possible. It was in two ways— the floating population of people in bus stands, markets, and malls were tested with a rapid antigen test (RAT) which gave results within 30 minutes. While the stationed population like shopkeepers, residents were tested with RT-PCR. This helped in early detection, isolation and treatment,” said Kakani. In April, on an average, the civic body was conducting over 45,000 tests daily. In fact, anticipating a shortage, the BMC had floated a tender procuring 2 lakh vials of Remdesivir. During the first wave of novel coronavirus last year, Mumbai’s oxygen requirement was approximately 210 metric tonnes which rose to 270 metric tonnes post March, when the city’s active cases surged to 90,000. The BMC initiated ‘Mission Mode’ under which all oxygen manufacturers and distributors were instructed to provide adequate oxygen supply in civic and private hospitals across Mumbai. The details of the supply and stock were maintained through a centralised Google Drive document around-the-clock. “During the first wave, we had realised the importance of oxygen so we installed nearly 24 Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) tanks. But due to lower demand, half of them remained unused which we became helpful in the second wave when the cases increased drastically,” added Kakani. In the first wave, due to the national lockdown, the footfall of non-Covid patients fell by 80% so the private and major civic-run hospitals had enough beds for Covid-19 patients. However, in the second wave, with the relaxation of the lockdown, the hospitals were reeling under the pressure of both Covid and non-Covid patients. Thus, the jumbo covid care centres also played a major role in the second wave. Talking about it, Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of NESCO jumbo Covid care centre in Goregaon said, “So far, we have treated around 21,000 patients. We have 413 pipelines for oxygen. Along with that, we have over 200 ICU beds. In the month of April, there was a huge load of patients. We also provided counselling to the patients to help them with their mental health.” Getting ready for the third wave State health minister Rajesh Tope has already declared a possible third wave after September. As a precautionary measure, the BMC has decided to add 5,000 more beds for Covid-19 patients. In addition to this, three major jumbo centres will be set up, which will cater to over 2,000 patients. These centres will also have ICU beds. But the main priority would be to ramp up the mass immunisation programme. The civic body, which is expecting to get the vials next month, wants to inoculate over 1crore people within two months. “If we are expecting a third wave post September, it is imperative that we vaccinate as many people as possible. Along with elderly, we also want to inoculate the younger population who possibly would be more affected in the next wave. We are just waiting for the vials before we could reboost the immunisation programme,” said Kakani. Just like decentralisation of the war rooms, the BMC has plans to bifurcate the vaccination as per wards. “Citizens would get vaccinated as per their individual wards, which will help control crowding and smoothen the process,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/model-that-helped-mumbai-tide-over-2nd-wave-101621971911075.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Barge P305: Casualties of Cyclone Tauktae||Four more bodies of deceased crew members of P305, an accommodation barge that sank off the coast of Mumbai on May 17, were identified on May 25 a day after the Indian Navy called off its Search and Rescue (SAR) operations after a week. The accommodation barge sank in Heera Oil Fields off the coast of Mumbai as Cyclone Tauktae barreled its way northwards along the Konkan coast. By the time the boat sank, most of the 261 people on board had jumped into the swirling Arabian Sea with their life jackets, hoping that help was on its way. The barge became unmoored on May 16, after all 12 of its anchors broke away and by the following afternoon, water had begun to fill into the vessel. The SAR operations have rescued 186 people from P305 till now, and 71 bodies have been recovered, of which 52 people have been identified. The identification process for the remaining 19 is ongoing. The police is collecting DNA samples of relatives to ascertain the identity of the unidentified bodies. A tugboat, Varaprada, which was also missing along with 11 of its 13 crew members (two were rescued last week), was recovered from the seabed 20 nautical miles off the coast of Mumbai on May 24. Three of the eight bodies discovered in Daman and Valsad’s shores were of the crew members of the tugboat. P305 – owned by Durmast Enterprises Limited, and chartered by a consortium led by Afcons Industries to carry out a project contract for the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) –received a warning of an impending storm, but chose to drop anchor close to the oil rig while other barges and vessels made their way to safety onshore.Both ONGC and Afcons have announced compensation for crew members. ONGC released a statement on Tuesday stating that it has handed over immediate relief amount to 56 survivors of Barge Papaa-305 and Varaprada in Mumbai. ONGC teams are on their way to hand over 22 more. “A nodal officer has been assigned from ONGC to each family of deceased, who is responsible for facilitating their logistics, boarding, lodging, counselling, completing formalities and transportation of mortal remains to respective home station and any local support,” the state-owned company said. Last week, Afcons also released a statement which said that it would provide compensation to the families of the deceased that would be a combination of “ex-gratia pay-outs and insurance compensation and would range from ₹35 lakh to ₹75 lakh per family.”Ajay Singh (39), rigger In October 2020, Singh left his family in Ajagara village of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh, to work on the accommodation barge, P305. The earnings weren’t much – according to his brother, Sanjay, he earned ₹700 a day for a 12-hour duty. Riggers work at shipyards or other work units lifting, moving and positioning heavy equipment, machines and oversized loads. Singh was the only breadwinner of his family, which comprised his wife, a son who studies in class 10, and a daughter, a student of class 7. Initially, on account of the strict lockdown, none of his close family members could come to identify his body. They requested a distant relative, JP Singh, who resides in Koperkhairane, to visit the JJ Hospital mortuary where the P305 deceased were being brought in. However, the relative could not identify Ajay, as he had last seen him nearly 20 years ago at his wedding. Eventually, brother Sanjay, a 35-year-old farmer managed to come to Mumbai and identified his brother’s body. Afcons Industries flew his brother’s body back to the state, Sanjay said. The last rites were completed in Benares. Arjun Pandey, 29, welder A resident of Gopalganj in Bihar, Arjun Pandey worked as gas cutter and welder on barge P305 starting January this year. The soon-to-be-father was the sole bread winner of his family and sent most of his earnings -- ₹1,300 daily for 12 hours of work – back home. Pandey came to Mumbai on January 10, and stayed at his brother-in-law’s house in Navi Mumbai for a few days, before he joined work in last week of January. As the cyclonic storm barreled its way up north the coastline, Pandey called his pregnant wife on May 17 at around 7 am. He spoke to her for a short while and told her about the vessel which sent out an SOS signal to the Indian Navy after the storm intensified to an extremely severe cyclonic storm earlier that morning. That was the last she heard from him. A relative identified his body on May 20 after he scoured the list of survivors put out by the Navy, but couldn’t find Pandey’s name on it.Nilesh Pitale, 44, fire safety officer A Pune resident, Pitale worked as fire safety officer on the barge P305. Some survivors whom HT spoke to remembered Pitale with gratitude. The 44-year-old helped several crew members survive, by distributing biscuits and water after water entered their vessel and destroyed the food available in the kitchen. The barge, which got unmoored after all 12 of its anchors broke off, began to fill up with water around 2 pm on May 17. By 7pm it had sunk completely. Younger brother Vishwanath, who also lives in Pune and works in a courier company, identified Pitale’s body at JJ Hospital and took the body for cremation on May 21. Pitale leaves behind a wife, two elderly parents, a 17-year-old son and an 11-year-old daughter. He was the only earning member in his family. Upendra Singh, 39, rigger Upendra Singh, a rigger on P305, belonged to a small village in Devaria district of Uttar Pradesh. His younger brother Satyendra (35) also worked as a rigger on another vessel, Trinity Nissi, which was also chartered by the consortium led by Afcons Infrastructure and was stationed at Heera Oil Fields. Singh had just joined work in October. On May 14, when the cyclone warning went out, Trinity left for the Mumbai shore but P305 moved 200 metres from the rig and dropped anchor. Satyendra identified his brother’s body at JJ hospital on May 20 and performed last rites back in their village two days later. The company helped fly the body back, and took care of the expenses, Satyendra said. Singh is survived by his wife, elderly parents and three children – two daughters, aged 12 and three, and a son aged five. Krishna Kumar Prajapati, 28, welder Krishna Kumar Prajapati, 28, was the only child of his parents who are farmers in Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh. Prajapati, worked as welder, earning ₹600 a day for 12 hours. On many days, he worked a few hours overtime to earn ₹150 to 200 more every day. He wanted to save enough money to send home as the pandemic had affected his family’s finances badly. Prajapati had other family members working with him on the barge. One named Anil had finished his contract on February 28. It was he who identified Prajapati’s body at the mortuary. Another cousin, 22-year-old Anup Prajapati, worked as helper on the same barge, but he returned to land 10 days previously after receiving a message that his parents had fallen ill. On May 16, as the storm began to gather intensity leading to the barge getting unmoored, Prajapati sent a message to Anup: “Cyclone ki wajah se barge full out hai” [The barge has gone out to the sea because of the cyclone]. Pappuram Meghwal, 32, pipe fitter Pappuram Meghwal working as a pipe fitter with his older brother Amararam (40) and younger cousin Mahendra Runawat on the barge. Married with two children, Pappuram jumped into the water with his two brothers before the barge sank on May 17. However, he couldn’t survive the choppy sea even as the naval ships involved in rescuing. His body was identified by his father last week and taken back to the village in ambulance from Mumbai. His last rites were performed on May 22. Yogendra Yadav, 45, rigger Yogendra Yadav, a resident of Kushinagar district, Uttar Pradesh was a rigger aboard P305 – a profession that he has been in for the past 12 years. He earned around ₹26,000 per month, most of which he sent back to his family which comprised of a wife and five children including three daughters and two sons ranging from 22 to 7 years.He was the sole breadwinner of his family and his death has hit them hard. His nephews Gulshan Yadav (20) and Pankaj (25), residents of Nalasopara identified the body. Gulshan said that Yadav’s wife is “in shock”. “My aunt is still in shock and clueless about how would she raise all the children alone. She is under tremendous trauma as the incident happened at a time when there was already so much pandemic related panic around.” Yadav’s body was cremated in his home town last week. Kulwinder Singh, 44, rigger Kulwinder Singh, a resident of Gurdaspur, Punjab had been working on the barge as a rigger, which involved physical work. For it, he earned between ₹20,000 to ₹22,000 a month, most of which he sent to his farmer family back home. A relative Jagpreet Singh, also from Gurdaspur, was also on the barge, and jumped into the choppy waters. He survived, and identified Singh’s body. Jagpreet was angry that the barge continued to stay on in the sea despite the cyclone warning, especially as other barges made their way back to safety. “The people responsible for the tragedy should not be spared and must face strict action,” he said. Singh is survived by his wife, two sons aged 8 and 12 years and a 5-year-old daughter. After the tragedy his family is in shock. The government should give a job to the family. Only monetary compensation won’t be of much help as he was the only earning member in the poor family,” Jagpreet said.Sachindra Prasad Singh, 59, barge surveyor. Sachindra Prasad Singh hailed from Darbhanga in Bihar, and worked as a barge surveyor. On May 17, Singh jumped into the choppy waters but could not be rescued. His son, Rudra Kumar, 26, came down to the city to identify the body and said that his family is inconsolable. “My family is in deep shock. We are busy in performing the rituals. My family is not in position to express the loss. It would not be easy for us to come out of this. I lost my father. It’s irreparable. The police must seriously investigate the matter and punish those responsible for it.”Vishal Katdare, 35, quality control engineer Vishal Katdare, a resident of Ambernath in Thane district, had only just got married in March, when he got this job offer. It was a tough decision to make but Katdare decided to take it, and joined the barge in April. “The family has not heard anything on the progress of the investigation of the case. We want a detailed investigation by police to find out if any one’s negligence led to the incident. The family members are in trauma and are not in condition to speak to anyone. They are shattered,” said Pawan Kulkarni, the cousin of Katdare, who identified the body. Amararam Meghwal, 39 A native of a remote village in Pali district of Rajasthan, Amararam was working on the barge P305 as a pipe fitter. On May 17, when the barge was going under water, he jumped into the sea, holding the hand of his younger brother, Pappuram, and a cousin, 19-year-old Mahendra Runawat. Amararam and Pappuram succumbed after spending four to five hours in the very choppy sea, but their younger cousin managed to survive. Amararam’s body was identified by another cousin brother, Kishor, on May 24. The family has received two cheques of ₹5 lakh from Afcons, the family said. “I don’t know the exact salary, but Amararam and Pappuram used to earn Rs. 35000 to 40000 per month including overtime salary,” he said, adding that the loss of income will hit the family hard. The body was transported to Rajasthan by ambulance on May 24, while his brother’s body was transported and handed to the family over the weekend. The last rites of both brothers have been completed. Amararam is survived by a wife, two children. IDENTIFICATION PENDING Shivkumar Mishra 52, missing Mishra, who hailed from Kushinagar district in Uttar Pradesh, had been working as a supervisor on the barge since October 2020. His earnings, which amounted to ₹1 lakh a month, helped his large family back home, which included a 17-year-old son and a 19-year-old daughter. The last call he made to them was around 8:30am on May 17: the storm had already intensified and the barge had sent out an SOS signal as the weather worsened. Mishra told his family members about the situation. He also told his wife that there was network issue due to the cyclone but she should not worry, he would call her once the weather became normal. That was the last call that the 52-year-old made to his family. Santosh Mishra, a relative residing in Mira Road, visited JJ Hospital every day this past week and waited for hours till late in the evening in the hope that the Navy would bring Mishra’s body to the state-run hospital. Now, Mishra’s older brother who was supposed to come to Mumbai to enable a DNA test, tested positive for Covid and couldn’t travel. A relative from the village will carry some of his hair and nails to Mumbai, Santosh said. “Some of the bodies arrived here are not in a condition to be identified and we now have to do DNA test,” he said. Santosh Yadav, 32 Santosh Yadav, who hailed from Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh, had worked as electrician on P305 since November 2020. The 32-year-old had married early and had three children: two sons and a daughter, all aged between six and 11 years. Yadav earned more than ₹1000 per day for 12 hours of work, most of which went back to his family, a relative said. For the past three days, Yadav’s family members including his aged father, Mathura Prasad, have been pacing the JJ Hospital compound as they wait anxiously for news from the Navy’s search and rescue operations. On Monday, the search operations were called off. Mathura Prasad, a farmer, said that the process of identification through DNA is going on. Ranalakhi Kumar, 28 Ranalakhi Kumar had worked as a technician on P305 since November 2020. On May 17, as the barge began to sink, he jumped into the rough sea despite the stormy weather along with several others. His cousin Rana Singh worked as a technician on Trinity Nissi, another barge that was working at Heera Oil Fields and returned to shore after receiving the cyclone warning. While P305 had 261 on board, Trinity Nissi had 250 people on board and it was anchored near the Mumbai harbour. On May 19, many workers on board fought with the Master to return to land. They had heard what happened to P305, and some like Rana, had family members on that barge. Rana is still waiting for news of his cousin whose body has still not been identified. Kumar, a resident of Chhapara district in Bihar has two children, a 4-year old daughter and one-and-half-year-old son. Barge Papaa305 Total crew - 261 Rescued - 186 Identified - 50 1) Mohan Varsi Krishna, 33 2) Azahar Yunus Gaddi, 25 3) Sachindra Prasad Anand Singh, 59 4) Navinkumar Pramod Singh, 29 5) Arjun Pandey, 33 6) Prabhat Virendra Singh, 45 7) Pramod Rajdev Pathak, 45 8) Rajpal Jay Yadav, 50 9) Arjun Munnapi Thangapan, 38 10) Sasus Ismile, 25 11) Anthony Edwin, 26 12) Jomish Joseph, 35 13) Sumesh V. S., 30 14) Anant Carpenter, 36 15) Yogesh Girgosavi, 33 16) Girish Bhausaheb Wagh, 37 17) Nilesh Pitale, 44 18) Amarraj Barnbas, 43 19) Dina Haridayanand Singh, 34 20) Golakh Chandra Sahoo, 52 21) Mata Prasad Mangala Singh, 29 22) Mahanish Kulkarni, 34 23) Pappuram Udaram Meghwal, 32 24) Vishal Vasant Kathadare, 35 25) Kulwinder Ajit Singh, 45 26) Mandeep Jaywant Singh, 32 27) Manpreet Balwant Singh, 26 28) Manjeet Singh, 42 29) Ajay Shivprasad Singh, 39 30) Sandeep Singh Santosh Singh, 25 31) Upendra Radheshyam Singh, 42 32) Vijaveer Dharmaraj Singh, 33 33) Sushil Kumar Shiv Singh Pal, 23 34) Sandeep Kumar Yadav, 33 35) Yogendra Sarada Yadav, 43, 36) Ajaysingh Rajendra Singh Rana, 23 37) Rohit Jaypal, 22 38) Suresh Krushna, 45 39) Omprakash Mishra, 40 40) Radheshyam Thakur, 27 41) Anant Kumar Chaurasiya, 36 42) Sanish Joseph, 21 43) Akash Ramsingh, 28 44) Krishnakumar Prajapati, 29 45) Aditya Kumar Bind, 37 46) Pralhad Forward Singh (age not known) 47) Vivek Das (age not known) 48) Dipakar Mukundbihari Vishwas (age not known) IDENTIFICATION PENDING: 25 Tugboat Varaprada Total crew members -13 RESCUED- 2 Francis Simon, 51 Sahab Sapan Bhutiya, 23 DECEASED- 3 Saddam Hussain Ejaz Ahmed - 29 Nagendra Kumar Prajapati, 59 Ummed Singh, 61 IDENTIFICATION PENDING: 8 Pankaj Kumar Chandra Bhushan Sharma, 46 Umit singh kushwa, 61 Vicky Bhuplal, 29 Vijay Kumar Baburam, 27 Suraj Shantilal Chauhan, 22 Rakesh Kumar Thakur, 29 Ankush Surendra Kashyap, 28 Bapaditha Bablu Mahta, 27||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-p305-casualties-of-cyclone-tauktae-101621970892112.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Maratha reservation issue: King Shivaji’s descendant leaning towards Congress?||Even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)is squarely blaming the Shiv Sena-Nationalist Congress Party-Congress coalition government for Supreme Court’s decision to scrap reservation given to Maratha community in government jobs and education, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, a descendant of Maratha warrior king Shivaji and BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP, has openly taken a stand that is against the party line in Maharashtra. Amid the speculations that he is inching towards the Congress, Sambhajiraje has refused to blame the MVA government for the apex court’s decision. Speaking at public platforms after the May 5 judgment by the Supreme Court on Maratha quota, Sambhajiraje expressed his displeasure that he was denied an appointment by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for discussion over the Maratha issue. The MP has been vocal on the reservation and has begun a state tour to galvanise support. During his tour in Solapur, he said on Tuesday that he was ready to resign as an MP if required. He also clarified his tour was not in favour of or against any political party or the government. He also appealed the Maratha leaders and organisations not to resort to the protest for the reservation. His retort came following remarks by state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Monday that PM Modi may not have met Sambhajiraje because Maratha reservation issue is limited to only one state. “The Centre has taken clear stand related to the 102nd constitutional amendment on reservation. What else would Modiji have discussed with the MP,” he asked. When asked about Sambhajiraje’s appeal to Maratha outfits not resort to protest, Patil said everybody has right to say what he/she wishes in democracy. The bonhomie between Sambhajiraje and Congress is visible. The Congress on Tuesday objected to Patil’s remarks and criticised Modi for not meeting Sambhajiraje and thus insulting Maratha community. “PM Modi has time to meet Kangana Ranaut and Priyanka Chopra, but not Sambhajiraje who wanted to talk about Maratha reservation,” said Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant. Public works minister and head of state cabinet’s sub-committee on Maratha reservation, Ashok Chavan, too, appreciated Sambhajiraje’s stand on the issue. “He has taken a stand which is realistic and with an intention to give justice to Maratha community. We respect his opinion,”Chavan said after a meeting on the issue on Tuesday. Soon after the reservation was struck down, Sambhajiraje had said that he does not hold any government – incumbent or the previous – responsible for the ruling. At the same time, Maharashtra BJP leaders were criticising Uddhav Thackeray-led state government and warned it with the protest claiming it was state government’s failure. Patil has even announced support to the protests, beginning from first week of June. “My commitment is with the community. I am not answerable to BJP. The party should take its stand on reservation and suggest the way forward towards the reservation…. I requested prime minister Narendra Modi for an appointment to discuss Maratha reservation, but there was no response,” the MP said recently. Many in political circles feel that the MP may not continue with the BJP for long. “His entire family is has been close to the Congress. His brother Maloji Shahu Chhatrapati was a Congress MLA in 2004. He has time and again clarified that he has been nominated to Rajya Sabha by President and has no direct relation with the BJP. He shares cordial relations with the MVA leaders and was recently praised by Thackeray in his Facebook live address for the sensible stand taken by him after the SC ruling. It would be too early to predict anything, but a major development is expected on that front,” said a Congress leader. Political analyst from Western Maharashtra Prakash Pawar said, “Ever since another direct descendent of Shivaji Maharaj Udayanraje Bhosale joined the BJP in 2019, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati appears to be disturbed in the party. His statement against the BJP is a clear indication of his plans and he is testing waters by deliberately doing so. His political move will be clear towards the end of his term as an MP in the next few months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-reservation-issue-king-shivaji-s-descendant-leaning-towards-congress-101621970350924.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Samant-Fadnavis meeting leads to speculation||Bharatiya Janata Party leader Nilesh Rane’s claims of a “secret meeting” between Shiv Sena minister Uday Samant and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis last week have led to political speculations. However, Samant has dismissed the rumours, saying it was an incidental meeting in Ratnagiri, when the two leaders were on a tour to assess the damage due to cyclone Tauktae in Konkan region. Rane, the elder son of former chief minister and Sena bete-noire Narayan Rane, tweeted that Samant and his brother wanted to meet Fadnavis during the latter’s tour to Ratnagiri last week. “The two somehow reached saheb’s (Fadnavis’) room; unwilling to meet, still Devendra ji met with them,” Rane tweeted, setting the tongues wagging in the political circles. Samant, who is state higher and technical education minister, said it was not a closed-door meeting as Rane had claimed and that he met Fadnavis while “200 others” were present at the guest house in Ratnagiri.Samant said this was an attempt to “destabilize” his political career but it will not “diminish” the trust Sena chief and Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray have in him. He said he does not pay heed to the claims made by the Ranes, “who have been rejected by the people of Konkan twice”.The minister, who hails from Ratnagiri district, said he met Fadnavis as the former CM was at the same guesthouse and it was merely to welcome him in his district. “Why would I meet in front of 200 people? This incident occurred six days ago when I was on tour of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. Former chief minister [Fadnavis] came to the guesthouse in Ratnagiri where I was staying. As per the political culture of Maharashtra, if somebody senior like a former CM or opposition leader has come to the district, it is my duty to welcome him, which I did. I did not meet him alone. Those who were present there included BJP leaders Pravin Darekar, Ravindra Chavan, and Prasad Lad. I came to the guesthouse before he (Fadnavis) arrived and if I met him incidentally and exchanged greetings, I do not think I have committed any crime,” Samant clarified on Tuesday.Samant, who came to the Shiv Sena from Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in 2014, is one of the key leaders from Konkan region, which is Sena’s stronghold. He is considered close to the Thackerays and was chosen to be a minister in 2019, overlooking two leaders from Konkan, including former minister of state for home Deepak Kesarkar, and former minister in Congress-NCP government Bhaskar Jadhav, who joined the Sena from NCP in 2019. The minister also dismissed rumours around “operation Lotus” (BJP’s alleged plan to bring down a government) , saying that he does not need to jump ship. “If somebody thinks that by tweeting such things, the trust that Uddhav ji and Aaditya ji have in me will diminish, it is very immature of them. There is no need for operation Lotus because a Shiv Sena chief minister will remain in the chair in future as well. Our Maha Vikas Aghadi is strong. Therefore, I don’t need to look at this operation lotus of theirs.”Later, Rane in a video tweet said that Samant could not have denied meeting Fadnavis and is now “in a fix” to save his ministership. “What culture are you talking about? Many former chief ministers come to Ratnagiri, you don’t go to meet them. … You know that BJP will come to power the next time, so you have planted a seed so that you can jump the ship when it is time,” Rane said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/samantfadnavis-meeting-leads-to-speculation-101621970170955.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae-hit to get hiked compensation: CM||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday announced a hike in compensation rate for people who suffered losses due to cyclone Tauktae, which hit the coastal districts last week. With the multi-fold rise in compensation amount, the financial burden is expected to be around ₹250 crore, according to the preliminary estimates. The cyclone has caused damage to crops and horticulture on around 16,000 hectares in coastal districts of Konkan, including Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Raigad and few districts of western, northern Maharashtra and Vidarbha. The compensation hike is at least two to three times the set norms of National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). The compensation for horticultural losses has been hiked to ₹50,000 a hectare, from the existing ₹18,000; the compensation for the partial loss of residential structure has been increased to ₹15,000 from ₹6,000. The complete loss of house will be compensated with ₹150,000, against the existing norm of ₹95,100. The financial aid for loss of utensils and clothing has been hiked by double to ₹5,000. Similarly, compensation for losses of coconut and betel nut trees is hiked to ₹250 and ₹50 per tree. “According to the progressive report from the five districts in Konkan, crops and horticulture on 9,280 hectares have been damaged. It is on more than 11,000 hectares, after adding up the losses from other divisions and is expected to reach to around 16,000 hectares gradually. According to our estimates, as per the set NDRF forms, the losses are around ₹80 crore, which is expected to increase to ₹250 crore due to the hiked compensation,” said an official from relief and rehabilitation department. A total of 565 fishing boats sustained partial damages, while 90 were fully damaged in coastal districts. Cyclone Tauktae caused damage to horticulture, houses and government buildings and also claimed 20 lives. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray during his visit to Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg had said that the compensation would be announced after the assessment was completed. His office announced on Tuesday that the cyclone-hit districts will be given compensation on the lines of the one given after cyclone Nisarg last year. The state government had disbursed ₹725 crore towards the relief package for cyclone-hit districts last year. The Central government shared ₹268 crore out of it, against the demand of ₹1,065 crore by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-hit-to-get-hiked-compensation-cm-101621970051647.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||RSS chief must give opinion on bodies floating in Ganga: Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut appealed to Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat to take a firm stand on dead bodies that washed up on the banks of river Ganga without last rites. Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that the issue is related to Hindutva and is as important as Ram Mandir. Raut also said the ‘toolkit’ and other social media platforms that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) used, to target its political opponents, have now backfired on them.The Sena chief spokesperson’s statements on fatalities in Uttar Pradesh came at a time when the top brass of the RSS and BJP leaders met this week to discuss the party’s image on handling the Covid-19 crisis in the state. The northern state is slated to go for polls in eight-nine months.“We expect him to express strong views on various issues. However, for the last few months, everyone has been silent, especially, when thousands of dead bodies have been found floating in the river of Ganga, without last rites being performed, as per the rituals. The issue is related to Hindutva and as important as Ram Mandir,” Raut said.“People in the country expect that pro-Hindu leaders across the country should clarify their stand on the issue and I appeal to Mohan Bhagwat ji that he should express his views on it,” added Raut.The Sena leader also slammed BJP on the ‘toolkit’ issue and said the issue has not only started a debate in the country but everywhere in the world. “Whether it was toolkit, Twitter or other social media platforms, BJP used all this to target its political opponent earlier. Now it has backfired on them and they have started pressurising them through various ways, like conducting raids,” added Raut. He further said that he is watching and enjoying it. BJP had alleged that the Congress party is using a toolkit to defame the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over handling the pandemic.Continuing his attack on Maharashtra Raj Bhavan, Raut said that he is happy that the file containing 12 nominations recommended by the state for the members of the Legislative Council (MLC) is with Raj Bhavan. “I am happy that file is with Raj Bhavan but I will distribute sweets to everyone in Raj Bhavan, whenever the Governor signs the file.” He added that the file is not about Bofors or Rafael or any corruption case but contains names of people recommended unanimously by the state cabinet for MLC posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rss-chief-must-give-opinion-on-bodies-floating-in-ganga-raut-101621970050973.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha says eight global vax bids in; are deals possible?||The Maharashtra government said it has received eight responses to its global tenders for supplying Covid-19 vaccines, the deadline for which ended on Tuesday. Health minister Rajesh Tope said the state has received bids for the supply of vaccines manufactured by Pfizer, Sputnik and AstraZeneca, even as nothing has been spelt out on how the proposals can go forward, considering one, Pfizer has reiterated its stance on dealing with only the Centre and that the vaccine is yet to be cleared for use in the country; two, Astrazeneca already has a pact with the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which is manufacturing the same vaccine under the Covishield brand name; three, a few Indian companies have already got the licence to manufacture the Sputnik vaccine.Against this backdrop, government officials will scrutinise the documents, as they said it is too early to call the tendering process a success because the bids have been submitted by suppliers or middlemen, among several other issues concerning the authenticity of the proposals and an absence of a supply schedule. Pfizer told HT that they have not appointed any supplier. “As stated earlier, during this pandemic phase, across the world, Pfizer is supplying its Covid-19 vaccine only to central Governments and supra-national organizations for deployment in national immunization programs. Neither Pfizer Inc nor any of its affiliates globally, including in India, have authorized anyone to import/market/distribute the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. We continue to have ongoing discussions with the Government of India towards making our vaccine available for use nationally,” said a Pfizer Company spokesperson.According to officials, a total of eight firms have responded to the global tenders floated by the state. At least five of them offered to supply the Sputnik vaccines, while three have proposed to supply Pfizer, Astrazeneca and Moderna. Moderna, too, had said it will deal with only the Centre. Officials said they will verify the proposals and also have consultations with the bidders to decide if the bids can be processed further.Earlier, Tope said, “As we all know, Pfizer is a US firm, while Sputnik and Astrazeneca are manufactured by Russian and UK firms respectively. The bidders have even quoted a price for a dose, but have not shared any schedule on supplies, which is the most important thing for us. If they provide us the schedule for vaccine supply, then Maharashtra is ready for procurement.”On May 17, the state government floated an express of interest (EOI) for procuring 50 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United States Food and Drug Administration, and are being manufactured in other countries. In the beginning, the last date for submitting the bids was May 20, which was extended till May 25. By floating global tenders, the state was aiming at importing the doses of the vaccines manufactured by Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Zydus Cadila, Sputnik, among others.While Tope seemed optimistic, state officials dealing with the process said that the response received by the state government is not directly from the manufacturing companies. “All those who have submitted the bids are intermediaries. They have also not given any schedule for supply of doses. Following this, we have sent emails to each of them, seeking a schedule for supplies. We will also be holding a virtual meeting with them, seeking all the necessary information before taking any decision on the bids received,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity, as he is not authorised to talk to the media. Each of them is ready to supply 10 million doses. The price quoted by them is in the range of 15 to 18 dollars per dose, which is likely to cost the state somewhere around Rs1,100 to Rs1,400 per dose, he added.Officials said the significant part would be to verify if the claims made by the bidders are backed by the manufacturers and whether they are practically possible. “We will have to consider factors such as the stance taken by companies such as Pfizer and Moderna, that they will deal only with the central government. They are also insisting on indemnity by the central government, which has not been resolved yet. In case of Sputnik, a bunch of Indian companies have got license to manufacture the vaccine and in such a case, they would have to follow Centre’s guidelines on sale of vaccine,” said another official, wishing not to be named. “Besides, we will have to consider whether AstraZeneca can supply in India since the Pune-based Serum Institute of India has an agreement with the former to manufacture and supply the same vaccine under ‘Covishield’ brand name,” said the official.The state government had suspended its inoculation drive for those below 45 years due to non-availability of doses on May 12. It was trying to place orders with Indian and foreign manufacturers to replenish their stocks and reopen all centres.The central government provides free doses for those coming under 45 years and above age group, but for the beneficiaries of the 18-45 age group, the stock has to be procured by the state government. The Indian manufacturers have also not given any confirmed supply schedule to the state, except assurance of improving supplies from June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-says-eight-global-vax-bids-in-are-deals-possible-101621969990971.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to get 60k vials of black fungus medicine||State health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday notified mucormycosis under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The state is also ready to import 60,000 vials of Amphotericin-B, a drug found effective for the treatment of mucormycosis, also called black fungus. The procurement will be made by June 1.Till date, 2,245 people were found infected with the disease. Of them, 120 succumbed and 213 patients recovered and were discharged from the hospitals.Rajesh Tope, state health minister, while speaking to the reporters after attending a review meeting on mucormycosis and Covid-19 situation in the state, said, “We have notified mucormycosis as a disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, which means that the state will have to inform the Centre about each case that comes up in the state.”“The state has floated a global tender for procuring Amphotericin-B injections for the treatment of mucormycosis. We have received a response from a firm. We would get 60,000 vials of the medicine by June 1. It will be an additional supply apart from the current allocation of the medicine by the Centre,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-get-60k-vials-of-black-fungus-medicine-101621967710887.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC gets 8 offers to supply 10 million Covid vaccine doses||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday said it has received eight proposals for supplying 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses, in response to its global tenders, but it extended the duration for the same till June 1. Of the eight, seven proposals are for supplying Russia’s Sputnik V and one is for supplying Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines. The BMC said further scrutiny is ongoing, and the last date for submitting proposals has been extended up to June 1, 2021. Civic officials said they have to screen the proposals as all bids seem to be coming from suppliers or middlemen and not manufacturers. They will have to consider various factors, including latest developments such as the decision of companies like Pfizer to deal with only the central government and Indian companies getting licence to manufacture Sputnik. Besides, they will have to consider whether AstraZeneca can supply in India since the Pune-based Serum Institute of India is manufacturing the same vaccine under Covishield brand name. “As stated earlier, during this pandemic phase, across the world, Pfizer is supplying its Covid-19 vaccine only to central governments and supra-national organizations for deployment in national immunization programs. Neither Pfizer Inc nor any of its affiliates globally, including in India, have authorized anyone to import/market/distribute the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID 19 vaccine. We continue to have ongoing discussions with the Government of India towards making our vaccine available for use nationally,” said a Pfizer company spokesperson.The first civic body in India to seek vaccine supply directly from the international market, the BMC had on May 12 floated a global expression of interest (EOI). The duration for the same ended on May 18, but the deadline of the same was extended till May 25. Last week, it had said it received three proposals, but the proposals were lacking some documents, due to which the last date was extended up to May 25. The three proposals were for supplying Russia’s Sputnik, of which one was a UK-based company and two were Indian firms. The price range in all the three proposals was around Rs1,500 for both doses.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “In response to our global EoI for procurement of 1 crore vaccine doses (10 million), eight bids have been received till date. One bid is for Pfizer/AstraZeneca and the remaining seven are for Sputnik. The time period has been extended by one week to enable various bidders to submit a complete set of documents in support of the bids as prescribed under BMC’s global EoI. Further, any additional bid shall also be entertained.”According to BMC, of the seven suppliers who have shown interest in supplying Sputnik V, one has also offered to supply Sputnik Light (a single-dose vaccine). Civic officials said they had video conferencing with all the eight suppliers and have asked them to submit the supporting documents, which will include supply schedule, supply quantity, supply price including taxes etc. In a statement issued on Tuesday, the BMC said, “The BMC is currently scrutinising documents submitted considering it is important to examine the business relationship between suppliers who are willing to supply vaccines and companies that actually manufacture the vaccines. This is to ensure that the supply of vaccine is ensured in a time-bound and smooth manner. The scrutiny is also being done on the basis of the period in which vaccines will be supplied, number of vaccines, and its price etc.”Meanwhile, the BMC plans to aggressively undertake the vaccination drive once it receives additional doses in the form of mobile vaccination centres. As of Tuesday, 3,014,743 citizens were vaccinated, of which 99,206 were in the age group of 18 to 45, followed by 1,065,041 in 45 to 59, 1,189,999 above 60 years of age and remaining were health care and frontline workers. On Tuesday alone, 34,265 citizens were vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaibmc-gets-8-offers-to-supply-10-million-covid-vaccine-doses-101621967592122.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Act against e-commerce companies flouting Covid-19 lockdown norms: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the state government to immediately take action against erring e-commerce websites violating the Break the Chain norms while delivering non-essential goods. The HC also sought to know what relief the state and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) proposed to give retailers on the lines of those given to hawkers etc with regards to a waiver of license and other fees, given the lockdown. The state and BMC have been asked to file affidavits in three weeks and posted hearing of the petition on June 21. The vacation bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing the petition filed by the Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association, was informed by advocate Dipesh Siroya that retail shop owners selling non-essential items had suffered heavy losses, financial instability and mass unemployment due to Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. In light of this, the retailers were seeking a waiver of property tax, renewal fees and license fees payable by them for the entire period of lockdown starting from March, last year. It was submitted that though the retailers had supported the government announced lockdown, there was no reciprocal subsidy for the closure of trade for the over 13 lakh retailers who employed approximately 45 lakh employees. The federation also claimed that it had made several representations for tax waivers to various authorities including the BMC, but after they did not receive any response, hence, approached the HC. Advocate Jamshed Mistry for the federation said that while incentives were given to licensed hawkers and others during the pandemic crisis, no package was announced for retail traders, hence they were aggrieved. The federation also said that though various standard operating procedures (SOPs) including April 13 ‘Break the Chain’ order was issued only for supply and provision of essential goods and services, the e-commerce suppliers were supplying non-essential goods and services and violating the state directives, hence they should be stopped.The court directed the state government to take immediate action against errant e-commerce companies if they were found flouting guidelines and also asked the state to file an affidavit in reply to the petition in two weeks enumerating the incentives given to hawkers and why the same could not be extended to retail traders.The bench also directed BMC to decide on the representation by the federation and file an affidavit in reply within two weeks enumerating steps taken by it regarding waiver of license fees and other reliefs sought in the petition and posted further hearing to June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/act-against-e-commerce-companies-flouting-covid-19-lockdown-norms-bombay-hc-101621967471472.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 24,136 new Covid-19 cases, 601 deaths||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 24,136 new Covid-19 cases and 601 deaths. The total number of tests conducted on Tuesday were 264,275. The total number of people affected by Covid-19 to date stands at 56,26,155.There are currently 3,14,368 active patients across the state, of which, Pune tops with 45,648 patients, followed by Mumbai with 27,855 active patients. The death toll has now reached 90,349, with Mumbai leading with 14,650 deaths, followed by Pune with 11,747 deaths.Meanwhile, the state government has banned home isolation in 18 districts that have a high number of patients. All the Covid-19 patients—both symptomatic as well as asymptomatic will have to be shifted to Covid care centres (CCC) in these districts.These 18 districts are Thane, Pune, Satara, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Osmanabad. Beed, Raigad, Hingoli, Akola, Amravati, Kolhapur, Sangli, Gadchiroli, Wardha, Nashik, Ahmednagar and Latur.State health minister Rajesh Tope, who addressed the media after the meeting with collectors and commissioners of these 18 districts, said that monitoring home quarantine patients has become an issue.“There will be no more home isolations in these 18 districts where the positivity rate is higher than the state average. We have seen that proper treatment not been given to patients in home isolation. Hence, the patients will be shifted to Covid care centres (CCC). We are increasing the number of CCC across the state, especially in smaller villages,” said Tope.He said the government has instructed the officials to undertake focussed testing. “We have instructed all officials, especially, in 18 districts, that they should indulge in right testing of high-risk contacts and low-risk contacts. The aim should not be to undertake generalised testing and bring down the positivity rate,” said Tope.However, many have criticised the move and said it will discourage people from testing and burden the inadequate health infrastructure.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital described it as an ill-advised move. “There is no point in asking asymptomatic or those having mild or no symptoms to be admitted to the CCC. The government is burdening the already stressed infrastructure in these places. These patients be better treated at home,” said Shaikh.“In rural areas, Covid-19 is treated as stigma, and after banning home isolation, the situation will become worse, as no one will come for testing. People will rely on simple medicines or turn to quacks for treatment,” warned Shaikh.The Maharashtra rural development ministry would make available Arsenic-30 homoeopathic tablets to the villages and also give an insurance coverage of ₹50,00,000 to any employee who dies of the Covid-19 pandemic. In addition, any gram panchayat will get a 30-bed isolation centre if demanded by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-24-136-new-covid-19-cases-601-deaths-101621967472029.html
26-05-2021||Mumbai||What action is proposed against firm supplying faulty ventilators through PM Cares: Bombay HC||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the Centre to inform it about the action proposed to be taken against the supplier who provided 150 ventilators through the Prime Minister (PM) Cares Fund after news reports stated that 113 ventilators which were unboxed turned out to be defective.The bench took serious cognisance of the issue and sought to know from the Centre as to what remedial steps it proposed to take to address the issue as the ventilators were to be used in government and private hospitals in the Marathawada region. A division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Bhalchandra Debadwar was hearing the suo motu public interest litigation (SMPIL), instituted after news reports pointed to issues pertaining to shortage of medical oxygen supply, black marketing of Remdesivir, funeral rites of Covid-19 patients and the inability of the common man to foot the huge bills for treating the black fungus infection, among others. Amicus curiae Satyajeet Bora submitted news reports which stated that 113 of the 150 ventilators provided through the PM Cares Funds were non-functional. Chief public prosecutor DR Kale representing the state informed the bench that the ventilators were manufactured by a company named Jyoti CNC with model name DHAMAN- III. He submitted that the dean of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Aurangabad had received the same and had deployed 17 ventilators in GMCH. However, the ventilators developed extremely serious flaws which would impact the treatment of patients. The flaws included low inlet oxygen pressure and the patient becoming hypoxic which was life-threatening. The bench was further informed that 55 ventilators were distributed to Hingoli, Osmanabad, Beed and Parbhani districts and 41 ventilators were allotted to private hospitals asking them not to claim ventilator charges from patients. The remaining 37 ventilators with the GMCH were yet to be unboxed. Kale referred to letters from private hospitals which indicated that all the 41 ventilators provided to them were non-functional and posed a serious threat to the life of the patients, hence declined to use the ventilators and asked the authorities to take them back. The dean of a government hospital in Ambajogai, Beed district also informed that the ventilators were not worthy of being used. “We find the situation as regards to dysfunctional ventilators through the PM Cares fund to be quite serious...ventilators are believed to be lifesaving instruments and malfunctioning can put lives of patients in danger,” observed the bench. The court expressed serious concerns over the malfunctioning ventilators and noted that the dean of GMCH was justified in his decision of not unboxing the remaining 37 ventilators. The court then observed that the 74 ventilators supplied by several industrialists including Garware Polyester, Bajaj Auto, Hindalco etc. were functioning perfectly and flawlessly and said, “The company (Jyoti CNC) should not get away with this. It is the state exchequer money, it’s not bounty to be distributed.” The Court also expressed its displeasure over politicians jumping on to the issue and visiting GMCHs to find out whether ventilators were functioning properly. “We express our displeasure as regards such indulgence by people’s representatives. It is likely to cause more botheration to medical faculty than render any assistance,” noted the bench and posted hearing of the suo motu PIL next on May 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/what-action-is-proposed-against-firm-supplying-faulty-ventilators-through-pm-cares-bombay-hc-101621967412388.html
