27-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 vax drive: Lagging districts Maharashtra’s priority||The Maharashtra government on Thursday decided to give priority to districts that are lagging behind in vaccination, by providing more doses to bring them up to the state’s average. State health minister Rajesh Tope said some districts have an average of around 40-50%, while some districts have an average of around 5%. The state, meanwhile, is seeking more information from the eight bidders that have responded to the state’s call for 50 million vaccine doses. Tope added that the Centre should intervene, reiterating that a national policy on vaccine import must be formulated. According to health department officials, districts such as Hingoli, Parbhani, Gadchiroli, Nandurbar, Solapur, Palghar, Beed and Solapur are behind on vaccination drive. These districts are expected to get more vaccines. Officials also added that besides vaccine shortage, vaccine-hesitancy and far-off vaccination centres in tribal districts etc are also reasons for low percentage of beneficiaries there. “In the above 45-years category, the state average is around 27% [vaccination]. Some districts have reached 50-60%, but there are also districts where it is around 5%. Therefore, we have taken a decision regarding vaccine distribution in such districts,” Tope said, after the state cabinet meeting. He also added that the government has decided on a “policy” to give priority to second dose. “Districts where second doses are due, the stock will be provided,” he added. The health minister further said the Centre needs to “intervene” in the matter of importing vaccines. Tope said the “marketing agencies” of vaccine manufacturers Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Sputnik and Astra Zeneca have given responses to the global bid. However, some companies have not given their rates, while some have not given their schedule, he said. “We are seeking more details from the companies, but the Centre too must intervene and we are requesting the Centre to give their opinion on this.” The intermediaries who have responded have quoted prices between US$10 to US$18, while it is US$25 for Pfizer and US$23 for AstraZeneca shots. Tope admitted that some companies’ decision to not provide vaccines to state governments has caused a hindrance. “Pfizer has clearly told Punjab [government] that it will not give vaccines to state, but only the Centre. So far, the Centre has given permission to Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik. They may give it to Pfizer and Moderna also later. Therefore, we appeal to the Centre to formulate a national policy on vaccine import,” he said. Meanwhile, the state administered 278,687 doses till 8pm on Thursday. So far, the state has administered 21,642,190 doses, of which 4,460,587 beneficiaries are fully vaccinated. Mumbai saw 46,156 doses being administered till 8pm on Thursday, while the total doses administered rose to 3,156,422. So far, 754,032 beneficiaries in Mumbai are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-vax-drive-lagging-districts-maharashtra-s-priority-101622139001422.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Probe how politicians, film stars procured Covid drugs, Bombay HC directs Maharashtra govt||While appreciating the initiatives of some political leaders and film personalities to help Covid-19 patients, the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed the state government to probe as to how they procured essential Covid drugs that were being allocated by the Central government to different states. The HC also noted that those personalities could not resort to extra-legal methods by bypassing the state, to procure drugs even if their intentions were noble. The division bench of justice AA Sayed and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing compliance of its directions by the Centre, state and BMC that were passed in a clutch of public interest litigation (PIL), was informed by the respective counsels that the issues pertaining to fire audit of hospitals, providing oxygen and essential drugs to treat Covid and black fungus infection, bed management, cremation and curbing black marketing of the drugs had been addressed to a large extent. The PILs had alleged that there was large scale mismanagement by the authorities during the second wave of Covid-19, hence sought various directions on shortage of Remdesivir and oxygen supply, curbing black-marketing and profiteering during procurement and distribution of Covid-19 drugs among others. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni representing the state while submitting compliance of the earlier orders of the HC in the PILs informed the bench that notices were issued to actor Sonu Sood’s charity foundation and Congress MLA Zeeshan Siddique by the drugs inspector and an inquiry was underway in relation to their procurement of drugs. Kumbhakoni submitted the state affidavit wherein it is stated that the actor and the MLA in response to the inquiry had informed that they had not purchased or stocked the medicines and injections and had merely acted as facilitators. “The reply states that Sood’s foundation requested manufacturers such as Cipla, Jubilant and others to help them to provide required medicines to needy patients,” said Kumbhakoni adding that notices had been issued to the manufacturers. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh informed the bench that the central government had already questioned the manufacturers and they had denied having supplied them to any politician or celebrity. “They might be doing it bonafide, but not realizing the legal repercussions. They want to help somebody but it has to be within the parameters of the law and they cannot have extra-legal methods by which drugs are made available. Those who want to help, let them do that with procedures known to the government,” said the bench. The bench clarified that as neither Sood nor Siddique were party to the case it was not passing any orders against them but directed the state government to caution them and continue with the inquiry. Kumbhakoni then informed that following the recent fire incidents in Covid-19 hospitals, fire audits of 479 out of 520 government hospitals and health centres had been undertaken and directions were issued to them to comply with fire safety norms. Nine establishments had received fire NOC and mock fire drills were successfully conducted in 395 units. With regards to cremation Kumbhakoni submitted that while there was a delay in cremation due to large numbers, there were no cases of denial of decent cremation or burial for want of space like in other states where bodies were consigned to the river without proper cremation. The court then directed the state and civic authorities to install smoke controlling devices in crematoriums to reduce the pollution under the supervision of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board. On being assured that there was no shortage of oxygen, the bench asked the state to consider passing an ordinance making it mandatory for private hospitals to have their own oxygen manufacturing units to meet the demands in light of the possibility of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Regarding Mucormycosis cases, Kumbhakoni submitted that to date there were 3,200 cases mainly found in Covid patients and the daily requirement for treating it was 14,000 vials of Amphotericin- B drug however it was receiving only 4,000 vials on an average from May 11 to 25, per day. The PILs will be heard for further compliance on June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/probe-how-politicians-film-stars-procured-covid-drugs-bombay-hc-directs-maharashtra-govt-101622138880187.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Respond to plea seeking Z-plus security for Adar Poonawalla, HC tells Maharashtra govt||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed the state government to respond to a petition seeking Z-plus security for vaccine manufacturer Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of Serum Institute of India, in light of alleged threats to him from certain politicians who demanded more supply of the Covishield vaccine. The petition also seeks registration of a first information report (FIR) and initiation of a probe into the threats. The vacation bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NR Borkar, while hearing the petition filed by advocate Datta Mane, was informed that as per a May 4 news report, Poonawalla had been living in fear due to constant pressure from politicians and notable persons demanding that he provide their state with more supply of the Covishield vaccine. Mane’s petition further stated that the Poonawalla family had left for London due to this pressure and threats. The petition further stated that if vaccine manufacturers were subjected to such situations, the manufacturing of the vaccine would be affected. After hearing the petition, the court questioned the locus of the petitioner and said that if Poonawalla was not satisfied by the security already provided to him, he could have approached the authorities. Advocate Pradeep Havnur, however, submitted that criminal law could be set in motion by any person. The court then observed that Poonawalla was doing a good job and a huge service to the nation. “As per our knowledge, he has been given Y-Plus security already. The petitioner is seeking Z-plus security. We are not aware of it. If it is necessary, then the state will give it,” said the bench. The court also noted that as per news reports Adar Poonawalla’s father had clarified that he had gone to London for a break. “The petitioner, being an advocate, will have to bear in mind and be careful next time while arguing this matter as our country has a very good reputation and such proceedings will have an international impact. This is not an ordinary matter,” said the bench and asked the state to respond to the petition.Thereafter, additional public prosecutor SR Shinde for the state government sought time to take instructions from the concerned department and respond to the petition. The bench has posted further hearing of the petition to June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/respond-to-plea-seeking-z-plus-security-for-adar-poonawalla-hc-tells-maharashtra-govt-101622138820186.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||542 prisoners released from jails in Maharashtra after HPC order; bail pleas of 12,751 pending||Following the May 11 order of the high power committee (HPC) to decongest overcrowding in prisons, in the wake of the second Covid-19 wave, in all 542 prisoners have been released from jails either on emergency bail or Covid parole. However, as bail applications of over 12,000 prisoners remain pending before various courts, jails across the state are still overcrowded despite releasing over 10,000 prisoners last year, on emergency bail/parole.The HPC which, believed the second wave Covid-19 is more virulent and lethal, recommended that the concerned magistrate courts in the state, consider the pending applications for interim bail of the 12,751 under-trial prisoners liberally and on a priority basis for the sake of the safety and welfare of the prisoners.These 12,751 applications for interim bail have pending since last year. For the effective de-congestion in jails, this issue needs to be addressed on a priority basis, said a prison official. According to the prison department as of May 26, 483 and 59 prisoners have been released on bail and emergency parole, respectively, following recommendations of HPC dated May 7 and May 1, 2021. As new prisoners continue to be admitted, the prison population has gone up substantially again. As per the latest statistics, there are 32,362 inmates lodged across 46 jail in the state against the capacity of around 24,000 prisoners. It is also pertinent to note that over 10,800 prisoners, who have been released during the “first wave” of Covid last year, have not been called back and continue to remain on interim bail/emergency parole.As per the official data, the prison population was reduced from 36,061 as of March 31, 2020, to 26,379 as of July 31, 2020, due to the temporary release of eligible prisoners, following the decisions of the HPC. Hence, the impact of the first wave of the pandemic was thereafter diluted and the situation in the prisons had improved in the context of the spread of coronavirus.However, considering the decline in numbers of new Covid-19 cases, the government relaxed the movement restrictions. As a result, regular crime reported to police increased again, thus the number of arrests and accused being sent to judicial custody also gradually increased.From 26,379 prisoners on July 31, 2020, the population in state jails has now reached 34,733 as of May 11, 2021.At present, there are 212 Covid infected active patients (prisoners) in state jails. To date total of 4,023 prisoners got infected by the virus and 13 have succumbed to the disease, since April 2020. Around 840 prison staffers, of the 902, who tested positive, have recovered and nine have succumbed.Another prison officer said that the prison department has a minimum role in the release of prisoners on bail for decongestion, however, it has been adopting other measures to curb the spread of the virus. The department has set up over 41 temporary prisons and Covid care centres (CCC). “Almost all prisons in the state has one temporary prison and a CCC,” said the officer. Most of these temporary prisons are set up in schools and colleges. After the lockdown restrictions were relaxed last year, these temporary prisons were returned to the respective educational institutes. “Unlike last year, this time we would be keeping these temporary prisons functioning as part of our preparation to tackle surge in cases, in case of the third wave,” said a senior prison officer. The process of acquiring buildings for the creation of additional temporary prisons is still on.Steps taken to prevent the spread of Covid in prisons:- Over 41 temporary prisons have been established in the state. Of these, 10 double as Covid Care Centres, where asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic inmates are isolated. - New inmates are accepted only after RT-PCR tests and kept in temporary prisons until their test results are obtained. - Those who test negative are then admitted to a regular prison - Prisoners/inmates above the age of 60 are kept in separate barracks or hospital ward where there are special facilities available e.g. special toilets, equipment etc- Prisons are sanitised every week. Special attention is being paid to toilets - Use of sanitisers, soap, face masks and social distancing, both by inmates as well as prison staffers- Nearly 73,000 Covid-19 tests on inmates and 4,707 on prison staffers have been undertaken so far- 3,456 vaccine jabs were administered to the prisoners- 3,252 staffers out of 3,818 have been vaccinated and the process of vaccination of the balance staffers is in progress- A total of 124 smartphones and 73 coins box sets have been provided for prisoners/inmates to communicate with their lawyers as well as family members.- The video conferencing facilities between the prisons and courts have been put to use for communication with lawyers.- A total of 10,811 prisoners/inmates have been released on emergency parole or interim bail following the outbreak of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/542-prisoners-released-from-jails-in-maharashtra-after-hpc-order-bail-pleas-of-12-751-pending-101622138760757.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||3 jumbo Covid centres shut before Cyclone Tauktae to reopen for patients from June 1||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to reopen three jumbo Covid centres in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC), Dahisar and Mulund that were shut as a precautionary measure ahead of Cyclone Tauktae. The centres will reopen for Covid patients from June 1 in a phased manner. The BMC had shut its three jumbo Covid centres before Cyclone Tauktae hit the city on May 17. The civic body, between May 15 and 16, had shifted over 500 Covid patients to nearby hospitals namely SevenHills and Nesco jumbo centres, considering a threat of damage, owing to the high wind speed. Civic officials also used the opportunity to undertake maintenance of these Covid centres and make some structural changes, per BMC’s plan to be prepared for a possible third wave.The tentative date of reopening the three centres is June 1, said, civic officials.However, it has been decided to reopen the centres in phases as they need not be functional at full capacity since the number of cases in the city is on the decline. The capacity of the three centres is around 4,600 beds.According to BMC officials, the repair and maintenance work ongoing at the jumbo centres include cleaning and sanitation of the entire area, changing water pipelines at several spots, fixing leakages, stormwater works, sewage-related work, flooring, installing additional ropes to the hangars to ensure the makeshift hospital sustains longer, followed by furniture-related works.Dr Rajesh Dere, dean of BKC Covid centre said, “The repair and maintenance work is currently ongoing and we will be in a position to take patients from June 1. However, currently, the caseload is less, and hence we may reopen in a phased manner. We are already conducting vaccination at BKC jumbo.”At Dahisar Covid jumbo centres, the BMC will restart the vaccination in the next two days, however, the jumbo centre will get reactivated in a phased manner, with the intensive care unit (ICU) beds getting activated first.Dr Deepa Shriyan, dean at Dahisar jumbo centre said, “We will first reactivate the jumbo centre with ICU beds, considering an emergency. Further, we are also adding a paediatric ward with 30 beds where children can be admitted.”Meanwhile, in the case of Mulund, the BMC plans to open up one hangar for admitting Covid patients. Dr Pradeep Angre, dean at Mulund jumbo centre said, “We have around 1,600 beds and starting June 1 we will activate one hangar for Covid patients. For the remaining beds, we will activate them in phases considering the ongoing maintenance work anticipating the third wave. Along with maintenance work, we are also carrying out pre-monsoon works, which we will require time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-jumbo-covid-centres-shut-before-cyclone-tauktae-to-reopen-for-patients-from-june-1-101622138700709.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Allow to open shops from June 1, waive taxes, association urges Maharashtra govt||Retailers who have lost substantial business due to repeated lockdowns have urged the state government to allow them to open their establishments from June 1.The Traders United Forum of Maharashtra (TUMF) warned that any further extension of lockdown will have a devastating effect on shopkeepers.“The state government should allow us to open our shops for at least eight hours daily. During the 2020 lockdown, we had some savings to sustain ourselves. This time the shopkeepers are badly affected, hence need to resume their businesses,” said Mohan Gurnani, convenor, TUMF.The TUMF has demanded that the state should waive off the taxes like license fees, professional tax as well as give concessions in property tax.After the surge in Covid-19 cases, the state had imposed first the night curfew, then a partial lockdown and finally a full lockdown. The lockdown has shown positive results as the cases fell from the 60,000 range to currently within 25,000.Nirmal Nahar who runs his clothing business from Mangaldas Market at Kalbadevi said it is imperative to start their business. “We have lost considerable business to other states like Gujarat and if the lockdown extends, it will be difficult to retain it,” said Nahar.Retailers in cities across the state too have demanded that the restrictions on their businesses should be lifted.Aurangabad member of Parliament (MP) Imtiyaz Jaleel warned the government to allow them to open or shopkeepers will defy the rules. “Shopkeepers are dying of suicide in Aurangabad and other parts of Maharashtra. The financial institutions are harassing them and the government is silent,” said Jaleel. “If the government still wants to extend the lockdown then they need to compensate the shopkeepers,” he added.However, Shiv Sena leader and former Aurangabad MP Chandrakant Khaire said the government will decide after reviewing the situation. “There is lockdown across the world and we have decided to save the lives of the people. The decision will be based on the ground situation,” said Khaire. Shopkeepers in Solapur have warned of opening their shops irrespective of the government’s stance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allow-to-open-shops-from-june-1-waive-taxes-association-urges-maharashtra-govt-101622138700124.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra districts with poor Covid-19 vaccination coverage to get more doses||The Maharashtra government has decided to allocate more Covid-19 vaccines to districts that have reported low coverage during the inoculation drive, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday.Speaking to reporters here after a state cabinet meeting, Tope said the state government's focus is on administering the second dose of the vaccine on priority."There are some districts in the state where at least 60 per cent of the targeted population has been vaccinated, while others are performing poorly. The state cabinet has decided to allocate more vaccines to these districts and improve their performance," the minister said.Some districts have recorded just three per cent inoculation as against the target population, he said.The minister further said that the state government has also decided to suspend home isolation in districts with high Covid-19 positivity rate. "The state government has also decided to stop home isolation in districts with higher Covid-19 positivity rate. We are now setting up Covid-19 care centres at village and tehsil levels. Infected patients should be isolated at these centres," Tope said.District collectors have been asked to provide all facilities including food and accommodation to people who are advised isolation, he said.Maharashtra currently has 3,15,000 active cases, of which 50 per cent of the patients are in home isolation, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-districts-with-poor-covid-19-vaccination-coverage-to-get-more-doses-101622131785481.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 21,273 new Covid-19 cases, 425 deaths as tally tops 5.67 million||Maharashtra's caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose to 5,672,180 on Thursday, with the addition of 21,273 Covid-19 cases on the day, the latest bulletin issued by the Maharashtra health department showed. The daily toll due to the viral disease was recorded at 425, taking the total death toll to 92,225, the bulletin further showed.Also Read | Home ministry extends national Covid-19 containment measures till June 30This is for the eighth straight day when Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 rise has been below 30,000. On May 19, the western state saw 34,031 fresh infections and 594 fatalities.The latest positivity rate was recorded at 8.14% as out of 261,151 tests conducted, 21,273 gave a positive result. On Wednesday, the positivity rate stood at 8.73% as 24,752 samples returned a positive result out of 283,394 tests conducted to check for the disease.Meanwhile, Mumbai, the state’s capital city, saw its daily Covid-19 count drop to 1,258 from 1,352 a day ago. The related fatalities were at 36 as against 34 on May 26. The city’s infection tally has thus reached 701,598 including a death toll of 14,720.These numbers come on a day Maharashtra's health minister Rajesh Tope said that the lockdown-like restrictions in the state "will not be completely lifted." Speaking to the media after a meeting of the state cabinet, Tope said, "We will allow relaxations only in those districts where cases are very less. The decision on how these relaxations will be allowed will by taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after a discussion with the Covid-19 task force."As per the minister, 21 districts in Maharashtra have a positivity rate of more than 10%.Also Read | Covid-19 lockdown will not be completely lifted in Maharashtra: Health ministerSeparately, a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) noted: “Though the positivity rate in the state is coming down, 10-15 districts are reporting a rapid growth in Covid-19 cases. There is also a rise in cases of mucormycosis. Active cases have now dropped to the tally of highest cases recorded during the first wave. But we still need to be careful. Instead of completely lifting the lockdown, we will have to extend it from June 1 and also provide relaxations in the restrictions wherever necessary. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the state administration to take steps accordingly after discussing the same in the state cabinet meeting held on Thursday.”Also Read | 'Completely baseless': Centre dismisses New York Times' report on India's Covid-19 tollThe lockdown-like restrictions were imposed in mid-April and were later extended till May 15. However, on May 13, the government announced that the restrictions will continue to be in force till June 1 in a bid to break the chain of transmission of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-21-273-new-covid-19-cases-and-425-deaths-101622122359499.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 lockdown will not be completely lifted in Maharashtra: Health minister||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday that the lockdown-like restrictions imposed in the state will not be lifted completely as 21 districts have over 10% Covid-19 positivity rate. Tope, however, added that relaxation might be given to those districts where cases are going down and guidelines in this regard will be issued in a few days. The current restrictions are in place till June 1.“It was decided in the cabinet today that it is not right to remove the lockdown-like restrictions completely. We will allow relaxation in those districts where cases are very less. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a final decision on how these relaxations will be allowed after holding a discussion with the Covid-19 task force,” Tope told reporters, as quoted by news agency ANI.Also Read| Maharashtra announces paediatric task force to prepare for 3rd wave of Covid-19The restrictions, imposed in mid-April this year, banned movement of people, vehicles, opening of shops selling non-essential items along with movie theatres, gyms, swimming pools, educational institutions etc. Maharashtra during this time was clocking nearly 70,000 cases of the coronavirus disease daily and was the worst affected state across India. On April 22, another set of restrictions were introduced on inter-city and inter-district travel, office attendance, and weddings.According to experts and ministers in the Maharashtra government, the daily cases and deaths have dropped significantly in the majority of the districts including the state capital Mumbai as these curbs were successful in arresting the spread of Covid-19. On Wednesday, the state reported 24,752 new cases, 453 more deaths and 23,065 recoveries. The daily cases in Maharashtra have been below the 30,000-mark for the last one week.Two days back, the state government stopped home isolation for Covid-19 patients in 18 districts having above-average positivity rates, with health minister Rajesh Tope adding that such patients will be shifted to Covid care centres. Collectors of these 18 districts including Nashik, Pune, Latur, Ahmednagar, have been instructed by the state government to come up with more Covid care centres in their respective areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-lockdown-will-not-be-completely-lifted-in-maharashtra-health-minister-101622122691516.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Elgaar Parishad case: HC extends Hany Babu stay in private hospital till June 1||The Bombay high court on Thursday directed Breach Candy hospital to seek permission of the court before discharging Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad -Bhima Koregaon violence case, who was admitted there for treatment of a severe infection in the left eye following an order of the court on May 19.While restraining the hospital from discharging Babu till June 1, the court has also asked it to furnish a medical report on the status of the infection and the treatment administered to him. Also Read | Health deteriorated after arrest, says Stan Swamy; seeks bailA vacation bench of justices SS Shinde and NR Borkar was informed by Babu’s counsel Yug Choudhary that an urgent hearing was sought in the petition filed by the professor’s wife, Jenny Rowena, to ensure that the Breach Candy hospital did not discharge him and send him back to Taloja jail on the grounds that he did not require critical care anymore. The petition seeks interim bail for Babu on medical grounds. In the earlier hearing on May 19, Choudhary had submitted that Babu had contracted an infection in his left eye and though he complained about it to the prison authorities from May 3- 12, it was not heeded. It was only after he tested positive for Covid and was shifted to GT hospital did Rowena approach the high court as the GT hospital had said they did not have the wherewithal to treat Babu’s eye infection. The petition will be heard next on June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgaar-parishad-case-hc-extends-hany-babu-stay-in-private-hospital-till-june-1-101622116127330.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra announces paediatric task force to prepare for 3rd wave of Covid-19||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday announced the setting up of a paediatric task force, comprising 13 experts from the state, to prepare for the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, in which children are likely to be affected.Tope in a statement said noted paediatrician Dr Suhas Prabhu will be the chief of the 13-member task force, while Tatyarao Lahane, the director of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research, will be its member secretary.An order in this regard was issued on Thursday by Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary of the public health department, it was stated.Anticipating a third wave of the pandemic, which is likely to affect children in more numbers, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had instructed the public health department to set up a task force of experts to make necessary preparations, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-announces-paediatric-task-force-to-prepare-for-3rd-wave-of-covid19-101622107934885.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||BJP splits in Khadse’s hometown: 6 corporators defect to Sena||Six Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporators from Muktainagar Municipal Council joined the Shiv Sena in presence of party chief and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at his official residence Varsha on Wednesday. The entry of the BJP corporators could also start a tussle between Eknath Khadse, who quit the BJP to join Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and the Sena in former’s hometown. The BJP rules the 17-member civic body. However, Khadse claimed all party corporators owed allegiance to him. He also claimed that only four corporators have joined the Sena, while two are former corporators.Sena minister and party functionary from north Maharashtra Gulabrao Patil said, “Six BJP corporators from Muktainagar have joined the Sena today. Four others will be joining the party tomorrow. With three Sena corporators joining, our strength is now 13 in the 17-member [in Muktainagar civic] body.”Khadse, however, said the corporators who defected to Sena are expected to be disqualified as some of them have forged their caste certificate. “Four corporators have joined the Sena, not six. Three of them are expected to be disqualified; their hearing is ongoing with the district collector. Some have given fake caste certificate among other other issues. The hearing is on June 1. They have been lured into the party with the promise that their imminent disqualification will be stayed by the minister. So out of fear, they have gone there,” Khadse said. The NCP leader added that eight BJP corporators owe allegiance to him and are still with the party. “The remaining eight corporators are my supporters and still with BJP,” he said. When asked if this is a setback for BJP or Khadse, Patil said, “It is up to you to decide that, but we have got BJP corporators to join Sena, and I am confident that even Nathabhau (Khadse) must be happy with it.” He added that these are BJP councillors and not those who won on NCP ticket.“These are BJP councillors and followers of Khadse, but they decided to join the Sena. We have not inducted corporators who fought on NCP symbol, but BJP’s. We are confident that everybody will welcome them in Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, like we welcomed Nathabhau. Even we thought that they would go to NCP, but they decided to join the Sena. Having said that, they have joined MVA only,” Patil said.Significantly, Khadse played a crucial role in helping the Sena wrest control of Jalgaon Municipal Corporation from BJP earlier this year. Khadse hinted that there could be another change of power in Jalgaon civic body soon. “The BJP is trying to gather numbers; they only need six or seven seats to get mayor post. There are signs of another change of power in Jalgaon where BJP can take control,” Khadse said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-splits-in-khadse-s-hometown-6-corporators-defect-to-sena-101622058314238.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Pawar urges PM Modi to withdraw controversial policy decisions in Lakshadweep||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar urged Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi to look into the concerns raised over policy decisions taken by the Lakshadweep administration recently. He also requested for re-examination and withdrawal of the decisions that would allegedly lead to destruction of traditional means of livelihood and the unique culture of the Union Territory. Lakshadweep is represented in the Lok Sabha by NCP MP Mohammad Faizal.Pawar made the demand through a letter to the PM on Wednesday.Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel’s recent reforms have attracted widespread resentment among the local populace, with many believing the changes are aimed at “destroying the unique culture and tradition” of the islands. Around a dozen MPs, including Faizal, sent letters to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking immediate recall of the decisions.Pointing out the decisions and their likely impact, Pawar said, “I fear that unwarranted and irrational decisions taken by the Lakshadweep administrator would lead to the destruction of traditional means of livelihood and the unique culture of Lakshadweep. It has already resulted in huge unrest and protest.”“I would be happy if orders and decisions taken by the incumbent authority of Lakshadweep administration are re-examined and necessary directions are passed to the Lakshadweep administration to withdraw the unreasonable and unwarranted orders,” he added.Lakshadweep, which has an overwhelming Muslim majority, is facing a draft regulation against cow slaughter, ignoring the fact that beef forms part of the daily diet. Locals have opposed draft regulation for the creation of Lakshadweep Development Authority, fearing this would enable outsiders to purchase land. The administration has also decided to implement Goonda Act in Lakshadweep, which has a very low crime rate.Meanwhile, while the islands had been free from Covid-19 for almost a year, the decision to lift the stipulation for mandatory quarantine for travellers from Kochi is attributed as a key reason for a surge in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-urges-pm-modi-to-withdraw-controversial-policy-decisions-in-lakshadweep-101622057954297.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Amid reservation issues, Sharad Pawar meets Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar met chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray at his official residence on Wednesday evening. The meeting, which lasted for around 45 minutes, took place in the backdrop of the issues related to Maratha reservation.Pawar is considered the guiding force of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. He was the one who brought the Shiv Sena and Congress to join hands with his party to form the Uddhav Thackeray-led government in the state.It has been more than two months since Pawar met Thackeray as the former was not well. He had to get admitted in the hospital multiple times for endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) procedure, gallbladder surgery, post-operative gallbladder surgery and a surgery for removing mouth ulcer. For the past one month, the NCP chief was recuperating at home.The Maratha community is upset as 12% and 13% reservation granted to them in education and government jobs, respectively, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act was quashed by the Supreme Court. Many Maratha organisations have threatened to start large-scale public agitations in the state.Besides, the Congress, an ally in MVA, has been demanding withdrawal of the state’s May 7 decision scrapping reservation in promotion. After state energy minister Nitin Raut, state Congress chief Nana Patole too raised the demand.“Both the leaders would have discussed the reservation issue as many leaders from the Maratha community are threatening to start agitation. Apart from this, the issue of reservation in promotion, which may have come for discussion, also cannot be overlooked,” said a senior NCP leader. He added that the two leaders may have discussed about relief to those affected by Cyclone Tauktae which hit the state last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-reservation-issues-sharad-pawar-meets-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-101622057894247.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Covid management: Shiv Sena’s shot at retaining stronghold Mumbai||With Covid-19 expected to be a major issue even for the rest of 2021, the Shiv Sena has turned its entire attention to managing the disease in the city, considering the party rules the state as well as the Mumbai civic body. While the second wave seems to be waning, the Sena is now focusing on vaccination in Mumbai and preparing infrastructure for the projected third wave that could hit between July and September. Mumbai matters Mumbai is important in the Sena’s political plans. The party has been ruling the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which handles local governance in India’s financial capital, for almost three decades. The BMC has an annual budget of over ₹30,000 crore, which is more than a few small states in India, giving the Sena its strength and influence. Consequently, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been making plans to wrest control of the civic body. In the 2017 civic polls, the BJP emerged the second biggest party after the Sena, and the party’s leader in the state, Devendra Fadnavis, is working on winning power in the BMC in the next civic polls scheduled to be held in February 2022. The Sena, meanwhile, is working on its counter-strategy. The party’s efforts in Mumbai are largely handled by environment and tourism minister and Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray, insiders said. Thackeray, the guardian minister of Mumbai (suburban district), has been holding regular review meetings with top civic officials during the second wave. The Sena cadre and Yuva Sena (party’s youth wing headed by Aaditya Thackeray) functionaries have been on the ground since the pandemic hit in March 2020. During the second wave, they were helping people with admissions to hospitals, securing anti-viral injections Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, getting oxygen cylinders, etc. Now, the Sena-controlled BMC has decided to set up vaccination centres in each of the 227 wards across the city, asking corporators to take initiative and set up helpdesks to guide people. Thackeray’s meeting with senior civic officials has yielded decisions such as two-time reporting from laboratories, instead of the 24-hour cycle; helping patients secure a bed at jumbo facilities even at night; increasing bed capacity on war-footing; drive-in vaccination centres and calling global tenders for 10 million vaccine doses. As a part of the preparation for the third wave, earlier this month, Thackeray directed BMC officials to set up a dedicated paediatric Covid-19 ward at Nesco exhibition ground — one of the BMC’s jumbo Covid Care Centres. Shiv Sena MP and party’s chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant said the idea is that if Mumbai gets safe, so does Maharashtra. “The European nations and United States of America have vaccinated their citizens on a large scale and are now protected against Covid. Our focus has not shifted. Aaditya ji has said that each ward should at least have one vaccination centre. Then we took a decision to add more centres in wards; in my constituency we have two to three vaccination centres. The idea was simple – to bring the vaccination centres closer home. He (Aaditya) also came up with the idea of drive-in vaccination,” said Sawant. The vaccination centres are mostly run by the BMC and in some cases by private hospitals in association with elected representatives. BJP’s plans The BJP is likely to use all its might to wrest the civic body from the Sena, while the latter is looking for a Covid success story to get an upper hand. However, Sawant denied there are any political calculations behind the management. “In Mumbai, the Shiv Sena is known for its social work. Our shakhas (local offices) are a centre for people to voice their grievances or seek help. It has created enormous goodwill for us over the years. In times of a pandemic, it is logical that people would expect us to help them and we are anyway doing it,” said a former Sena mayor. “The only addition is making our on-ground work known. The BJP has a massive machinery for marketing, which shows what their governments do irrespective of their actual performance. We also need to keep people informed,” she added. The equation In 2017, the BJP and Sena, despite being in power in alliance in the state, fought the civic polls against each other. It was a close contest, with the Sena securing 84 seats and the BJP bagging 81 seats, in the 227-member body. The BJP would want to capitalise on its numbers in the upcoming elections and has been targeting the Sena-led corporation over the handling of Covid-19 in Mumbai. Earlier this month, Fadnavis alleged the death figures in Mumbai are being fudged and the number of RT-PCR tests has reduced to show a lower case count. Earlier, the BJP has also alleged corruption in the construction of Covid Care Centres. Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said this time, traditional agendas and planks such as Hindutva ideology and Marathi manoos will not be at the fore in the campaigning for BMC polls. “The conversation has changed due to Covid now. People will look at Covid handling and vaccinations. For Shiv Sena, the prime political concern will be handling the third wave and vaccination. The BJP government at the Centre is creating a bottleneck in vaccination, not just for Mumbai, but also for the state. The BJP, which gave a neck-and-neck fight last time, wants to win the BMC elections after losing the state,” Jondhale, a former professor of political science at Mumbai University, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-management-shiv-sena-s-shot-at-retaining-stronghold-mumbai-101622057835617.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Final-year PG medical, dental students await exam schedule||Days after the state government and the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) released exam commencement dates for undergraduate and postgraduate medical, dental and diploma exams, final-year postgraduate medical students are still waiting to hear about their exam schedule. Originally scheduled to take place in May, the exam was postponed by a month by the National Medical Commission (NMC) to ensure that all students are working across hospitals as the country was facing the peak of the second wave of Covid-19. As of May 25, these students still do not know when their exams will take place.“We have sent repeated requests and reminders to MUHS as well as authorities at the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), but to no avail. The Central government extended our residency by one month till May 31; so post that, we should be appearing for exams but the authorities have no clarity,” said Dr Pranav Jadhav, vice-president (central), Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD). In April, the Central government’s decision to extend final-year postgraduate medical and dental exam by a month and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test for postgraduate courses by four months did not go down well with stakeholders, especially the students. To make matters worse, the state released a circular postponing the exams, but so far has not given any clarity on the future date of exams, something several other states including Rajashthan and Delhi have already released.“Most of us (students) are working every day at hospitals across the state and have had no time to prepare for exams. MARD has also requested that the government give us at least 45 days before starting exams, to give us ample time to prepare, but with no date in sight, we are unsure when the exam will finally be held,” said Dr Prajakta Mhatre, another final-year postgraduate medical student.While exams for undergraduate medical and dental students as well as non-final year postgraduate students are scheduled to take place between June 10 and 30, final-year students still await answers from the authorities. “We cannot announce exam dates until we get a go ahead from the state government. Once that comes through, we will confirm the schedule and also ensure that students get ample time for exam preparation,” said a senior exam authority from MUHS, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-final-year-pg-medical-dental-students-await-exam-schedule-101622057774301.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: SC candidate moves high court over LLM admissions||A candidate belonging to the Scheduled Caste (SC) category, who had applied to the University of Mumbai’s (MU) Master of Law (LLM) course, has filed a writ petition in the Bombay high court (HC) alleging an unfair admission process.Maruti Mhavarkar, a lawyer enrolled with the bar council of Maharashtra, had applied to MU for LLM in criminal law and had secured 68 marks in the common entrance test (CET). His name did not appear in any of the first four merit lists. Having realised that few seats were available for criminal law, he wrote an application to the university’s department of law for admission to any seat in any stream as per merit. The varsity then issued a notice stating that seats for reserved category students were vacant in two subjects — human rights and law, and environment and legal order. Applications were invited for the same. Mhavarkar claimed that he applied for both the subjects, but did not make it in the fifth and sixth merit lists too. The sixth merit list was issued last Wednesday. “Candidates who have scored less than me have been admitted. The admission process was unfair and unjust. I am seeking judicial intervention for the same,” he said. Rajeshri Varhadi, professor and head of MU’s department of law, said, “The entire admission process is computerised. There is no scope of any human intervention. All applications received for reserved category seats were measured on merit alone.”Refusing to comment on the writ petition, Varhadi said, “There is a process for responding to such legal cases. A lawyer is appointed by the university and we will respond through the lawyer.”Mhavarkar, in his plea, has urged the court to undo the “injustice meted out to him in the admission process”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sc-candidate-moves-high-court-over-llm-admissions-101622057714309.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone Tauktae felled 812 trees in city: Time to dig deeper for cause||Tree damage after Cyclone Tauktae, which uprooted at least 812 trees in Mumbai as per official data, has once again brought to attention allegedly poor horticultural practices by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Over the past week, several environmentalists and activists pointed out that a significant number of uprooted trees had not been planted in adequately-sized basins. At least 15 such instances have been brought to the notice of Hindustan Times since March 16.“This would have certainly contributed to the tree’s fate because it needs a fully-developed root system to keep it anchored. Too small tree basins, especially for larger trees, hamper this. More worryingly, several trees which fell did not even have any discernible basins around them, and were concretised or paved all the way to the trunk. When this happens, the underlying critical root zone could get disturbed, weakening the tree’s structural integrity,” said Stalin D, director, NGO Vanashakti.Stalin on Tuesday wrote to BMC and environment department, requesting the authorities to take corrective measures before the onset of monsoon. “This email is to voice our concerns about the precarious condition of the trees of Mumbai and Thane city. All the trees are standing in shallow concrete tree basins and have no soil for the roots to grip and stand firm,” Stalin’s letter stated. According to regular logs maintained by Vanashakti, there are at least 500 large, old-growth trees in Mumbai and Thane which require urgent de-paving. One particular locality where this problem is conspicuous, according to environmentalists, is south Mumbai’s Ballard Estate, where wide roads are lined with large banyans and gulmohars among others. A visit to the area on Wednesday by a HT team found BMC workers clearing up trees that fell during last week’s cyclone. HT identified at least six large trees that had been completely uprooted, while at least a dozen others were vaulting or bursting out of their tree basins, causing cracks in the pavement. “Giant trees on the road towards RBI signal and the road alongside Port Trust Bhavan have died after concreting of the roads and basins was done. The remaining trees in Ballard Estate will collapse and fall in this monsoon or within the next year if urgent steps are not taken... Despite the National Green Tribunal (NGT) ordering that tree bases must be freed of concrete, and soil be provided for the tree bases, no action has been taken so far. Neither depth nor lateral space is available for the trees to anchor itself,” Stalin informed the authorities. In 2015, Vanashakti had approached NGT seeking remedial measures against rampant concretisation over root zones of large trees in Mumbai. In a subsequent order dated September 10, 2015, the tribunal instructed BMC to implement a “de-concretisation programme... in phased manner, ward by ward and not selectively but in contiguous manner”. BMC, for its part, had conveyed to NGT in September itself that around 11,790 trees in the city had already been de-concretised, but given there were an estimated 1.9 million trees in the city at the time, covering them all would take considerably longer. It is unclear whether the programme has continued to be implemented in the years since. Officials in BMC’s tree authority and garden department did not respond to requests for comment on Wednesday.“The programme has either tapered off or is being implemented too slowly. The situation after Cyclone Tauktae shows clearly that the order has not been complied with fully. Had it been so, we may have lost fewer trees,” said Zaman Ali, advocate for Vanashakti in the matter, referring to guidelines prescribed by the ministry of urban development in its Urban Green Guidelines, 2014.“A minimum area of 1.25x1.25 metre around the trees be left un-cemented and widening of roads up to the trunk of trees be avoided, as roots come under the asphalted roads, which will gradually die. In case of storm, these trees may topple. Activities which adversely affect the roots are to be minimised,” the guidelines stated. However, as Ali pointed out, these are only directive principles and not legally binding.“But such guidelines are still required to be followed in absence of a statutory directive,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclone-tauktae-felled-812-trees-in-city-time-to-dig-deeper-for-cause-101622057654331.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha to write to Centre as it seeks clarity on global bids for vax supply||After the Maharashtra government received eight responses to its global tenders for supplying Covid-19 vaccines, it now plans to throw the ball in the Centre’s court over engaging with intermediaries. Senior government officials said the state is going to write to the Centre, seeking clarity on whether the companies that showed interest in supplying vaccine doses to Maharashtra are authorised by the company.On Tuesday, the state received bids for the supply of vaccines manufactured by Pfizer, Sputnik and AstraZeneca. However, the bids have been submitted by suppliers or middlemen and not the vaccine manufacturers. Senior health department officials said the government’s concern is the authenticity of the proposals as manufacturers including Pfizer and Moderna has clearly stated that they have not appointed any suppliers.Senior officials said that there are number of queries the state intends to ask the Centre in its letter, including can the state engage with the intermediaries, can it procure AstraZeneca vaccine, which is in a pact with Serum Institute of India (SII), that manufacturers same vaccine under Covishield brand.N Ramaswami, commissioner of health services, said, “We will refer this issue to Government of India. We will write to them, asking if the manufacturers have appointed these companies to supply the vaccine doses, and whether the state government can engage with them. These are complex matters and therefore we need to tread cautiously.” If the state finds the companies that showed interest to be unqualified, it’ll have to depend on the supply of Sputnik, which, too, will be limited as its domestic manufacturers will have to give 50% to the Centre and remaining 50% stock will be given to states/UTs and private hospitals. Ramaswami added that the state is trying to get in touch with Russian Direct Investment Fund—the developer of Sputnik V—but so far, they have not responded. The state has got five responses from suppliers of Sputnik, which have quoted a price between Rs800 and Rs2,500, state officials said.The uncertainty over the vaccination and the slow pace of inoculation is expected to continue until SII and Bharat Biotech can supply enough stock by July. Ramaswami said that they expect to hear from the two companies on the stock it will sell to the state. “We are constantly in touch with Serum and Bharat Biotech for the doses we will procure. We expect to hear from them on the schedule of supply by tomorrow,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-to-write-to-centre-as-it-seeks-clarity-on-global-bids-for-vax-supply-101622056216314.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Healthcare of malnourished children takes a back seat in Covid pandemic||While the state is still struggling with the second wave of the pandemic, severely malnourished children with compromised immunity have been at the receiving end. Though the Women and Child Development (WCD) has taken up several initiatives to improve their outreach programme, to improve the health of malnourished children, social activists said the burden of such children in the state will further increase due to the closure of anganwadis and discontinuation of mid-day meal programmes. Doctors said severely malnourished children are most vulnerable to contracting Covid-19 infection. Malnutrition is a non-communicable disease that is referred to when a person’s diet does not provide enough nutrients or the right balance of nutrients for optimal health.According to the last measurement in March 2020, before the pandemic hit the state, Maharashtra had 45,217 severely malnourished children below six years, and around 1.5 lakh children were identified as moderately malnourished. This counted as 3.5% of the total children weighed. Most children are from rural parts of the state like Nandurbar, Palghar, Raigad, Marathwada among other districts. However, activists in rural areas said the number will increase drastically like a ‘ripple effect’ in the pandemic. Dr Ravikant Singh, founder, Doctors for You, said that since the lockdown last year, anganwadi centres have been closed down to reduce transmission of infections. “Also, the mid-day meal programme that provides the primary source of nutrition supplementary to school-going children has halted. Due to the lockdown, many parents have lost their jobs and are facing financial constraints to take care of their children. This will cumulatively contribute to the rise of the acute under-nutrition among children.”With the rise in cases of malnutrition, doctors said these children are likely to become more vulnerable to contracting Covid-19 due to low immunity and several other underlying health issues. MA Patil, president of the Mumbai wing of the Maharashtra Asha Workers and Gatpravartak Sangh said post-Covid, nutrition-related deaths among children would surge.“Malnutrition is classified into various categories. Only if a child is severely malnourished, he can not only contract Covid but other infections like tuberculosis. Since they also have underlying health issues like cardiac or kidney problems among others, they become easy targets for any virus,” said Dr Subhas Prabhu, who heads the paediatric task force. However, so far, the task force hasn’t provided any suggestion on it to the state government.Compared to the first wave, in the second wave, more children below the age of 10 have been infected with Covid-19. Considering this, social activists said the battle against the pandemic is a long term struggle that requires strengthening the implementation of the community-based management strategy for addressing malnutrition among children.To address the issue, Integrated Child Development Services under WCD has been distributing take-home ration to the children registered with anganwadis. “Since the lockdown, we are making all possible efforts to provide an uninterrupted supply chain of nutritious foods to the children. For moderately and severely malnourished children, we are sending doctors and trained Asha workers to their home to check their health parameters. If we find anyone unwell, we immediately shift them to the hospitals and nutritional rehabilitation centres,” said IA Kundan, principal secretary WCD. “We are also sending ready-to-eat energy-dense nutritious food which is a mixture of peanuts, oil sugar, nuts and nutrition-rich ingredients to severely malnourished children,” she added. However, activists claimed only 10% of the total severely malnourished children are getting it. Patil said the take-home ration isn’t providing much help. The state government should focus on providing daily ration to the malnourished children. “At present, the ration is provided every month which is also being consumed by the parents of the children. Along with just dal, wheat and rice, the department should provide more nutrient-rich foods like dry foods and fruits,” he said.Many rural nutritional rehabilitation centres have recorded a sizable drop in the number of referred children. “Earlier, we used to get around 15 referral children every month. Now, we barely get 3-5 cases. In most cases, patients reach us only when they have an infection or develop any health complication,” said an officer from government medical college in Nandurbar. The department is also providing training to the caregivers on how to use the Mid Upper Arm Circumference to measure the degree of malnutrition among children. Also, the state health department has instructed the WCD to make planning for vaccination of lactating and new mothers.Take flu shots as a precautionary measureThe paediatric task force has, as a precautionary measure, suggested that children be inoculated with the influenza vaccine. The suggestion has also been submitted to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Dr Prabhu said since symptoms of Covid-19 and seasonal flu are similar, taking the shot might help control the mental anguish of parents if their children develop flu.“There is no scientific evidence that children will be more affected in the third wave. But if taking the shot helps control the development of seasonal infection, it will save parents from getting paranoid and decrease the unnecessary burden on the hospitals. This is just for a precautionary measure,” he said. When HT enquired with private and civic-run hospitals, they said that so far, they haven’t recorded any sudden surge in the demand for the influenza vaccine from parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-healthcare-of-malnourished-children-takes-a-back-seat-in-covid-pandemic-101622056154880.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh case: Maharashtra govt v/s CBI hearing to be held on June 8||A vacation bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday adjourned to June 8 hearing on the petition filed by the state government seeking to drop two topics from the purview of investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the corruption charges against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. The adjournment came after the state agreed to CBI’s contention that the petition be placed for hearing before the bench headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta, which had on April 5 directed the central agency to conduct a preliminary probe into the allegations of corruption made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh, as the petition essentially involved interpretation of the April 5 order.The state government agreement was based on the condition that CBI would not seek certain documents from the state related to offences that were included in two unnumbered paragraphs in the first information report (FIR) registered against Deshmukh after the HC directed preliminary probe was concluded. The documents sought by the central agency included the communication by former commissioner of state intelligence Rashmi Shukla in August 2020 to her superiors alleging political interference in posting and transfers of police officers in the state, and the minutes of the June 2020 police establishment board meeting which reinstated arrested assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze after 15 years of suspension. After the counsel for CBI assured the bench that it would not seek the said documents till June 9, the court directed its registry to place the matter before the bench headed by the chief justice on June 8. On Wednesday, when the state government’s petition against CBI came up for hearing before the vacation bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade, the bench sought to know from special senior counsel Rafique Dada, for the state, whether he was agreeable to the CBI’s contention that the petition should be heard by the same bench which passed the April 5 order. After taking instructions, Dada submitted that the state was agreeable, provided CBI did not press for the documents pertaining to the two issues that it had included in the unnumbered paragraphs in its FIR against Deshmukh. Additional solicitor generals SV Raju and Anil Singh, for CBI, after taking instructions informed the court that it would not press for the documents till June 9 if the petition was heard by the same bench which had passed the April 5 order. After hearing both the sides, the bench adjourned the hearing and directed the registry to place the matter before the division bench of the CJ on June 8 at 10.30am. In the previous hearing on May 21, during preliminary arguments, the state had objected to the scope of the investigation by CBI as it had included issues pertaining to the report by Shukla and the reinstatement of Vaze in its FIR. Dada had submitted that as these issues had nothing to do with the allegations made by Singh against Deshmukh, it was an example of over-reach by CBI as the April 5 order had directed the agency to conduct only a preliminary probe into the allegations. Dada had also added that CBI had not followed procedure and had gone beyond the norms laid down in its manual of taking prior approval of the state. CBI had, however, contended that the issues involved had far-reaching consequences and the April 5 order had not put any restrictions on CBI with regards to the extent of its preliminary probe. Raju had further referred to Supreme Court judgements which had set aside objections by other states regarding the over-reach by CBI in its investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-case-maharashtra-govt-v-s-cbi-hearing-to-be-held-on-june-8-101622056094139.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Barge P-305 tragedy probe: Police summon 5 companies||The Yellow Gate police have issued summons to five companies in connection with the investigation into the Barge Pappa-305 (P305) tragedy. The police, however, have not revealed the names of the companies, as the investigation is underway. P305 is owned by Durmast Enterprises Limited, and chartered by a consortium led by Afcons Industries to carry out a project contract for the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC). As Cyclone Tauktae hit the coast, accommodation barge P-305 sank in Heera Oil Fields in the Arabian Sea on May 17. Of the 261 people on board, the Indian Navy rescued 186 crew members, recovered 71 bodies and four are still missing. Of the 71 bodies, 13 are still to be identified. Six of them were identified on Wednesday. The executives of the companies have been asked to visit the police station with relevant documents pertaining to ownership of the barge, agreement of subcontracting of work, compliance of safety norms, compliance of other marine laws, etc. Their statement would be recorded, said a police officer from Yellow Gate Police station. “Details about the ongoing investigation can’t be shared,” said Mumbai police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police Chaitanya Siriprolu. The police had earlier registered a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against the master of P305, who is still missing. “It was the call of the master of the barge Pappa-305 to not to move to Mumbai Harbour or other safe region, despite prior warning of a storm. The master chose to just move 200m away from the platform where the barge was working, and to remain at that location, deciding this as a safe location. Unfortunately the weather conditions deteriorated and reached a level worse than predicted. The master didn’t get enough time for any further action to be taken,” Afcons Infrastructure Limited had stated earlier. All 12 anchors of the barge gave away and it drifted. It collided with the unmanned ONGC platform. Most of the crew members jumped into the sea with life jackets on. Police have already recorded statements of over 50 survivors. “Some of them have given a detailed account of the fateful night,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-p-305-tragedy-probe-police-summon-5-companies-101622055974148.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Decide on reliefs for hotels hit by pandemic, HC asks Centre, Maharashtra govt||The Bombay high court (HC) in two separate petitions filed by an organisation representing owners of hotels and restaurants has directed the Union finance ministry to respond and consider the request to extend the moratorium for paying loans availed by them in light of the pandemic restrictions which has stalled their businesses. In the second petition filed by the same organisation seeking waiver of hotel license fees and other statutory charges, the court has asked the state authorities to decide on the representation of the organisation, as the purpose of the fees and charges has not been availed of by the members due to the Covid-19 restrictions. On May 6, the division bench of justice KK Tated and justice NR Borkar, while hearing the petition filed by United Hospitality Association, which represents owners of hotels and restaurants and is based in Pune, through video conferencing, was informed by advocate Abhay Anturkar and Yatin Malvankar that the hotel industry had abided by the lockdown announced on March 24, 2020, which was extended from time-to-time and had curtailed their businesses. The advocates submitted that as the business had come to a standstill they were not in a position to pay back the loans availed by them and sought directions to the Union finance ministry to grant relief, in respect of repayment of loans given the Covid-19 pandemic under the Disaster Management Act. Anturkar further submitted that the association had made representations to the Central government to consider grant of relief in respect of repayment of the loan to the hospitality industry in Pune and Maharashtra and also sought extension in moratorium on loans and a restriction on banks for non-performing assets (NPA) tagging of loans of the hospitality industry in the state.The association said that it was finding it difficult to repay the loans and taxes and hence in the interest of justice, the respondents be directed to decide on their representation.The court issued notices to the respondent Union finance ministry and Disaster Management Authority to respond to the petition and also directed the Union Finance Minister to take a decision on petitioner’s representation on its own merits and communicate the same to the organisation and posted the further hearing of the petition to June 18. The second petition which was heard on May 19, the vacation bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade, while hearing the petition of the organisation seeking waiver of license fees for the period that the hotels remained shut due to the pandemic and adjusting the amount already paid towards license fees (FL-III) when the hotels become functional was informed that the hotels had not been able to take benefit of the license fees and other statutory charges already paid. After hearing the association, the bench directed the commissioner of state excise to hear and decide the representation by the organisation which also sought to treat the commencement date of the license period for FL-III license for the financial year 2021-22 from the time the restrictions imposed on the operations of hotels and restaurants were lifted. The bench directed the commissioner to hear and dispose of the representation within four weeks and posted further hearing of the petition on June 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/decide-on-reliefs-for-hotels-hit-by-pandemic-hc-asks-centre-maharashtra-govt-101622055914136.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Assistant dean of Mumbai hospital booked in third case of cheating PG aspirants||The Sion police have registered a third case against Rakesh Verma, assistant dean at the Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital at Sion, and arrested his associate Luv Gupta for allegedly duping an MBBS doctor to the tune of ₹45 lakh, for securing a postgraduate (PG) medical seat for her.Verma was arrested in December last year in two similar cases, where he along with his associates duped two doctors – from Pune and Hyderabad – of ₹50 lakh and ₹18.50 lakh respectively. The Sion police have given an application to the court to seek his police custody for further investigation. Gupta is in police custody till Thursday. He had secured anticipatory bail in one of the previous cases, said a police officer. Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Sion hospital said, “Dr Verma has already been suspended. I am not aware about police action.”According to the police, the complainant lives in Kurla (East) and wanted to pursue Master of surgery. However, she failed to crack the test. She then approached Verma through a Goregaon-based man. Gupta, who was the middleman, allegedly accepted the money on behalf of Verma, said the officer.The Goregaon-based man arranged the meeting with Verma at Sion hospital, where the victim was promised to get admission through a government quota. The suspects demanded ₹1.10 crore, but after bargaining, the amount was reduced to ₹75 lakh. The victim alleged in her complaint that she paid ₹45 lakh directly to Gupta and ₹26 lakh through bank transaction. The rest of the amount was given later in cash, the officer said.When the victim did not secure admission till April 2020, she contacted Gupta, however, he avoided her calls. The victim along with her family approached the Sion hospital last year in December and learnt about the fraud. The victim approached the Sion police station and gave a written complaint a few months ago. Sion police registered a case and arrested Gupta, said inspector Dilip Ghuge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/assistant-dean-of-mumbai-hospital-booked-in-third-case-of-cheating-pg-aspirants-101622055854135.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Multiple applications by same students, LLM students blame Mumbai university||A day after the University of Mumbai (MU) said that admissions to the Masters of Law (LLM) course were conducted without any errors, applicants have highlighted more issues.In a statement shared with the university vice-chancellor and the governor, LLM applicants have highlighted how a single candidate’s more than one application was accepted by the varsity despite a strict admission rule which states that a student cannot apply to more than one division of the course.“As per the university circular dated May 15, only these seats which are vacant as per their list could be applied, and every student can apply to one division only. However, once they released the list of applications received, it showed the same applicant’s form being accepted for all six divisions,” said a student, who is one of those who have approached the university.On May 15, the university’s department of law issued a notice allowing candidates, who couldn’t make it to the first five merit lists, to apply afresh to vacant seats for spot admissions. In the same notice, the department announced that the sixth merit list would be the last one.There are around 600 seats for LLM in six divisions—Constitutional and administrative law, business law, intellectual property and information technology law, human rights law, criminal law and criminal administration and environmental and legal order.As per a statement highlighted in bold in the same circular, MU stated “candidate should apply for only one group of LLM depending on availability of vacant seats as per the shared list”.Some students highlighted how as per this list, only four seats in the general category were vacant across two of the six divisions.“I had originally applied for group 2, but in the final round I could’ve applied to another group had the varsity announced the total vacant seats. Without sharing this basic information, the varsity later released a sixth merit list showing new admissions in the general category across all six divisions. How is this fair?” asked another applicant who scored 82 in her entrance exam and has lost a seat in one of the divisions to a student with 76 marks in the same exam.A spokesperson for the university told HT that since the last admission round for LLM was a special spot-admission round, students were given a free hand to apply across any division as long as there are vacant seats available. Students, however, highlighted that the MU circular speaks otherwise.“Originally there were only four seats in the general category across six divisions, which we displayed. In case, if the seats in the persons with disability (PWD) category have no applicants, only such seats can be converted to the general category, hence some students who knew the rules applied and got admission. This was a computerised process and no foul play has been highlighted,” said the spokesperson, who added that complaints against the admissions procedure should be addressed to the grievance redressal cell for proper verification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/multiple-applications-by-same-students-llm-students-blame-mumbai-university-101622055794263.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 24,752 cases, 453 deaths||Maharashtra is witnessing a decline in not just Covid-19 cases but deaths, which was on the higher side over the past several days. On Wednesday, the state recorded 24,752 new cases and 453 deaths.The death toll has now reached 91,341 since the outbreak of the virus.In the past 10 days (May 17-26), 5,773 people succumbed to the virus, while from May 7-16, the toll was 7,971. From April 27 to May 6, the state had recorded 8,181 deaths.There are currently 315,042 active patients across the state of which Pune tops with 45,655 patients followed by Mumbai with 28,074 active patients. The death toll has now reached 91,341 with Mumbai leading with 14,684 deaths followed by Pune with 11,966. The total number of cases now stands at 5,650,907.Meanwhile, Mumbai recorded 1,352 cases, followed by 34 deaths. There are total 700,340 cases with 14,684 deaths. The city’s recovery rate is 93% with 655,484 recoveries, while the fatality rate of the city is 2.09%.Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management attributes the decrease in the number of deaths to various corrective measures taken over a period of time. “We are testing much earlier than before. In addition, the patients with comorbidities are being sent to the hospitals and are not advised of home quarantine, which has improved the situation. Today we have far better knowledge of the mode of treatment, the medication required as well as post-Covid-19 protocols than before. All these factors combined have resulted in a decrease in the death rate,” he added.Dr Jeevan Jain, physician from Lalbaug who has treated over 15,000 Covid-19 patients credits the lockdown for a decline in cases. “The lockdown played an important role in curbing the transmission of the virus and consequently bringing down the number of deaths,” said Jain. However, Jain cautions both the government and the citizens against adopting a casual approach. “The government needs to open up in a staggered manner and with strict protocols. People should follow Covid-19 guidelines and refrain from mass gatherings or social function till the end of this year or else all these gains will be lost,” said Jain.Meanwhile, despite Ratnagiri being included in the red zone, the Savarde market in Chiplun saw huge crowds. In Jalgaon, thousands of people participated in the funeral procession of local politician Gaffar Malik. Akola saw thousands of people on roads despite it being on the list of 18 districts that have a high number of cases. The police and municipal staff raided various cloth stores for violating Covid-19 guidelines. Traders in Solapur have warned of opening shops from June 1 irrespective of the government’s orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-24-752-cases-453-deaths-101622055735681.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Bid will be termed invalid if unauthorised: Mumbai civic body||As civic officials began screening the proposals the Mumbai civic body received in response to its global tender for supply of 10 million Covid-19 vaccines, they said the bids of suppliers who have not been authorised by vaccine manufacturers will become invalid. A day after Pfizer made it clear that it has not authorised anyone globally or in India to import, market or distribute its Covid-19 vaccine, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday said it will term the bid to supply Pfizer’s vaccine as invalid if no genuine link is found between Pfizer and the Czech supplier behind the bid. The civic body said the same rule will apply to all bidders who have proposed to supply other vaccines. On Tuesday, the BMC said it received eight proposals for supplying 10 million vaccine doses. Out of the eight bidders, seven have proposed to supply Russia’s Sputnik vaccine. One bidder had submitted a proposal is for supplying the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines. The BMC said further scrutiny is going on, and the last date for submitting proposals has been extended up to June 1, 2021. The BMC had floated a global expression of interest (EoI) on May 12, giving one week’s time to interested parties for supply of vaccine. Post which ,two extensions were given on May 16 and May 25. Pfizer had on its statement on Tuesday said: “As stated earlier, during this pandemic phase, across the world, Pfizer is supplying its COVID-19 vaccine only to central Governments and supra-national organizations for deployment in national immunization programs. Neither Pfizer Inc nor any of its affiliates globally, including in India, have authorized anyone to import/market/distribute the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID 19 vaccine. We continue to have ongoing discussions with the Government of India towards making our vaccine available for use nationally.” Civic officials on Wednesday said they are aware of the statement made by Pfizer and that it will scrutinise each and every bid for the same (if suppliers are authorised by the manufacturers). The last date for bids is June 1, 2021. A senior BMC official, not wishing to be named, said, “We have received bids from a Czech supplier to supply Pfizer vaccine and AstraZeneca. We have also gone through the statement of Pfizer and are aware of their claims. We will see if the suppliers who submitted their bids are backed by the vaccine manufacturer. If no genuine link is found in verification of documents, that particular proposal will be counted as invalid, be it of Pfizer or any other company.”Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday told HT, “It is a fact that someone has sent the bid for Pfizer. If someone has bid, we will evaluate it as per merits of the case.”The bidder offering supply of Pfizer vaccine has also sought advance payment, said civic officials. However, the BMC in its bid document has stated that it will not make any advance payment, they pointed out. “On the issue of advance payment, our tender conditions are clear that no advance payment will be made. The pricing part will come at a later stage. First, we are wanting to ensure whether those who have sent proposals are authorised to supply us the vaccines or not,” said an official who did not want to be named, as he is not authorised to talk to the media. According to BMC’s condition, a supplier or manufacturer is supposed to supply 10 million vaccine doses within three weeks from the date of appointment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bid-will-be-termed-invalid-if-unauthorised-mumbai-civic-body-101622055554148.html
27-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Primary Health Centres left out of Covid care net||At a primary health centre (PHC) in Amravati district’s Morshi taluka, patients who come in with Covid-19 like symptoms such as high fever, breathlessness or depleting oxygen saturation are immediately referred to the district hospital, 30 km away. The PHC located in Vichori village is among the 59 such centres in the district. Yet, despite being the nearest medical centres for the community, they have merely acted as referral centres in the pandemic. Dr Satish Pawar, additional mission director, Directorate of Health Services, Maharashtra said that PHCs so far have been kept away from treating Covid-19. “The primary centres implement crucial programmes like maternal and childcare,” said Pawar. “We did not want Covid-19 to affect any of the other health programmes. It is a conscious decision to refer all Covid-19 patients to designated Covid Care Centres, rural hospitals or district hospitals,” he said. “Rare exceptions may be made in cases where access to designated Covid care centres is difficult. But such need has not occurred so far,” he added. However, data over the past month indicates that most of the cases in Maharashtra have emerged from rural parts of the state. Take the case of Amravati, which recorded 8,204 active Covid-19 cases on May 24. Nearly 80% were from rural areas. The district in Vidarbha region was the first to record the spike of the second wave. From less than 100 cases daily till January-end, it reported its highest single-day spike of 1,067 cases in the third week of February. At the time, the numbers rose rapidly in urbanised pockets of Achalpur and Warud, prompting authorities to impose a lockdown on February 23, and which ended on March 8. Simultaneously, they focused on testing and tracing. This so-called “Amravati pattern”, officials said, helped bring down the numbers. On May 12, Amravati district recorded 1,089 cases, with 1,097 active cases. The rural share of daily cases on that day was 76.12%, while in active cases, it was 57%. The gap between the rural and urban areas has only been increasing since then, even though the overall cases have been falling. On May 25, Amravati district recorded 605 cases, but 560 of those were in the rural areas, with only 45 in the city. That’s a rural share of 92.56%. On May 25, Amravati district had 1,376 active cases, with the rural part contributing 820 or nearly 60% of those. Other badly affected districts are showing a similar pattern. Until the second week of May, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Solapur, Sangli and Kolhapur recorded disproportionately high rates of rural cases. On May 13, rural parts of Ahmednagar reported 2,370 new cases as opposed to just 255 in the urban parts. In Jalgaon, 575 new cases were recorded in rural areas whereas 71 new cases came from urban Jalgaon. Solapur rural saw 1,569 new cases while the urban pockets in the district clocked 125 cases (that’s a difference of 1,155%). Kolhapur and Sangli recorded 1,144 and 1,229 cases in rural areas and 125 and 234 new cases in the urban areas, respectively, on the same day. As the cases spike across rural Maharashtra, officials now realize that PHCs can play a crucial role in curbing the spread of the coronavirus disease by ensuring that villagers wouldn’t have to travel far for treatment. But, to achieve this, the state must first overcome some roadblocks. VACANT POSTS In a video conference with doctors from his constituency of Varanasi last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised the need to bring medical services closer to the Covid-19 patients, and said “jahan bimaar, wahin upchaar” [treat the sick where they are located] should be the goal. Even the Union health ministry’s recently released guidelines on Covid-19 Containment and Management in Peri-Urban, Rural and Tribal areas, recognizes the need for stronger primary level health care infrastructure to intensify the state’s response to the pandemic. Maharashtra’s network of 1,829 PHCs in the rural areas are ill-equipped and under-staffed. According to the Rural Health Statistics (2019-2020), a report brought out by the Government of India’s National Health Mission, there were 1,962 vacant posts of female health care workers in PHCs across the state in 2020. Of the 3,587 sanctioned posts of doctors, 739 are vacant; 669 of the 3,834 sanctioned posts of nurses are vacant. Maharashtra requires 1,112 specialists like obstetricians, gynecologists, physicians and pediatricians in its PHCs and Community Health Centres (CHCs) but only has 558 sanctioned posts of which 159 are vacant, leading to an overall shortfall of 713 specialists in rural pockets. The state has 32 vacant posts of radiographers, 247 vacant posts of pharmacists and 544 vacant posts of lab technicians in the PHCs and CHCs. LACK OF INFRASTRUCTURE A PHC typically has two doctors and support staff like supervisors, a pharmacist, and a lab technician. One PHC is commonly connected to five sub-centres which have a female and male healthcare worker each. “We mainly offer primary first aid, antenatal and prenatal care, run OPDs every day and implement immunization drives,” said Yogesh Gawai, a healthcare worker attached to the PHC in Vichori village in Amravati. This PHC, for example, has a four-bed ward, a delivery room and a minor operation theatre for family planning procedures. But the PHC does not have an ICU set up or a specialist doctor. The medical officers in most PHCs are Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) doctors. “The only medical equipment used at PHC is a stethoscope. Anything beyond that is referred ahead,” said a health worker who did not wish to be named. In the tough rural terrain with bad road connectivity, reaching advanced medical centres in district hospitals becomes challenging for patients, leading to delays in seeking medical treatment. Last August, the Vichori PHC was equipped with an oxygen cylinder and last week they received two oxygen concentrators gifted by guardian minister Yashomati Thakur. The PHC staff is yet to be trained in using the concentrators. “PHCs were never envisaged to tackle diseases like Covid-19,” said Dr Dilip Ranmale, district health officer of Amravati. “But we are now trying to expand their use without affecting the non-Covid work,” he said, adding that the PHC staff has played a crucial role in contact tracing and rolling out vaccination in the pandemic. “Nearly 85% of the Covid-19 cases are mild or asymptomatic, and such patients could easily be managed at well equipped, well-staffed primary centres,” said health activist Dr Abhijit More. “If patients are diagnosed and treated at the earliest, the further complications of requiring oxygen or ventilators can be controlled largely. But PHC’s in Maharashtra have not been upgraded to keep up with such challenges.” UPSCALING INFRA NEEDS Washim district’s Ashegaon village appointed two MBBS doctors last week. Till now, the centre was led by BAMS doctors who were appointed on a contractual basis. The centre has a pharmacist, a staff nurse, two supervisors and three multipurpose workers. “But we have a shortfall of at least five staff members including two Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery (ANM) staff,” said a health worker. The PHC caters to a population of 28,000 across 21 villages. The staff has been trained in recording pulse oximeter readings after Covid-19 but the members have been asked to refer confirmed and suspected Covid-19 patients to the Covid Care Centre, 22 km away from the PHC. While most patients are transferred through ambulances, some travel on their own, risking the spread of the virus. “Many who are allowed home quarantine don’t follow rules and roam outside,” the health worker said, adding that they had to call the police to warn two such patients. “In rural areas, the farther a patient is asked to go, the more reluctant they get. Equipping PHCs for Covid-19 care is a good idea but manpower will be crucial to run them,” he added. Meanwhile, Amravati officials have identified 20 PHCs that will simultaneously function as isolation centres for mild patients. The isolation wards, however, will be set up in halls and schools near the PHCs to ensure that other patients are not at risk. “We have finalised the premises for the isolation wards and are in the process of setting up the beds,” said district health officer Ranmale. “The isolation wards will start functioning in another week’s time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-primary-health-centres-left-out-of-covid-care-net-101622055374182.html
