28-05-2021||Mumbai||Row over faulty ventilators: Are you not concerned about lives of Covid patients, HC asks Centre||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday questioned the Central government as to whether it was not concerned about the lives of Covid patients, after the Centre in its affidavit defended the company which supplied faulty ventilators, but said nothing about the remedial measures it was going to take to address the issue of defective and dysfunctional ventilators received by the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Aurangabad from the Centre.The court observed that the Centre’s affidavit also raised a doubt on the efficiency of the doctors and technicians at GMCH, Aurangabad, by claiming that around 3,000 ventilators provided to other states were functioning properly. The vacation bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Bhalchandra Debadwar was hearing a suo motu criminal public interest litigation (PIL) initiated by the HC after news reports pointed to a shortage of Remdesivir and oxygen, improper facilities and plight of patients who could not afford treatment of Covid and black fungus infection, improper bed management in hospitals, profiteering by ambulance service providers, among others. The bench had also taken note of news reports which stated that 113 of the 150 ventilators received by the GMCH, Aurangabad under the PM Cares Fund had malfunctioned, and hospitals and doctors refused to use them as it posed a threat to the lives of patients being treated for Covid-19. Earlier in the week on May 25 the bench had asked the Centre to respond. On Friday, the Centre submitted its response wherein it stated that the ventilators were purchased by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) and categorically denied that they were purchased through the PM Cares Fund. Assistant solicitor general Ajay Talhar for the Centre said that there was no fault in the ventilators manufactured by the Rajkot-based company as there were no complaints about the 3,000 ventilators supplied by the company to other states. Talhar said the 113 ventilators had malfunctioned as the doctors and technicians had not followed instructions while making the ventilators operational. The court expressed shock at the submissions and asked, “Are you holding the brief for the company? Are you not concerned about the lives of the citizens?”“We expected you to say that you will take immediate steps and ask the company to address the issue and ensure that proper installation of the ventilators was done along with imparting training to the hospitals on using them. But you seem to be more interested in defending the company,” the bench added.The exasperated bench further questioned as to whether the Centre and the company had carried out a study to know if GMCH had the proper infrastructure in place to receive and install the ventilators, as it had read a report which stated that the dean of GMCH had refused to take delivery of the ventilators and it was only after the intervention of the collector that the same was accepted. On its part, the state submitted a report of a committee of eight doctors involved in ICU’s and was conversant with the use of ventilators which they had handed over to the dean of GMCH. The report stated that they had tested the ventilators and they found that the machines were not fit to use to treat Covid-19 patients. The report also stated that ventilators manufactured by other companies were being successfully used for more than six months to one year and only the ventilators manufactured by Jyoti CNC, Rajkot were malfunctioning. After the rap from the bench, ASG Talhar submitted that MoHFW would take all remedial steps and ensure that the ventilators operate normally and all defects, if any, would be rectified.The HC then asked Talhar to take instructions and respond to the eight-member committee report. “We would also appreciate if MOHFW refrains from questioning reports of medical experts and instead respects such reports in the larger interest of the society for rectifying the said machines,” said the bench. It has now posted the suo motu PIL for further hearing on June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/row-over-faulty-ventilators-are-you-not-concerned-about-lives-of-covid-patients-hc-asks-centre-101622225063877.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro-2A, 7 to start partially from October, full operations likely from January 2022||In relief to commuters in the western suburbs, two under-construction Metro lines — Metro-2A (Dahisar-Aarey) and Metro-7 (Dahanukarwadi to Aarey) — will be operational from January 2022. The first phase of the two lines will commence from October this year, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) announced on Friday. Trial runs on both lines will start from Monday, said MMRDA chief RA Rajeev. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will inaugurate the trial run on Monday.Metro-2A connects Dahisar to DN Nagar with 16 stations in between, while Metro-7 will connect Dahisar (East) with Andheri (East) and will have 13 stations. The two lines will provide considerable relief to the people travelling in the western suburbs. “Both the lines will become fully operational in January next year. It will reduce the load of local trains by about 10-12% and will also reduce travel time significantly,” Rajeev said. The metros will run at a speed of 80 kilometres per hour. “We will start the trial run from Monday and this will be completed by October. After that, the first phase will become operational from October onwards,” he added.The total cost for the two metro lines is approximately ₹12,800 crore, of which around ₹6,000 crore have been spent till date. It is estimated that 0.92 million people will be travelling in both these lines once operational.Both the lines were expected to be operational by December last year, but the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown led in delays. After the lockdown was eased, MMRDA ramped up the work.MMRDA is the nodal authority for the Mumbai Metro Master Plan which is looking to implement a 337-km network in and around the city. MMRDA is also implementing the Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link (MTHL) – a 22-km sea-bridge connecting Mumbai and Navi Mumbai.Mumbai got its first metro connecting the suburbs of Versova, Ghatkopar and Andheri in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-2a-7-to-start-partially-from-october-full-operations-likely-from-january-2022-101622224943864.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra seeks share in cess, surcharges levied on diesel, petrol||The Maharashtra government has demanded for share in the cess and surcharges levied on petrol and diesel, collected exclusively by the Central government, to help the state governments in their fights against the Covid-19 pandemic. The state, in the 43rd Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting held on Friday, also demanded extension of the protection and compensation period by five more years.State finance minister Ajit Pawar raised various demands related to GST regime, including share in one of the highest tax collections by the Centre. He said states should get share from various cess and surcharges levied on petrol, diesel and petroleum products. The collection of such heads was a whopping ₹3.30 lakh crore in 2020-21. “The revenue earned out of these taxes, duties may be suitably shared with the states at this critical juncture to strengthen our fight against the current pandemic,” he said.He also demanded the five-year period of protection and compensation given to the states against revenue losses be extended by five more years. The Centre had said it would compensate states against their losses due to the new regime for five years, since the rollout of the GST regime in July 2017. “Economic impact of the pandemic cannot be nullified in one or two years, and hence it needs to be extended till 2027,” Pawar said.The cash-strapped state government has also demanded immediate release of ₹24,000 crore pending with the Centre towards GST compensation from the previous financial year. The state also said the compensation set for the current financial year is based on the over-optimistic estimates of revenue generation and needs to be re-examined and corrected. “It will help states in getting more compensation if the estimates are revised taking the losses to the second wave of Covid-19 into consideration,” said an official from the finance department.The state has also demanded easing out taxes on medical items used in the fight against Covid-19 and vaccines. “The tax rate on medical grade oxygen, oxygen concentrators, pulse oximeter, testing kits and material needed for vaccination should be reduced. The quarterly payment and quarterly return system meant for small taxpayers should also by simplified, as they are the driving force of the system,” Maharashtra government stated in the meeting. The government has also demanded to continue 18% taxation on undenatured alcohol under GST and to not put it under Value Added Tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-seeks-share-in-cess-surcharges-levied-on-diesel-petrol-101622224823847.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Rise and fall of second Covid-19 wave in Maharashtra||Maharashtra has seen a 55.2% drop in the number of active Covid-19 cases over the past one month, with its weekly positivity rate down to 10.46%. A look at the numbers – on March 27, Maharashtra’s active Covid-19 cases were 303,475, which rose to 672,434 on April 27. After 30 days, on May 27, the number of active Covid-19 cases is 301,041. Also, the state’s weekly positivity rate, which was 24.26% in the week from April 28 to May 4, came down to 11.06% between May 19 and 25. A look at how the state did it. GROUND REALITY Public health officers claimed 22 of the 36 districts have witnessed a fall in the weekly positivity rate. According to the Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD) report, districts such as Satara, Raigad, Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri that were reporting high positivity rate have seen a plunge. For instance, the weekly positivity rate in Satara district fell to 21.93% in the week from May 19 to 25, from 34.37% between April 28 and May 4. The analysis of the data indicates a gradual drop in the pandemic curve, especially after the lockdown was imposed in April. However, public health officers claim essential decisions such as ramping up of daily testing, timely detection of mutated strains of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and isolation of close contacts among others, too, helped in the fight against the second wave, which was more infectious than the first one. TEST, DETECT AND ISOLATE When the second wave started in the middle of February, some districts such as Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola were recording the highest number of daily Covid-19 cases. For instance, on February 1, Amravati had 92 Covid-19 patients. By February 5, the figure increased to 233; on February 10, it was 369 and on February 20, the patient count reached 1,058. The positivity rate jumped to around 50%, which also raised the eyebrows of the Centre. The public health department then ramped up the daily testing. On an average, they started to conduct 2,600 tests in Amravati daily and also increased contact-tracing to 45 people per infected patient. Suspecting a mutation of the virus, samples from the three districts were sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for genome sequencing. Of the 275 samples sent, the ‘preliminary examination’ showed that four samples from Amravati had a mutation (E484Q). Another four samples from Yavatmal showed a second mutation (N440K). Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state advisor to Covid-19 treatment, said the mutated virus was more infectious and more people from the same family were contracting the infection. “There was a change in the pattern of the virus. It wasn’t as deadly as the first wave, but was spreading faster like the mutated viruses found in Europe. So, after the confirmation of the mutation, we designed a containment plan,” he added. Lockdown-like restrictions were imposed in Amravati from February 22, which helped bring down the positivity rate from 48% to 9%. “We were the first ones to declare localised restrictions, which helped break the chain. Before the lockdown, there were around 800-900 cases, which dropped to 300,” said Dr Dilip Ranmale, district health officer (DHO). Soon, districts like Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Nagpur and Palghar started reporting the highest number of cases. The positivity rate in Mumbai rose to over 22% in April, which is now down to 4.7%. Similarly, Nagpur recorded a positivity rate of 31.28% in the third week of April. The public health department ordered ramping up of daily testing, and boosted RT-PCR testing. Government laboratories were run in three shifts around-the-clock. The state also deployed three mobile labs at Nagpur, Pune and Aurangabad. Dr Pradeep Awate, state’s surveillance officer, said, “In the first wave, we never crossed one lakh tests in a day, but in the second wave, we ramped it up to around three lakh. This helped in early detection and increased contact tracing. At present, the testing has been reduced as the number of high-risk contacts and close contacts is low, with the decline in positivity rate.” VACCINATION A PROTECTIVE SHIELD Maharashtra started the mass immunisation programme from January 16. Since then, 21,352,332 vaccinations have been recorded; 4,431,707 beneficiaries have even got their second dose. “Healthcare and frontline workers who work in close proximity with infected patients got vaccinated, which helped control the infection rate. In the third phase, people above 60 years, considered the most vulnerable group, got inoculated. This helped control the spread among the elderly,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, part of the state Covid-19 task force. The state and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) now plan to ramp up vaccination even for the population below 45 years. “If we are heading towards a third wave, we want to vaccinate as many people as possible. Due to unavailability of vials, we put restrictions on immunization programmes for younger population. But as we have seen in the second wave, young adults and children are more vulnerable. We will try to prioritise immunising them as soon as we get more vials,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. However, the success doesn’t mean the guard should be down, say doctors. “Until we are able to vaccinate all people, the pandemic isn’t over. Until we get the vials, social vaccination is the only shield we have to save ourselves from contracting the infection. People need to follow safety rules such as maintaining social distance, wearing masks and avoiding crowded places. They have to decide if they want a third wave or not,” said Dr Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rise-and-fall-of-second-covid-19-wave-in-maharashtra-101622224583770.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Class 10 evaluation criteria announced; optional CET for junior college admissions||After declaring cancellations of state board examinations for Class 10, the state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Friday announced the evaluation formula for promoting the students and making them eligible to get admissions in the junior colleges. Each student will be promoted based on their performance in Class 9 and 10 through internal assessment. It also will conduct a common entrance test (CET) for admissions in junior college, which would be optional. Those who clear it will get priority in admissions in junior colleges. The rest of the seats will be used for the students who were cleared by the state board in the evaluation process. The decision was taken in a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Gaikwad and state officials on Thursday.The Class 10 board exams scheduled in March were cancelled owing to a surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. The state still has close to 300,000 active cases. Around 10 to 15 districts are also facing rapid growth in cases.The state government decided not to change its decision of cancelling Class 10 board examinations despite the Bombay high court objecting to it, saying that the government was making a mockery of the education system.“All students eligible to appear for Class 10 board examinations will be promoted. Their marks will be determined based on an internal assessment of their performance in Class 9 and 10 both. Of the total 100 marks, 50% marks will be based on performance in final year examinations of Class 9 and the rest of the marks have been divided into two categories: 30 marks will be given based on the performance in written examinations for the entire year in Class 10 and the rest 20 marks will be given based on their performance in the oral examination, practicals and homework,” Gaikwad said.There are around 1.6 million SSC students across the state.“The state will also conduct CET for junior college admissions, which will be completely optional but it has its advantage. Those who clear the CET will get priority in junior college admissions. The rest of the seats will be used for the students who were cleared by the state board based on the evaluation process,” Gaikwad told reporters.The CET will be a two-hour long examination that will be based on the Class 10 syllabus. It will also be optical mark recognition (OMR) based on having multiple choices and the students will have to select the correct answer, she said.Students from other boards will also be allowed to appear for CET, she added.This evaluation process will be applicable for repeaters as well but there is a slight difference in their evaluation formula. Of the total 100 marks, 80% marks will be based on their performance in the Class passed by them and the rest 20 marks will be given based on their performance in the oral examination, practicals and homework in Class 10, according to a government resolution issued by the school education department on May 28.Gaikwad also said they will conduct examinations for all Class 10 students who are not satisfied with the evaluation process but the examination will be conducted only after the Covid situation comes to normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/class-10-evaluation-criteria-announced-optional-cet-for-junior-college-admissions-101622224523854.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Parel society vaccinates residents, domestic workers, security staff||For the past two days, the management committee of the four-wing housing complex in Parel is busy organising vaccination camps in its premises, for residents, staff members, domestic workers, security staff, cleaners, drivers and all vendors visiting frequently.The BMC had on May 7 officially allowed housing societies and complexes to tie up with private hospitals in the city and organise vaccination camps. It had also made mandatory for societies to have doctor and medical staff along with an ambulance present in the premises while conducting the vaccination drive.The housing complex Ashoka Towers, comprising 650 families, has decided to not only vaccinate its residents but also contribute, to get their staff and family members vaccinated.According to society members, they had registered around 1,500 citizens for vaccination. But they only received 1,000 doses for the vaccination drive.Sarika Poddar, a resident of Ashoka Towers said, “We are vaccinating around 296 residents and around 104 extended family members of these residents, followed by 463 staff members, 104 who are family members of the staff and around 11 vendors who regularly visit our society.”Poddar added, “We are doing it to spread the message that it is our responsibility to help as many as citizens get vaccinated. Our domestic workers, cleaners and drivers need assistance, and we should help them in every way possible to get vaccinated. In our case, every member is self-financing staff members working in their house.”Sanjay Rathod, another resident, said, “We will also ensure that those who are being given their first dose in our society premises, will also get their second dose. If another drive after 84 days is not possible in our complex premises, we will ensure our staff members get their second dose from outside.”The society was also in the news last year for announcing to set up a quarantine facility inside its premises to become self-reliant.The BMC additionally is also planning to have mobile vaccination centres in the coming days after procuring vaccine doses in bulk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-parel-society-vaccinates-residents-domestic-workers-security-staff-101622224103770.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Give Mumbai access to vax, BMC urges its six sister cities across the world||To meet the demand of procuring 18 million vaccine doses for the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has written letters to the mayors of six sister cities of Mumbai seeking their help in procuring Covid-19 vaccine doses, to avoid the severity of the third Covid-19 wave. These six cities include New York and Los Angeles in the USA, Stuttgart in Germany, St Petersburg in Russia, Yokohama in Japan and Busan in South Korea.The Sister-City International (SCI) concept is a non-profit citizen diplomacy network that creates partnerships between communities through the establishment of ‘sister cities’. The objective of signing the sister-city agreement is to advance exchange between the two cities with whom the agreement is signed.According to BMC officials, these letters were written under the sister cities agreement with the above-mentioned cities. All six letters have been addressed to the mayors of the cities mentioned above.In one such letter written by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, he states, “As a sister city of Mumbai, I want to congratulate you for effective measures taken by the city of Yokohama, to combat Covid pandemic and your success in achieving good results.”The letter further reads, “Being a sister city of Mumbai, may I humbly request your good self to help and provide access to vaccine for Mumbai city. We are ready to pay the necessary charges well in advance. Please let us know the availability of the vaccine along with its cost and bank details for depositing requisite amount of money, Mumbai as a sister city will surely acknowledge your favour for the same.”The letter with similar text was written by Chahal to the remaining five sister cities including New York, Los Angeles, Busan, St Petersburg and Stuttgart.In the letter, Chahal has noted that Mumbai city’s population is 16 million and its eligible population above 18 years of age is nine million. Thus, Mumbai needs approximately 18 million doses to vaccinate its eligible population.The letter also mentions that vaccination in the city started on January 16, 2021, and since then over three million people have been vaccinated. The letter notes that a third wave is expected to hit the city between July and August, and to avoid the severity of Covid-19, vaccination is very important.Additionally, the BMC has also floated a global expression of interest (EoI) to procure 10 million vaccine doses. The EoI was floated on May 12, post which, two extensions were given until May 25. The last date for submission of proposals now is June 1.The BMC, as of May 25, had received eight proposals of which seven were for supplying the Russian vaccine Sputnik and one was for supplying Pfizer and AstraZeneca. However, after this announcement on May 25, Pfizer issued a statement saying it has not issued authorisation to anyone for marketing or distribution of its Covid vaccine.Further, in the backdrop of this, the Czech Republic-based firm withdrew its proposal on May 27 without giving any reason, civic officials said. On further scrutiny, BMC officials said they will wait till June 1 for now. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, told HT on Thursday, “We will process the papers first. We have time till June 1. We will decide the future course of action later.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/give-mumbai-access-to-vax-bmc-urges-its-six-sister-cities-across-the-world-101622224043797.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra mulls support for kids who lost kin to Covid-19||The Maharashtra government is likely to support the children who have lost their parents to the Covid-19 pandemic. The women and child development department has proposed to deposit a sum of ₹500,000 into the children’s account who have lost both their parents to Covid-19. It has also proposed to broaden the scope of the existing scheme for children called ‘Bal Sangopan Yojana’ and provide ₹2,500 a month to the children who have lost one parent and that too earning one. State women and child development Yashomati Thakur said on Friday.Started in 2008, the scheme — ‘Bal Sangopan Yojana’ — helps students with financial assistance to continue their education in case of a single parent; family in distress, death of parents, students with divorced parents and in case parents are hospitalized etc. Children eligible under the schemes get monetary assistance of ₹1,125 a month.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the state women and child development department to formulate a detailed policy for the upbringing of these kids so that a decision can be taken, the officials said.The directives were issued in a meeting chaired by the chief minister to review the progress of women and child development.“CM had called an important meeting with women and child development, and we had a detailed discussion mostly about the orphans who are losing their parents due to Covid. The second wave has affected a lot of families and the state government is looking to assist them through monetary means by introducing a scheme. We have proposed to deposit ₹500,000 in the account of a child who has lost both of his parents. In case of children losing one parent and the other one is a non-earning member of the family then to register them under Bal Sangopan Yojana,” Thakur said.“We have also proposed to broaden the scope of the scheme and increase the monthly grant to be provided to these children to ₹2,500 from the current ₹1,125. We have further discussed if these children can be given free education. All these proposals will be placed before the cabinet for approval,” she added.“The department should prepare a policy for upbringing and education of children who have either lost their single parent or both the parents due to Covid-19. The additional expenses apart from annual expenditure on the existing schemes should be presented so that a decision of its effective implementation can be taken,” said the chief minister in the meeting attended by the women and child development minister and senior officials.Over 93,000 people have died in Maharashtra after being infected with Covid-19.After the Supreme Court (SC) directives taking cognisance of the reports in the social media that children orphaned after losing their parents due to the virus were being illegally adopted, the women and child welfare department had formed task forces in every (36) district to identify such children at the beginning of this month. Headed by collectors, the task forces have found at least 195 such children in the state have lost their parents, of them, 108 have been orphaned after losing both their parents. 42 children have been brought to the childcare institutes (CCIs) run by the state government.It aims to ensure that the orphaned children are in safe custody and are given their financial and property rights. The step also assures that the children are safeguarded from illegal custody and trafficking.The school education department also has submitted a proposal to the chief minister for bearing education expenses of orphans, who have lost both their parents, till Class 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mulls-support-for-kids-who-lost-kin-to-covid19-101622223983732.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra may get 6 million vaccine doses in June||The state government is expected to get over six million doses of Covaxin and Covishield in June, according to the communication from the Centre. Out of it, the state government will have to procure 2,070,530 doses of both the vaccines by paying for them, for the vaccination of the age group of 18-44 years.After vaccinating over 9.2 million citizens above 45 years and healthcare, frontline workers with the vaccines supplied by the Centre in April, the vaccination rate of the state dropped to merely 5.4 million in May till Friday evening. The drop in the inoculation is because of the short supply of the vaccines by Centre and two domestic manufacturers of Covishield and Covaxin. The pace of the vaccination is expected to increase a bit as the state has been assured of a supply of over six million doses of two vaccines in June.“According to the latest communication by the Centre, we are expecting more than six million doses in June. Of it, 1,496,500 doses of Covishield and 451,050 of Covaxin will be given from June 1 to 15 under the free quota, supplied by the Centre for the above 45 age group. The Centre has also allocated us 1,595,900 doses of Covishield and 4,74,630 doses of Covaxin, which are to be purchased by the State for 18-44 years during the entire month of June. We expect about two million doses to be supplied by the Centre from its free quota to state in the second half of the month,” said an official from the health department.The inoculation drive for the age group of 18-44 years has been suspended by the state for the last two weeks amid the shortage of vaccines. There is no decision on its resumption anytime soon. The state government had planned to vaccinate 20 million people above 18 years per month to complete the vaccination of 60 million people in three months. However, the shortage of the vaccine has slowed down the drive.Making it worse, the global bids floated by the state government did not see any response directly from the manufacturers from other countries. It received a response from eight intermediaries, whose credentials are being verified by the government.The state is planning to write to the Centre seeking the clarity and guidelines for engaging the bidders. “We are asking the Centre to clarify if the firm that has participated in the bidding are authorised by the manufacturers. We want the legal standing to be clarified by the Centre if we engage them for the supply. We are also seeking Centre’s opinion on the prices they have quoted and also the import-related permissions required from it for procurement,” said an official.Though the state has received bids from the firms claiming to have tie-ups with the manufacturers for the vaccines which have been approved by World Health Organisation (WHO) and the United States Food and Drug Administration. However, some of the manufacturers have denied having appointed any facilitator to deal with the state governments. Few of them also have said that they will deal only with the Centre.Meanwhile, 265,725 people were inoculated in Maharashtra on Friday taking the tally of administered doses to 21,920,198 to 17,433,173 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-may-get-6-million-vaccine-doses-in-june-101622223923763.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Walk-in Covid vaccinations between Mon and Wed for those heading abroad for study||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday allowed walk-in vaccination for students who have secured admissions in foreign universities and if they fall in the 18-45 age category.The BMC on Friday issued a circular allowing such students going to study abroad to avail walk-in vaccination at the civic vaccination centres including Kasturba Hospital, Cooper and Rajawadi Hospital, three days a week, between Monday to Wednesday.There were demands regarding allowing students going to abroad have vaccination on a priority basis as they are going out of the country for further studies.A BMC official said, “The first dose that will be administered to such students will be Covishield, considering there is wide international acceptance for it as compared to Covaxin.”Additionally, lactating mothers and frontline and healthcare workers, those above 60 years of age and those 45+ specially-abled citizens are also allowed for walk-in vaccination at all vaccination centres between Monday to Wednesday. Further, between Thursday to Saturday vaccination is conducted on an appointment basis, and vaccination is shut on Sunday.Meanwhile, on Friday 43,181 citizens were vaccinated in the city, of which, 20,454 were between the age of 18-45, 16,979 between the age of 45-60 years, 5,447 above 60 years age group, and the remaining are health care and frontline workers. Overall, 3,133,311 citizens have been vaccinated till now, in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-walk-in-covid-vaccinations-between-mon-and-wed-for-those-heading-abroad-for-study-101622223863675.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Across The Universe||Even before Kabir Bedi had shoe-horned his way into The Beatles’ Delhi hotel suite as a 20-year-old rookie reporter for an interview, it was obvious that he was destined to lead an extraordinary life, almost like the protagonist of one of Salman Rushdie’s magic realism novels, or Zelig, Woody Allen’s hero, who has an uncanny knack of turning up at history’s most pivotal moments.Consider his background — born a year before Independence as one of the off-springs of the extraordinary marriage of two Oxford undergrads, both deeply involved in India’s freedom struggle; Kabir‘s mother Freda was an English rose who had fallen in love with Baba Pyare Lal Bedi (BPL), a dashing left-leaning descendant of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism. His parents’ ideological commitment saw Kabir grow up amid some of the founding fathers of new India. From Nehru and Gandhi who co-opted Freda into satyagraha, to Sheikh Abdullah who invited BPL to reside in Srinagar and draft the first constitution of independent Kashmir, to the likes of Teji Bachchan, Inder and Satish Gujral and Khuswant Singh, Kabir’s exposure to the leading minds of his time was remarkable. And if this was not enough to set him apart, there was his parent’s astonishing spiritual transformations during his teens — first his mother who became the highest-ordained nun in Tibetan Buddhism and a key figure in its introduction to the West, and then his father whose sudden mystical awakening led him to healing, auto-writing and speaking in tongues. *********************************************************************************But as he writes in the very first chapter of Stories I Must Tell: The Emotional Life of An Actor, even with all this as a background, Kabir’s life might have not spun into the stuff of legend had it not been for that fanboy Beatles moment and its subsequent fall-out. Because, shortly after his triumph, came the tragedy — with legendary inefficiency, All India Radio had recorded over his interview, deleting it for posterity. For the Stephen College history major and childhood friend of Rajiv and Sanjay Gandhi, with his debating acumen honed among the likes of Kapil Sibal and Montek Singh Ahluwalia, it had been proven to be the last straw. With ₹700 in his pocket, he’d caught the first train out of Delhi to seek his fortunes in Mumbai. To begin with, landing a stint at Lintas as an ad filmmaker while attracting acclaim as a model and voice over artist in the Bombay of the Seventies, was not a long stretch for the 6’2” Delhi hunk, said to have the looks of a Greek god. Neither was his subsequent break as the lead in Alyque Padamsee’s production of Girish Karnad’s Tughlaq and subsequent debut in Bollywood, or his marriage to the vivacious Protima Gupta. To be sure, his Bollywood avatar and his life as a member of the famous Juhu Gang, his affair with the industry’s top actress Parveen Babi and his mind boggling, unimaginable stardom following his role as the pirate Sandokan on Italian TV (which saw him land a role in the Bond franchise, and later in iconic TV series such as the Bold and the Beautiful), and his four marriages on three continents have been the stuff of tabloid headlines. *********************************************************************************Kabir says he always knew he had a great story to tell and that he had thought about writing his autobiography for decades. But all his attempts had landed in the bin. The pandemic had afforded him time to think afresh. “My book was bursting to come out of me, an unborn baby pushing with its legs,” he says. One morning, he had an epiphany on how to approach it and cocooned and encouraged by his devoted wife, Parveen Dusanj, he had worked like a maniac, all day, every day, for six months until he had the first draft of a manuscript. And what a labour of love it’s been, page after page bristling with sparkling stories from the vastness and scope of an extraordinary life. From his experiences as a child monk in Burma, to encounters with Gina Lollobrigida and Fellini, Krishnamurthy, Audrey Hepburn and Lady Diana, Kabir has written with a rare honesty, courage and sensitivity, not usually associated with those in showbiz. *********************************************************************************But for all the jaw-dropping glamour of his tryst with the Bond franchise, beautiful women, and Bollywood’s jet set, what is most captivating in the book, surprisingly, is the chapter in which Kabir ruminates about the deeper questions of his life. Titled Ramblings On A Beach, it begins with a short story he’d penned as an idealistic 29-year-old. “There are seekers like me. The ones who question everything, who look for deeper answers, who want to know ‘the Truth’,” he writes, before dwelling on the many streams of spirituality that have run through his life — Sikhism, Buddhism, Christianity, West coast movements like EST and new-age philosophers like Osho and Deepak Chopra. It is here that Kabir shares a hard-earned wisdom: “The honey of material achievement — money, fame, success and beautiful women — didn’t give me the answers,” says the man whose life could be the fantasy of many a young boy. Because for all his outward material successes of being Knighted, lionised, mobbed and adored by a slew of impossibly glamorous women, Kabir is unafraid to share his downsides. He doesn’t shrink away from writing about his brilliant techie son Siddharth’s suicide, nor the unravelling of his marriages nor his financial tribulations. And yet, from the chiaroscuro of Kabir’s deeply introspective book, hidden patterns emerge which one hopes will give rise to more of his writing. Such as the poignant coincidence of two of the famous women he had once loved (wife Protima and paramour Persis Khambatta) dying suddenly and inexplicably, on exactly the same day. Such as how two of his most cherished, his son and Parveen Babi, ended up tragically suffering from the same debilitating affliction of schizophrenia. Such as how in spite of all his wild spiritual and personal ramblings across the globe, this descendant of Guru Nanak has finally found happiness and fulfilment in marriage to a fellow Sikh, and what’s more, has set up home with her in his beloved Juhu, not far from where he’d once lived. And last but not the least, such as how a rookie fan boy, out to score an interview with the legendary Beatles, ended up receiving the same traffic-stopping, unbridled, out-of-control adulation from fans on the streets of Europe, one day, himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-across-the-universe-101622203582428.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Amitabh Bachchan buys apartment worth ₹31 cr, pays ₹62 lakh as stamp duty||Veteran actor and Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan has purchased a 5704 square feet duplex apartment in Andheri, the western suburbs of Mumbai, for ₹31 crore, HT has learnt. The Maharashtra Chambers of Housing Industry (MCHI-CREDAI) said Bachchan saved more than ₹90 lakh from the deal. “Any sale boosts the whole cycle of real estate like the payment to banks, contractors and also fetches government revenue in the form of stamp duty and registration amount. Hence, the government needs to bring back the stamp duty cut,” said Deepak Goradia, President, MCHI-CREDAI.Bachchan has brought the property from Crystal Pride Developers in Atlantis Building at Andheri (W). The property is reported to be on the 27 and 28 floors of the under-construction 34-storeyed building. It also includes six mechanised parking slots.Bachchan purchased the apartment on December 31, 2020, and registered the same on April 12, 2021.The actor paid ₹62 lakh as stamp duty by taking advantage of a stamp duty scheme of the Maharashtra government under which buyers have to pay just 2% of the stamp duty instead of the normal 5%. The scheme was launched to improve revenue which has fallen significantly amid the Covid-19 pandemic.According to Zapkey.com, which accessed the registration documents, “the pandemic has given a boost to the sale of luxury apartments and many celebrities, businessmen, professional CXO’s have bought houses to take advantage of the pandemic-led price correction and stamp duty correction,” said Sandeep Reddy, co-founder, Zapkey.com.Atlantis Building in Andheri also has two other Bollywood buyers, Sunny Leone and Anand L Rai, the director of Bollywood blockbuster ‘Tanu weds Manu’. While Leone paid ₹16 crore for her 4365 square feet apartment, Rai had to shell out ₹25.30 crore for his 5917 square feet apartment.A response from Bachchan on the matter is awaited.The real estate sector has been facing a slowdown for several years and the pandemic has only made matters worse.The government in August last year announced its decision to reduce stamp duty levied on sales of apartments to 2% from September 1 till December 31, 2020, and then hike it to 3% from January 1 till March 31, 2021. The move played a significant role in boosting sales of both primary and secondary market. The state however refused to extend it despite several requests.Gulam Zia, executive director, Knight Frank, a real estate consultancy firm, said, “buyers took advantage of twin factors of price cuts and schemes offered by the builders. Builders are ready to negotiate and cut prices as they want to sell their properties. The stamp duty cut was a huge savings and many took advantage of this,” said Zia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amitabh-bachchan-buys-apartment-worth-rs-31-cr-pays-rs-62-lakh-as-stamp-duty-101622200213638.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests Sushant Singh Rajput’s flatmate in Hyderabad||Late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s flatmate Siddharth Pithani, who was arrested from Hyderabad earlier this week, has been remanded to custody till June 1 for further investigation in the purported drug abuse link to the death of the late actor.The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Pithani on May 25 on multiple charges, like consumption of drugs, financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders and punishment for abetment and criminal conspiracy of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS Act).Pithani was the one who reportedly found the actor dead in his bedroom on June 14, 2020. The NCB issued him a notice under section 67 of the NDPS Act, asking him to join the investigation but he did not honour the notice, said zonal director Sameer Wankhede of the NCB, Mumbai.Also Read | In joint raid, HP, Punjab Police seize opioids worth ₹30 lakhAn NCB team from Mumbai went to Hyderabad where they arrested Pithani with the help of the local bureau team. He was produced in a Hyderabad court and was brought to Mumbai on Thursday on transit remand. Pithani was produced in the court in Mumbai on Friday and remanded in custody till June 1 for further investigation.Earlier this month, on May 7, the NCB arrested Hemant Shah alias Maharaj from Miramar, Panjim, in Goa for his alleged role in the actor’s death case. Maharaj’s name had cropped up during an operation in a local seizure case. Shah had allegedly supplied drugs to two local suppliers, Anuj Keshwani and Regal Mahakaal, who were arrested in September and December, last year, respectively, in the drug probe related to the actor’s death. Keshwani and Mahakaal had revealed Shah’s involvement in the supply of drugs.NCB filed a charge sheet in first week of March and named 33 accused, including the late actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty. This charge sheet contained statements of 200 witnesses.The agency also recorded statements of Bollywood actors Deepika Padukone, Rakul Preet Singh, and Sara Ali Khan during their probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-sushant-singh-rajput-s-flatmate-in-hyderabad-101622199732595.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Elgaar Parishad case: HC allows Stan Swamy to be shifted to a pvt hospital||The Bombay high court on Friday permitted Elgaar Parishad accused, Stan Swamy, to be shifted from Taloja jail to Holy Family hospital, a private hospital in Mumbai, for 15 days.The permission was granted after senior counsel Mihir Desai sought an urgent hearing of Swamy’s interim bail application.Desai said as per the court’s permission on May 21 when Swamy refused to be shifted to a government hospital, he had spoken to the 84-year-old and had convinced him to shift to Holy Family hospital due to his deteriorating health.Swamy, who was arrested in October 2020 in connection with the Elgaar Parishad case and was kept at Taloja jail since, along with the other accused in the case, addressed the court through video conferencing and said that he was able to walk, eat and bathe on his own when he was brought to the jail however his health had deteriorated over the past eight months.Also Read | Elgaar Parishad case: HC extends Hany Babu stay in private hospital till June 1In a note submitted by Desai to the HC last week, Swamy had developed cough and fever and was not even tested for Covid though 26 other inmates and staff had tested positive. The note had also claimed that the jail hospital did not have proper medical facilities to treat and monitor Swamy who was in an advanced stage of Parkinson’s disease and could not hear or stand on his own.After Desai assured the court that the expense would be borne by Swamy, the court said, “It is not in dispute that the appellant’s age is 84 years and according to the findings by a team of doctors from Sir JJ Hospital, he needs treatment. We request that the administration of Holy Family hospital provide one attendant keeping in view age of appellant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgaar-parishad-case-hc-allows-stan-swamy-to-be-shifted-to-private-hospital-101622191271689.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Won’t make defamatory statement against Salman Khan: Kamaal Khan to Mumbai court||Actor Kamaal R Khan on Thursday assured the Bombay city civil court that he will not make any defamatory statements against Bollywood star Salman Khan on social media till June 7.Salman Khan has filed a suit against Kamaal R Khan for alleged defamatory messages on a micro-blogging site. He has sought a permanent injunction against Kamaal Khan from direct or indirect defamatory posts on social media. Salman Khan has also urged the court to direct Kamaal R Khan to withdraw, delete all the alleged defamatory posts.Also Read | New Maharashtra policy gives push to electric vehicles“A suit has been filed as the defendant has been publishing and endorsing defamatory allegations, including that Salman Khan is corrupt, he and his brand ‘Being Human’ are involved in fraud, manipulation and money laundering transactions, that he and Salman Khan Films are dacoits,” Salman Khan legal team said in a statement.It added Kamaal R Khan put out a series of tweets and videos alleging that Salman Khan has sued him for defamation because the defendant reviewed the film, Radhe. “This is incorrect.”The suit is now posted for further hearing on June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wont-make-defamatory-statement-against-salman-khan-kamaal-khan-to-mumbai-court-101622177710165.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha Class 10 students to be promoted||The government has decided to promote Class 10 (SSC) students in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. It has decided to promote them by evaluating their performance in Class 9 and 10. The decision was taken in a meeting between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Thursday evening. “We will be considering the performance of each and every student, based on which they will be promoted. For this, the department will evaluate the performance of the students in Class 9 and 10 and only then they will be promoted,” said a senior official. The state had declared to cancel board examinations of Class 10, which was objected by the Bombay HC, saying it was making a mockery of the education system. The school education department discussed the matter with state advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni and is likely to file an affidavit before HC. “The state believes that the Covid-19 situation has put the lives of children at risk. It is also said that the third wave is going to be dangerous for children. We are all going to explain all this to the HC,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-class-10-students-to-be-promoted-101622143021395.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to extend lockdown, but with some relaxations||Maharashtra recorded 21,273 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Thursday, even as the state government decided to extend the current lockdown, in view of the rapid rise in infections in more than a dozen districts. The state, however, will provide a few relaxations — it may extend the restricted time limit of four hours for buying essential commodities and may also allow opening of shops that will become essential during the monsoon. The decision is likely to be taken in the next two days, officials said. The current state-wide lockdown, which was imposed on April 22, is ending on June 1 at 7am. The issue of extending the lockdown was discussed in the state cabinet meeting held on Thursday. Currently, citizens of the sate can’t step out unless they need medical attention, or are working in an essential sector, or want to buy essential commodities. That too within restricted timings — between 7am and 11am. State health minister Rajesh Tope said there was no chance of lifting the lockdown as there are many districts where cases are on the rise. The state government can provide some relaxation in the restrictions, which will be decided by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after having deliberations with the state task force, he added. A statement issued by the chief minister office (CMO) stated, “Though the positivity rate of the state is coming down, 10 to15 districts are reporting rapid growth in Covid-19 cases. There is also a rise in cases of mucormycosis. Active cases of the state have dropped to the tally of highest cases recorded during the first wave. But we still need to be careful. Instead of completely lifting the lockdown, we will have to extend it from June 1 and also provide relaxations in the restrictions wherever necessary. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the state administration to take steps accordingly after discussing the same in the state cabinet meeting held on Thursday.” “The positivity rate of 21 districts is higher than the average positivity rate of the state. It means they have more patients, which also means their beds occupancy is higher than others and both are part of the two major norms being considered before imposing lockdown. This means lockdown cannot be lifted completely. It has to be continued but with some relaxation. We may provide more time for buying essentials and allowing a few types of shops to function in the same limited period along with the establishments related to essential commodities,”Tope said. “The detailed discussion on relaxation could not be held today. The chief minister will also have deliberations with the state task force and take a decision in the next two days,” he added. The weekly average positivity rate of Maharashtra is 0.47 percent. The districts with high weekly average positivity rate include Sindhudurga, Ratnagiri, Kolhapur, Buldhana, Satara, Sangli, Osmanabad, Amravati and Beed. “Going by today’s situation, it is very difficult for the state to significantly ease down restrictions. The Chief minister is also not very comfortable with the idea. Thus, ‘Mission Begin Again’ is likely to start from June 1, but to a very limited extent. We may extend restricted timings of four to six or seven hours for the people to step out for buying essentials and may also allow shops that become essential during the rainy season,” said a senior official privy to the development. Dr Amin Kaba, who is associated with various top hospitals in Mumbai, said the Government is the best decider in these matters. “This the decision best left to the Government as they are very well aware of the ground realities. At the same time, the vaccination drive should be sped up as this will have a big impact in lowering the cases as well as the death rate,” said Dr Kaba. There were 21,273 new cases on Thursday with the total number of cases reaching to 5,672,180 since the outbreak of the virus last year. There were 2,61,151 tests conducted on Thursday. There are currently 301,041 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 43,869 patients, followed by Mumbai with 28,683 active patients. The death toll has now reached 92,225 with Mumbai leading with 14,720 deaths, followed by Pune with 12,112.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-extend-lockdown-but-with-some-relaxations-101622141222422.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Six arrested for killing social worker at Mankhurd||Shivaji Nagar police arrested six people for allegedly killing a 35-year-old social worker from Mankhurd.The incident took place in the wee hours of Thursday. Police said they received a call from locals that a man, identified as Sohail Sayyed alias Imran Ajmer, was lying in a pool of blood. Upon reaching the spot at 5am on Thursday, the police found Sayyed with a stab wound to his chest. The police took him to the hospital, where he was declared dead.“Initially, we registered a case of murder against unidentified people as the lynching was done by more than one person,” said Kishore Gaike, senior police inspector of Shivaji Nagar.The police then checked the mobile phone of the deceased, from where they got the number of Samad Shaikh and learnt that the victim was consuming alcohol with Shaikh till late on Wednesday.On questioning Shaikh, police found out that while drinking, Shaikh called up his friend Shehnaaz who reached there with her friend Kaleem alias Kaynaat, a transgender person. Sayyed noted down Kaynaat’s phone number before Kaynaat left with Shehnaaz.Shaikh told the police that at around 4am Sayyed called up Kaynaat and used obscene words. Kaynaat got offended and complained about him to relatives and friends, including Shehnaaz, her husband Irfan, son Aavesh and daughter Afreen and a neighbour Aashu.“An angry Kaynaat then reached the spot along with her friends and relatives to confront the deceased, leading to a fight between the victim and the other six,” said Gaike.When the deceased refused to apologise to Kaynaat for the language that he used, the six began to beat him. Aashu removed a knife from his pocket and stabbed the deceased in his chest.“After injuring Sayyed, the six fled the spot,” said Gaike.The police on Thursday afternoon detained the six, including Kaynaat, for questioning. “We are in the process of arresting them for the murder of Sayyed under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code,” added Gaike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/six-arrested-for-killing-social-worker-at-mankhurd-101622140801386.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||New Maharashtra policy gives push to electric vehicles||In a fillip to electric transportation in the state, the Maharashtra government on Thursday revealed its Electric Vehicles (EV) Policy 2021, as part of which electric vehicles are aimed to comprise 10% of all new vehicle registrations by 2025. The draft policy is currently awaiting a final nod from the state cabinet. The policy also aims substitute all government vehicles in major cities with EVs, starting April 2022, officials privy to the developments said.The details were revealed during a webinar organised by the state environment department’s Majhi Vasundhara Abhiyan along with Climate Voices — a consortium of three advocacy groups working pan-India, on Thursday.Ashish Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (transport), Maharashtra, and head of the committee responsible for drafting the policy, said, “Today Maharashtra’s share of the country’s (electric) vehicle registrations is around 12% (32,000) but the size is still not large enough to excite manufacturers. We are keen on taking advantage of the schemes by the Government of India. Maharashtra is the leading manufacturer of internal combustion engines, and our EV Policy aims to make it a leading manufacturer of electric vehicles as well.”As per officials, the new policy has distinct goals for five major urban agglomerations in the state, including the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Aurangabad, Pune, Nagpur, and Nashik. One of the major goals is to convert around 25% of the existing public transport infrastructure (and last-mile delivery vehicles) in these cities to fully electric mode by 2025. Another ambitious objective that the draft policy has proposed is conversion of 15% of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation’s existing bus fleet (of 18,000 vehicles) to electric mode during the same time. “We also intend on providing full-scale EV infrastructure on four major arterial highways by 2025, namely Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway, Mumbai-Pune Express Highway, Mumbai-Nashik, and Nashik-Pune,” said Dr Avinash Dhakne, transport commissioner, Maharashtra. Additionally 1,500 EV charging stations in MMR, 500 in Pune, 150 in Nagpur, 100 in Nashik and 75 in Aurangabad have been proposed, he added.Incidentally, this is not the first EV transportation policy of the state. Maharashtra had earlier adopted an EV policy in February 2018 which was drafted by the state department of industries. “However, that policy had focused largely on attracting investment and providing incentives, which was not enough. We are aiming to rely on infrastructure creation which is the main catalyst for companies to enter the market,” Dhakne explained.In order to offset the ecological footprint of electric mobility — which requires large scale manufacture and use of lithium ion batteries — the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), under the aegis of the environment department, is also developing a parallel policy of its own. “We are drafting rules on recycling lithium ion batteries and other electronic waste that is likely to be generated due to boom in EV infrastructure,” said Sudhir Srivastava, chairman, MPCB.Ashwin Mahesh, a city planning expert and founder of Project Lithium — hailed as India’s first zero emissions transport service which is headquatered in Bangalore, at Thursday’s webinar said, “At this early stage of development of EV sector, it is important for companies, that innovate early and correctly, to not only pursue their own success but also accept broader responsibility for the development of the ecosystem around them. Only this will ensure accelerated development of various possibilities within e-mobility.” Madhav Pai, director, WRI India Ross Centre for Sustainable Cities, who hosted Thursday’s expert panel, emphasised that Maharashtra needs to capitalise on this rare opportunity mostly through creation of domestic demand, and not just developing industrial capabilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-maharashtra-policy-gives-push-to-electric-vehicles-101622140742129.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Maratha reservation: BJP calls for protests; Congress warns of superspreaders||The Maratha reservation issue is likely to heat up the political atmosphere in the state again. In the middle of Covid pandemic, state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Chandrakant Patil on Thursday urged Marathas to take to the streets for reservation, as a Maratha outfit led by a BJP ally, is starting a march demanding reservation from June 5. On the other hand, the Congress said the Opposition party will be responsible, if the latter’s agitation becomes a Covid super-spreader event. The Congress also alleged there was BJP-Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) connection with an outfit that had filed petition against the reservation. Also, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, a descendant of King Shivaji and BJP MP, has taken an apolitical stand to galvanise support for Maratha reservation across party lines. He met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday and is expected to meet other leaders over the next two days. In response to a bunch of petitions, the Supreme Court on May 5 delivered a judgment scrapping the quota given to Maratha community in government jobs and education by the Maharashtra government. While the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has said the ball is in the Centre’s court now, the BJP has blamed the three-party coalition, saying the latter failed to convince the apex court that Marathas needed reservation. Community outfits have warned of agitations if the quota is not restored by the government. State BJP president Chandrakant Patil said in Kolhapur on Thursday: “If Maratha community fails to get on the streets and stage agitations for reservation now, it will be late [to safeguard their rights]. Life has not stopped because of Covid. The state has got time till June 4 to file a review petition against the Supreme Court verdict. This deadline will not be extended due to the pandemic.” “If Covid cases spike in Maharashtra after the June 5 agitation, the super-spreader BJP will be held responsible for it,” said state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant replied. The Congress also alleged links of BJP-Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) with Save Merit Save Nation (SMSN), an outfit which had opposed the Maratha reservation in court and on other platforms. The Congress has said that the officer-bearers of SMSN are directly connected with the BJP. “Dr Anup Marar, the founder of the outfit, is the head of the medical cell for east Nagpur cell of the BJP. He was appointed by Devendra Fadnavis and Chandrakant Patil. Other office-bearers Roy Thomas and Anil Ladhad, too, are closely related to the BJP and RSS. They have shared the platform which had supported the Citizenship Amendment Act. The outfit was formed only after Bombay High Court upheld the reservation in 2019. It had sent four petitioners to oppose the reservation and this has been stated on its official website. The outfit’s website was designed by a company which had handled Fadnavis government’s pet projects like Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan. The BJP should clarify,” alleged Sawant in a virtual press conference on Thursday. BJP’s chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said, “The Congress and NCP leaders financed the petitioners who opposed Maratha reservation.” The BJP has announced support to agitations by Maratha outfits and has chalked out an outreach programme to keep the issue in focus. At least six Maratha leaders, including leader of opposition Pravin Darekar, Narayan Rane, Prasad Lad, Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil, Harshavardhan Patil, Ashish Shelar and Narendra Patil, are touring various districts and meeting community leaders and members. “We are targeting 17 districts across the state with the dominance of the community. Leaders will meet the prominent leaders of Sakal Maratha Samaj and Maratha Kranti Morcha and discuss the reservation,” said Shrikant Bhartiya, general secretary of the party. Meanwhile, the BJP is also disturbed over the stand taken by its Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, who met Pawar and MNS chief Raj Thackeray on Thursday and will be meeting chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and others in next two days. “I have requested Pawarsaheb to take the lead and guide the community,” said Chhatrapati. Earlier, he had urged the community to maintain restraint. He had also said that he was ready to resign as an MP if required. Patil said on Thursday the former should remember the respect given by the BJP to him. “He was made head of the Raigad development body and was given ample funding for development works. Respecting his position, we ensured that he was not made to come to the party office. He is not talking about 40 other meetings with the PM, while blaming him for denial of appointment after sending four letters,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-reservation-bjp-calls-for-protests-congress-warns-of-superspreaders-101622140620817.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Pre-monsoon showers arrive in Mumbai||Pre-monsoon showers arrived in parts of the city on Thursday with Santacruz, Borivli, Powai, Mulund, Vikhroli, Malad, Bhandup, Sion, Wadala and Navi Mumbai reporting rainfall early in the day. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had earlier predicted partly cloudy skies over the city, which began getting overcast on Wednesday evening. Waterlogging was also reported from a few scattered localities across the city, which also experienced gusty winds. Very light rain (0.8mm) was recorded by IMD’s observatory in Santacruz.As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, “generally cloudy skies with light rain or drizzle” is expected for another two days, while a yellow warning of thunderstorm with lightning and rain at isolated places has been sounded for Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg for Friday and Saturday.While IMD officials confirmed that Thursday’s rain was pre-monsoon showers, they did not specify the onset date for this year’s monsoon season in Mumbai. The normal onset date as per IMD is June 15. “We will know with more certainty once the southwest monsoon arrives in Kerala, which is supposed to happen around May 31,” said an official from IMD, Mumbai.Maximum temperature in the city remained near normal at 33.8 degrees Celsius, and is likely to touch 35 degrees Celsius by June 2. The minimum temperature stood at 28.5 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/premonsoon-showers-arrive-in-mumbai-101622140560829.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||33% quota in promotion for SC, ST: Congress, NCP not on same page||The differences between the three ruling parties over the issue of the reservation in promotion is expected to widen further as the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) seem to be firm on their stands. The Congress has been insisting to revoke the order that scrapped 33% reservation in promotions to employees from Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST), Vimukta Jati and Nomadic Tribes (VJNT) and Special Backward Classes (SBC), while the NCP is reportedly in favour of scrapping the reservation.On May 7, the state government issued an order scrapping reservation to these categories, citing an August 2017 Bombay high court (HC) order wherein the court had scrapped the state government’s decision taken in 2004 giving reservation in promotion. The state had, on April 20, issued an order to promote the employees by keeping the 33% quota intact. But the U-turn in just two weeks came in the backdrop of a Supreme Court order of quashing Maratha quota on May 5. The move irked the Congress which took an aggressive stand and demanded revocation of the order. The state leadership of the party had also threatened to take aggressive stand if the reservation in promotion was not restored.Congress leaders raised the issue in the state cabinet meeting on Thursday, demanding revocation of the May 7 order. However, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar intervened and told Congress leaders that the meeting of cabinet sub-committee on the subject has been scheduled for Tuesday and there was no need to discuss it in the cabinet. The sub-committee is headed by Pawar with other ministers being its members. Upset over not being allowed to speak in the cabinet, energy minister Nitin Raut met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and demanded immediate decision. Earlier in the day, senior Congress leaders and ministers Ashok Chavan, Balasaheb Thorat and Raut held a meeting to decide on the strategy.However, Raut on Thursday said there was no question of dissent and the issue is expected to be resolved through discussion. “I met chief minister Thackeray at Varsha. He has assured us to take a decision over the reservation in the cabinet sub-committee meeting on Tuesday. We are firm on our stand,” he said. Though Congress leaders are hell-bent over cancellation of the order, Pawar is reportedly against it. “The petition challenging 2017 HC ruling is pending in the Supreme Court. It has not asked to continue with the quota. Even the law and judiciary opinion on the subject is against reservation. In such a backdrop, it was not possible to implement the quota. Pawar is firm on implementation of the May 7 order,” said an NCP leader requesting anonymity.Congress insiders said party leaders are not on the same page over the subject and that a few senior ministers disapproved of the aggressive stand taken by Raut and Patole.The Congress had, on Tuesday, held a meeting of more than 500 people from SC, ST and VJNT communities and outfits to discuss the issue. In the meeting attended by Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole and Raut, party leaders announced to take extreme steps if the demand was not met. Patole had said, “We have conveyed our strong sentiments over the issue to the CM during our meeting with him and have warned him with drastic step. We may even think of outside support to the government protesting the decision,” he had said.Raut and other Congress leaders have been seeking implementation of reservation as per the subsequent Supreme Court orders and an order of department of personnel and training of the union government. They claimed that some states and even the Centre have been implementing the quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/33-quota-in-promotion-for-sc-st-congress-ncp-not-on-same-page-101622140502593.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||ED questions builder Yusuf Lakdawala in Khandala land grab case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday questioned builder Yusuf Lakdawala in connection with alleged money laundering linked to usurping a Khandala-based land belonging to erstwhile Hyderabad Nawab Himayat Nawaz Jung Bahadur. The land is said to be worth ₹50 crore, and it is suspected that Lakdawala spent around ₹11.5 crore to bribe government officials and estate agents and other accused to grab the land. ED is probing some of the suspicious transactions of the builder linked to the Khandala land, sources said.Officers from ED (zone 2) on Thursday questioned Lakdawala, 76, and recorded his statement. The builder had previously avoided visiting ED office, despite multiple summons served to him. The money laundering case filed by ED is based on the April 2019 first information report (FIR) registered by Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) against the builder regarding usurping of the Khandala land, marked in official records as survey number 104 (CTS no. 11, 11A, 11B), and measures 4 acres and 38 gunthas.Jitendra Badgujar, sub-registrar of Maval taluka, had then lodged a complaint, following which the case was filed for cheating, forgery, conspiracy under sections 465, 466, 467, 468, 471, 420, 120-B and 201 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 82 of the Indian Registration Act against Lakdawala and others.Following the complaint, a lookout circular was issued against Lakdawala and he was subsequently arrested in the case on April 12, 2019 from Ahmedabad airport while trying to escape the country. ED officers said Lakdawala got bail in February this year and was summoned for questioning over alleged money laundering linked to the land grabbing case. As per EOW’s case, Lakdawala allegedly forged agreement papers, dating back to 1949, signed between his late father, Mohammad Ahmed Lakdawala, and the late Nawab. Lakdawala allegedly obtained an affidavit and a deed of confirmation on the basis of fake documents. The builder used the registration number of the original document, recorded with the Mumbai registrar’s office. The builder had also allegedly tried to destroy the original records of the land at the Lonavala revenue office, an ED officer said.EOW had then found that many dockets pertaining to the land are missing including original copies of some land dealings linked to the disputed land. The 21 legal heirs of the late Nawab had given power of attorney of the disputed land to one Mohan R Nair in 2014. The police later discovered that the documents pertaining to the power of attorney were forged to usurp the land. EOW investigators believed that Nair was paid ₹4 crore by Lakdawala for helping him usurp the land. Besides Lakdawala, EOW had then arrested a real estate agent and an officer from the land record department of Lonavala. Previosly, Lakdawala was in news in 2010 after a Bollywood actor, late Sadhana, had filed a case against him and his wife, alleging that the duo had threatened to kill her as she refused to vacate a bungalow in Khar, where she was living. Sadhana had died after deposing before the magistrate’s court, which had later acquitted Lakdawala in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-questions-builder-yusuf-lakdawala-in-khandala-land-grab-case-101622140500872.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Air India loses fourth pilot to Covid-19||National carrier Air India lost its fourth pilot to Covid-19. Captain Prasad Karmakar, a Mumbai resident who actively operated flights to the United States (US) under the Vande Bharat mission passed away at 6.30pm on Thursday. Capt. Karmarkar joined Air India in 1990 as an avionics engineer and started flying in 1997. A condolence message from the airline’s pilots said, “Capt. Karmakar was soft-spoken by nature but a thorough gentleman. Well known for being sincere and hardworking towards his profession. Capt. Karmakar, has over the years captained the Airbus 310 and the Boeing 777 aircraft types. Collectively he has served Air India for over 30 years. He was actively involved in flying Vande Bharat missions throughout the pandemic until he recently fell ill with Covid19. He will be missed dearly. We extend our deepest condolences to the bereaved family and assure all our support.” Also Read | Air India staff unions seek probe into provident fund trustsCapt. Karmakar last operated a Chicago-Delhi flight on April 25 and developed symptoms after returning to Mumbai. He tested positive for Covid-19 on April 29, after which, he was admitted to SRV Hospital on April 30. “Capt. Karmakar was first admitted to SRV hospital but was shifted to Hiranandani hospital on May 20,” said a pilot friend. Capt. Karmakar left behind his wife and two daughters. A senior pilot said, “Capt. Karmakar is the fourth captain to lose his life to Covid, in this month alone.” Capt. Amitesh Prasad, a senior Air India pilot who operated flights under the government’s Vande Bharat Mission (VBM), Boeing 777, and also cargo flights, lost his battle to Covid-19 on May 9. The 54-year-old, a resident of Kandivli, had last landed in Bengaluru on April 15. He complained of symptoms after reaching Mumbai and tested positive on April 20, after which, he was immediately admitted to the hospital. Two more pilots- Capt. Sandeep Rana and Capt. GPS Gill too succumbed to Covid-19 this month. “It gets very disturbing when you come to know that your colleague is critical or has passed away due to Covid-19. Initially, you fail to reconcile that such a tragedy has happened but then gradually the reality sets in. The series of such deaths of our friends is leading to stress and impacting our mental health,” said a senior pilot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/air-india-loses-fourth-pilot-to-covid19-101622138520135.html
28-05-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: Writing a will is essential to financial planning||We are often so engrossed in providing for our loved ones and choosing the right investments to secure their future that we forget to write a will that would detail how we intend to allocate our various investments. Many people interpret a will as merely a legal document to distribute properties and take care of minor dependents, but the document, at its core, offers clarity of succession.“A will can contain details stating apportioning of personal financial investments. An estate of the testator is all the property a person owns or controls. The property in one’s estate may consist of financial assets (e.g., bank accounts, stocks, bonds, or business interests), tangible personal assets (e.g., artwork, collectables, or vehicles), immovable property (e.g., residential real estate, tea/timber rights), and intellectual property (e.g., royalties). Accordingly, it is always beneficial that the testator should apportion all his or her movable and immovable assets at the time of preparation of the will so that shares/assets allotted to beneficiaries or legal heirs can be retained by them,” Neha Gupta, Principal Associate, Athena Legal said.Nominee vs beneficiary vs legal heir Ever tried filling a bank application form or a consent form before making your investments? Apart from your details, you are required to choose a nominee for your deposits and investments that may include your parents, spouse, siblings, and children. While opening bank accounts or investing money in bank deposits, you can either choose one nominee or multiple nominees for your various investments from members within your family and not outside your family.As opposed to the widely held belief that the nominees are people who get the money and keep it with themselves, a nominee is a person who has a right to hold the assets/property on behalf of the deceased in trust, to be distributed to the actual persons having beneficial ownership under the succession laws.“A beneficiary is a person having actual beneficial interest in the asset/property as per the succession laws, whether under a will or otherwise. In certain cases, such as transmission of shares, ‘nominee’ also indicates beneficial ownership of the shares, as specifically provided in the Companies Act,” Amit Jajoo, partner, IndusLaw explained.A nominee may or may not be the legal heir to the will. If the nominee is from someone outside the family, he or she is responsible for the disbursement of the proceeds among beneficiaries mentioned in the will. The beneficiary (one or more) has a financial interest and can either be from the family or outside. Beneficiaries can also include financial institutions that may have provided loan(s) to the person writing the will. In most cases, legal heirs are the beneficiaries mentioned in the will.However, the beneficiaries may be different from legal heir(s), which is why you must name designated beneficiaries in your will. “According to the provisions of the Indian Succession Act, 1925, any person capable of holding property (including an outsider) can be nominated as a beneficiary under a will. If a minor has been named as a beneficiary, then a guardian should be appointed by the testator to manage the bequeathed property,” Petrushka Dasgupta, Partner, Induslaw said.Passing away without naming beneficiaries irrespective of whether they are the same or different from the nominee(s) may result in unnecessary legal hassles between the designated beneficiaries and legal heirs of the assets getting divided.We all may not have the benefit of having a family or being in the company of immediate family members. This has forced many people to rely on relatives, extended family members or chosen family to take care of their money. However, a nominee must be reliable and worthy enough to carry out the dictates of the will. A friend or live-in partner can be a nominee, and it must be explicitly mentioned in the will for the assets to be handed over to him or her for proper distribution and allocation as mentioned in the will.Why must you write a will? Many people do not understand why a will must be made, especially, with the nominee(s) being mentioned for all investments. As Gupta explained, a will supersedes the nomination for most assets. “A will is the supreme document that specifies the exact intentions of the testator to the succession of properties.” So, for example, if a bank account has a nominee, and the will has the name of another beneficiary, it is the latter that will receive the money in the account. “It is important to note that a will that has been proven valid wields the power to override any arrangements or nominations made during an individual’s lifetime.”(Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-writing-a-will-is-essential-to-financial-planning-101621795564354.html
