29-05-2021||Mumbai||FIR against TV actor Munmun Dutta for casteist remark||Amboli police on Saturday booked actor Munmun Dutta for allegedly using casteist slur against a community in a video she had posted online on May 10. The actor, who plays the character of Babita in the television series Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah, has been booked under relevant sections of the Atrocities Act and the Indian Penal Code. This is the third FIR against the actor. In the past, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh police had registered FIRs against the actor for the same objectionable video. The actor had later uploaded an apology after her comment sparked controversy on social media.The FIR was registered by Amboli police after a complaint was filed by Naresh Bohit, Maharashtra president of Walmiki Vikas Sangh. Bohit stated in his complaint that while announcing her entry on YouTube the actor expressed a casteist slur for the Walmiki community.“Her comments have hurt sentiments of the Walmiki community people. It insults the community and it also maligns the community’s image in society and shows us in a bad light,” Bohit stated.After Dutta’s video courted controversy she uploaded a one-page apology on Twitter and stated, “A video that I posted yesterday wherein one word used by me has been misinterpreted. It was never said with the intent of insult, intimidate, humiliate or hurt anyone’s feelings. Because of my language barrier, I was genuinely misinformed about the meaning of the word. Once I was made aware of its meaning, immediately took the part down. I have utmost respect for every single person from every caste, creed or gender and acknowledge their immense contribution to our Society or nation. I sincerely would like to apologize to every single person who have been unintentionally hurt by the usage of the word and I sincerely regret for the same.”Bohit said, “It has become a trend for the celebrities to first make a derogatory comment and then after damaging reputation of the community apologise for the comment. We need legal action on the actor.”Mumbai police spokesperson deputy commissioner of police Chaitanya Siriprolu said that a first information report (FIR) has been registered at Amboli police station under sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of IPC and 3 of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on May 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fir-against-tv-actor-munmun-dutta-for-casteist-remark-101622309192323.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||Take locals into confidence or there will be unrest: Shiv Sena over Lakshadweep row||Targeting the Centre over the set of new regulations in Lakshadweep, Shiv Sena on Saturday warned of “communal tension”, adding that such moves could create “unrest” in the country. Sena leader Sanjay Raut asked why that there is no ban on cow slaughter in Goa and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states in the North East, like the one proposed by the Lakshadweep administrator Praful K Patel.Patel, a former Gujarat BJP leader and the state’s former home minister, is facing criticism on the slew of regulations he has brought in Lakshadweep where he was made the administrator by the Centre. The new regulations have drawn the ire of the locals as well as political parties including Sena’s allies in Maharashtra—Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP added that the decision that are made in the Union Territories and the islands must be taken after taking the locals into confidence. “If there is unrest then the whole country has to pay the price for it. And if somebody is trying to create communal tension in such Union Territory then it is wrong,” Raut said. Sena mouthpiece Saamana also published an editorial on Saturday and said that Patel’s “arbitrariness” is now seen in the island after Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Patel was named in the suicide note of Dadra Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar who committed suicide earlier this year in Mumbai.His regulations include a new development plan, proposed cow slaughter ban, the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act, which allows the police to detain a person without any public disclosure for a period of one year, and the draft panchayat notification, where a person with more than two children is disqualified from being a panchayat member. Raut said that three is no opposition to development in Lakshadweep but added, “But the law and rules have to be uniform for everybody. There is a new regulation of beef in Lakshadweep, which is fine but Goa doesn’t have a ban, neither does Kerala or North-Eastern states. If such a law comes only in Lakshadweep, then many questions crop up in the minds of the people. Therefore, whether the administrator is a political appointee or a civil servant, if we do not take step cautiously then we will face unrest in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/take-locals-into-confidence-or-there-will-be-unrest-shiv-sena-over-lakshadweep-row-101622309072309.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||Include pregnant women in vax ambit, Sena MP writes to Union health min||Shiv Sena Member of Parliament (MP) Priyanka Chaturvedi on Saturday wrote to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan seeking inclusion of pregnant women in vaccination ambit. The Rajya Sabha MP sought inclusion citing increase risk to pregnant women in the second wave of Covid-19.In her letter, Chaturvedi said that in the second wave, pregnant women have been found at an increased risk of severe illness from Covid-19 when compared to others. She further quoted that a recent report found that pregnant women with Covid-19 are more likely to require intensive care unit (ICU) beds, invasive ventilation and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. She said that the risk of death is 70% higher in pregnant women than in non-pregnant women, they are also at an increased risk of a blood clot.“About 67,000 babies are born every day in India, approximate 2.7 crore pregnancies in a year are recorded in our country, keeping this segment out of the vaccine process will not only endanger their lives but could also lead to their babies having to suffer the consequences,” she wrote. She further said, “I do understand the position, due to lack of clinical trials data on the effect of the Covid-19 vaccine on pregnant mothers. I also acknowledge that India administers a different set of vaccines other than the mRNA vaccines for which data exists,” the letter stated.Recently, the Shiv Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had initiated consultations with gynaecologists and health task force after which had given its in-principle nod and drawn up a detailed plan to priorities bringing expectant and lactating mothers in the vaccine ambit. However, they are unable to roll it out since they await a final nod from the Centre, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/include-pregnant-women-in-vax-ambit-sena-mp-writes-to-union-health-min-101622308952313.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s active cases go down by 45% in 20 days||In a significant development in the fight against the second wave of the Covid pandemic, the number of active cases in the city has almost halved in the last 20 days. From 52,000 active cases in the city as of May 8, the number of active cases has come down to 28,000, as of Friday.On Saturday, the city recorded 1,038 cases and 25 deaths. The case tally now stands at 703,560, while the death toll is 14,775. The city’s recovery rate is 93% with 658,056 recoveries. There are 28,606 active cases in the city and the fatality rate is 2.09%.Along with the city’s active cases, the daily positivity rate has also come down to around 3% from being around 27% in the first week of April, known to be the peak of the second wave.According to the state health department data, from being over 90,000 active cases in the first 15 days of April, the number came down to 82,616 on April 22. Further, the number went down from 63,325 active cases on May 1 to around 52,000 active cases on May 8.As of May 28, there are around 28,000 active cases in the city. This means, in the last 20 days the number of active cases has come down by 45%.Another sign of the number of cases going down drastically is the significant drop in the number of containment zones, sealed buildings and sealed floors. As of May 27, there are 41 containment zones in the city, 175 active sealed buildings and 4,226 sealed floors, down from 111 containment zones, 979 sealed buildings and 9,899 sealed floors, as of April 30.According to BMC officials, though the number of cases is declining, the civic body is preparing for the third wave, which is anticipated in the coming months. The civic body said it had to handle around 1,500 symptomatic cases, per day, during the second wave; it is now preparing to handle around 2,500 symptomatic cases.Two days ago, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal also said that experts are of the opinion that the third wave might hit the city between July to August.Meanwhile, Dharavi, the city’s former hot spot, recorded four cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 6,810 followed by 6,422 discharges.Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based physician said, “The number of cases is bound to drop after a spike. We are seeing a similar trend in the city. But we have to be very mindful during the unlocking, considering we do not know how the virus will behave post the downfall.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-active-cases-go-down-by-45-in-20-days-101622308892406.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||OBC communities may lose political reservation in local bodies in Maharashtra||This may turn into a major political crisis for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) as the Other Backward Classes (OBC) is on the verge of losing political reservations in the local bodies of Maharashtra comprising municipal corporations, municipal councils, zilla parishads, gram panchayats etc. This is because the Supreme Court has rejected the state government’s review petition concerning reservation to the OBCs. It has ruled that the reservation in favour of the OBC in local bodies should not result in exceeding the 50% cap in reservation quota determined by it.Moreover, the Apex court directed the state government to appoint a commission to determine the backwardness and population of the OBC communities, based on which, the reservation quota should be fixed for them. However, it won’t be allowed to breach the 50% cap on reservation quota. This simply means no seat is going to be reserved for the OBC community in the upcoming local bodies at least for this year or until the state government completes the entire process.This has upset the community who have threatened that the state government will have to face its consequences.The community leaders are preparing to meet in the next two days to deliberate and decide the next course of action. They will also be seeking the appointment of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.The review petition of the state government was quashed by the Supreme Court on Friday. The Apex court gave its verdict on March 4 following which the state had approached it for a review.This is the second setback to the MVA government this month as on May 5, the Apex court had quashed 12% and 13% reservation in government jobs and admissions to the Maratha community through the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act. The state government, which is yet to decide its next course of action against the verdict, is now facing another blow over reservation to the OBC communities.While reading down section 12(2)(c) of the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961, the court on March 4 also quashed notifications issued by the State Election Commission (SEC) in 2018 and 2020 to the extent of providing seat reservation in local bodies concerned for OBCs.Section 12(2)(c) of the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961, provides a 27% quota for persons belonging to backward classes, which was challenged in the court of law.The legislation for the local bodies in Maharashtra provides reservation to the Scheduled Caste (SC) and Schedule Tribe (ST) communities based on their population in those particular bodies, whereas in the case of OBC this data is not available as their last census was conducted in 1931.Referring to a constitutional bench verdict passed in K Krishna Murthy versus Union of India in 2010, the Apex court has said, “It was imperative for the state to set up a dedicated commission to conduct contemporaneous rigorous empirical inquiry into the nature and implications of backwardness and on the basis of recommendations of that commission take follow up steps including to amend the existing dispensation such as to amend section 12(2)(c) of the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961.”While doing so it further ordered that in any case, such reservation shall not exceed an aggregate of 50 per cent of the total reserved quota favouring SC, ST and OBC communities.State election commissioner UPS Madan said that the Supreme Court verdict is going to be applicable for all the local bodies including urban and rural. “The only thing is they will become applicable only when fresh elections are to be conducted. It means the verdict would be applicable for the upcoming elections of local bodies. It also means no seat can be reserved for OBC communities until the state government completes the entire process of setting up a commission, who will go into details of OBC communities and then come up with recommendations on which local bodies should have how much OBC reservation,” the election commissioner said.He further clarified even after that the combined reservation of SC, ST and OBC communities will not be allowed to exceed the 50% limit.Five major municipal corporations are going to polls in 2021 and ten other corporations and 27 district councils are going to poll this year.The Apex court in its March 4 order also observed that the reservation given to the OBC communities is not mandated by the Constitution unlike SC and ST and thus it should be reduced wherever the total reservation quota exceeds 50% limit. “This is the reason the OBC community will be at the receiving end as they were getting 27% reservation as per state legislation. Thus even after the entire process is completed the communities will not be able to get 27% reservation in all those local bodies where SC and ST have more population,” said an official from the state election commission.“We are going to pay a big price for the mistakes of this government. If the state government had taken immediate measures soon after the March 4 verdict then this situation may not have arisen. We have requested them to get the case deferred unless the entire process of setting up the commission and its study is completed. However, they chose to ignore it and the political future of the community has been pushed into the darkness,” said Chandrakant Bavkar, president, OBC Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti.“The state government will have to face the consequences as it is giving step-motherly treatment to the OBCs and preferential treatment to the Maratha community. All this is going to be discussed in a meeting to decide the next move in the next two days,” he alleged.State Nationalist Congress Party minister and a prominent OBC leader Chhagan Bhujbal said that they have to look into details of the verdict. “I have yet to read the order. The issue was related to the areas having a tribal population in the majority. We will look into the details and take necessary steps,” Bhujbal said.He further said they have been demanding a census of the OBC community by the census commissioner to understand what is the population of their community and what are they getting in terms of reservation.Meanwhile, leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis wrote a letter to the chief minister for appointing a commission to study backwardness of the OBC communities. He also said that the OBC communities have lost their political reservation owing to the incompetency of this government. “The state government showed no seriousness for OBC reservation. It sought to postpone the hearing eight times in the last 15 months. In one of the hearings, SC has clearly said about setting up a commission to justify the 27% OBC reservation but they did nothing except filing a review petition. With this decision in place, OBC communities will not get a single seat reserved in all the local bodies across the state,” Fadnavis said in his letter.He pointed out raising the issue in a meeting with the chief minister on March 5 and later sending a reminder but the government took no action on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/obc-communities-may-lose-political-reservation-in-local-bodies-in-maharashtra-101622308832330.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||443 Covid-19 fatalities in Maharashtra take death toll to 94,030; state records 20,295 new cases||With 20,295 new Covid-19 cases and 443 fatalities on Saturday, Maharashtra's tally reached 5,713,215 while the death toll climbed to 94,030. On the other hand, as many as 31,964 people recovered from the infection in a single day, taking the cumulative recovery in the state to 5,339,838.Meanwhile, the capital city of Mumbai reported 1,038 new cases and 25 related deaths in the 24-hour period, as the city's cases tally reached 703,560 and the death toll climbed to 14,775.While the number of new infections marginally dipped from the previous day's tally, the daily new deaths witnessed a slight increase. Earlier on Friday, there where 20,740 new Covid-19 cases and 424 new fatalities detected in the state.Medical workers in the state tested 258,799 new samples to deetct the disease on the day while 34,608,985 samples have been tested in the state so far, the latest data from the state government showed.Active cases of Covid-19 currently stands at 276,573 and Mumbai added 28,606 to the state's tally. Daily positivity rate was recorded as 7.84 per cent and the cumulative positivity rate stood at 16.51 per cent.Among major cities, Mumbai (with 1,038 cases) reported the maximum new cases on the day followed by Pune with 589 cases and Nagpur with 243 new cases. Total positive cases detected so far reached 483,787 in Pune and 361,372 in Nagpur, the latest data showed. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) reported 195 new cases, Thane logged 137 new cases and Navi Mumbai 107 new cases in the day, data also showed.According to the data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 21,913,849 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been delivered to the beneficiaries in the state. Of these, 17,426,603 first doses and 4,487,246 second doses have administered as of 8am on Saturday, the ministry's dashboard showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/443-covid-19-fatalities-in-maharashtra-take-death-toll-to-94-030-state-records-20-295-new-cases-101622299274263.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||‘High prevalence of antibodies among Dharavi residents prevented surge in Covid-19 cases’: Study||There has been no surge in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai’s densely populated Dharavi, a slum of at least 850,000 people with a population density of 354,167 per square km, during the second wave of the pandemic because of the high prevalence of antibodies from natural infections among residents, said a research paper published in European Journal of Medical and Health Sciences on Saturday.Only seven cases were being reported per million population in Dharavi in April. It was the time when Maharashtra was reporting 507 cases per million and India 257 cases per million as the second wave overwhelmed hospitals and triggered a shortage of medical supplies and hospital beds.Last May, Dharavi was a hotspot of infections reporting 48 cases per million on average. Up to 80 cases per million were reported on some days last year when India was reporting only 1 to 3 cases per million.Researchers said there is high seropositivity in Dharavi. The first round of serosurvey in the area in July 2020 found seropositivity of 57% there. This reduced to 45% in the October round of the survey, which the researchers have attributed to diminishing levels of antibodies. “The serosurvey conducted in October 2020 for Cuffe Parade slums showed the antibodies presence in 75% population. Dharavi residents too might have seropositivity of 70-80%, enough to develop herd immunity,” the paper said.The research was conducted by Food and Energy Security Research and Product Centre, Japan, along with Deepali Bharadwaj, a Delhi-based doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/high-prevalence-of-antibodies-among-dharavi-residents-prevented-surge-in-covid-19-cases-study-101622277270091.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||Petrol price in Mumbai crosses ₹100 per litre, fuel rates rise for 15th time||Petrol price crossed ₹100 per litre-mark in Mumbai on Saturday as state-run retailers raised fuel rates for the fifteenth time in 26 days, raising petrol rates by 26 paise per litre and diesel by 28 paise.The latest hike made petrol ₹3.54 a litre costlier and diesel ₹4.16 since May 4, a day after the results of the five assembly polls was declared.While prices of auto fuels are at record levels across the country, diesel is currently sold at ₹92.17 a litre in the financial capital, the highest among metro cities. Pump prices of petrol and diesel in Delhi on Saturday also made a new record of ₹93.94 per litre and ₹84.89 a litre, respectively.While fuel rates in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies.Consumers in several cities, particularly in states like Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, are paying more than ₹100 for one litre of petrol. Some of the cities selling fuel over ₹100 per litre are Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar and Banswara.Surging international oil rates and exorbitant domestic tax structure are two key reasons for high rates of petrol and diesel in pumps. Benchmark Brent crude rose marginally by 0.24% to $69.63 a barrel on Friday. Indian fuel retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with their international benchmark rates of the previous day. Even as international oil prices saw both upward and downward movements this month, pump rates of fuels in India moved only in the upward direction.Pump prices of fuels are also high because of taxes. In Delhi, central levies account for 35.5% of petrol’s price and state taxes, 23%, according to official data of May 16. On diesel, central taxes are over 38.2% while state taxes are about 14.6%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit -- with revenues hit on account of the pandemic.According to executives working in state-run oil marketing companies, pump prices are also high because companies were recovering their past revenue losses like the one suffered for 66 days since February 27 when rates were not raised because of assembly elections in four states and one Union territory.During the 66-day pause on the rate hike, state-run retailers had also reduced petrol and diesel rates by 77 paise and 74 paise a litre, respectively in four small steps. But, the entire gains to the consumers were quickly reversed in the first four consecutive rounds of rate hikes starting from May 4.The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010, and diesel on October 19, 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Public sector retailers — IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL)— control almost 90% of the domestic fuel retail market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petrol-price-in-mumbai-crosses-rs-100-per-litre-fuel-rates-rise-for-15th-time-101622272859047.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||Ulhasnagar slab collapse kills 7||Seven people were killed and one was injured as the slab of a five-storey structure in Ulhasnagar collapsed on Friday night.According to the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) fire brigade, the slab of the fifth floor of the 27-year-old Sai Shakti building collapsed on the floors below.As per the Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) regional disaster management cell (RDMC), seven bodies were pulled out of the debris.At the time of going to press, the rescue operation was called off, confirmed Santosh Kadam, chief, RDMC- TMC.UMC public relations officer Yuvraj Badhane said, “The building was not on this year’s dangerous buildings list. It was built in 1994-95. We are checking other details and also if there were any illegalities.”On May 15, five people were killed, while 10 others suffered minor injuries after the slab of a ground-plus-five-storey residential building Mohini Palace at Ulhasnagar’s Charandas Chowk collapsed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ulhasnagar-slab-collapse-kills-7-101622231304484.html
29-05-2021||Mumbai||Maha sees 20,740 cases, lowest in 73 days; lockdown to be extended||Maharashtra is set to extend the current lockdown for a fortnight from June 1, even as it reported 20,740 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday— the lowest in 73 days. The curbs, however, would be relaxed in places where the Covid-19 case growth rate or positivity rate has reduced. The state government, according to health minister Rajesh Tope, will finalise the parameters and issue guidelines soon. Senior government officials said the timings for shops selling non-essential commodities could be relaxed in areas where the cases have reduced. Currently, under the existing restrictions till 7am of June 1, citizens of the state are disallowed to step out unless they need medical attention, or are working in an essential sector, or want to buy essential commodities. That too within restricted timings — between 7am and 11am. Tope, who held a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in Pune on Friday, said the government will decide criteria for unlocking. “It can be positivity rate or growth rate,” he said. “We have decided to extend the lockdown for 15 days, but the guidelines will be issued soon. Wherever the positivity rate is high, there is a challenge of bed availability. In such places, the lockdown will not be relaxed. However, for places where the situation is not bad, guidelines will be issued by June 1… With regards to unlocking of non-essential shops, we are preparing guidelines for them. We will discuss with chief minister and finalise it,” Tope added. State officials said they are working on relaxing the curbs, including for shops selling non-essential commodities. They added that certain restrictions including travel on suburban trains, inter-district travel, etc will continue to be regulated. Currently, only work force engaged in essential services and those with medical urgency are allowed to use local trains in Mumbai. Mumbai, meanwhile, recorded under-1,000 fresh cases on Friday. It added 924 new cases, taking its tally to 702,522. Mumbai also added 30 fatalities, pushing death toll to 14,750. Maharashtra on Friday added 424 fatalities, taking the death toll over 93,000, to 93,198. The overall positivity rate in the rate stood at 16.57%, while the daily positivity rate was 7.85%. Mumbai’s daily positivity rate was 3.14% on Friday. Officials said parameters including weekly growth rate and weekly positivity rate will be considered while giving relaxation in certain areas. “The general idea is to go slow with the unlocking as many districts have high positivity rate. The chief minister does not want to open activities in one go as it would waste the effort to control the spread of coronavirus in the state. As unlocking will be gradual, he wants more people to get at least one shot of the Covid vaccine. Many options are being looked into. Travel of people will continue to be regulated and work from home will continue to be encouraged,” said the official who did not wish to be named. Dr Rahul Pandit, state Covid task force member and Director-Critical Care, Fortis Hospitals, Mumbai, said, “The overall situation in the state has improved, however, there are some districts that continue to show red flags. So, the unlocking will have to be done accordingly.” He added that the task force cannot recommend unlocking guidelines, but it has conveyed the assessment of the situation by “pointing out the red flags and green zones”. Meanwhile, Tope said the state government is looking to augment Covid care centres in rural areas after the state’s decision to disallow home quarantine to Covid-positive patients where the dwellings are small. He also said all district collectors and municipal commissioners have been told to carry out tracing and testing in a “scientific manner” as opposed to random testing. He said the latter would ensure low positivity rate on paper, but reality would be different. “Across Maharashtra, the tracking and testing has to be done in a scientific manner. We have conveyed it to district collectors and commissioners. We do not want to test randomly and get a low positivity rate. Therefore, tests of only high-risk and low-risk contacts will be done… Tope said the department has given “targets” to districts to bring down the home isolation tally to around 30%. He however clarified that it is not 100% mandated, but only in places where isolation is not possible due to small houses. “We have taken decisions on home isolation which has brought down its numbers from 80% to 56%. We are working toward bringing it down to 25%-30%. We want to reduce home isolation and give preference to institutional quarantine. It should especially increase in rural areas because there have been cases of late admissions which have resulted in deaths. People [in CCC] will be treated as per protocol, which will ensure they recover as well as reduce spread in rural areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-20-740-cases-lowest-in-73-days-lockdown-to-be-extended-101622231247231.html
