30-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: HC intervention clears way for laying pipeline to reduce flooding at Hindmata||Following an assurance from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) that the problems faced by Tata Mills (NTCL) at Parel would be taken care of by the authorities if the laying of a 325-meter-long stormwater pipeline through their property was allowed, the Bombay high court (HC) permitted the BMC to start work after an agreement between Tata Mills and the civic body was completed.Tata Mills had approached the HC after members of the ruling Shiv Sena government had barged onto the property in April 2021 along with the contractor to start the pipeline work forcefully.The vacation bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice Madhav Jamdar, while hearing two petitions filed by Tata Mills and BMC, respectively, was informed that both petitions dealt with the laying of a stormwater pipeline, 1,200mm in diameter, to drain the rainwater which flooded both the Hindmata junction and the mill compound during the monsoons.Senior advocate RS Apte for the general manager Tata Mills informed the bench that the head office had received a letter from BMC through the F-South ward office in March seeking permission to lay the SWD through the mill premise. The petition submitted that while the correspondence was going on between the two, on April 28 the local corporator along with a member of parliament from Shiv Sena barged into the premise along with the contractor and equipment to commence the pipe laying work.Apte submitted that earlier on April 19 the Disaster Management Authority had issued the mill a notice under the Act and even Mumbai’s mayor Kishori Pednekar had visited the mill premise on April 30 and had given an oral order to commence the work. Aggrieved by the notice and high-handedness of the politicians who were not willing to wait for the correspondence to come to its logical conclusion Tata Mills had approached the HC seeking a restraint on the authorities from taking action against the mill or entering their premise forcefully.The BMC has undertaken the building of silos and underground water tanks at the Hindmata junction as every year there is waterlogging due to the monsoons and brings traffic to a halt due to the three feet of water that gets collected there. The SWD pipeline proposed by the BMC is meant to drain away from the water that is collected in these underground water tanks. Additional solicitor-general Anil Singh for the Union of India informed the bench that the Centre had cleared the proposal of BMC and had no problem with the pipeline being laid through the mill land.In an earlier hearing, the HC had directed the BMC to file an affidavit and work on a solution to resolve the problem amicably.On May 28, senior advocate NV Walawalkar for BMC submitted an affidavit stating that on May 26 the NTC head office had conveyed its agreement to the pipe laying on certain terms and conditions and the agreement between the mill and BMC was being finalised, wherein the civic authority would compensate the mill for the losses it would suffer while work on the pipe laying was on.After hearing the submissions, the HC permitted commencement of the work after the agreement was in place and said, “We expect that after taking possession of the plot, the municipal corporation will start the work immediately under the agreement being entered into between the parties,” and disposed of both petitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-hc-intervention-clears-way-for-laying-pipeline-to-reduce-flooding-at-hindmata-101622398002632.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Transporters threaten strike over fuel prices||In a bid to opposes the steep fuel price hike over the past one year, the transporters’ body has threatened to stage a protest by halting operations, if the price hike does not stop.The transporters said that with an increase in diesel prices, the prices of operational cost of transportation of products, including essential commodities, have also hiked more than 30% in the last one year.All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), a body of transporters pan India has stated that apart from the fuel prices; toll, insurance, taxes, maintenance cost, on-road expenses, salaries of employees-drivers have impacted small and medium scale transporters a lot.“If the fuel prices go on increasing in this manner, there will be no option left before us but to go on strike. The government is just not ready to listen to us. We have requested them multiple times. We have decided internally if this continues then our transporters will park their vehicles and protest.” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, AIMTC.Singh also stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to the drivers for the first time but did not announce any relief or social security for them.“PM spoke to drivers for the first time sans announcement of any relief or social security for them. Drivers were not recognised as Covid frontline warriors. These Covid warriors who transported essentials commodities, medicines and oxygen by risking their lives still await incentives and social security from the government.” he added.The hike in diesel price by around 39%, from ₹66.21 a litre on May 29 last year to ₹92.17 on May 29 this year, has majorly impacted transportation, the bodies of transporters said. The petrol price has crossed ₹100-mark in Mumbai, while the diesel is sold at over ₹92 a litre.Meanwhile, fuel price on Sunday remained stable in the city. One litre of petrol was available at ₹100.19, while one litre of diesel was priced at ₹92.17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/transporters-threaten-strike-over-fuel-prices-101622397882474.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bomb hoax at Mantralaya; caller was angry over relief||Mumbai Police and Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) officials searched the premises of Mantralaya in South Mumbai on Sunday afternoon, after a bomb threat call at state secretariat. After a four-hour search, it was found to be a hoax and the caller was found to be Sagar Mandhare, a man who was irked about not getting compensation for his land that was acquired allegedly for a government project, said police.According to the disaster management cell at Mantralaya, the administrative headquarters of the state government received a call from an unidentified man at 12.40pm on Sunday, stating a bomb has been planted on the premises. The BDDS and Marine Drive Police officers rushed to the spot along with search equipment, while the building was evacuated. The search operation was completed around 5pm. “It was a hoax call,” confirmed Vishwas Nangre Patil, joint commissioner of police (law and order).In the evening, the Marine Drive police registered a first information report (FIR) against Mandhare. The police officers said Mandhare has been protesting for compensation and hence made the call. The police have booked Mandhare under sections 182, 505 (1) (b), 506 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaibomb-hoax-at-mantralaya-caller-was-angry-over-relief-101622397822471.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Fr Stan Swamy tests positive for Covid-19, condition stable||Elgar Parishad accused and octogenarian Fr Stan Swamy has tested positive for Covid-19. The 84-year-old who was shifted from Taloja jail to Holy Family Hospital at Bandra following an order of the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday night was tested for coronavirus on Saturday. While sources said that Fr Swamy’s report that was received on Sunday had come positive, Fr Frazer Mascarenhas, Fr Swamy’s friend said he was unable to confirm the same and said that he was awaiting an update from the hospital. However, jail authorities confirmed the same and said that Fr Swamy’s lawyer had informed them about his test result coming positive on Sunday morning.According to Kaustubh Kurlekar, jail superintendent of Taloja jail, Dr Swamy’s lawyers had communicated his positive status on Sunday morning. He added that jail officials have also sought an update on the health status of Fr Swamy from the private hospital.Kurlekar added that two inmates including co-accused Arun Ferreira, who were Swamy’s attendants in prison, had tested negative for Covid. Fr Swamy was given the first vaccination jab at an in-house prison vaccination camp on May 18. The jail official also said that Covid tests had been conducted on Fr Swamy earlier in the prison hospital from time to time.Meanwhile, Fr Frazer Mascarenhas, a friend of Fr Swamy said, “We are very relieved after Fr Swamy was shifted to Holy Family Hospital as his condition had deteriorated at Taloja jail. His condition is stable now. I was informed by the hospital that Fr Swamy was tested for Covid-19 on Saturday but I am unaware of the result as I am awaiting an update from the hospital director.”Fr Swamy was arrested in October 2020 in connection with the Elgar Parishad violence incident in 2018 and for his alleged Maoist links. He had been kept at Taloja jail with the other accused which included P Varavara Rao, Arun Ferreira, Hany Babu and others since then.On May 21, while addressing through video conferencing from the jail the HC bench of justice S J Kathawalla which was hearing Fr Swamy’s appeal against the rejection of his bail application by a special NIA court, Fr Swamy told the bench that when he was brought to the jail he could walk, bathe and stand on his own. However, over the past eight months, his health had deteriorated and he could not do these things without any help anymore. He told the court that in light of his deteriorating health he wanted to go back to Ranchi but did not want to be shifted to Sir JJ Hospital and would prefer to stay in Taloja jail and die there. Fr Swamy’s lawyer senior advocate Mihir Desai had informed the bench that Fr Swamy was in an advanced stage of Parkinson and had developed cough and fever over a week and hence his application for interim bail should be granted or he should be shifted to a private hospital to monitor his health.On May 28, the bench of justice SS Shinde permitted Fr Swamy to be shifted to Holy Family Hospital provided he paid the cost of treatment there himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-fr-stan-swamy-tests-positive-for-covid-19-condition-stable-101622397642540.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Alert motorman halts train in time, saves life||An alert motorman saved the life of a man lying on track on the suburban railway tracks on Saturday. Motorman PK Ratnakar who was piloting a local train on the Central Railway’s (CR) Harbour line between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Panvel railway stations noticed a man lying on the railway track between Tilak Nagar and Chembur railway stations. He applied emergency brakes and halted the local train 12 meters ahead of the spot where the man was lying.Even after blowing the horns, the person did not move away from the track. Passengers of the local train got down and approached the man, who then got up and ran away towards Chembur railway station.According to the passengers, the man had possibly come on the railway tracks to kill himself.“The passengers informed the motorman that it could be a case of attempt to suicide as he ran away after passengers approached him,” said a senior CR official.Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, CR, said, “The quick thinking by motorman PK Ratnakar averted any untoward mishap. The work done by him is highly commendable. Guard of the local train was also informed to apprise the same to the railway control room. Due to his alertness and timely prompt action by the motorman, the man was saved. He will be awarded suitably.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-alert-motorman-halts-train-in-time-saves-life-101622397641906.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra extends lockdown till June 15: Highlights of CM Uddhav's address||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in his address on Sunday warned the people of Maharashtra against becoming careless despite the fall in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. He also announced the extension of lockdown till June 15, adding that the state is taking adequate measures ahead of the expected third wave of Covid-19.Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray extends lockdown-like curbs in state by 15 days, pitches for Covid-free villagesThackeray said the decision to extend the lockdown has been taken to ramp up the healthcare infrastructure in order to better prepare in case of a third wave. He also said that the infected people are taking more time to recover as new strains of Covid-19 have a higher transmission rate. Thackeray expressed concern and said the reduction in cases is not enough for lifting the lockdown-like measures.Following are the major announcements made by the Maharashtra chief minister -||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-extends-lockdown-till-june-15-highlights-of-cm-uddhav-s-address-101622393701118.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to resume Covid-19 vaccine drive for 18-44 age group soon: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday spoke about the issue of shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in the state, as he announced an extension of lockdown-like norms by 15 days, starting June 1.Also Read | Thackeray extends Maharashtra curbs by 15 days, pitches for Covid-free villages“We have to vaccinate all our eligible people but the availability of jabs is a challenge for us,” Thackeray said in an address to the state on Sunday night, in which he also addressed a range of other Covid-19-related issues, such as examinations for class 10th and 12th students.The inoculation drive for the 18-44 age group, which was suspended earlier this month, would be resumed soon, the chief minister said further. The Maharashtra government put on hold vaccination for everyone below the age of 45, citing a shortage of vaccine doses. Jabs of both Covid-19 vaccines currently in use in the country -- Covishield and Covaxin -- were diverted to be used as second doses for beneficiaries above the age of 45.Also Read | Vax for 18-45 age group to resume in June, says state, with pvt hospitals vaccinating thousandsMaharashtra has frequently complained about shortage of vaccine doses to the central government, which, in turn, has rejected the charge and claimed that the highest number of doses have been made available to the western state. At 5,731,815, Maharashtra’s infection tally is the highest among all states and Union territories, though the number of daily cases has witnessed a decline in recent days. It is also among six states with more than 100,000 active casesAlso Read | Only 6 states left with over 100k active Covid-19 cases, says CentreAccording to the state health department’s latest bulletin, there was an addition of 18,600 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, while 462 related deaths were recorded as well. This was the lowest single-day rise in cases since March 16, when 17,864 people tested positive. The death toll due to the infection, meanwhile, reached 94,844, Sunday’s bulletin showed.Also Read | Maharashtra records 18,600 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in over 2 monthsAcross India, 212,066,614 vaccine doses have been administered since the beginning of the nationwide vaccine drive on January 16, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) dashboard showed at 8am on Sunday. Of these, 3,035,749 doses were administered in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-resume-covid-19-vaccine-drive-for-18-44-age-group-soon-uddhav-thackeray-101622392075115.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 18,600 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in over 2 months||Maharashtra’s daily caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) fell to 18,600 on Sunday, taking the state’s infection tally to 5,731,815, a health department bulletin showed. Also on the day, 402 people succumbed to the viral disease, taking Maharashtra’s related death toll to 94,844, the bulletin showed further.Click here for all latest Covid-19 updatesThis is for the first time in more than two months when Maharashtra has added less than 20,000 fresh Covid-19 infections in a single-day. On March 16, the western state saw 17,864 new cases. This also for the eleventh straight day when there were less than 30,000 fresh cases; on May 19, Maharashtra logged 34,031 cases as well as 594 related deaths.According to Sunday’s data, the latest positive cases were out of 252,623 samples tested for the disease, down from 258,799 tests on May 29. The latest test positivity rate stood at 7.36%, the lowest since February 22, when a positivity rate of 7.12% was recorded. Total 34,861,608 tests have been conducted in Maharashtra till now, as per the data.Also, 22,532 more people recovered from Covid-19 on Sunday, as against 31,964 on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 5,362,370, with the recovery rate reaching 93.55%.These latest numbers come on a day chief minister Uddhav Thackeray addressed the people on the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra, extending lockdown-like norms by 15 days. The norms were first announced in mid-April to break the chain of transmission, and were, on May 13, extended till June 1, two days before these were scheduled to end. On May 27, state health minister Rajesh Tope hinted at an extension of the norms, at least in places with a high positivity rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-18-600-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-over-2-months-101622384927870.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai mayor finds Covid-19 vaccines stored in normal fridge at hotel in Andheri||Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Sunday conducted an inspection at a hotel in suburban Andheri and found several COVID-19 vaccines stored there in a normal fridge, in violation of the laid down norms.The Covaxin doses found stored there have been sealed and an inquiry has been ordered, she said.The mayor conducted the inspection at The Lalit Hotel in Andheri East, during which some Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials accompanied her.Talking to reporters later, Pednekar said there is a tie-up between the hotel andCriticare Hospital, a local private hospital.The hospital had procured the COVID-19 vaccine doses from the central government, which the civic and the state authorities were not aware of, she said."The Lalit Hotel had received a proposal from the hospital that people can be vaccinated there (at the hotel). As per the proposal, those people, who do not have a family to look after following the vaccination, can stay in the hotel after inoculation...Here 500 people have been vaccinated," the mayor said.The hotel is not to be blamed, but the hospital has not adhered to the norms concerning the cold storage of vaccines, she said."How did they get Covaxin doses when many BMC centres don't have them? I found doses, which were stored in a normal fridge. This can result in side-effects to those vaccinated. The recovered vaccines have been sealed and an inquiry will be carried out," Pedkenar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mayor-finds-covid-19-vaccines-stored-in-normal-fridge-at-hotel-in-andheri-101622377144257.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Take locals into confidence or there will be unrest: Shiv Sena over Lakshadweep row||Targeting the Centre over the set of new regulations in Lakshadweep, Shiv Sena on Saturday warned of “communal tension”, adding that such moves could create “unrest” in the country. Sena leader Sanjay Raut asked why that there is no ban on cow slaughter in Goa and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states in the North East, like the one proposed by the Lakshadweep administrator Praful K Patel.Patel, a former Gujarat BJP leader and the state’s former home minister, is facing criticism on the slew of regulations he has brought in Lakshadweep where he was made the administrator by the Centre. The new regulations have drawn the ire of the locals as well as political parties including Sena’s allies in Maharashtra—Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP added that the decision that are made in the Union Territories and the islands must be taken after taking the locals into confidence. “If there is unrest then the whole country has to pay the price for it. And if somebody is trying to create communal tension in such Union Territory then it is wrong,” Raut said. Sena mouthpiece Saamana also published an editorial on Saturday and said that Patel’s “arbitrariness” is now seen in the island after Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Patel was named in the suicide note of Dadra Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar who committed suicide earlier this year in Mumbai.His regulations include a new development plan, proposed cow slaughter ban, the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act, which allows the police to detain a person without any public disclosure for a period of one year, and the draft panchayat notification, where a person with more than two children is disqualified from being a panchayat member.Raut said that three is no opposition to development in Lakshadweep but added, “But the law and rules have to be uniform for everybody. There is a new regulation of beef in Lakshadweep, which is fine but Goa doesn’t have a ban, neither does Kerala or North-Eastern states. If such a law comes only in Lakshadweep, then many questions crop up in the minds of the people. Therefore, whether the administrator is a political appointee or a civil servant, if we do not take step cautiously then we will face unrest in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/take-locals-into-confidence-or-there-will-be-unrest-sena-over-lakshadweep-row-101622350185647.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Over 1 million cases, 19K deaths in 29 days in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Saturday saw its 10th consecutive day of fewer than 30,000 Covid-19 cases.Despite these welcome figures, a sign that the second wave has most likely receded in India’s worst-hit state, this month has already seen more than a million cases and close to 20,000 casualties, with two days to go. The number of casualties recorded in May is the highest tally for a month since the pandemic hit the state last March. Till May 29, the state has reported 1,107,770 cases and 19,738 deaths, according to statistics from the state health department.The state on Saturday recorded 20,295 Covid-19 infections, pushing the count to 5,713,215. The tally of active cases dipped to 276,573 with 31,964 recoveries in the past 24 hours. The state saw 443 more Covid-19 casualties, taking the toll to 94,030. Satara reported the highest toll with 51 deaths. Solapur and Kolhapur reported 37 casualties each, followed by Mumbai with 25 deaths.The state government has already decided to extend lockdown restrictions, considering the rise in cases in more than a dozen districts. It, however, will provide a few relaxations in the existing restrictions. It may extend the restricted timings of four hours for buying essential commodities and may also allow shops that become essential during monsoon. An order to this effect is likely to be issued on May 30, officials said. The lockdown is ending on June 1 at 7am. A full lockdown was imposed in the state on April 22.The issue of lockdown extension was discussed in the state cabinet meeting held on Thursday.Currently, people can’t step out unless they need medical attention or are working in an essential sector or want to buy essential commodities, that too within restricted timings — between 7am and 11am.Although the positivity rate of the state is going down, the case fatality rate (CFR) has been one the rise since July 2020. On May 29, the CFR was recorded at 1.65%, up from 1.49% reported on May 1. In the past three months — February, March and April — the CFRs were 2.42%, 1.94% and 1.5%.Previously, April had reported 1,723,249 cases and 12,496 fatalities. Mumbai also clocked 1,038 cases and reported a total of 703,560 cases till date.In the past 24 hours, the state tested 258,799 samples and had a positivity rate of 7.84%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 16.51%, according to the data issued by the state health department on Saturday.“Going by today’s situation, it is very difficult for the state to significantly ease down restrictions. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is also not very much comfortable with the idea. Thus, ‘Mission Begin Again’ is likely to start from June 1, but to a very limited extent. We may extend restricted timings of four hours to six or seven hours for the people to step out for buying essentials and may also allow shops that become essential during the rainy season,” said a senior official privy to the development.Meanwhile, the state government has placed a purchase order for two million vaccine doses, primarily for the inoculation of the people in the 18-45 category. However, a formal decision is yet to be taken when the drive for the people in the age group will recommence. The inoculation for 18-45 category is temporarily suspended since May 13 due to lack of adequate vaccine stock for second doses of people over 45 years.The Maharashtra government is expecting over six million vaccine doses in June. This includes 1,947,550 doses of both Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre under free quota. Another 2,070,530 doses of both vaccines is to be purchased from the manufacturing companies. Besides that, the state is also expecting another two million doses under the Centre’s free quota in the second half of June.A senior bureaucrat said t the state has not decided on restarting the vaccination drive for 18-45 category, but a decision is expected in a day or two. “We are going to get enough vaccines in June but we also have a backlog of second doses. We have placed a purchase order of 2 million doses as well; whether to use it for 18-45 or for above 45 year category is still to be made. A decision to restart inoculation for 18-45 hasn’t been made yet, but we will evaluate the situation and decide on it in a day or two,” the official said, requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, 296,513 doses were administered till 8pm on Saturday across the state in 4,179 centres. So far, the state has administered 22,226,917 doses, of which 4,520,907 beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked doctors to ensure that home-quarantined Covid-19 patients should be closely monitored so that they don’t get serious and hospitals are not burdened unnecessarily. He also said that the patients who need hospitalization should be moved without wasting time.He was speaking while inaugurating a two-day workshop organised by the Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC). Around 21,000 doctors participated in the workshop. Thackeray said the family doctors have a responsibility to properly identify the patient in time. “We need to see if the patients are getting proper treatment at home, especially in the primary and middle stages when hospitalization is not required. The doctors should also be careful about when the patients need to be shifted to the hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-1-million-cases-19k-deaths-in-29-days-in-maharashtra-101622349922315.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Colleges, students grapple with pandemic truths||In the final year of her BSc Botany course, Anisha was supposed to learn how to use a spectrophotometer to measure the amount of photons absorbed by plants. However, the 22-year-old will soon graduate with a degree in Botany from a suburban college in Mumbai without having seen the instrument in person.“I saw a video of my teacher performing the experiment, but never really saw it,” she said.The Covid-19 pandemic shut down almost all campuses across the country. While educational institutes were quick to move to online mode of education, the pandemic deprived students of practical knowledge that students learn on campus. Many will graduate this year without having set foot in a laboratory for more than a year.Faculty members and principals of various colleges in the city highlighted a skill gap that will affect prospects of the graduates in getting admission to higher education institutes as well as job opportunities.“Graduating students, who haven’t been on campus for more than a year, will miss out on the experience of doing a practical experiment. The problem is students will not know how to operate an instrument properly because they have only seen it in pictures or videos,” said principal of a prominent college in the city.Admissions: How to compare apples to orangesAdmission to degree colleges is going to be a tough affair this year, especially with different boards adopting different methodologies to mark students. “For example, state board has cancelled exams. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is yet to decide. That’s apples and oranges. How do you define merit without bringing students from different boards to the same level,” asked principal of a suburban college.Drawing up merit lists is going to be difficult this year, said most principals interviewed by HT. All of them requested anonymity.Unlike professional courses such as medicine, engineering and law where candidates have to take a centralised exam, admission to degree colleges affiliated to the University of Mumbai (MU) are based on students’ performance in board exams.“Online exams are not a proper reflection of a students’ understanding of a subject. So to judge the students on online exams is not appropriate,” said a principal.While some colleges conduct entrance exams for some niche courses, holding entrance exams for all subjects would require enormous resources that colleges lack at short notice. “However, it is not impossible. In a meeting with state government officials, we, principals, have suggested ways of conducting online entrance exams,” said Kishore Peshori, principal, MMK College of Commerce, Bandra.“Until last year, even for niche courses, 70% weightage was on entrance exam and 30% on board results. This year, we are planning to make it 100% on entrance exam,” said a principal.Hiring: Bridging an irreparable skill gapEvery year when the Union budget is announced, final year BCom students of HR College in Churchgate watch the speech with their faculty and engage in analysis. This year, the event happened online as students and faculty joined in virtually.“It is a universal fact that there is an irreparable skill gap. The onus is now on colleges and students themselves to bridge this gap in the best possible way, given the circumstances,” said Navin Punjabi, assistant professor and director (placements) at HR College.He said that this year recruiters have been preferring students who are skilled to start working virtually. “Recruiters are realising that if the student can start working from home, they can save time and resources on on-boarding the new recruit in the virtual process. So, we are trying to train our students in the same,” Punjabi added.Paavan Choudary, founder of Merilytics, an analytics solution firm that rolled out over 100 offers across premiere institutes such as Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), agreed with Punjabi.“The pandemic has been both a boon and a bane for talent acquisition. On one hand, due to virtual processes, we are able to expand our reach of campuses, but on the other hand, it has become highly competitive to find talent. We don’t think any additional training is necessary, at least from our perspective, but the on-boarding processes are largely virtual, which implies we have to budget more time for people to integrate,” said Choudary.Over the last weekend, Scaler, an upskilling platform for students and working professionals in the technology space, held a virtual job fair for students. “Virtual hiring events are becoming the new normal. Our online assessment test platform is being used by many technology companies for screening their new recruits,” said Abhimanyu Saxena, co-founder of Scaler.He said that many technology firms are adding an additional screening level and asking students to take live coding tests. Video CVs are also becoming increasingly popular among recruiters.“We have already introduced an additional level of screening by introducing video proctoring during an online test and virtual interviews. We have been using video CVs as the first step along with resume as it helps in the selection process. Coding tests with real-time compilers are used to assess coding ability. Students can take the online test/interviews from their location using laptop or desktop or mobile phone. In case of any suspicious activity by the student, the system warns the candidate and shares the final report with the recruiter whether the student was found suspicious or non-suspicious during the process,” said SJ Raj, senior vice-president, human resources operations, Newgen Software, a digital transformation firm.Raj said that even as the pandemic subsides, companies may continue to use technology. “In the future, considering most of the colleges are off city limits, technology will be the big enabler. It will be a hybrid model wherein local colleges can be covered offline while outstation colleges can be covered with the online process to optimise our effort and cost,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/colleges-students-grapple-with-pandemic-truths-101622315913625.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||New UGC rules facilitates autonomy to seven MU colleges in past one year||The move to reduce the academic burden of University of Mumbai (MU) is an ongoing process and while the state government has already approved two cluster universities as well as the state’s first private university, more and more colleges have managed to acquire autonomous status in the past one year.As per information shared by MU officials, there were 35 autonomous colleges, including five university departments, under the varsity by February 2020. However, making use of the new University Grants Commission (UGC) rules, seven other colleges have managed to get the prestigious status, taking the total number to 42 at present.“Earlier the process of autonomy was a two-step process and colleges first had to seek approval from the affiliated university before approaching UGC. But now UGC has streamlined the process, and this has encouraged more colleges to apply and achieve the autonomous status in the past one year,” said Deepak Wasave, deputy registrar, affiliation section, MU. He added that with the change in rules approved by UGC in 2018, colleges now only need affiliation confirmation from the respective university and can then approach UGC directly. “This cuts down the process time by more than half, helping more and more colleges in seeking autonomy,” he said.Well performing colleges were first encouraged to seek autonomy to help reduce the burden on MU, which has more than 800 affiliated colleges. The state education department encouraged more and more ‘A’ grade accredited colleges to apply for autonomy and handed over the reins of academic growth to the institutes themselves.UGC had earlier mentioned that colleges that get ‘A’ grade in three consecutive National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) cycles should be awarded autonomous status.The new guidelines, referred to as University Grants Commission (Conferment of Autonomous Status upon Colleges and Measures for Maintenance of Standards in Autonomous Colleges) Regulations, 2018, now states that henceforth, colleges with a NAAC score of 3.51 and above shall be considered for autonomous status “without onsite visit by the expert committee” of UGC.One of the last institutes to be awarded autonomy was KJ Somaiya Institute of Engineering & Information Technology, in March this year. “At the UGC level, things have become much more facilitative, but the process still has hurdles and delays. Even though UGC permits new courses for autonomous colleges, if such a course is not there in the affiliating university, additional steps and more processes for approval cause further delays,” said professor VN Rajasekharan Pillai, provost, Somaiya Vidyavihar.Time and again experts have commented on the need for “full-fledged autonomy” as opposed to only academic autonomy. “There are four facets of autonomy — academic, financial, administrative and managerial. Technically, autonomy survives on these four pillars, but what colleges are getting right now is only academic autonomy, which dilutes the power of the status,” said SS Mantha, former director of the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).Colleges, too, have highlighted the need for more diversity in the status. “What we get is more or less autonomy in conduct of examination only. Though autonomous colleges are getting some liberty, what we need is complete autonomy,” said Naresh Chandra, principal of BK Birla College, Kalyan.At present, autonomous colleges are allowed to design and upgrade their curriculum and to conduct examination as per their own schedule. However, the result is still certified by the university they were formerly affiliated to. “In order to initiate any new project, one needs financial backing and with that important part missing, it limits the growth of the institute,” said Mantha, adding, “The true strength of an institution in terms of what it does academically or otherwise is revealed only when they start giving out their own degree certificates, without the backing of an established university.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-ugc-rules-facilitates-autonomy-to-seven-mu-colleges-in-past-one-year-101622315913041.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||82-year-old hotelier duped of ₹1.7 crore by Facebook friend||Colaba police registered a first information report (FIR) on the basis of a complaint lodged by an 82-year-old Malabar Hill resident who has been cheated to the tune of ₹1.7 crore by a London-based friend he met on social media platform Facebook.The complainant was befriended by a woman on the social media platform who posed as a senior executive of a UK-based pharmaceutical company. She induced the complainant into investing money in supplying raw material for an alleged drug for cancer treatment and cheated him.According to police sources, the complainant received a friend request from one Samantha Mathew, who introduced herself as purchase manager in pharmaceutical company at London, in February this year. After chatting on the platform for a while, the two shared their mobile numbers. “Mathew told the complainant that her company procured some herbal raw material for producing a cancer medicine from a firm in Nagaland, India. This raw material, she claimed, was extracted from a tree in Nagaland and added that she has been procuring the raw material for the company and was getting good commission for it. She then allegedly told him that her employer was transferring her to some other department, and offered the complainant her company’s agency for procuring the raw material and earn 60% commission,” said a police officer. The complainant decided to invest money in the business of supplying the raw material and entered a deed of agreement with Mathew’s company on May 3. As per the agreement, which was sent to the complainant through email, he was supposed to buy 5,000 packets of the raw material from Nagaland-based Varma Enterprises and send it to the company in the UK for a period of five years. The firm also stated that they would check samples first and then make 50% advance payment for a shipment. For the one packet of raw material, the company agreed to pay around ₹2 lakh.The complainant bought five packets from the Nagaland firm for ₹75,000 each to send as samples. But the UK-based company told him that they would need at least 500 packets as sample.However, after the complainant sent around ₹1.7 crore to buy 500 packets to the said Nagaland-based firm, he did not get the delivery. Upon checking with the firm repeatedly, the firm told him that they would send an executive via air to deliver the samples. Upon reaching the airport on the given date, the complainant found out that no such person was in the flight. Following this, he approached Colaba police.“We have registered a case under sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and section 66 (Computer related offences) of the Information Technology Act. We are in process of obtaining details of the transactions, online Facebook accounts and beneficiary bank accounts. We suspect that the accused used fake names, fake company details and website and emails IDs,” said a police officer.Another police officer said the typical modus operandi indicates involvement of a Nigerian gang in the fraud. “Nigerian cyber fraudsters have been using the false stories of cancer-curing herbal medicine since many years and targetting vulnerable senior citizens on Facebook,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/82yearold-hotelier-duped-of-1-7-crore-by-facebook-friend-101622315853588.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Cyclone-hit barge Gal Constructor spills diesel into Arabian Sea||Barge Gal Constructor, which for stuck on the rocky ridges at Vadrai coast, Palghar due to Cyclone Tauktae, has started to spill around 80,000 litres of diesel and lube, grease and other liquids into the sea. Fishermen from the area said a layer of fuel has formed over the water, making it difficult for them to fish. Contractors of the barge, which had 137 crew members onboard when it was stuck in the Arabia Sea amid the cyclone, have arrived at the spot and are making attempts to contain the spillage.The Coast Guard, in a statement, said that two fuel barges are being used to remove the oil and repairs to the hull is on.The barge, which was on ONGC duty, drifted to Vadrai coast on May 17 after it lost power. The Coast Guard with the help of three Chetak choppers and ship rescued all 137 crew members but the barge is still stuck at the coast, jeopardising the environment and leading to marine pollution.Manendra Arekar, chairman of Vadrai Machimar Sarvodaya Society, complained to Palghar port officer about the dangers of marine pollution due to the spillage. “Due to the oil spillage, the entire Vadrai, Satpati coast area is reeking of fuel, oil and chemicals, and as a result fishing is impossible. A thin layer of fuel is formed, leading to harm to marine lives,” said Arekar, adding, “We have appealed to the port officer to take remedial action to prevent more damage to the coast and the environment.”Poornima Meher, a fishermen leader, said the barge should be removed from the spot immediately before the onset of monsoon and that the spillage be controlled. “The fuel and oil load should be emptied on an emergency level, or else we will protest at the spot as 12 days have passed since the spillage,” Meher said.Assistant inspector Sudhir Dhayarkar of Satpati coastal police station said contractors and owners of the barge approached the police seeking security at the spot as the team are at the location to contain the spillage. “They are using boom, a big ring surrounding the barge, which will soak up the oil and fuel spillage,” said the official. “It is a time consuming process and we have not been informed as to when the fuel and oil will be emptied as the hull of the barge has formed cracks in some areas, resulting in the spillage. The process could take months,” said Dhayarkar. He further added that locals visiting the barge during low tide made the job difficult.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyclonehit-barge-gal-constructor-spills-diesel-into-arabian-sea-101622315853001.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Dadar GRP arrests two||Dadar Government Railway Police (GRP) arrested a history-sheeter for extortion and robbery. The accused’s wife, who was being brought for questioning in the case, has also been arrested after she tried to escape. According to GRP officers, a special team was set up to arrest Santosh Kumar Singh alias Bablu Thakur, wanted in a crime that took place on March 7. Police received a tip-off on Friday that Singh was to visit Govandi along with his accomplices. The officers laid a trap and arrested Singh. During investigation, police found out that Singh had bought property worth crores in the name of his wife Rita Singh.Meanwhile, Rita was absconding and was hiding in Juinagar in Navi Mumbai under a fake identity. With the help of Nerul police, GRP officers located Rita.However, when she was being escorted from the platform at Dadar station towards GRP police station, Rita jumped on the tracks to in an attempt to escape from police custody.“As soon as Rita jumped on the track, constable Arjun Dhanvat followed her and jumped after her. He pulled her towards the other side of the track and saved her from getting crushed under an approaching local train,” said a police officer from Dadar GRP.She was then placed under arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dadar-grp-arrests-two-101622315734142.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Man, wife booked for abusing mother||Bandra police on Saturday registered a first information report (FIR) against a local resident and his wife for allegedly harassing and beating the man’s 53-year-old mother. According to the victim, Rafat Gholapkar, her 27-year-old son Saad and his wife Lubna, 26, had beaten her up when she refused to leave her own house. In her statement to police, Gholapkar stated that she lived with her husband at Bazaar Road in Bandra (West). Her son had married Lubna in 2012 and initially lived separately, but the couple moved in with them after a few months and started fighting with the complainant.She stated that when she tried complaining to her husband after the couple abused her, he did not pay any heed.On May 17, the couple demanded that Gholapkar leave the house, to which she objected saying it was her house. The couple then allegedly started abusing her and beat her up. Following this, she approached the policeAdvocate Mariam Tanveer Nizam, on behalf of the complainant, said, “This is a blatant case of domestic violence against women and a very unfortunate example of lack of support from the in-laws. We are grateful to Bandra Police for taking cognisance and booking the guilty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-wife-booked-for-abusing-mother-101622315673014.html
30-05-2021||Mumbai||Model files rape, molestation case against photographer, 8 others||A 28-year-old Andheri-based model, who recently sparked controversy after making MeToo allegations, has filed a complaint of rape and molestation with Bandra police against photographer Colston Julian and eight others including son of a known producer, a Bollywood talent manager and a film producer. Mumbai Police spokesperson deputy commissioner of police Chaitanya Siriprolu confirmed the development and said further investigation is on.The model had, on April 12, written a post on a social media platform, narrating how she was physically and emotionally abused during a work assignment. She also wrote to a senior police officer seeking to file a case against the photographer alleging sexual harassment and physical assault.Bandra police on May 26 registered a first information report (FIR) in the matter.Julian did not respond to HT’s calls and messages.According to police sources, the model in her complaint stated that Julian took advantage of her and allegedly raped her in Bandra between 2014 and 2018 under false pretext.The photographer had earlier quashed the accusations as “false and spiteful”. In a post on a social media platform, he had written, “Dear all, it has come to my notice that a social media post and news article with entirely false and spiteful accusations, are making certain claims against me. My lawyers are following the official process and are responding to the situation legally.” Besides Julian, the model has accused eight others of allegedly raping her on different occasions.The police have registered an FIR against the nine accused under sections 376N (committing rape repeatedly on the same woman), 354 (molestation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Police are further investigating the matter and checking the veracity of the allegations and collecting evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/model-files-rape-molestation-case-against-photographer-8-others-101622315553691.html
