31-05-2021||Mumbai||Non-essential shops in Mumbai can operate 7 am to 2 pm on alternate days: BMC||With Covid-19 cases on a steady decline, the Mumbai civic body on Monday allowed non-essential shops to function between 7 am to 2 pm on alternate days from Monday to Friday for the next 15 days.The shops selling essential items, which are currently allowed to operate between 7 am to 11 am, are now allowed to remain open all days between 7 am to 2 pm.While relaxing the stricter lockdown-like curbs, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in an order issued under the 'Break the Chain' initiative, also permitted the distribution of non-essential items along with essential ones under e-commerce.The order stated essential shops will now function on all days of the week between 7 am to 2 pm. Presently they are permitted to remain open between 7 am to 11 am.Non-essential shops can function between 7 am to 2 pm on alternate days from Monday to Friday.The shops located on the right side of the roads will be open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, while the shops on the left side will be allowed to operate on Tuesday and Thursday."Next week, the shops on the left side of the road will be open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, while the shops on the right will be open on Tuesday and Thursday," the order stated, adding that the same arrangement will continue for the weeks ahead.The BMC also stated that these orders will be applicable until the directives issued by the state government under 'Break The Chain' remain in force."As announced by the government from time to time, it's mandatory for all the commercial establishments to follow social distancing, use of masks and other measures," the order stated.Mumbai has been witnessing a steady decline in fresh Covid-19 cases. The megapolis on Monday reported 676 cases, the lowest since February 23 this year, taking its tally to 7,06,251, a civic official said. The day also saw 20 deaths, taking the toll to 14,884.The Maharashtra government on Sunday extended the lockdown-like curbs till June 15 and also announced that relaxations will be granted depending upon the Covid-19 positivity rate and availability of oxygen beds.In municipal corporations or regions of districts with less than 10 per cent Covid-19 positivity rate and where the availability of occupied oxygen beds will be less than 40 per cent, all the establishments/shops engaged in essential commodities and services that are presently opened from 7 am to 11 am can now remain open from 7 am to 2 pm, the government had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nonessential-shops-in-mumbai-can-operate-7-am-to-2-pm-on-alternate-days-bmc-101622480651843.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 15,077 Covid-19 cases; fresh infections below 20k for second straight day||Maharashtra continued its downward trajectory of daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as the state added 15,077 fresh infections on Monday, the latest health department bulletin showed. With this, Maharashtra’s infection tally has risen to 5,746,892, according to the bulletin. Also on the day, 184 lives were lost due to Covid-19, as the western state’s related death toll rose to 95,344, the bulletin showed further.On Sunday, the state saw 18,600 new cases, making it the first time since March 16, that Maharashtra witnessed a single-day rise of less than 20,000 cases. A total of 17,864 people were found positive on March 16.Also Read | Maharashtra records 18,600 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in over 2 monthsMonday’s bulletin also showed that the latest positivity rate stood at 7.8% as the latest positive cases were out of 193,446 tests conducted to check for the infection. However, on Sunday, 252,623 tests were conducted, as the positivity rate was recorded at 7.36%, the lowest since 7.12% on February 22. As of May 31, 35,055,054 tests have been conducted in the state.In Mumbai, the state capital, a single-day rise of 666 was recorded, way lower than 1,062 on May 30. The city’s infection tally has thus increased to 705,288. However, 29 lives were lost on the day, as against 22 on Sunday, as Mumbai’s death toll rose to 14,826.Earlier in the day on Monday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed shock at “heavy” vehicular traffic in Mumbai, despite strict Covid-19 norms. “I was wondering if I said anything about restrictions being listed last night but I did not,” Thackeray said, referring to his address to the state on Sunday night, in which he announced that lockdown-like curbs in Maharashtra, in effect since mid-April, are being extended by 15 days from June 1.Also Read | Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray extends lockdown-like curbs in state by 15 days, pitches for Covid-free villagesThe chief minister, who inaugurated a trial run of two Metro lines in the city, also warned that stricter curbs might be imposed if people continue to be out on roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-15-077-covid-cases-fresh-infections-below-20k-for-second-straight-day-101622468529720.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai's civic-run zoo to expand by 10 acres for new animals||The civic-run Byculla Zoo in Mumbai is set to expand by 10 acres to house new enclosures for several exotic species of animals that will be brought to the facility in the next few years, officials said on Monday.One of the city's most patronised venues, officially called the Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan, it is currently spread over 53 acres and the extra 10 acres have already been procured for a third phase of expansion, they added.Zoo director Dr Sanjay Tripathi told PTI that a tender had been floated for the expansion work that will see the construction of 15 enclosures to house animals like the giraffe, white lion, black jaguar, chimpanzee, ostrich, ringtail lemur and cheetah etc.He said the Union government approved the expansion work in 2019.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation officials said work in the first two phases is expected to cost ₹175 crore and tenders for its have already been floated.Under these phases, a space for exhibiting African savanna will be built along with an aviary for exotic birds, as well as a hippopotamus enclosure, apart from landscaping, installation of CCTV cameras, public amenities etc.Byculla Zoo has over 330 animals, birds and reptiles, including monkeys, deer, elephants, penguins, crocodiles, hippopotamus, penguins etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-civic-run-zoo-to-expand-by-10-acres-for-new-animals-101622451568657.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Battle for Maratha reservation to be fought in Delhi: Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana, in its editorial on Monday said that the battle for the Maratha reservation will be fought in Delhi.The editorial said it becomes necessary to knock on the doors of Delhi on the issue of the Maratha reservation. "The collision will prove to be decisive. To destabilize the politics of Maharashtra, the opposition will use the issue of the Maratha reservation as a weapon, then they will have to stop it in time," it stated.Saamana said Rajya Sabha MP Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje has taken an aggressive role in the context of the Maratha reservation. "He has warned to go on street agitation if there is no decision by June 6," it said.Referring to the Supreme Court's observation, the editorial said only the Central government has the right to make such law regarding the reservation.Quoting Sambhaji Raje in this context, Saamana said, "The government has three legal options. The state could file a review petition in the Supreme Court. If it is dismissed, file an amended petition. Even if it was failed, plead with the President as per Article 37 of the Constitution."The publication emphasised the contribution of Maratha society in the formation of Maharashtra. It said Marathas are now lagging economically behind with poor crop harvesting due to nature's degeneracy as well as lack of employment opportunities. Therefore, the Maharashtra Government enacted a law giving 18 percent reservation to the Maratha community, which is educationally and socially backward."Therefore, the self-respect of the Marathas will have to be knocked at the door of Delhi. They will have to re-create the atmosphere of the battle of united Maharashtra in Delhi," added Saamana.The Supreme Court on May 5, 2021 struck down the reservation in government jobs and educational institutions for the Maratha community brought in by the Maharashtra government in 2018, saying it exceeded the 50 per cent cap imposed earlier.A five-judge Constitution Bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and Ravindra Bhat in its judgment said that that people from the Maratha community cannot be declared as educationally and socially backward community to bring them within the reserved category. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/battle-for-maratha-reservation-to-be-fought-in-delhi-shiv-sena-101622436587041.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Second wave: Airlines, DGCA help staff fight anxiety, fear||Restrictions on domestic and international travel due the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdowns have resulted in massive job losses, pay cuts and furloughs in the domestic aviation industry over the past 14 months, leading to increased stress for airlines and employees.While air crew are stressed and suffer from anxiety, ground staff have also reported being stressed due to the present work situation as they have to ensure seamless movement of passengers and cargo. With no escape from work, the country’s aviation regulator and airlines are helping their employees cope with the situation and their fear of getting exposed to the virus.In addition to following all directives and protocols issued by the ministry of health and family welfare and other related organisations, Arun Kumar, director general of Directorate of General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), said, “Besides providing a facility of a consultation with doctors of the medical cell, a core group has also been formed to interact with various officers and staff and see to their immediate needs and requirements. We are also processing remuneration of employees and contractual staff on time.”Airlines are doing their bit to ensure a stable work environment. IndiGo, for instance, has tied up with a leading employees assistance programme 1to1help desk. “Under this initiative, employees are free to avail telephonic counselling services to adapt to the changing reality and manage the psychological effects of the pandemic,” IndiGo said. Under VistaraCARE, the management of Tata Group-Singapore Airlines jointly owned airline has been engaging in one-on-one check-ins with department heads and regular virtual meetings that help managers detect and address concerns and foster team collaboration. “Activities like online yoga, inspirational talks by experts, contests using various tools and digital platforms are conducted to reunite and motivate everyone. However, the tonality, humour etc. in communication is moderated in light of the current situation,” said the Delhi-based full service airline.An international study conducted in April last year, stated that levels of stress, anxiety and depression among air crew have risen because of the pandemic and the societal response to it.“When you come to know that a colleague is critical or has passed away due to Covid-19, it becomes very disturbing. Initially you fail to realise the tragedy but then gradually, reality sets in and impacts your mental health,” said a pilot.As the fear and anxiety of contracting the virus continues, DGCA has arranged vaccination camps for both full-time and contractual staff and their family members. Airlines, too, have started organising vaccination camps, catering to not only the flying crew but also ground staff which includes loaders, air side staff and desk staff at airports to help reduce their stress levels.“Every employee, be it on air or on ground, is worried about stepping out and working. The possibility of contracting the virus cannot be ruled out at airports. However, from the first week of May, majority of airlines have been setting up vaccination camps for their employees for a healthy working environment,” a former airline official said.The Airports Authority of India (AAI) also organised regular online awareness and training sessions to allay fears and doubts among employees. “The training programmes were conducted through empanelled hospitals to raise awareness about Covid-19 and its effects. We began with dos and don’ts in the times of Covid, covering 100 participants. We have conducted sessions on diet, exercises, mindfulness, stress management and relaxation. To extend the benefit of online sessions, contract workers were also covered through online training programmes.”BoxAviation is a high-risk, high-reliability and safety-critical industry. Covid-19 pandemic, with all its associated consequences, has had a significant impact on the mental health and wellbeing of both passengers and aviation personnel, which could impact operational safety. For majority of the workforce in the industry, factors such as salary deductions, furloughs, risk of getting infected themselves and even becoming a carrier for their loved ones, affect their mental health. Their fear of catching the virus either during the commute or at work is always lurking in their mind. - International Civil Aviation Organisation, a specialised agency of the United Nations, document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-wave-airlines-dgca-help-staff-fight-anxiety-fear-101622400343089.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai-based environment group objects to draft fly ash management rules||A city-based environment group has written to the Union environment ministry registering its objections to the latest draft notification pertaining to the use of fly ash, a by-product of coal combustion by thermal power plants (TPP). The draft notification, which aims to achieve “100% utilisation of fly ash by coal- or lignite-based thermal power plants” and “sustainability of fly ash management system”, is open for public feedback for a period of two months from April 22.The Conservation Action Trust (CAT), an environment group headquartered in Ghatkopar, has submitted 20 comments on the draft notification, which can be accessed on the ministry’s website. Experts who spoke to Hindustan Times expressed concern at three broad additions to the draft rules, which were last amended in 2016.The first of these is the inclusion of a clause that imposes penalties on power plants that do not meet their targeted utilisation of fly ash, as included in paragraph 20 of the draft rules. “In the first two years of a three-year cycle, if the coal/ lignite-based thermal power plant... has not achieved at least 80% ash utilisation, then such non-compliant TPPs shall be imposed with a fine of ₹1,000 per tonne on unutilised ash during the end of financial year... If it is unable to utilise 100% of ash in the third year of the three-year cycle, it would be liable to pay a fine of ₹1,000 per tonne of unutilised quantity on which fine has not been imposed earlier,” the draft rules state.It also go on to state, “In case a TPP achieves the ash utilisation of any particular cycle after imposition of fine in subsequent cycles, the said amount shall be returned to TPP after deducting 10% of the fine collected on the unutilised quantity during the next cycle. Deduction of 20%, 30%, and so on, of the fine collected is to be made in case of utilisation of ash in subsequent cycles.”The provision for recovery of fines has so far been in the purview of courts, and while experts agreed that it is step in the right direction to include such a provision in law, they also said that allowing for refunds is a contradictory move. “So it is not really a penalty at all, it is more of a security guarantee, against which violations will continue. The draft notification also states that collected penalties should be used for safe disposal of unutilised fly ash, whereas it should be used to rehabilitate communities that are most affected fly ash pollution,” said Debi Goenka, who authored CAT’s comments, dated May 27.Yet another clause which experts have taken issue with is included in paragraph five of the notification and addresses the issue of legacy fly ash, which has not been defined in previous versions of these rules. “Unutilised accumulated ash i.e. legacy ash, which is stored before the publication of this notification, shall be utilised progressively by TPPs in such a manner that the utilisation of legacy ash shall be completed fully within 10 years from the date of publication of this notification. This would be over and above the utilisation targets prescribed for ash generation through current operations of that particular year,” stated the draft notification.Describing this clause as an attempt to “kick the can down the road,”, Goenka said the problem of legacy fly ash has itself arisen from the failure of power generators to comply with previous iterations of fly ash compliance rules. “We are now giving violators another 10 years to fix problems whose solutions were originally envisioned in 1999. Giving extensions in the past has not worked, so there is little faith that it will work this time around as well,” said Goenka.As noted in CAT’s comments to the ministry, “This draft notification is not a ‘new’ notification but an attempt to regularise the non-compliance of the existing fly ash notifications.” The comments suggest that “existing power plants that are not in compliance with the existing fly ash notifications should be prosecuted under the Environment Protection Act” and that “no attempt should be made to regularise failures in compliance with the earlier fly ash notifications”.A third addition to the rules, which some experts referred to as the most worrying, is a provision that exempts “stabilised” ash ponds from utilisation targets. “Legacy ash utilisation is not required where ash pond/dyke has stabilised and the reclamation has taken place with greenbelt/plantation. Concerned state pollution control board shall certify in this regard,” the draft rules stated.“This is worrying because there is no scientific definition of what a ‘stabilised’ ash pond is. It is likely to encourage violators to simply procure certificates from the pollution control boards concerned without any third-party scrutiny. These new rules do not acknowledge that fly ash has already been dumped in extremely ecological sensitive areas in an extremely unscientific manner. It suggests that a few simple steps such as creating greenbelts will fix the problem, whereas we do not even have enough data to assess the scale of the damage, both social and ecological, in most places,” said Shweta Narayan, advisor with the Health Energy Initiative (HEI), who recently published a report documenting 17 major fly ash related accidents in India over the past year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaibased-environment-group-objects-to-draft-fly-ash-management-rules-101622400283463.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 18,600 new Covid-19 cases, tally 5,731,815||Mumbai Continuing with the steady decline since the start of May, Maharashtra recorded 18,600 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 5,731,815. The death toll has now reached 94,844 with 402 deaths, with Mumbai leading with 14,797 deaths, followed by Pune with 12,413. Mumbai recorded 1,062 new cases with 22 deaths, taking the tally to 704,622 and toll to 14,797. The test positivity rate is 7.36%, the lowest since February 22, when it was 7.12%.The number of Covid-19 cases recorded in Maharashtra was 63,282 on May 1, which came down to 34,848 cases on May 15 and 18,600 on May 30. The state saw 802 deaths on May 1, which increased to 960 on May 15, but came down to 402 on May 30. There are currently 271,801 active patients across the state, with Pune topping with 39,466 patients, followed by Mumbai with 28,015 active patients. On Sunday, 252,623 tests were conducted, while the number of recovered people was 22,532. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor, Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management, said a lot of efforts were undertaken to ensure the decline of the cases. “We ramped up the number of tests, ensured faster diagnosis as well as medication for the patients and also ensured they get hospital beds in time,” said Dr Salunke. He said the lockdown played a significant role in the dip. However, despite the decline, many districts in rural areas, namely Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur and Washim, continued to report high number of cases with positivity rates very high. Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, advocated speeding up of vaccination. “The time has come to enforce Covid-19 protocols very stringently. There should be no leniency till at least 60% of the population is vaccinated. Even the lockdown should be opened up in a staggered manner,” said Dr Mandot. The Pune Municipal Corporation has earmarked a scheme to provide free oxygen concentrator to affected citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-18-600-new-covid-19-cases-tally-5731815-101622400107439.html
31-05-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government extends lockdown to June 15||Even as Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases over the past few days have fallen below the peak of the first wave (September 2020), the state government has extended the ongoing lockdown by two more weeks, until 7am on June 15, as 14 of the state’s 36 districts have a high positivity rate (more than 10%). Districts and cities with a positivity rate less than 10% and less than 40% occupancy of oxygen beds will be given certain relaxations, including an extension of timings of essential establishments; operation of non-essential establishments during restricted timings; and increasing the attendance in government offices to 25%. Most cities in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including Mumbai, will be eligible for these relaxations. The state has about 14 districts with a positivity rate of more than 10%, including Thane, Raigad, Kolhapur, Osmanabad, among others. Twenty districts have a positivity rate of less than 10%. The state government has also earmarked 10 cities with more than one million population as separate units, so that the high positivity rate of their district does not apply to them.Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Vasai-Virar, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad and Nashik are 10 cities, which have been put in a separate pool. This will enable cities like Kalyan-Dombivli, Thane, Vasai-Virar and Panvel to have relaxations, although the positivity rate of the district is high. The essential establishments, which are currently allowed to open from 7am to 11am, will now be allowed to open till 2pm in these districts and cities, which have relaxations from the lockdown. Similarly, depending on orders by local authorities, the shops and establishments operating in non-essential services may be allowed to operate between 7am and 2pm (only on weekdays). Only stand-alone non essential shops are allowed to operate and not in malls and shopping complexes. The e-commerce activities in cities and districts eligible for relaxations have been allowed to operate. The government offices in these districts and cities are now allowed to operate at 25% of their capacity. Stepping out of home after 3pm has, however, remained curbed except for medical emergencies.The districts with positivity rates ranging between 10% and 20% will continue to have ongoing curbs. The shops and establishment operating in essential services will be allowed to operate, while stepping out of the house without valid reasons, will continue to be prohibited. Most rural parts of the districts are expected to fall under this category. The districts with positivity rate of more than 20% or oxygen-bed occupancy of more than 75% will see stricter curbs. The districts will be sealed by not allowing influx or outflow in them. Only Satara and Sindhudurg have more than 20% positivity rate. “The positivity rate week ending on May 29 will be considered to determine the category for the cities and districts. The health department is expected to clarify on it by tomorrow. The idea of separating the cities with one million population was to make sure that the big cities do not suffer because of the high number of patients in rural parts of the respective districts. By setting the period for the positivity rate we have also weeded out the possibility of fudging in data at the local level to get the relaxation,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his address to the state on Sunday evening, said the government is compelled to extend the lockdown unwillingly by two weeks as the cases are rising in certain rural areas. He said the districts and cities with less positivity rate will get some relaxations, while the districts and cities with high positivity rate may see stricter curbs. Thackeray said that the restrictions will be lifted in a graded manner. “The number of cases is still at the level of the peak of cases during the first wave, when there were 24,886 cases on September 11. The number of active cases is just below the peak of active cases during first wave, though the recovery rate is better today than it was at the peak of first wave. We need to tread cautiously, along with the efforts to ramp up health infrastructure in anticipation of the potential third wave,” he said. Thackeray also appealed to not resort to agitations, demanding for relaxations from the curbs, as that could result in super-spreading events. “I need the cooperation from the people and the political parties. As implemented in three villages in the state, every village, tehsil and district administration should take efforts to make their units Covid-19 free,” he said. The state government started implementing the curbs from April 5 and went on tightening them by imposing almost complete lockdown in third week of April. The state witnessed its highest number of cases, 68,631, on April 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-extends-lockdown-to-june-15-101622399442158.html
