04-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||Writing, singing helping him sail through tough times||Jalandhar, May 3He has been writing poetry, articles and even singing to keep his morale high during these tough times.A retired Major General, Arun Khanna says everyone must have had much more frightening time in the past than what they are facing today.He feels that Covid-19 isn't impossible to defeat and the only need of the hour today is stay indoors for some time.General Khanna, who had retired in 2015, is now working as a chief administrator with a housing society. He said although it was an unprecedented situation, they must cherish family time and enjoy the positive impact on the nature. "Let's be a warrior and not a worrier, this too shall pass soon," he added.Major Khanna says that his work from home through WhatsApp is a day-long activity that takes most of his time, but he also goes to his office which is in his society itself for two hours to meet residents and solve their issues. "I also pen down my thoughts about the lockdown period. A bit of physical exercise and morning walk keep me physically active. For entertainment, I have got music system with me, I sing and record my songs and watch television," he said.So far, the ex-serviceman has written five to seven articles and a few poems, some of which have also found place in the columns of esteemed newspapers. "I started writing more during the lockdown only. But now I feel it will go a long way as I have developed a habit to pen down my thoughts", he said, adding that he too shared some inspirational messages on his WhatsApp groups and the society app to keep others motivated too.Besides, he says that he has got a reason to feel elated in the lockdown as a new member has joined his family. "My son has been blessed with a baby girl. Now, I spend time cuddling and playing with her and holding her in hands make me forget about everything else", he said.Llines from his write-upIn a war situation, nobody asks anyone to stay indoors. You stay in by choice. In fact, if you have any place to hide, you hide there for as long as hostilities persist. The world is currently in a state of war. The enemy army (coronavirus) in this war is without mercy. Its only agenda is a harvest of death. Its capacity to achieve its aim is not in doubt anymore. Thankfully, this army has a weakness and it can be defeated. Covid-19 cannot survive social and physical distancing so let's follow it strictly and flatten the Covid curve.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/writing-singing-helping-him-sail-through-tough-times-80185
04-05-2020||Hardev Singh Sherowalia||Making efforts to ensure availability of essentials||I have been noticing that people are not taking coronavirus seriously, which is the biggest concern. They must understand that the lockdown and curfew cannot be extended for too long, thus, they should start acting responsibly, then only we will be able to fight the virus properly.There were several development projects in the pipeline which were not implemented due to the pandemic that has caused trouble everywhere. In these tough times, I am making sure that I meet people and listen to their grievances. I cannot stay inside and have to be on the forefront for people of my constituency. After all, they are the ones who have elected us.I am visiting mandis to ensure that the procurement process is taking place in a proper manner. After morning walk for around an hour, I go to my office and then take a report on the disbursal of ration in every village of my constituency. For the same, I am taking the help from NRI brothers and other helping groups, to ensure availability of essentials, including eatables, for all.I am continuously providing ration to needy people on a daily basis. My priority is to look after people of Shahkot and remain available for them 24x7.(As told to Aakanksha N Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/making-efforts-to-ensure-availability-of-essentials-80183
04-05-2020||---||62 test positive in Nawanshahr||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, May 3In the highest single day spike in Nawanshahr district, as many as 62 persons have tested positive today. The district tally has reached 85. Of these, 66 are active cases.The 85 cases include 63 Maharashtra returnees. Previous cases of the district include a truck driver and his two contacts as well as 19 previous cases reported from the 70-year old elderly’s contact list.As many as 130 persons, who returned from Maharashtra, have been kept under quarantine at two places in the district. While some have been kept at the Rayat Bahra institute, others are staying at a community health centre in Behram.Nawanshar DC Vinay Bublani said in the initial stage, four returnees had been kept at the Civil Hospital of which one had tested positive, while 62 tested positive today.Jalandhar: With four new cases, the total tally of coronavirus cases in the district has reached 124 today.The new cases include all contacts of previous patients from Qazi Mohalla and Basti Danishmandan. The three contacts of the Basti Danishmandan woman who tested positive today are a 46-year-old male, a 40-year-old woman and a 42-year-old man.A 47-year-old resident is the contact of the Qazi Mohalla man. On Saturday and Friday, the district received 31 cases — 15 and 16 cases, respectively. Of the total positive cases in the district so far, only one is a returnee from Maharashtra.Affected areas sealedHoshiarpur: After a major spike recorded in Covid-19 cases in Hoshiarpur on Saturday with 74 persons reported positive for the virus, affected areas were sealed on Sunday and surveys were conducted.Of the 81 active positive cases in the district, 75 are pilgrims who have returned from Nanded. They were quarantined here. Three of the positive cases have been found at Kamalpur Mohalla, Hajipur village and Budhabar village. A person from Narayangarh village of Dasuya, who was among the pilgrims returned from Nanded, was also tested positive. Contact tracing was conducted in the village, which was sealed, and 15 samples, including those of family members of person found positive and others, were taken for testing.District epidemiologist Shailesh Kumar told this correspondent that Kamalpur Mohalla and Budhabar had been sealed and contact search had been conducted in respective areas. In Kamalpur, 16 contacts had been traced while in Budhabar, eight contacts had been traced. The samples of the contacts traced in Budhabar will be taken tomorrow in the Civil Hospital. The survey is on in respective areas.Meanwhile, 15 samples taken from Narayangarh were sent for testing. In Hoshiarpur, the entry to the Kamalpur area outside the Civil Hospital was closed, sealing the road from Prabhat Chowk from the Jalandhar side and Phagwara Chowk from the city side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/62-test-positive-in-nawanshahr-80179
04-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||Besides treating Covid-19 patients, he is helping them deal with psychological issues||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 3Medical professional are on the forefront in the fight against the coronavirus and making all-out efforts to treat Covid-19 patients.Sharing his experience of treating Covid-19 patients at the Civil Hospital, Dr Abhishek Sachar, a surgical expert, said, "Apart from proper training, we have to be cautious and vigilant every time while treating Covid-19 patients. Before and after the duty hours, we remain watchful while wearing and taking off Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits. Great care and training are required while removing the PPE kits to keep infection at bay.”Since the outbreak of the coronavirus, he has been performing his duties in three different shifts. Apart from treatment, he has been helping patients deal with their psychological issues.Sachar said, “At a time when patients are feeling social discrimination, we take care of their needs and keep them motivated for recovery. Besides, intensive care is given to elderly and patients with co-morbidities.""When I go back to my home after the morning or evening shift, I do not talk to my parents and children. I avoid touching any article at home. First, I remove my hospital clothes at the main entrance. Thereafter, I disinfect my body with rigorous soap and water in the bathroom. It has been over a month since I haven't talked properly to my parents in order to follow the safety guidelines," said Sachar. Condemning attacks on frontline workers such as doctors and policemen, he urged people not to get indulged in any such activity. He urged them to stay indoors to save themselves and their families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/besides-treating-covid-19-patients-he-is-helping-them-deal-with-psychological-issues-80178
04-05-2020||Nakodar||Fake news: man held in Nakodar||12 cops chosen for DGP HonourJalandhar: As many as 12 police personnel from the district have been selected for the Director General of Police (DGP) Honour for exemplary sewa to society. The list includes seven cops from the city police commisionerate and five from the rural police. The awardees are ACP Bimal Kant, ACP Balwinder Singh Iqbal, Inspector Sikhanya Devi, ASI Gurwinder Singh, senior constable Rishu and two head constables Atinder Pal Singh and Ashok Kumar. Similarly, the rural police have selected constable Jasbir Singh, Inspector Kewal Singh, ASP Ankur Gupta, ASI Jagmohan Singh and ASI (LR) Jagtar Singh for the awards. TNSTwo arrested for violating curfewNakodar: The Mehatpur police on Sunday arrested two persons, Sukhjinder Singh of Donewal village and Baljit Singh, a resident of Akbarpur Kalan village, under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), on the charge of curfew violation. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fake-news-man-held-in-nakodar-80177
04-05-2020||---||Health Dept apprising people of COVA Punjab app||Jalandhar, May 3The Health Department has been making people aware of the COVA Punjab app. Besides, the department has been monitoring the health of the quarantined people. According to the government, everyone should download the app. With it, people can also find out how far they are standing from a positive patient. Besides, they will come to know about the red zone area. The app will provide information about their contact with a suspected person.Block Extension Educator Chandan Mishra said, “People should inform the nearest health centre or village’s ASHA worker if a person in their family or neighborhood has come from another state. So that he or she can be medically examined.”Health officials said during the door-to-door survey, ASHA workers are making people aware of the app. In some blocks, announcements are being made through loudspeakers in gurdwaras so that the message can reach the maximum number of people in the district.The health officials added that the app will prove to be beneficial for people and everyone must download it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-dept-apprising-people-of-cova-punjab-app-80176
04-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||Police come to help of woman who left home||Phillaur, May 3 Setting another benchmark of humane policing, the Jalandhar rural police have ensured that a young lady, who left her in-laws’ house late in the night from Ludhiana on foot, meets her family. It was on Saturday midnight that the Jalandhar rural police, headed by SSP (Rural) Navjot Singh Mahal, intercepted the lady, Pallavi, at Phillaur. Pallavi told the police that she had left her in-laws’ house in Ludhiana after a quarrel with family. The police officials on duty brought the matter to the notice of higher-ups, who asked the officials to ensure safe custody of the lady. The police then called the woman’s aunt and asked her to take the lady back to her in-laws’ house. Navjot Singh Mahal said the police were working round the clock to make sure that people did not face difficulty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-come-to-help-of-woman-who-left-home-80175
04-05-2020||Phagwara||40 patients shifted to GNA varsity campus||Forty patients, including 32 pilgrims returned from Hazur Sahib, who were admitted to the Civil Hospital for Covid testing, were shifted to the GNA University campus here. This was stated by Senior Medical Officer Kamal Kishore here on Sunday. He said though they were tested on April 30, their reports were still awaited. These patients raised their voice  against the administration and were alleging that they were being provided poor quality food in the hospital. The allegations were denied by Dr Kamal Kishore. He said the patients wanted to go into home quarantine or shift to Gurdwara Sukhchain Sahib. However, it was impossible for the health and civil authorities to shift them anywhere without proper arrangements. Phagwara SDM Gurwinder Johal visited the hospital late Saturday evening and expressed satisfaction over facilities provided by hospital staff to the patients. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/40-patients-shifted-to-gna-varsity-campus-80174
04-05-2020||---||Migrant workers leave for railway station over rumours of special train||Jalandhar, May 3 On Saturday evening, a rumour led to migrant workers leaving for the railway station as they believed that a special train for Jharkhand was scheduled to arrive at the railway station in the evening. Migrant workers from several factories started moving towards the station. After which, the Deputy Commissioner intervened in the matter and asked them to not to believe in any rumours. Notably, industrialists are fearing that once the lockdown ends, over 50 per cent of the migrant labourers will rush to their native places, which would affect the work badly. The state government has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for outward movement of stranded persons in the state due to curfew/lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of the pandemic. The Deputy Commissioner and the Commissioner of Police said as per instructions of the Centre, the outward movement of stranded persons in the state would begin from May 5. They said every willing person, who wants to go out from the state, would have to fill a performa that was available at link http://covidhelp.punjab.gov.in/PunjabOutRegistration.aspx. The officers said online performas must be filled by desirous persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migrant-workers-leave-for-railway-station-over-rumours-of-special-train-80173
04-05-2020||Aparna Banerji---||Amid lockdown, Major Dada’s martyrdom anniversary observed at home||Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, May 3  Bahadur jang mein jakar, zara hulchul macha de tu  Ura de dushmanon ka sar, daleri khud dikha de tu   Zara hokar khara keh de, ki main bhi sher hun Hind ka  Kya hun, kaun hun, kaisa hun; ye sab ko bata de tu..  Main Bharat dekhta hairaan, bahadur tere jaison ko   Jo baithe so rahe saathi, unhe fir se jagaa de tu..   A mother garlands her young son’s portrait with a string of roses as the scent fills the house. Farther away  at Shaheed Major Raman Dada Chowk in Jalandhar, popularly known as Kapurthala Chowk, a group of citizens, friends and policemen light candles under the valiant soldier’s statue, to commemorate his supreme sacrifice.    Amid the lull of Covid-19 lockdown, family and friends paid tributes to Major Raman Dada, who had sacrificed his life fighting Bodo insurgents in a historic combat operation on May 2, 1999, at the Biswanath Chariali reserve in Assam.    On the 21st martyrdom anniversary of her son, she remembers these couplets among many poems that she recited to her young son – sowing the first seeds of patriotism in him.  Welling up with tears, an overwhelmed Saroj Dada (68) says, “Pehli baar use ghar pe shradhanjali di hai. Nahi to har barsi par bahar shradhanjali dete hain. (We have commemorated his death anniversary at home for the first time. Earlier, an event was always held outside.)”   Posthumously awarded the nation’s second highest peacetime gallantry award, Kirti Chakra, for his exceptional courage, troops, led by Major Dada, had killed seven dreaded militants of the National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB). Several militants were shot dead by Major Dada, who also had a hand-to-hand combat with one of them. However, critically wounded and bleeding profusely, he eventually succumbed to his injuries. Saroj Dada adds, “We are a business family. But he (Major Dada) had his mind and heart in the Army. Since the time he was little, he would ask me, “Mujhe bahaduri ki kavita sunao” (recite poetry of valour to me). He grew up listening to these. He was consumed with the idea that he had to kill the militants – those setting afire jhuggis and exploiting the poor. Since childhood, he was very brave. He had been selected for the Air Force, but he joined the Army.”        Vishnu Dada, his brother, says, “Every year without gap, we would go Kapurthala Chowk to pay him tributes. But this year due to the lockdown, we couldn’t. Friends and associates did light candles for him.  Kapurthala Chowk was named Shaheed Major Raman Dada Chowk and the adjoining road and market complex were also named after him soon after his demise by the state government. However, people don’t know about it. Everyone calls it Kapurthala Chowk. Very few remember the soldier who had sacrificed his life for the country. We have also requested the MC to ensure the chowk is formally addressed after him.” The family has been observing his martyrdom anniversary at the chowk every year. They say only friends and well-wishers greeted them yesterday and no one from the government did.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-lockdown-major-dadas-martyrdom-anniversary-observed-at-home-80172
04-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Clerical errors hamper testing, contact tracing; probe ordered||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 3A few days ago two Covid-19 patients, who were discharged from a local isolation unit, were called back after they were still found positive. On Friday, a 45-year-old woman was brought to the civil hospital. It was later found to be a case of mistaken identity. In yet another case, at least two persons were tracked as positive cases, but they turned out to be someone else.In view of such discrepancies, Dr Gurinder Chawla, Civil Surgeon, has marked an inquiry.To date, 4,067 samples have been taken in the district, of which 74 have been listed as inappropriate. Labs (sending Covid-19 reports of Jalandhar patients) have been changed at least four times. Eventually, three days ago, a private lab has been approved for sampling after the signing of an MoU.In a letter to the Medical Superintendent, Dr Chawla wrote, “While taking samples, information about persons and their contact history is not being sent properly to this office. Names of some patients whose reports are being received by us are not on the lists. This is a serious discrepancy, which has taken place several times.”Dr Chawla said, “We have addresses and complete record of people who have tested positive in the district. Meanwhile, I have marked an inquiry into the clerical errors.”Dr TP Singh, Nodal Officer, said, “There was confusion about some patients a few days ago. Samples from Amritsar were coming without addresses. All inappropriate Jalandhar samples are also being re-sampled. We are maintaining exact count of the people who have tested positive in the district.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/clerical-errors-hamper-testing-contact-tracing-probe-ordered-80028
