05-05-2020||Hoshiarpur||Minister does U-turn on easing restrictions||While the Deputy Commissioner (DC) released the curfew relaxation orders in the evening, local MLA and Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora was enthusiastic to inform residents about the relaxations that he went live on the Facebook and declared that all shops would open on May 5.Begining his address he said being the Cabinet Minister he has to tell Hoshiarpur residents that there was no need to be afraid of Covid-19. “Rather, we must take precautions, maintain social distancing and cover face with masks, he said.He further said: “On May 5 all shops has been allowed to open from 9 am to 1 pm, including dhabas, salons or barber shops.”Later in the evening, the DC issued the orders on curfew relaxations which completely restricted opening of dhabas, eateries, salons and barber shops.On it, Arora got to know about the misinformation spread by him and four hours after his previous address, he again went live on the FB and said during his previous address, he had wrongly said that dhabas, salons and barber shops would remain open but the fact was that these would remain closed and rest of the shops will open.Many FB users welcomed his address and thanked him for information. One of the users commented that then how salon owners would run their households. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/minister-does-u-turn-on-easing-restrictions-80398
05-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||Farmers resort to stubble burning||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 4As many as 10 incidents of stubble burning - six from Kapurthala and four from Jalandhar - have been reported in the past few days.As the entry and exit points in most of the villages are closed due to the lockdown, there is no check on stubble-burning incidents. On a visit to some villages near Vidhipur, it was found that fields were set on fire. Agriculture officials said according to the NGT guidelines, the pollution board will get information about stubble burning through remote sensing devices.Till last year, PSPCL officials and patwaris used to keep an eye on farmers as well as numberdars who indulged in the burning of straw in their fields. However, due to the lockdown, officials are finding it tough to visit the fields.District Environment Engineer Arun Kakkar said, "At present, we have been making announcements rom gurdwaras and temples in the villages to convince farmers not to burn crop residues. In addition, area-wise local officials are also visiting the fields on regular intervals. Farmers are encouraged to use wheat stem leftovers as manure and fodder.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-resort-to-stubble-burning-80386
05-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Health team gets rousing reception in Central Town||Jalandhar, May 4Exhibiting gratitude for the strenuous efforts being made by the administration in the fight against the Covid-19, residents of the Central Town locality today gave a rousing welcome to the team of the Health Department deployed for the house-to-house survey of containment areas.As soon as members of the team from the Mother and Child Care Centre, Central Town, led by Dr Satjit Kaur, entered lane no. five of the locality for the survey, the residents of the area clapped and showered petals on them in recognition to the exemplary service being given by them to humanity in the time of crisis.The team was cheered up by the residents for performing their duty despite several hardships. People standing on the terrace also welcomed the team with a huge applause and prayed for their good health and long life.The Central Town had been declared a containment zone after a case was found positive in the locality. Since then, the team, led by Dr Satjit Kaur, had been meticulously performing their duty by conducting the survey of the entire locality. Despite the hot weather, the team members, wearing personal protection equipment (PPE), were conducting the survey for screening the residents.Meanwhile, Additional Civil Surgeon Gurmeet Duggal, who was supervising the house-to-house survey in containment zones, said the department was rendering its duty diligently in the hour of crisis.She said under the leadership of Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and Civil Surgeon Gurinder Kaur Chawla, all frontline departments were performing their duty in a proper manner.Dr Duggal said the Health Department was making concerted efforts to provide a healing touch to people during the pandemic.Covid warriors||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-team-gets-rousing-reception-in-central-town-80388
05-05-2020||Nawanshahr made a number of headlines when coronavirus hit the country. It was the state’s first district to report the Covid death and 18 positive cases. Everyone in the district were in fear and of the opinion that we won’t be able to check its spread. We then took it as a challenge and successfully managed all cases. Today||‘To strictly enforce curfew major task’||Sixty two new cases were reported on Sunday. But for over 28 days, the district saw no new patient and barring the 63 Maharashtra returnees, who have tested positive, all three recent cases are also a person who travelled outside and his contacts.My priority these days is to ensure that the relaxations are not taken lightly by residents and all safety and precautionary measures are implemented strictly.I have so far spent around Rs 25 lakh out of my own pocket to help frontline workers. I have given appreciation letters to nearly 200 employees of the Civil Hospital. I have provided Rs 5,000 each to 70 contractual employees of the Health Department and distributed nearly 5,000 ration kits among the needy so far.I have also been regularly visiting the Civil Hospital and meeting doctors to keep their morale high. In the past 45 days, I have managed to get medical equipment worth around Rs 90 lakh for the hospital.(As told to Avneet Kaur)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/to-strictly-enforce-curfew-major-task-80390
05-05-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Wooden inlay industry needs support to get back on track’||Hoshiarpur’s unique wooden inlay-work handicrafts has been facing tough times. Gurnesh Jain, owner of Kanhaya Lal Brij Lal, established in 1855, feels that subsidy, relaxation in tax and government support are required for this artisan-based wooden inlay industry to survive. In an interview with Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi, he throws light on effects of the lockdown on the industry. Here are the excerpts:How has the lockdown affected the wooden inlay industry?It is almost closed. There is little production as some employees are working from home only to support them. It is like something is better than nothing. They are carving designs and doing the inlay job at their home only.We are learning and keeping the workplace clean and sanitised. Masks, spectacles and gloves should be provided to every employee. Though the 'work from home' concept is not new in this industry as several rural artisans earlier used to do so, now Covid-19 has again revived it. But there is little production as some employees are working from home only to support them. — Gurnesh Jain, owner of Kanhaya Lal Brij LalDo you expect resumption of work on a large scale in near future?Chances are looking bleak. Since the industry is ultra non-essential and comes after even luxury, it may get hit harder after the lockdown. Something innovative needs to save the industry.Has any major order or investment been cancelled or deferred?We fear most of the orders will be cancelled. It will be difficult to keep the prices same, which were promised before the lockdown. In the coming days, we have to be ready to face bigger issues due to a hike in the expenditure and cost incurred to sustain the industry and labour during the lockdown.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?Since the earnings are nil, we are using our bank credit limit for paying the salaries to our workers. We are also paying workers some amount in advance.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown?We are keeping the workplace clean and sanitised. Masks, spectacles and gloves should be provided to every employee. Though the 'work from home' concept is not new in this industry as several rural artisans earlier used to do so, now Covid-19 pandemic has again revived it.Do you see the current scenario a challenge or an opportunity?It is an opportunity with a challenge to survive. There is an opportunity because it is teaching us how to sustain in tough conditions. It is a challenge because we have been making efforts to survive.What are your expectations from the government?Cottage industrial units should be allowed to open under specific minimal guidelines. The government should help us to work amid the changing style of business. Realising our constraints, the government should motivate and train us to abide by its advisories. Instead of punishing the industry for any violation, the government should motivate it to comply with norms. It must reduce the GST after the lockdown in order to attract people towards wooden inlay-work handicrafts. Besides, we are looking forward to packages from the government as it seems costlier to pay employees from our own pocket. It has to give the industry loans and subsidies. The government should set up a task force to bring innovations in designs for using wood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wooden-inlay-industry-needs-support-to-get-back-on-track-80397
05-05-2020||Nakodar||Proclaimed offender arrested in Nakodar||Protest against Bilga policePhillaur: Activists of the Kirti Kisan Union and the New Democracy Party on Monday staged a dharna at Nelowal chowk against the Bilga police. Addressing the protesters, party leader Santokh Singh Sandhu said the police were harassing workers of grain market by issuing traffic challans, though they had curfew passes.He said when workers came to Bilga for collecting food and for sleeping at night, the police forcibly challan them for violating the curfew norms. Station House Officer Surjit Singh Padda reached the spot and pacified the protesters. OCTwo booked for duping womanNakodar: The police have booked two travel agents for allegedly duping Sushma Rani, a resident of Udhowal village, of Rs 95,000 on the pretext of sending her son abroad. ASP Nakodar Vatsala Gupta said the suspects had been identified as Prem Masih of Gandharan village, and Sanjiv Kumar of Jamsher village. The victim complained to the Jalandhar (Rural) SSP that she paid Rs 95,000 to the suspects for facilitating her son's migration abroad, but they neither send her son abroad not returned the money. She said a case had been registered against the suspects after an inquiry. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/proclaimed-offender-arrested-in-nakodar-80394
05-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Stuck in Bengaluru, hockey player watching movies to kill boredom||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 4Varun, an Indian hockey player who belongs to Mithapur village in Jalandhar, is in Bengaluru right now, where he had gone for a national camp before the lockdown was announced. Now, the star player from Punjab is spending his lockdown by watching films, exercising and playing ludo.“Since we are always playing, or attending camps, I never get to watch movies, which I am doing right now. I have watched several films. I am also playing ludo these days which I was not able to do earlier,” he said.But, apart from entertaining himself, he is also utilising the time to polish himself by doing regular exercises and watching the matches and learning techniques. “I receive calls daily from my parents who are in Jalandhar and they ask for my well-being,” he shared, adding that every player has been following the norm of social distancing properly.Varun is waiting eagerly for the lockdown to get over and the problem to be solved as soon as possible, as he said he would like to get back to the old routine and attend camps and play matches again.“I started playing as a child and played with the aim of getting selected in a prestigious hockey team one day. Now that I have made it, I have become more responsible and wish to play for my country with dedication,” the young player had earlier said.In a conversation with The Tribune, Brahm Nand, father of Varun, had shared that he was never into any sports, but Harjeet Kaur, an Arjuna awardee from the same village, was doing well in sports because of which he thought of putting his son in sports.Brahma Nand had also shared that he had faced lots of difficulties in raising his children and after Varun was selected in Indian Hockey team, his father had expressed the feeling by saying that seeing his son's name in the list of Indian hockey players was something that had given him great happiness.Also learning game techniquesApart from entertaining himself, Varun is also utilising the time to polish himself by doing regular exercises and watching matches and learning techniques. "I receive calls daily from my parents who are in Jalandhar and they ask for my well-being," he shared, adding that every player has been following the norm of social distancing properly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stuck-in-bengaluru-hockey-player-watching-movies-to-kill-boredom-80395
05-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Sahara Sewa Samiti proves to be a boon for underprivileged||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 4Around 18 years ago, a group of men came together to feed the poor in the district. Today during the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, they have proved to be a boon for the underprivileged.Most of us are senior citizens. Due to the lockdown, our several activities have been restricted. Now, our volunteers have been providing food to needy persons. Langar and food are also available at my factory for the poor and labourers. We have been providing food at ESI Hospital as well. Apart from this, we have been providing free medicines at our outlet in ESI Hospital. — Harbhajan Singh Gagneja, Head, Sahara Sewa SamitiSahara Sewa Samiti, headed by industrialist Harbhajan Singh Gagneja, has been providing food to needy persons. Every day, members of the samiti send vehicles with food to various places, including ESI Hospital, Pingalwara, Guru Nanak Anath Ashram, Guru Nanak Mission Hospital, Shri Devi Talab Mandir, Unique Home and Pathankot bypass, on a daily basis. They have also reached out to labourers in other areas, including Sheetal Nagar and Mohalla Gobindgarh, for providing them ration.Since the lockdown, the samiti has also distributed essential items, including 5-kg atta, rice, pulses, spices, salt and toothbrushes, among the needy. It also provides milk, dalia and fruits at ESI Hospital.Gagneja said, “A majority of us are senior citizens. Due to the lockdown, our several activities have been restricted. Now, our volunteers have been providing food. Langar and food are also available at my factory for the poor and labourers. We have been providing food at ESI Hospital as well. Apart from this, we have been providing free medicines at our outlet in ESI Hospital.”Besides, the members have also been performing the last rites of abandoned and unclaimed bodies. Having cremated 1,600 bodies with all customary rites since 2002, the samiti members cremated five bodies during the lockdown.Three years ago, Sahara Sewa Samiti was also honoured by Being Human Foundation in Mumbai for serving humanity and the poor.Earlier, samiti's medicine outlet was at the Civil Hospital. After isolation wards were set up at the Civil Hospital, the shop was shifted to ESI Hospital.Speaking about the plight of labourers, Gagneja said, “We receive calls from remote areas. At some places, 10 persons need food and somewhere they are 100. From April 1 to 7, we provided food and essential kits to many labourers. We continue to do so for the needy. The situation is bad for labourers, especially who don't have IDs. They don't get food at all.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sahara-sewa-samiti-proves-to-be-a-boon-for-underprivileged-80393
05-05-2020||---||7 new cases, Jalandhar count reaches 131||Jalandhar, May 4The district reported seven new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the tally to 131. All seven persons, including a 50-year-old man from Guru Ramdass Nagar, Salempur, 54-year-old man from Janian Kalan village, 57-year-old man from Adampur and a 54-year-old woman from PAP, have returned from Nanded Sahib.A couple (52-year-old man and 46-year-old) from Raj Nagar and a 50-year-old man from Babu Labh Singh Nagar are admitted to a hospital in Amritsar.Earlier, a woman from Nanded Sahib and a man from Rajasthan had tested positive for the coronavirus.2 patients recoveredTwo patients were recovered in the district after their two samples came negative. With this, the total number of recovered people in the district is 10.Both Avtar Singh Makkar and Sarjeet Kapoor had been admitted to the local Civil Hospital on April 16. For first time, samples of both patients were sent for testing on April 30, the reports of which came negative. Subsequently, the reports of their second samples also came negative. The patients said they were well treated by the entire team of doctors at the Civil Hospital.Shops to open for 4 hoursPhagwara: Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal on Monday issued instructions and restrictions during curfew extended till May 17. The Deputy Commissioner said karyana, provision stores, chemist shops, bakery, dairy, poultry, pesticides, cattle feed, stationery, books, cement, sands, crushers, bricks, mechanics and repairing shops to open from 9 am to 1pm daily.Similarly, hardware shops, plywood, paints, sanitary, marble, glass stores, pipe fittings, electronic goods, spare parts and automobile dealers can open their establishments thrice a week on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.Cloth and readymade garment shops owners, shoe, spectacles, general merchants, cosmetics, jewellers, sports goods, toys, utensils and crockery shop owners are allowed to open their shops on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.The Deputy Commissioner made it compulsory for people to wear masks while stepping outdoors. No pillion riders will be permitted on two-wheelers, and four wheeler vehicles will have maximum two passengers, besides driver, the Deputy Commissioner said. The banks shall also do public dealing between 9 am to 1 pm, she further added.No new case in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: No new Covid-19 positive case was reported in Hoshiarpur district on Monday. Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said on Monday, 99 samples had been collected for Covid-19 testing. He said 86 cases had been found positive in the district so far while two patients from the district are under isolation in other districts. Another patient has died and six persons have recovered in the district. The Civil Surgeon said so far, 952 samples had been taken, of which 630 were negative and reports of 222 were awaited while 14 had been found invalid. He said 157 devotees, who returned from Hazur Sahib, had been quarantined at various quarantine centres in the district. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-new-cases-jalandhar-count-reaches-131-80380
05-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Over 1000 industrialists seek nod to restart units||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 4Over 1,000 industrial unit owners have approached the District Industry Centre (DIC) to restart their units.Though the units are not operational since the implementation of lockdown, now several industry owners have given applications to restart their units.BS Brar, GM, DIC, said in the past four days, over 1,000 owners have applied.“They have to take all precautions and maintain social distancing,” he said, adding that the department was available for industry owners as well as workers.However, it is also clear that a majority of the migrant workers will move to their native places after lockdown and it would be problematic for industrialists.With Jalandhar being declared a hotspot in the state due to spike in number of Covid cases, industrialists who are running manufacturing units of pipe fitting, valves and cocks, sports, nut and bolts and rubber footwear are a harried lot.These industries have a huge concentration here and they supply products across the length and breadth of the country.“We know that labourers will return homes the moment the lockdown is lifted. About 95 per cent of the workers are from UP and Bihar. Despite the fact that we’re paying them wages, we are aware that they will return immediately after the lockdown,” said a manufacturer.“In our deliberations with industrial groups, we concluded that a majority of labourers would return home,” said another manufacturer and trader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-1000-industrialists-seek-nod-to-restart-units-80381
05-05-2020||Our Correspondent||60-year-old defeats Covid-19||Garhshankar, May 4A 60-year-old woman despite having hypertension and diabetes has recovered from Covid-19. Surinder Kaur, a resident of Moranwali village, said: “You can beat coronavirus with courage, confidence in Waheguru and care by the Health Department.”She has also thanked doctors, nurses and other staff members for utmost care. Surinder Kaur said she did not meet anyone before testing positive for Covid. “I had not even gone to see my brother-in-law Harbhajan Singh who was found Covid positive and later died,” she said. Then she remembered that she had touched her sister-in-law Paramjeet Kaur (Harbhajan’s wife) hand. Surinder Kaur said, “All this is a game of fate, no fault of anyone”. She was admitted to a Hoshiarpur hospital for treatment.She said: “There was a homely atmosphere in the hospital and good food was provided to her. Later, I was shifted to another ward where a television set was available. I listen to Gurbani throughout the day and pray for early recovery of all.” She returned home two days ago after getting treatment for 35 days in the hospital.She said while leaving for home, doctors advised her to stay separate for 15 days in a room. Surinder Kaur appealed people to stay indoors to stay safe amid the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/60-year-old-defeats-covid-19-80382
05-05-2020||---||Cong worker killed in Kapurthala; 22 booked||Jalandhar, May 4Congress worker Balkar Singh (45) was murdered inside his house in Kapurthala on Sunday over an old enmity, the police have said. In all, 22 persons have been booked in connection with the murder. All of them are on the run.Three accused have been identified. They are Bhupinder Singh Shera (26), Gurtej Singh (24) and Bhalla (24). The accused have been booked under relevant sections of the IPC, and the Arms Act at the Sadar police station in Kapurthala.Balkar’s brother, Numberdar Tirath Singh, claimed: “The accused are drug peddlers. They had been threatening my brother as we had testified against them in a case of attack on the police a few years ago. My brother was earlier attacked for our stance against the drug dealers.” The police, however, refuted the claim.The family refused to cremate the body until the accused were apprehended. The body has been kept in a freezer for the time being.Balkar is survived by his parents, wife and three daughters. “We fear for our lives now,” Tirath Singh said.On Sunday evening, Balkar Singh, alias Mantri, was at his shop run from his home when three people came on a motorcycle and attacked him with weapons.Balkar Singh ran inside home, but the attackers shot him. Injured, his family took him to hospital, where he was declared brought dead.DSP Harinder Singh said, “The police are investigating the matter. The attack was a result of an old dispute. So far, three accused have been identified to be involved.”Kapurthala SSP Satinder Singh reiterated that the deceased and the accused had an old enmity. He said, “Balkar Singh and his brother were booked in some case and they are out on bail. Moreover, as per the police record, none of the accused has been booked under the NDPS Act.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-worker-killed-in-kapurthala-22-booked-80354
