10-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||Migrants reach DAC, flout norms||Jalandhar, May 9Migrant labourers in a large number from Shahkot, Baba Bakala and other neighbouring villages, who belong to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, today reached the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here to complain that they have failed to receiving confirmation messages of their registrations yet.They said they had been spending their nights on roads as they were thrown out of their rented accommodations as they were not able to pay rent. They were running short of money as well as ration and all they want was to return home.“I along with 40 of my co-workers registered on the government portal on May 1 to return to Lucknow. Though 12 trains have left the city to different destinations so far and among them a few were for Uttar Pradesh too as I didn’t receive the confirmation message so far, I was not allowed to board the train,” said Atul Kumar, who worked at a construction site and nowadays, living on a footpath near the Katcheri road.He said due to lack of information about the registration process even people who wanted to travel to other states showed up today at the DAC.Officials, however, made it clear that only those who had registered would be allowed to board trains, he said.Ram Niwas, who too has to travel to UP, said he reached the Pathankot Bypass yesterday, which is a transit point, before the train journey, with his four children and wife, only to return dejected.“I registered on May 2. Therefore, I thought I would be allowed to board the train. But the officials asked me to return as I did not had the confirmation message to show them,” he said.Like, Atul and Ram, there were nearly 150 migrant labourers who had a similar story to share that they are sleeping on an empty stomach and dying to return to their native places.They said local leaders, their landlords and factory owners told them to reach the railway station. However, security personnel present at transit points told them to show the confirmation message or else register on the portal.“We are poor and uneducated. They should register us here only and let us go,” they said.They also added that after facing difficulties and taking help from others they managed to register. However, still many of them had been running from pillar to post to know how and where to register.“I still have to register myself, hence I came here along with other workers today. I am forced to return due to no work. I have even lost whatever savings I had,” said Durgesh, who hails from UP.Meanwhile, ADC (G) Jasbir Singh said: “We have made all provisions for their departure. Everyone who has registered, will receive the message soon. They are being guided at registration centres and clearly given information not to gather anywhere, despite that they are violating the curfew norms and not maintaining social distancing.”Man found covid +ve after deathHoshiarpur: The Covid-19 test report of a man, who died at the PGI, Chandigarh, two days ago, was found positive on Saturday. Omkar Singh (62) of Old Talwara was undergoing treatment for a serious head injury. He was referred to the PGI on May 5 from a Mukerian hospital. Civil Surgeon Jasbir Singh said he died on May 7. His test was found positive. Now, the number of Covid deaths in the district has reached four. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migrants-reach-dac-flout-norms-82671
10-05-2020||Jalandhar||13 new cases in dist, count 167||With 13 persons testing positive in the district today, the district tally has reached 167.The 13 cases include nine pilgrims from Nanded Sahib, three contacts of a previous positive case and one new case.Three contacts of positive persons include a 30-year-old man, a 60-year-old woman and a 49-year-old man — all from Basti Danishmandan. A 50-year-old woman from New Gobind Nagar was also tested positive. A Jalandhar resident tested positive at Mansa today was among the nine pilgrims. — TNSNo positive case in PhagwaraPhagwara: Eight suspected Covid-19 persons who were admitted to the Civil Hospital, Phagwara, were tested negative on Saturday. Senior Medical Officer (SMO) Dr Kamal Kishore said these eight patients were discharged from the hospital today. Now the reports of 30 suspected persons who were admitted to the Civil Hospital, Phagwara, was awaited.The SMO said five Phagwara residents, who returned from Nanded tested positive for coronavirus on Friday and were sent to the hostel of GNA University, Phagwara, in isolation.He said 11 pilgrims, including four from Kapurthala and seven from Phagwara arrived in Phagwara on April 29 were quarantined at the Civil Hospital on the same day.The SMO said they were tested for Covid on April 30, adding that as per the reports received yesterday, five pilgrims of Phagwara were found positive, while the other six were tested negative. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/13-new-cases-in-dist-count-167-82672
10-05-2020||Talwara||3 youths walk 700 km to reach home||After finding no transport due to countrywide lockdown, three youths of Beh Nangal village— Balveer Singh, Hardeep Singh and Naresh Kumar— reached Kamahi Devi town walking 700 km in 10 days. They started their journey from Shahjahanpur in UP on April 29 and reached Kamahi Devi on May 9.The three were employees of Glaze Trading India Company in Shahjahanpur. Following the lockdown, the factory management asked them to go home and they were left with no other option but to go home on foot. Most of the employees in the company were from UP and they returned to their homes while nine youths from Punjab were trapped there.On April 29 before leaving for their home town, each of them took 2 kg of roasted gram and a bottle of drinking water. To avoid getting lost, they used mobile phone tracker app and walked day and night. They said the UP police provided them food and water on the way up to the UP border. After crossing the border, we did not get any assistance in Haryana and Punjab. After traveling around 700 km in 10 days, they reached Kamahi Devi this afternoon. When they reached home, their legs were swollen and feet had blisters, yet they had smiles on their faces.District epidemiologist Dr Shailesh said the youths would be tested for Covid-19 and home quarantined. The youths demanded that the Centre and the state government should make proper arrangements to bring stranded people home. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-youths-walk-700-km-to-reach-home-82673
10-05-2020||Jalandhar||SAD MLAs submit memo to DC||Three SAD MLAs today submitted a memorandum to the DC regarding various essential services and needs of poor during the ongoing lockdown.MLAs Pawan Tinu, Gurpartap Singh Wadala and Baldev Khaira submitted the memorandum. The MLAs stated: “Many people are facing crises amid the lockdown. Traders are also facing difficulties, hence it was the government’s responsibility to solve their issues. Names of many blue card holders have been cut from the list, most of whom are poor.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sad-mlas-submit-memo-to-dc-82674
10-05-2020||Our Correspondent||6 held for illegal sand mining in Phillaur||Phillaur, May 9The Bilga police on Saturday arrested six persons on a charge of illegal sand mining.The Phillaur Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Davinder Singh Attri, said on a complaint lodged by the Phillaur Mining Officer, Sukhpal Singh, the police conducted a raid at Bhullar village and arrested Mohit, a resident of Dara Pur village; Ashwani Kumar, a resident of Bilga; Harmesh Lal, a resident of Uppal Bhupa village; Mandip Singh, a resident of Sangowal village; Harwindar Pal, a resident of Phillaur; and Surjit Singh, a resident of Ramgarh village in Phillaur. The police have also impounded five tractor trolleys loaded with sand and a JCB.The DSP said a case under Section 21 of the Punjab Mining Act and Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the IPC has been registered against the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-held-for-illegal-sand-mining-in-phillaur-82675
10-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Two booked for culpable homicide||Nakodar, May 9On a complaint by Amritpal Singh of Talwandi Bharo village near Nakodar, the Shahkot police on Saturday booked two brothers under Sections 304, 34 and 188 of the Indian Penal Code on a charge of culpable homicide.According to the police, those booked have been identified as Sandip alias Mona and Gurmit Singh alias Pamma, both residents of Khajoor Pind village.The complainant has told the police that his maternal uncle Charanjit Singh alias Chana of Dashmesh Nagar in Parjian Khurd village was returning home from his workplace on May 8, when he was hit by a vehicle coming from the wrong side. The vehicle was being driven by Bagga Ram of Khajoor Pind village. Later, the suspects reached the spot and assaulted Chana who went unconscious, the complainant has said. The victim succumbed to his injuries on way to the Nakodar Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-booked-for-culpable-homicide-82676
10-05-2020||Jalandhar||Education Department holds online test for  Class IX, X pupils||In a first-of-its-kind-initiative, to monitor the efficacy of ‘Virtual Classes’ and to evaluate the performance of students, the School Education Department on Saturday conducted an online test for students of classes IX and X in English and social science subjects.In the test, the students through WhatsApp and other social media sites were sent10 questions each for English and social science. Students had 24 hours to submit their answers.These tests were scheduled for the students of classes VI to X for 2020-21 session on different dates. The test for students of class VIII (Maths) was held on May 8, while the test for the students of class IX and X in social science and English subjects was conducted today. The students of class VI and VII would take test of Hindi and Punjabi on May 11.Chander Shekhar, District Mentor English, said, “The department has prepared a link comprising 10 multiple choice questions (MCQ) carrying two marks each. The link is being sent through WhatsApp groups of the students. Each students would click on the link and after fulfilling the particulars regarding their identification, they would be asked answers to the questions and then they have to submit their sheet by pressing the submit button”, he said.Shekhar said the lockdown imposed in the wake of Covid-19 about 45 days ago, has failed to dampen the teaching-learning spirit of school teachers and students. “The schools have also devised methodology to start the ‘Virtual Classes’ with the help of social media tools like YouTube, Google, WhatsApp, radio and TV channels”. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/education-department-holds-online-test-for-class-ix-x-pupils-82677
10-05-2020||Nakodar||21 booked for assaulting man||Woman gets back lost pursePhagwara: Traffic police in-charge Ranjit Kumar returned a purse containing Rs 1 lakh to a woman, Sukhwinder Kaur, of Bhabhiana village, on Thursday. Surinderpal Singh and Amarjit Singh, ASIs of the traffic police, who spotted the purse on a road in Hargobind Nagar, picked it and informed the traffic in-charge. Later, the woman approached them to enquire about the purse when they returned it to her. She told them that she, along with her husband, were returning to their village on a bike after withdrawing the money for the their daughter's marriage. She don’t know when the purse slipped down from her hand. The couple appreciated the police personnel for their help. OCAid for Auto drivers’ wivesHoshairpur: The Azad Auto-Rickshaw Union took an initiative to help wives of its members. Sarpanch Kamal Kumar, union president Vijay Thakur and vice-president Subhash Chand said it had been decided unanimously that in view of the present condition arising due to the lockdown, wives of all union members would be given Rs 1,000 each. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/21-booked-for-assaulting-man-82678
10-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||Amid crisis, police personnel working round the clock||Tribune News ServiceJalandar, May 9Giving priority to his duty in this time of crisis, Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Manjit Singh daily covers over 30 km to reach the Civil Hospital. He has been deployed outside the trauma care centre of the hospital where Covid-19 patients are being treated.After duty hours, he keeps himself in isolation for a few hours before meeting his wife and his son at Bhogpur.“Initially, I was scared of the coronavirus. Now, I feel Covid-19 is like any other disease and I am doing my duty like any other regular day,” he said.Like him, over 3,000 police personnel have been working round the clock in the city. From ensuring the implementation of the curfew to apprehending curfew violators, ensuring social distancing at various places and maintaining law and order, they perform their duties without any fear.Donning protective gear and bearing the sunlight, policemen are always available on the frontline.Following the ‘Duty Comes First’ notion, police personnel deployed in containment zones said, “We know that we are endangering our family members’ lives, but if we won’t perform our duty, then who else will do so? We work for hours to ensure that people stay safe. However, they are not willing to understand the gravity of the situation. Making them understand about the risk involved in moving out of their houses has turned out to be an uphill task.”The Commissioner of Police, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, said, “Amid fear and panic, we ensure that all employees return home safely after their duties. For this, extra care is being taken off. Besides safety kits, healthy food is provided to all police personnel. They get tablets of multivitamins and B-complex every day. Looking at the seriousness of the disease, policewomen who have kids, employees above 55 years and others having issues have been relieved from their duties.”ACP (headquarters) Bimal Kant said, “For policemen deployed in high-risk zones, new uniforms, shoes and PPE kits have been provided. Medical teams regularly examine them. So far, only one policeman has been infected with the coronavirus in Jalandhar.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-crisis-police-personnel-working-round-the-clock-82684
10-05-2020||Rana Gurjit Singh||‘Restricting exodus of migrants main concern’||Restricting the mass exodus of migrants from our constituency is our prime concern. As when the lockdown would end we won't be having enough labourers to meet industrial and agricultural needs. We are striving hard to make sure that groceries are distributed equally among migrants and local residents. As of now, I didn't see any shortage of food in my constituency and for the smooth supply of cooked food and dry ration, NGOs and Good Samaritans have been roped in.Since the Covid outbreak, all areas, including markets and residential areas, are being sanitised on a regular basis. I am motivating people to take precautions always. Besides, zero tolerance policy is being initiated against any discrimination against Covid patients. To boost the morale of the Covid patients, I have also distributed around 20 tabs among them to kill boredom. The tabs have access to Internet and Netflix. In addition, my staff is personally monitoring the supply of healthy food items for the patients and for those who are lodged in quarantine wards. The patients have been told to contact me in the morning via videoconferencing, if they face any trouble.Adequate arrangements have been made for those who are under isolation, especially returnees of Hazur Sahib.A team of young leaders have been formed to cater needs of all sections of society and after starting my day early, I visit market areas on my own. Moreover, our biggest worry is how industries, markets and agriculture sector would resume operations after the lockdown.(As told to Ajay Joshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/restricting-exodus-of-migrants-main-concern-82685
10-05-2020||Ashok Kaura||This doctor distributes homoeopathic medicines among needy||Phagwara, May 9Though people are feeling suffocation during the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, 79-year-old homoeopathic doctor Dr Yogender Paul Sharma considers it as blessings in disguise.Serving the humanity since 1979, he had formed ‘Dharmik Samiti’ and started organising religious congregations in 1983. The samiti has been distributing ration among 50 families since 1995.I spent my time watching TV serials such as Ramayana, Mahabharata, Shri Krishna and Chanakya on Doordarshan. I also have a collection of some old religious books. I have been studying these during the lockdown. Though it is a tough time, especially for the new generation, youngsters and small children can learn about our traditions and culture. Now, there is no space to say we don't have spare timeDr Yogender Paul SharmaBefore the lockdown, he was busy with social and religious activities. After the lockdown, he stays indoors at his house in Phagwara.Dr Sharma said, “I spent my time watching TV serials such as Ramayana, Mahabharata, Shri Krishna and Chanakya on Doordarshan. I have also a collection of some old religious books. I have been studying these during the lockdown.”Dr Sharma also distributes the homoeopathic medicines among needy persons during the lockdown. After the death of her month a few years ago, he formed a trust in the name of her mother Ram Rakhi.He gave his house to the trust for organising religious congregations. He said, “Though it is a tough time, especially for the new generation, youngsters and small children can learn about our traditions and culture. Now, there is no space to say we don’t have spare time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-doctor-distributes-homoeopathic-medicines-among-needy-82686
