11-05-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Will take year for surgical device industry to revive’||Surjit Singh Cheema (85), an industrialist, who has been running a surgical device unit, talks about the problems of the industry and impacts of the lockdown on it in a conversation with Aakanksha N Bhardwaj. Here are the excerpts:What problems is surgical device industry facing?Surgical equipment include more than 2,000 instruments for cutting and holding purposes such as scalpels, forceps, retractors, scissors, surgical sutures and staples, electro surgical devices and instruments for eye surgery, post-mortem and gynaecology. In the recent years, the industry has suffered a major setback as surgical instruments are being imported from Pakistan in large quantities.We can’t plan anything for now as there is no surety of anything. We don't know what will happen next. Till the time, we won't have labourers or raw material. Even a single worker is very important for an industry and if he goes back, how will the industries work? We will have to check the probabilities first and then we will chalk out plans. — Surjit Singh CheemaHow has the lockdown impacted the industry?Units have been lying shut for the past 50 days. We are facing financial problems. We cannot even start a unit due to non-availability of raw material. We get our raw material from Ludhiana, Mumbai, Gobindgarh and Mathura. Because of the lockdown, we won't be able to import the same and even transportation has not started.How much time will it take for the industry to come back on track?It will take more than one year for the industry to revive. There will be a major scarcity of labourers. There will not be even 50 per cent of the production in factories. The industry will collapse if serious steps will not be taken for its revival.How will mass exodus of labourers affect the industry?The shortage of labourers will be a concern in the coming days. Labour is the most important part of the industry. Once gone, they will not come back soon. It will affect the industry badly.What are plans or strategy to restart operations?We can't plan anything for now as there is no surety of anything. We don't know what will happen next. Till the time, we won't have labourers or raw material. Even a single worker is very important for an industry and if he goes back, how will the industries work? We will have to check the probabilities first and then we will chalk out plans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-take-year-for-surgical-device-industry-to-revive-83282
11-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Eleven booked for thrashing resident||Nakodar, May 10The Nurmahal police on Sunday booked 11 persons on the charge of assaulting a villager, stealing cash and gold chain.Investigating Officer (IO) Sanjiv Kumar said the accused had been identified as Vicky Walia and Jaskaran Singh, both residents of Bundala village, and their nine unidentified accomplices.Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Patti Badal Ki, Bundala village, complained to the police that in the evening of May 8 the accused attacked and seriously injured him. He said they took away Rs 10,000 and a gold chain from the pocket.The IO said a case under Sections 324,379,148 and149 of the IPC had been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eleven-booked-for-thrashing-resident-83275
11-05-2020||JalandHar||Police issue over 15K challans||Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the Commissionerate police have issued 15,555 challans for violation of the curfew in the district so far. As many as 1,350 vehicles have been impounded.The police have registered 702 FIRs in the district till date. While 219 FIRs were registered against those roaming without wearing face masks and 876 people were arrested for flouting the curfew. — TNSThree held under NDPS ActPhillaur: The Bilga police on Sunday arrested three drug peddlers on the charge of selling poppy husk.SHO Surjit Singh Padda said 9.5-kg poppy husk was recovered from the possession of the accused identified as Hardip Singh, alias Dipa, a resident of Burj Hassan village, Ramji, alias Rama, and Amandeep Singh, alias Amana, of Talwan village. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-issue-over-15k-challans-83276
11-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Farmer held for burning wheat stubble||Nakodar, May 10The Nakodar city police on Saturday arrested a farmer on the charge of violating the Deputy Commissioner’s order against stubble burning, causing air pollution and degrading the soil quality.Investigating Officer Buta Ram said the suspect had been identified as Avtar Singh, alias Tari, a resident of Malarri village. The IO said the police received information that harvested wheat fields were on fire at Malarri village and reached on the spot but the alleged suspect could not give satisfactory answer why he set afire his fields despite the ban.The IO said a case under Sections 269, 270 and 188 of the IPC and 51 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against the suspect, who was released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmer-held-for-burning-wheat-stubble-83277
11-05-2020||Open House||Be ready for new challenges, changes in lifestyle||Life will witness sea changeWith the general opinion that Covid-19 is going to stay with us and we have to learn to live with it, I don't think that life will be same again. People will be afraid to meet one another. Large gatherings and functions will be less frequent. Economy will recover at a slow pace. Migrant workers from various states will be afraid to return to prosperous states. Online education business will flourish. Shopping malls and cinemas will lose their customers. Unemployment will shoot up and poverty will increase, which will result in civil unrest in society.JS WadhwaSocial distancing to be new normalNormal life of people is likely to be redefined in the post-coronavirus phase when the lockdown is lifted and the masses resume their daily routine. The very first change will be wearing masks as an essential accessory before stepping out. Social distancing norms will stay for years. The best lesson that Covid is teaching everyone is that we are living a basic life with essentials such as food, clothing and shelter. Post lockdown, people will lead a not-so-luxurious life and would love to stay home with their families. Work from home will be a new trend that will stay after lockdown too.KanwarpreetHandshakes, hugs will be things of pastSince the pandemic, whenever I answer a call my first response is to say 'Sat Sri Akal' or 'Namaskaar'. And this habit will soon become a regular affair when we start coming in contact with people at public places. The age-old European custom of doing handshakes and hugging will become a thing of the past. And indeed these Indian traditions of saying 'Namaskaar' or 'Sat Sri Akal' is like saying to the other person "hey fellow, Remember God, remember the truth". It also directs us towards good action and to follow nothing but the truth which saves us from all evils. Many other habits such as wearing face mask, gloves, maintaining social distancing may go away with time when this deadly virus would disappear. Lets greet all with 'Sat Sri Akal'.Tarun Preet SinghFight against virus a long-drawn affairAs the world grapples with Covid-19, one is tempted to look into the future with the hope that there must be a solution in sight. Current research, however, suggests that the fight against coronavirus is a long-drawn affair. How will this pandemic affect our lives? It is a question that has many answers. First and foremost, it has made us aware of the importance of washing our hands. This, hitherto, overlooked practice has the potential to save us from a lot of viral and bacterial infections. It is a habit which is bound to keep us safe in future. Now, social distancing is another desirable factor of our lifestyle. The virus has, therefore, taught us important lifestyle changes, which will protect us from the Covid as well as other ailments. Being a mental health professional, I have reasons to believe that the world is poised for a pandemic of psychiatric disorders even as it staggers towards normalcy. There is likelihood of a surge in the number of patients with depression and anxiety disorders. Hence, we should be ready to face new challenges, after the world overcomes the novel coronavirus.Dr Gulbahar S SidhuGesture of Namaste to continue for yearsThe Covid-19 pandemic has reaffirmed the value of personal hygiene and physical distancing. Greeting others by way of handshake, kiss, facial rubbing or in any other way that involves physical touch now appears to be risky as it may spread the disease. Centuries ago, Patanjali (Yoga Sutra II.40) advocted parair asamsargah, which means 'no contact with others.' Not so long ago, it was common to avoid unnecessary physical contact with others, to take bath before the start of the day, or after attending a funeral, having a haircut, or touching an impure thing. People removed footwear before entering a house or kitchen. After the end of the pandemic, the principles of hygiene will continue to be observed. Many have started to greet others with folded hands and by saying Namaste. This gesture might continue as a matter of precaution. Namaste has a scientific basis too. Hands, by energy and function, are 'extensions of the heart' as they help one to outwardly express the sum total of our intuition and consciousness. When palms are joined and kept close to the heart, multiple energy systems of the body are activated and balanced. Covid-19 has reminded us of the fact that reckless infringement of the laws of nature would prove to be disastrous for humanity. It has also exposed the fake babas and preachers, who make false claims about their healing ability.Dr Satish K KapoorCommercial activities will get digitalisedThe Covid-19 pandemic will greatly impact people's general behavior for around three years, constraining social, cultural and religious gatherings. There will be a massive digitalisation of commercial and financial transactions and activities such as shopping and entertainment. But in the long run, there will be no major improvements in life style of a majority of the people who will slowly return to their original routines, once there is economic revival, ignoring basic issues relating to health, personal hygiene, sanitation and environment.Jagdish ChanderLockdown gave time for self improvementThe outbreak of Covid-19 has had profound, pervasive and far-reaching impact on various aspects facets of human life, including how we think, how we relate to others and what we value the most. It has reminded us of our physical fragility, undermined economic security, disrupted our daily routines, shattered our dreams and forced us into social isolation, stress and fear psychosis. The crisis has provided us with ample time to self-reflect and alter our behavioural patterns to cope with the prevailing situation and make our life happy and meaningful in the post-Covid period. While we pray for an early end to the contagion and complete lifting of the lockdown, it is imperative to ponder over one moot point. Whether we will continue with habits and associations ingrained during the quarantine? Whether we will exhibit the same empathy and kindness to keep communal bonds and humanitarian values intact? Whether we will stick to personal hygiene and cleanliness? Whether we respect the Mother Earth and its biodiversity? Only time will tell.D S KangThe pandemic to stay for longWhere will we all be six months from now? It's something to think about after the swift change in our lifestyle due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Looking at its rapid rise, it isn't going away soon. Events such as religious gatherings, cricket matches, kitty parties and visiting multiplexes will be put on hold. Famous philosopher and economist Chanakya rightly said “When the enemy is invisible, it is prudent to remain in the hiding.” It clearly suggest that prevention is better than cure. Though the virus has brought havoc upon the world, looking at it positively, it has helped the nature. We know nothing about the future but I can confidently say that with a dash of optimism and cooperation not only can we can flatten the curve but we can make countless lives easier.Maanit SinghQUESTIONCovid-19 cases are on the rise in the state. Do you think the state government has done enough to handle the situation well? What steps can be taken to contain the spread of the disease? Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (May 14).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/be-ready-for-new-challenges-changes-in-lifestyle-83278
11-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||‘Rising Star’ working upon weaknesses, learning more about music||Jalandhar, May 10The winner of the first edition of TV reality show ‘Rising Star’, Bannet Dosanjh, seems to be nurturing his passion for singing amid the lockdown.The singer has recently enrolled himself for an online music production course to learn about composing, arranging, programming and producing music for different genres.I haven’t slept properly for the past two days as I was so much occupied with this music production tasks. I am not giving much time to exercise or workout, just doing some yoga and meditation to keep myself fit. I am taking this time as a productive break. — Bannet DosanjhHe says that as work and other commitments have taken a backseat for the time being, he prefers to utilise this time and make it more productive, creative and result-oriented by practising and learning more about music. “I have so far written 15 cover songs, and now I am busy producing music for it. I will release one of the songs on the social media probably by the next week”, he said.Bannet, who basically hails from Dosanjh Kalan village in Phagwara, says he is in Mohali at present. “I am staying alone and managing all my household chores myself. I am not following any set routine or schedule because most of my time goes to my e-classes and riyaz. I am also working on improving my breathing while singing,” he added.“I haven't slept properly for the last two days as I was so much occupied with this music production tasks. I am not giving much time to exercise or workout, just doing some yoga and meditation to keep myself fit,” said Dosanjh, adding that he is taking this time as a productive break. He said he is working upon his weaknesses and learning about every aspect of music.Besides, he says he is enjoying his self-made cheat meals and making notes of his syllabus of vocal music in which he did his postgraduation long back. “We have to fight this pandemic together. We should take lockdown positively and make the best use this time by planning, making strategies and working upon our hidden energies to cope up things in a better way post lockdown,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rising-star-working-upon-weaknesses-learning-more-about-music-83279
11-05-2020||AMID the Covid-19 lockdown||‘Providing ration, medicines to needy biggest challenge’||For some, missing even a single dose can pose danger to their health. To prevent them from undergoing such an ordeal, we are running the campaign. As far as the migrant exodus is concerned, it is a huge crisis. We daily get complaints from people who want to leave the city. I am of the opinion that hefty amounts are being spent for sending back migrants. Could not the same be used to ensure supply of rations to migrants here.While an MLA alone can't stop people who are returning to their native places, we have formed pools to supply rations to the poor and migrants in the region. We are ensuring that volunteers and do-gooders keep supplying essentials to residents during the lockdown. Our point is to make sure that no one has to sleep on an empty stomach at least in my constituency.While seven persons have tested positive in Garhshankar, problems are being created due to people, who were not pilgrims, who came on buses from Maharashtra. Some of them sneaked into the village without even informing us. When 250 were positive in the state, everything was closed. Now with so many positive cases, its all being opened. However, we are making efforts to control the situation.(As told to Aparna Banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/providing-ration-medicines-to-needy-biggest-challenge-83280
11-05-2020||Phillaur/Nakodar||Three held for curfew violation||Travel agent booked for fraudNakodar: On a complaint by Makhan Singh, a resident of Heiran village near Nakodar, the Mehatpur police on Sunday booked a travel agent for allegedly duping the complainant of Rs 2 lakh on the pretext of sending his relatives abroad. The travel agent has been identifies as Tersem Singh, a resident of Buland village. After conducting an inquiry, the police have registered a case against the agent under Section 420 of the IPC and 13 of the Punjab Travel Profession Regulation Act. OCMan’s mutilated body foundTarn Taran: The Bhikhiwind police on Sunday found the mutilated body of a 40-year-old man from a vacant plot on the outskirts of town, 30 km from here. Rajbir Singh, DSP, Bhikhiwind, said the victim had been identified as Gurmej Singh, a resident of nearby Pahuwind village, who was missing from his home since Saturday evening. A case under Section 302 and 201 of the IPC has been registered, the police said. The DSP said the victim was mauled to death by dogs. The police have sent the body to Patti Civil Hospital for postmortem. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-held-for-curfew-violation-83281
11-05-2020||Our Correspondent||SSP celebrates Mother’s Day with women cops on duty||Nawanshahr, May 10The Nawanshahr district police today organised a special programme at the local ITI Ground. The event was held to mark the Mother’s Day celebrations and facilitate and salute the work of women police personnel who are on duty during the lockdown.SSP Alka Meena, who gave surprise to all women police personnel, said today that being a mother of a little child, she understands problems of working women.“It was an apt opportunity today to salute the work of a mother as well all women police personnel to express our gratitude to them,” she said.“These women are serving the nation with dedication in these tough times and taking care of needs of their children too. Managing both duties with equal determination and living up to the expectations of society as police officers and as mothers to their children, they sacrifice their happiness for the safety of others, these wonder women deserve nothing short of a standing ovation on this day,” she said.She said during the function-cum-interaction event, she heard problems that were being faced by women personnel and tried to sort them out.Sharing her experience, a single mother, Sunita Rani, who is working as a constable, said it was difficult to take care of children with the duty but she was handling both duties properly.Randeep Kaur, another policewoman, recalled that how she manages to leave her one-year-old baby at home to attend duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ssp-celebrates-mothers-day-with-women-cops-on-duty-83269
11-05-2020||---||Migrants examined before leaving for native places||Jalandhar, May 10As many as 63 migrants were medically examined at the Community Health Centre, Shahkot, on Sunday before boarding a bus to the railway station. Senior Medical Officer Dr Amandeep Singh Duggal said Dr Dhiraj Kumar and multipurpose health worker Balkar Singh examined the health of the migrants. “No symptoms of cough or cold were found in any of the migrants,” he said.While leaving for his native place, one of the migrant workers said he was waiting for this moment for long and finally, he would reach his home. “It is not that we faced the problem of ration here. We were getting food, but we are away from our families. We cannot wait to reach home,” he said.Another migrant worker said he will come back when the situation will become normal. “We just want to meet our family members. We will come back when the work will start,” he added.The state government has arranged trains for migrant workers, who are willing to go to their native states. The migrants are not being charged for traveling by trains.Till date, the Railways has run trains to Daltonganj, Gajipur, Varanasi, Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Darbhanga, Bahraich, Sultanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Akbarpur, Kathiyar, Azamgarh, Faizabad, Sultanpur, Barkakhana and Gonda in the past few days.According to information, the state government has spent around Rs1.09 crore to facilitate more than 20,000 migrants for returning to their respective states from the city.Administration officials led by Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal were on their toes to ensure the smooth and hassle-free movement of the migrants from the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migrants-examined-before-leaving-for-native-places-83270
11-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||4 medical staff among 8 new cases in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 10With eight new patients reported in the district today, the Jalandhar tally has risen to 175.The new patients include four medical professionals, two Basti Sheikh residents, a SARI case and another patient, a Gurdaspur native who was tested here but at present admitted to the DMC, Ludhiana. The four medical professionals include two doctors, aged 31 years and 35 years, respectively, a 56-year-old technician and a 36-year-old woman, all employees of Kidney Hospital, Jalandhar.The other four patients testing positive in the district today include a 91-year-old man from Jandu Singha, a SARI case; two women (aged 50 and 54 years) from Basti Sheikh, one of whom is confirmed to be a Municipal Corporation employee; and an 80-year-old Gurdaspur man.While less than a fortnight ago, rumours of testing at Kidney Hospital had made rounds in the district, the Health Department had refused to issue a confirmation on the same. Days later, today, four employees of the hospital have tested positive. One of the doctors who have tested positive is a resident of Kapurthala.Sources said a patient, who had also visited Guru Nanak Mission Hospital where a supervisor tested positive days ago, had also visited Kidney Hospital. Another patient, who is a contact of that patient is also admitted to the DMC.Samples of over 18 persons from Kidney Hospital and over 90 at Guru Nanak Mission Hospital have already been tested.As per senior health officials, the mission hospital also had a history of treating at least three patients who later tested positive. A section of Johal Hospital had also been sealed after a patient, who received treatment there, had tested positive, a fact confirmed by the hospital authorities.Meanwhile, an employee of Sacred Heart Hospital had also tested positive. But he had been discharged after testing negative. No other contacts of the employee had tested positive.Notably, health officials have revealed details about these hospitals, after their samples tested positive. Though OPDs of the hospitals are open, no information was issued at the time when samples of employees at the hospitals begin getting tested.Health officials said the due procedure had been followed with the all hospitals and the entire hospitals had been sanitised. Nodal Officer, Jalandhar, Dr TP Singh, said: “A strict protocol is being followed for the hospitals. Suspected contacts are being quarantined and the entire premises are sanitised. We are also looking into other steps which can be taken and a list of such hospitals is also being sought.”Travellers coming via flight to pay Rs 1K to Rs 7,500 for quarantine facilitiesFrom May 13 onwards, people returning to the city will have to pay for the quarantine facilities being availed by them in the district. A price tag ranging from Rs 1,000 to a whopping Rs 7,500 will be put on the quarantine facilities set up at 27 establishments, including hotels and inns, in the district. A private educational institution is among the 27 establishments where an institutional quarantine is being set up.A letter issued in this regard by the District Magistrate said the rate for self-quarantine facilities for travellers was being listed. The list includes a total of 27 establishments, including some plush hotels, whose quarantine charges are priced as high as Rs 4,500 to Rs 7,500 for suites as well as single and double occupancy rooms. The prices include three meals, tea twice a day and milk once a day).Anupam Kler, Deputy Director (local bodies), said: “The charges will apply only for people coming via flights from May 13. Travellers can pick a place of their choice. Adequate staff will also be deputed for their care.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-medical-staff-among-8-new-cases-in-jalandhar-83271
11-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||This sarpanch working tirelessly to protect villagers from Covid-19||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 10Within days of the Covid-19 outbreak, Sangal Sohal village was declared a red zone as one person had tested positive for the coronavirus. Subsequently, it became Sarpanch Mangal Singh's responsibility to contain the spread of the virus in his village with a population of over 4,500 people.Undeniably, Mangal worked tirelessly to not only prevent the villagers from the virus but also making apt arrangements to provide all essential services to the villagers during the lockdown.Due to his decisive actions as a sarpanch, no other positive case was reported in his village. Besides policemen, he asked the youth of the village to hold theekri pehras on a rotation basis.After the Health Department home quarantined 20 close contacts of the lone Covid patient, Mangal ensured that they won't face any problem during their quarantine period. He took care of their all needs. In addition, he has also been looking after 2,500 migrant workers staying in his village since the lockdown.Mangal said, “Ration, including cooked food, is being regularly provided to migrants and those who don't have blue cards with the help of donations. Special teams of the village panchayat have been formed to regularly visit the villagers and migrants living in rented accommodations. Adhering to the red zone guidelines, all entry and exit points of the village have been sealed. Permission is only given to those having medical emergencies.”With the help of panchayat members, WhatsApp group is being used by him to create awareness among the villagers about Covid-19. The panchayat ensured that information about the coronavirus reaches the villagers at the grassroots level.Besides, disinfectants are regularly being sprayed in the village. Face masks and sanitisers were also distributed among the villagers.His decisive actions help contain virus||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-sarpanch-working-tirelessly-to-protect-villagers-from-covid-19-83283
11-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||2 Jalandhar cops who brought back Nanded pilgrims infected||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 10A DSP and a constable under isolation in Kapurthala have tested positive for Covid-19. They were part of a 42-member police team, which brought back 2,700 pilgrims from Nanded recently.This is the first time that police personnel have tested positive in Doaba. They had gone to Nanded in Maharashtra on two mini-buses and a Bolero. They were part of the police contingent, which ensured the safe return of 80 buses of Punjab-based pilgrims.Not having met family for the past over a fortnight, the infected police personnel are soon due for testing again as they have already spent 11 days in quarantine.Both of them are posted at PAP. They had returned to Bathinda on April 29 and were brought to the isolation centre at Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala. Their samples were taken on May 1.Narrating his ordeal, the DSP said, “We had set out on April 25 and reached Nanded Sahib on April 27. The same day, we started the return journey. They were all eager to come home. Everything was closed and even dhabas weren’t open. We stopped at gurdwaras at Bhilwara while going to Nanded and while coming back for langar. On our way back, we also stopped at a gurdwara in Indore. They had their packets ready to be picked up by sangat.”Stating that he was well taken care of at the isolation centre, the cop said he only wanted to convey his well-being to his family who had been waiting for him. “Since we have been under quarantine ever since we came back, we are yet to meet our families. It’s all part of the duty.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-jalandhar-cops-who-brought-back-nanded-pilgrims-infected-83061
11-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||Transgender lends healing touch to patients||Jalandhar, May 10Despite receiving a number of warnings from her parents and villagers to stop going to the Civil Hospital during the Covid-19 pandemic, Gurpreet Kaur, alias Gopi, a transgender sanitation worker at the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, is not only cleaning the isolation ward but also going out of her way to cheer Covid patients.Keeping them in high spiritsI work for 12 hours a day. I change the bed sheets of patients, collect the garbage and mop the floor. I make sure patients don’t feel low. So, I sing and dance for them. At times, they join me. — Gurpreet Kaur, Sanitation workerThe video of Gopi singing “Dunia hai mere pichhe” and dancing to the beats of “Tu laung te main lachi” was widely circulated and appreciated on the social media. However, it has not gone down well with her parents and village residents who accused her of bringing embarrassment to the village.Talking to The Tribune, Gopi, a resident of Mirpur Village, Kapurthala, said after her family members saw the video on the social media yesterday, they humiliated her and told her to quit the job and stay home. “I have been working here as a sweeper on a contractual basis for the past decade. The hospital is like my home and patients are my extended family. During this tough time, it is my responsibility as a sanitation worker to clean the wards even if it is an isolation ward,” she said.“I work for 12 hours a day. I change the bed sheets of patients, collect the garbage and mop the floor,” Gopi said, adding that she makes sure that away from their families, the patients do not feel low, which is why she often sings and dances for them. “At times, they too join me and we sing and dance together, forgetting about the virus,” she said.Sharing her journey, Gopi said although the perception about transgenders had changed, some people still see the community differently.“I try not to let this discrimination affect me, but the rejection from my family hurts. People should understand that before male, female or transgender, we all are humans. I am a ‘kinnar’ but that doesn’t make me any less of a normal human being,” she added. She further made an appeal to the Punjab Government to regularise contractual sanitation workers who had been rendering their services for a long time now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/transgender-lends-healing-touch-to-patients-83056
