12-05-2020||---||13 more +ve, 1 dies; Jalandhar tally 188||Jalandhar, May 11With the death of another person due to Covid and 13 persons testing positive in the district today, the total count has risen to 188.With the death of 91-year-old Jandu Singha patient at the CMC, Ludhiana, today, the death toll in the district has risen to six. The 13 new patients reported today include 12 persons from Qazi Mohalla and a 17-year-old boy from Purani Sabzi Mandi. The 12 persons from Qazi Mohalla include three minor girls aged 1.5 years, six years, and nine years. All of them are contacts of the Qazi Mohalla patient who tested positive a few days ago.Notably, the same patient is the source of infection of the doctor tested positive at Guru Nanak Mission Hospital, the four medical staff tested positive at Kidney Hospital and the patients tested positive today at Qazi Mohalla. He had reportedly visited both hospitals.Barring the three children, the other patients who have tested positive today include two women (aged 50 and 35 years) and eight men.One tests +ve in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: Another person has tested positive in the district on Monday, bringing the total number of active cases to 81. So far, 92 persons have been tested positive of which seven have recovered and four died. Civil Surgeon Jasveer Singh said the patient found positive today was from Tote (Mukerian) village, He had returned from Delhi recently. He had already been quarantined by the Health Department. So far, 1,341 samples had been tested by the department of which 1,148 were negative and reports of 82 samples were yet to be received. As many as 19 samples were found invalid. He said so far four patients have died of Covid and seven have recovered. The recovered patients include a person from the district who was tested positive in Delhi and had been admitted to a hospital there since March. He was discharged from the hospital. The Civil Surgeon said the samples of persons who came in contact with positive patients in the Hardokhanpur, Harkhowal and Kamalpur areas came out negative. — OC13 found positive in Kapurthala Phagwara: As many as 406 suspected cases were examined at the Civil Hospital, Phagwara, till May 10 and the samples of all 406 patients have been sent for testing. Phagwara Senior Medical Officer (SMO) Kamal Kishore said on Sunday that 375 patients out of the 406 examined had tested negative, while 13 had tested positive and five of the positive patients had been isolated on the campus of GNA University. While the other eight had been already sent to the Civil Hospital, Kapurthala. The SMO said the reports of 18 suspected patients was still awaited. They had been quarantined. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/13-more-ve-1-dies-jalandhar-tally-188-83562
12-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||170 discharged Nanded Sahib returnees are a jubilant lot||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 11While unruly scenes were witnessed at an isolation centre in the meritorious school two days ago, with the majority of the isolated patients testing negative the mood considerably changed to jubilation yesterday.With a total of 170 patients at the isolation ward discharged from the meritorious school on Sunday; overjoyed residents made a happy trip back home, some after over a month.The returnees expressed gratitude to the staff of the meritorious school for taking care of them.At present, of the 246 persons, only 22 persons are left at the meritorious school. Twelve new returnees from Majnu Ka Tila also came to the school last night. However, they, too, will be sent to the isolation centre at the NIT, Jalandhar. Of the 246 patients (148 of them Hazur Sahib returnees), 27 had tested positive and 170 were discharged last evening. These also include returnees from Rajasthan, besides other areas.Jaspal Singh (36) a resident of Apra village in Jalandhar, returned home after over a month last evening after spending 14 days at the school. Jaspal, his wife and six-year-old son had tested negative, following which they were discharged. Having started from home for Nanded Sahib on March 20, the family returned amid cheers from neighbours who gathered on rooftops to welcome them.He said: “My daughter is at the home of a family acquaintance. We won’t call her back for the coming 14 days as we have been told to maintain social distancing. We had left her there in view of her studies before we went. Never had we thought the return would turn into such a big ordeal. I was among the 125 persons from Nanded Sahib who were sent back in roadways and PEPSU buses from April 27 onwards. We cancelled our return twice — on April 1 and 16. And finally returned on the buses sent to get us back. Initially, we were restless due to delay in reports (since samples were taken on May 1). Anger also became visible in the outpour on May 8. However, we are grateful to the health staff for taking care of us. The administration attended intently to our needs, and we were well fed.”The returnees were served aloo parathas, milk and curd, in breakfast.Jaspal said they were also given sanitisers, tissues, mineral water (while filtered water is already available on the premises). Do-gooders had also been bringing Bournvita and glucose packets. In addition to this, apples and bananas were also being distributed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/170-discharged-nanded-sahib-returnees-are-a-jubilant-lot-83565
12-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||Repair of Phillaur-Kala Sanghian road begins||Nakodar, May 11  Public Works Department, Punjab, has started repair the of 48- km Kala Sanghian-Nakodar-Nurmahal-Phillaur road to be constructed at a cost of Rs 2,627 lakh. Jalandhar construction division (no1) Executive Engineer Surindar Singh said here today that the tenders were opened and work was allotted to a contractor l who had started work of repairing the road. Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Varinder K Sharma had submitted estimates of repair of roads from Jalandhar district to Sultanpur Lodhi in connection with 550th Parkash utsav celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev Ji. Special secretary Public Works Department, in an official communication to the Chief Engineer (HQ) Public Works Department (Buildings and Roads) said the Punjab Government had given its administrative approval for repairs of various roads in the state, including 48-km Kala Sanghian-Nakodar-Nurmahal-Phillaur road. Residents of Phillaur and Nakodar subdivisions had repeatedly urged the Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amrindar Singh to direct the Public Works Department to repair the Nurmahal-Phillaur road which was in dilapidated condition. They said presently Phillaur-Nakodar road was non motorable as potholes at many places made it difficult to ply the vehicles for the residents. The road connects to different villages and leads to government offices in subdivisional headquarters and judicial court complexes. Residents are forced to take detour to reach Phillaur or Nakodar as it is very difficult to drive on this road,||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/repair-of-phillaur-kala-sanghian-road-begins-83566
12-05-2020||Phillaur||‘Police to keep vigil on criminal activities’||While performing duties to serve people and help needy citizens during the Covid pandemic, the police are keeping a strict vigil over the crime along with law and order situation. This was stated by Senior Superintendent of the Police (Rural) Navjot Singh Mahal in Phillaur on Sunday.The SSP said the Rural police have registered 25 criminal cases and arrested 40 criminals, including three woman since March 23 till now during the curfew period. He said the police had succeeded to recove 558 gm of heroin worth Rs three crore, 24 kg and 750 gm of opium, 41 kg of puppy husk, 61.5 kg of green leaf, drugs money worth Rs 10,94,000.Besides, huge quantity of intoxicants, three pistols,120 live cartridges from the arrested suspects. He said the Rural police, led by DSP Sarabjit Singh Rai, arrested two drug smugglers and seized 18 kg of opium from their possession on May 7.He said the police have impounded the truck (PB 06 V 9692) of the drug smugglers, identified as Lakhbir Singh of Aadhii village in District Gurdaspur and Angrej Singh resident of Digrian village in Uttar Pardesh. SSP Mahal said the police would continue its large scale campaign against criminals, including drugs smugglers and be simultaneously service to humanity against COVID.Women activists flay state govt’s liquor policyPhillaur: Activists of the All India Democratic Women Association on Monday protested in various villages of the Phillaur subdivision against the state government move to supply liquor on the doorstep of residents. State president of the association Krishana Rani in a press release said amid the lockdown and the curfew when poor people were longing for food, the government was planning to supply liquor on the doorstep of residents. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-to-keep-vigil-on-criminal-activities-83567
12-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||Two booked for duping man of Rs 13L||Phillaur, May 11  On a complaint lodged by Puran Singh of Buraj Hassan village, the Bilga police on Monday booked two persons on the charge of cheating the complainant of Rs 13 lakh. Phillaur DSP Davinder Singh Attri said the accused had been identified as Piara Singh, a resident of Gag Kala village in Ludhiana, and Harjit Singh of Fattewal village, near Zira. The victim complained to the Senior Superintendent of Police Jalandhar (rural) that the accused, in 2007, lured him to invest Rs 13 lakh with them with a promise to return the money in double. But no money was returned and he was cheated. The DSP said the economic wing inquired into the matter and found the allegations as true and recommended to  register a case. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-booked-for-duping-man-of-rs-13l-83568
12-05-2020||Hoshiarpur||Wheat procurement: Rs 431.64 cr paid online||During the ongoing procurement of wheat, online payment amounting to Rs 431.64 crore has been made to farmers in the district through arhtiyas. In view of Covid-19, 84 procurement centres were set up in the district by increasing 20 mandis as compared to last year, so that farmers do not face any hassle while selling their produce. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said so far, 2,71,908 metric tonnes of wheat had been procured by different procurement agencies. This includes 61,171 MT by Pungrain, 57,795 MT by Markfed, 55,598 MT by PUNSUP, 33,858 by Punjab State Warehousing Corporation and 61,770 MT of wheat had been procured by FCI while 1,716 MT of wheat had been procured by private traders.  Last year till May 11, 2,61,328 metric tonnes of wheat was procured and this year till May 11, 2,71,908 metric tonnes of wheat has been procured. For any information or complaint farmers can contact the control room on 01882-22663. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wheat-procurement-rs-431-64-cr-paid-online-83569
12-05-2020||---||Man held for wife’s murder||Man held for wife’s murder Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, May 11 After the family members of a newly-wed woman who died at her in-laws' home sat on a dharna with her body and demanded arrest of accused, the police on Monday arrested the husband of the deceased and took him on a three-day remand. The woman was found dead under mysterious circumstances. Her kin said they would cremate her body only after those responsible for her death were arrested. Daughter of Naresh Kumar resident of Sandrewal, the woman got married to Himmat Kumar of Manjhot in February 2018. On May 10, Naresh was informed of the dath on a phone call by an acquaintance. Upon reaching her in-laws' home, he saw the girl lying dead on bed. He had alleged she was murdered for dowry.  A case has been registered at the Sadar police station under Sections 304 and 120 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-held-for-wifes-murder-83570
12-05-2020||Our Correspondent||3,500 may return to Jalandhar in coming days||Jalandhar, May 11Deputy Commissioner (DC), Jalandhar, Varinder Kumar Sharma, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal today reviewed arrangements for those people who are willing to move from the district and for those wanted to come back from other states.Chairing a high-level meeting at the District Administrative Complex, the officials said at least 3,500 persons stranded in various parts of the country were expected to reach Jalandhar in the coming days.They said as per the directions of the state government, they would be quarantined even if they were asymptomatic. The National Institute of Technology had been declared a quarantine centre for the purpose.The officials said Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh would be the nodal officer for the movement of these people, whereas Additional Chief Administrator, Jalandhar Development Authority (JDA), Navneet Kaur Bal would be the in-charge of the NIT quarantine centre.They said asymptomatic returnees would be send to the NIT centre while all symptomatic ones would be sent to hospital. The officials said elaborate police force would be there to ensure that no one jumped the quarantine period.Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Chawla would make arrangements for the medical checkup of all returnees. The officials said there were at least 2,000 NRIs who were stranded in the district and wanted to travel back to their countries. For this purpose, Assistant Commissioner (Grievances) Randeep Singh Gill would be the nodal officer and make arrangements for their return.The Deputy Commissioner said all NRIs coming to the district would be screened, their throat swabs would be tested and only then they would shifted to the hotel chosen by them for quarantine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-500-may-return-to-jalandhar-in-coming-days-83571
12-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Migrants choose to stay put, sell masks, veggies to make ends meet||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 11While thousands of migrant labourers in the state have left for their native place, some have chosen to not go back and start new jobs to earn a living.Gagan Kumar (22), who belongs to UP, said he used to sell bangles and nail polish but has now started selling masks and gloves. “Since the lockdown was imposed, I have had many problems. I ran out of work and had no mean to earn livelihood. I realised that the government has been asking people to wear masks and gloves and these the items have become necessities. So I decided to sell these to earn money,” Gagan said.He said it is a kind of service to provide masks to those who did not have them. “I visit homes and give masks to people. While selling the masks, I also maintain proper distance from the buyer,” he said.Many others have turned street vendors, buying vegetables from the market and selling it the residents. Jagdish Sarai, a councillor, said around 50 migrants in his ward have turned vegetable vendors to support their families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migrants-choose-to-stay-put-sell-masks-veggies-to-make-ends-meet-83573
12-05-2020||Our Correspondent||CSD canteen to reopen on may 13||Hoshiarpur, May 11The CSD canteen here will reopen from May 13. Sale of both groceries and liquor would be held as per instructions of the local civil administration between 9 am to 1 pm on all days except Sunday. The canteen management said the entry would be restricted and through pre-booking over phone. The canteen will accept only 250 bookings for sale daily.Callers will be asked to give their details and mobile phone number during pre-booking and a token number  will be allotted to them. Officers would make their purchases on Saturdays while the JCO and ORs from Monday to Friday.The pre-bookings will be accepted one day prior to the visit between 9:30 am to 1 pm on 01882-221053 and 734-7553174.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/csd-canteen-to-reopen-on-may-13-83574
12-05-2020||---||Four Shramik trains to depart from Jalandhar daily||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 11Around 2,400 migrants on Monday boarded two ‘Shramik Express’ trains from the city to Chapra (Bihar) and Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh). The state government has paid the whole boarding expense of the migrants.Cheques worth Rs6.78 lakh and Rs6.42 lakh were given to the Railways authorities by the administration. The 18th ‘Sharmik Express’ train for Chapra left at 8 am and the 19th train for Azamgarh at 11 am under the supervision of Deputy Commissioner of Police Balkar Singh and SDM Rahul Sindhu.Vikas Jaitely, a Railways official, said, “Now, four trains will depart from Jalandhar for the safe and early transportation of migrants. The first train will leave at 8 am, second at 11 am, third at 5 pm and fourth at 11 pm.”Earlier in the day, the migrants, who were scheduled to board the trains, were transported from various transit points set up by the district administration to the city railway station by buses.A team of the Health Department is present at the railway station for medical screening of every migrant boarding the trains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-shramik-trains-to-depart-from-jalandhar-daily-83575
12-05-2020||Phagwara||Shops to open on Sunday also||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shops-to-open-on-sunday-also-83576
12-05-2020||Phagwara||Four held on murder charge||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-held-on-murder-charge-83577
12-05-2020||Ashok Kaura||‘It is opportunity to add on qualification’||Phagwara, May 11"Birds wake me up everyday. This new morning routine filled with the chirping of birds is absolutely delightful," says Additional Commissioner, Income Tax, Dr Girish Bali, who calls himself a nature lover.Mesmerised by natureAdditional Commissioner, Income Tax, Dr Girish Bali says when human beings are confined indoors, the stillness on the streets is encouraging birds to step outside. For him, this new morning routine filled with the chirping of birds is absolutely delightful. He feels that the lockdown has restored the connection between the nature and the mankind. This forced pause has made the environment better for generations to come.He says that for him this is a revisit to his childhood days, when he would play with his pals in the lap of the nature and also enjoyed kite flying.Dr Bali said when human beings were confined indoors, the stillness on the streets was encouraging birds to step outside.Dr Bali, a medical graduate, says they can now hear so many different birds. "Common myna, purple sunbird, jungle babbler, rose-ringed parakeet, greater coucal, rock pigeon, red-vented bulbul and red-wattled lapwing, which are not often heard in the cities, have made a comeback. This is indeed a blessings in disguise. I identified these birds flying during the lockdown. The nature seems to be on the auto-cleansing mode," he said.He feels that the lockdown has restored the connection between the nature and the mankind. This forced pause has made the environment better for generations to come."If we think positive instead of getting paranoid, we should accept this reality and take preventive measures," said Dr Bali.On his daily routine, he says, " I start my day with exercise at a small gym in my house. My spouse and the younger daughter too accompany me."Taking advantage of the lockdown, he has enrolled for MBA (second semester) online and also doing an online course from Harvard University. Bali had done MBBS in 2002. He is now helping his two daughters in their studies after office timings. Dr Bali is still discharging his duties in Phagwara and Jalandhar offices.He is also enjoying quality time with his family, besides watching old TV serials such as 'Ramayan', 'Mahabharat' and 'Shri Krishna'. "These serials remind me of my childhood days. The lockdown has also given a chance to learn some lessons. There is a dire need to strengthen the health infrastructure," says Dr Bali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/it-is-opportunity-to-add-on-qualification-83578
12-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Amid pandemic, she is out on roads to feed stray dogs, cattle||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 11At a time when staying indoors is the best way to keep Covid-19 at bay, Raju (40) has taken the responsibility to feed stray dogs and cattle on roads in the city. Every morning, she reaches Burlton Park on her Activa to provide food to stray dogs.Polio-stricken Raju, who is also a teacher at a local shelter home, has been spending her entire month's salary and money she gets from the stitching work at her home, on arranging food for stray cattle and dogs. She has also stitched 250 masks for people living in her locality.During the lockdown, she has covered many areas for feeding stray cattle and dogs in the city. Besides, she got grass cut from lawns of educational institutes to feed cattle. She even lodged a complaint with the police after a trolley laden with cattle fodder, which she arranged with the help of a do-gooder, was stolen.She has also borrowed a huge cooking pot from a local gurdwara and a handcart (rehri) from a vendor in her neighbourhood so that over 10 kg of khichdi, which she prepares daily, can be provided to the strays in various areas. She has also engaged three kids, who live in her neighbourhood, for taking the cart every day.She said, "A number of animals were left hungry after the lockdown was imposed. With a dearth of fodder for a month, I sought help from educational institutes such as DAVIET which provided me with the grass after cutting it from their lawns on their premises. At other places, I also got grass from some labourers or do-gooders, who manually cut it. For a month, I fed cattle this way. Some people saw me doing it daily and now, Kamal Jain, a do-gooder, has been providing me fodder daily."She sets out daily at 7. 30 am on her scooter, which is stacked with buns, rusks, rotis and eggs for dogs. Accompanying her, three kids take her cart loaded with a huge pot of khichdi to various places.First, she goes to Burlton Park where she feeds canines. Later, she heads towards many areas, including Jawahar Nagar and Gulaab Devi Road, to feeds cattle. She stays on roads from 7.30 am to 2 pm.After seeing her efforts, a person has volunteered to provide fodder for cattle. Earlier, she has been arranging it on her own. A Sultanpur Lodhi-based man also provided fodder on his trolley.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-pandemic-she-is-out-on-roads-to-feed-stray-dogs-cattle-83579
12-05-2020||MLA REFLECTS||‘Leading from front our moral responsibility’||For the past over 45 days, I am visiting around 15 villages every day to ensure that nobody sleeps on an empty stomach in my constituency. I have been ensuring delivery of groceries, cooked food, masks, sanitisers and medicines to residents of the constituency. Amid all hustle-bustle, I am trying to take out time to attend to my patients.Over two months ago, when people in the country were not much aware of coronavirus, I, being a medical professional, understood the gravity of the situation and challenges coming ahead. An awareness campaign, 'Duron Namaste' was started to urge people to avoid handshakes and promote use of masks, etc, in the first week of March. A 'Corona Task Force' (CTF), with over 500 dedicated volunteers, was formed which spreads awareness, distribute food and grocery among needy and help the administration in effectively imposing curfew and contact tracing. There is only one positive case in the constituency so far. Every day, around 2,500 cooked food packets are being distributed with the help of NGOs and religious bodies.Now, as wheat procurement is on in mandis, my unique campaign 'Mandi ch Manji' ensures to provide farmers health service, medicines, ambulances, fire service, drinking water and passes for procurement in a hassle-free manner. To ease out their stay in mandis, we provided them traditional chairs, hand-held fans, etc. Sanitising machines are also installed.It's the moral responsibility of public representatives to lead from the front, making people aware and standing by them.(As told to Sanjiv Bakshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/leading-from-front-our-moral-responsibility-83580
