15-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Doc, nurse among 9 new cases||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 14Nine persons have tested positive in the district today. With this, the total count has crossed the 200 mark, reaching 208. These cases include two medical professionals, contacts of a doctor who previously tested positive, and four contacts of the Qazi Mohalla man, who died a week ago, and a new case. COVID FACTFILEThe remaining cases include two cops — a DSP and a constable — posted at PAP Complex, Jalandhar, who had tested positive in Kapurthala several days ago after their return from Nanded but added to the Jalandhar list today. They are at present under isolation at the PTU.Meanwhile, the number of people recovered from Covid in the district has also reached 34.The cases tested positive today include a 48-year-old doctor and resident of Virdi Colony, a 29-year-old nurse from Shankar Garden, both of them are contacts of the Kidney Hospital doctor who tested positive, and a 28-year-old man from Baba Ishar Singh Nagar. Four positive cases from Qazi Mohalla tested positive today include a 52-year-old man, a 27-year-old woman, a 58-year-old man and a 50-year-old-man.While Virk Village, Nijatam Nagar, a local media house, Central Bazaar and Basti Gujan have been active hotspots in the district on many occasions. At present, Qazi Mohalla is the most active hotspot in the district. All cases in the area are contacts of a 29-year-old, who had tested positive on April 29 and died of Covid and kidney-related complications at the PGI, Chandigarh, about a week ago. In total, there are 37 contacts of the deceased man who were tested positive so far in the district.The Qazi Mohalla man’s sister and two nieces had also tested positive recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doc-nurse-among-9-new-cases-85113
15-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Despite relief in curfew, their problems are only getting real||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 14Even though the state government extended the timings of opening of shops from eight to 11 hours (7 am to 6 pm), residents in the city are still finding it hard to get some items.The most common demands include getting specific hair colour, car mechanics, repair of spectacles and footwear, new pajamas, fiction books and painting stuff. Since barbers, salons, spas and parlours are not open yet, many of them say they were feeling uncomfortable without the look they desire.Says Amrit Kalsi, deputy director of training and counselling at CT Institutes, said: “I am regularly taking video sessions with people in stress due to the lockdown, for which I need to maintain good looks. I am very fond of maintaining good hair, but spas are not available as of now. Finally, I arranged the desired colour and brush from a chemist whom I knew. He came to our society to deliver the stuff. Then, my friend in the neighbourhood and I helped each other by applying the colour. That’s how we are managing for now.”Principal of HMV College Dr Ajay Sareen, too, said barbers for boys and parlours for women remain to be the most needed facilities, which may take time to open. “As of now, I am taking to some home remedies. I wish parlours open at the earliest with all hygiene and sanitisation facilities,” she says.Additional Public Prosecutor Rishi Bhardwaj says: “My car has broken down as it remained stationary for days together. Now, I am unable to find a mechanic. I have to go to courts on alternate days and there is no cab facility. So, I have to walk down with my files. Since it was raining today when I was to come back, I got stranded in the court for sometime before I could start homewards.”Rana Preet Gill, an author from Hoshiarpur, said: “Since Amazon has not restarted its operations, I have not been able to order books for reading. I have been re-reading my old stock. I desperately want to buy ‘Difficult Daughters’ and ‘Home’ by Manju Kapur. I recently read two of her books ‘The Immigrants’ and ‘Custody’ which I really liked.”Artist Kimi Juneja says: “I ran out of canvasses and some paints recently. Finally, today my husband managed to arrange canvasses from the home of a manufacturer on Garha Road. I also need some loose paints, which I used to get from a shop in Model Town, but it is now lying closed and I really do not know how to go about it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/despite-relief-in-curfew-their-problems-are-only-getting-real-85114
15-05-2020||---||23 NRIs reach Hoshiarpur from Dubai||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/23-nris-reach-hoshiarpur-from-dubai-85115
15-05-2020||---||117 migrants leave for Bihar||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/117-migrants-leave-for-bihar-85116
15-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||Financial experts welcome Centre’s package to MSMEs||Hoshiarpur, May 14 The Prime Minister’s announcement of economic package has been welcomed by financial experts in Mauritius, who feel that it has lifted morale, spirit and created positive sentiments. Dr SK Chadda, Senior International Strategic Adviser, MD and CEO of PSA advisers Ltd,who is based in Mauritius said the announcement of reforms-cum-stimulus to the tune of 10 per cent of the GDP, amounting to Rs 20 lakh crore, will give overall boaster dose and potential to be sustainably beneficial to all sectors of the economy. “All sectors, that includes Industry and in particular the service sector, Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG), new startups will stand to gain and whole economy will be impacted with positive move and starts to move again,” said Dr Chadda who’s in Hoshiarpur at his native place in Model Town these days. He said PM’s main focus remains with massive thrust on self-reliance, and restructuring local supply chains, along with the focus on creating local demand, should provide enough impetus to kick-start the economy.  Dr Chadda assess that present and current situation will bring an opportunity for the country to attract the foreign Direct Investment (FDI) from corporations. Announcements and packages announced by the Finance Minister will surely infuse new life and strength to the backbone of country’s small and medium enterprise (SME) Sector, where 92 per cent of the population employed by 65 million SMES.  Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) fund is the right start of new result-oriented practice in the financial sector to support the economy and banking sector, entire capital market will be beneficiary with new announcements of today being supported and guaranteed by the Union Government. NBC’s and Micro finance sector will get great kick-start. Dr Chadda is optimistic that collateral free loans and new norms on MSME definition will help large number of units get MSME benefits and payment of MSME dues by the government in 45 days will bring immediate liquidity to restart factories. Liquidity support to NBFCs and Microfinance Institution (MFI) and (FIs) will again help put more money to MSMEs and the informal sector for quicker recovery as these all are integrated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/financial-experts-welcome-centres-package-to-msmes-85117
15-05-2020||Ajay Joshi---||Auto-rickshaw drivers threaten to intensify stir||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, May 14 Demanding financial assistance from the government, auto-rickshaw drivers from the city, under the banner of the Bhagat Singh Auto Union, today thronged the District Administrative Complex.  The protesters, who were accompanied by their family members, including children, urged administrative officials to register them as daily wage workers and arrange for their daily meals  While submitting a memorandum to Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Jasbir Singh, Ranjit Kumar, president of the union, said the statewide lockdown had made a huge impact on the livelihood of auto-rickshaw drivers. “Unable to make any money during the period, the auto-rickshaw drivers are worried about paying the monthly installment of their vehicle loan. Though banks have been directed not to demand the same, once the curfew is lifted, the auto-rickshaw drivers will have an additional burden of paying the loans,” said Ranjit. Holding various banners demanding assistance from the government, the auto-rickshaw drivers stated that the lockdown had immensely impacted their livelihood and they were struggling to make ends meet.  They threatened to intensify their protest in the coming days, if the administration fails to pay heed to their demands. Rakesh Verma, general secretary of the union,  said the drivers would organise a dharna at the administration complex soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/auto-rickshaw-drivers-threaten-to-intensify-stir-85118
15-05-2020||Our Correspondent||e-surveillance project launched in Nakodar||Nakodar, May 14Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal on Thursday launched the e-surveillance project for Nakodar city to ensure 100 per cent CCTV surveillance in city for ensuring safety and security of the people.About the projectLaunching the scheme here at the Nakodar city police station, the Deputy Commissioner and the Senior Superintendent of Police said 30 hi-end pan tilt zoom (PTZ) cameras would be installed at the key and sensitive points of Nakodar. They said the initiative was brainchild of Assistant Superintendent of Police Vatsala Gupta, who would be monitoring the entire movement of people through these e-eyes in control room set up at her office. Both the officers said that these cameras would be used for noticing everything that happens in the city.They the PTZ cameras, which show the 360-degree video, would be installed at the vulnerable and highly congested points so that every activity was precisely recorded. They said the cameras were also capable of detecting fire at some place due to which it could be very helpful in tackling any sort of urgency. They further said besides vulnerable points these cameras would be installed at the main entry points of the city so as to record the entry and exit of every vehicle coming to the city.Meanwhile, in a noble gesture the Deputy Commissioner and the Senior Superintendent of Police also distributed uniform and dry fruits to the cops on duty. They said this move would benefit around 1,500 cops who were doing round-the-clock duty in hostile circumstances. Both the officers also patted the cops for performing their duty meticulously.Sub-Divisional Magistrate Amit Kumar, Assistant Superintendent of Police Vatsala Gupta, Superintendent of Police RPS Sandhu, Deputy Superintendent of Police Sarabjit Rai and others were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/e-surveillance-project-launched-in-nakodar-85119
15-05-2020||---||BJP leader, kin among 6 booked for sodomising minor boy||Jalandhar, May 14The police have registered a case against BJP leader Sheetal Angural, his brother Rajan Angural, and four other persons for allegedly kidnapping and sodomising a 15-year-old boy.As per information, the victim in his complaint to the police station division No. 5 alleged that Sheetal Angural and his brother along with four others kidnapped and sodomised him on March 11.The SHO police division No.5 said after initiating an investigation, a case has been registered against Sheetal, Rajan, Jolly, Jimmy, Deepa and Chirag under Sections 365, 368, 343, 346, 323, 195-A, 109 and 120- B of the IPC; Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act and 23 of the POCSO Act.The victim, a resident of Basti Danish Manda, used to work as a cleanliness worker at his office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-leader-kin-among-6-booked-for-sodomising-minor-boy-85120
15-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||He picks up hobby left over 20 yrs ago to kill boredom||Tribune News ServiceJalandar, May 14Making appropriate use of the lockdown period, Rajinder Singh (60), a local resident, has picked up his old hobby that he used to miss out during his busy routine.“At a time when anxiety and panic have gripped most of us due to the pandemic outbreak, I am making art and crafts articles at home to beat the boredom. I had stopped the activity 20-30 years back due to work. But as everything is lying shut and we are confined indoors, I tried utilising the time in reviving my old hobbies and making crafts,” he said.Best out of wasteRajinder Singh (60) has been making articles from leftovers or discarded items such as wood, paint, chandeliers, lamps and papers, toys and plates. Apart from making furniture, he has modified toys into beautiful decorative bed chairs. For children in his locality and for his grandchildren, he has made attractive study tables.He said most articles had been made from the leftovers or the discarded items such as wood, paint, chandeliers, lamps and papers, toys, plates etc. Apart from making furniture, he has modified toys into beautiful decorative bed chairs.As he has 150 pigeons and birds, Rajinder Singh has carved out waste wooden and ply into small bird houses. “I spend 4-5 hours in crafting and make one or more items daily. For the kids in locality and for my grandchildren, I have made attractive study tables,” he says.To explore his crafting skills, he even takes help of YouTube and Internet. During the lockdown only, he has learnt hundreds of news designs. The dysfunctional chandeliers at his home have been converted into decorative lights. After uploading his work on the social media, he has even started receiving orders and he believes that he can make designs of any kind and challenges himself daily to make something new.He urged people, especially children, to make wise use of the lockdown and inculcate new hobbies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-picks-up-hobby-left-over-20-yrs-ago-to-kill-boredom-85121
15-05-2020||---||Good Samaritans work 24x7 to help residents in distress||Jalandhar, May 14With no end to sufferings of people amid the lockdown, several Good Samaritans are making huge efforts to provide relief to frontline warriors and those in distress.Gautam Kapoor, owner of Hotel Radisson, today supplied food packets, prepared at his establishment, to doctors and nurses on duty at the Civil Hospital. “Tomorrow, we will provide meal to 4,000 cops and volunteers on duty on city roads,” said the hotelier.Likewise, the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in association with Coca Cola and PHD Rural Development Foundation, has distributed nearly 20,000 bottles of juices and cold drink worth over Rs 3 lakh. The project has been undertaken by Karan Gilhotra, Chairman, Punjab State Chapter and RS Sachdeva, mentor, and coordinated by Ajay Mahajan, convener, Jalandhar zone, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry.Instead of following the traditional langar /chhabeel mechanism, which creates crowding at the place of distribution, a unique mechanism for orderly distribution was devised, wherein bundles of apple and orange juice and cold drink were sent to the owners of nearly 200 factories, so that they could further distribute these among their work force and needy people.Ajay Mahajan says he feels that it is not just the responsibility of the district administration, but NGOs and industry organisations also have an equally important role to play in the collective fight against the coronavirus. “So as a way of expressing gratitude for the hard work being put in by the frontline workers, who have worked tirelessly during the entire lockdown period without any break. Bundles of juices and cold drink were also sent to police check posts, hospitals and banks,” he said.He said distribution was done in a planned and organised manner while ensuring social distancing.Rajinder Maingi, Manpreet Singh, Manish Arora, Naresh Batra, Vishu Wadhwa, Abhinav Kohli, Salil Gupta, Rajinder Juneja, Harpreet Singh, Sandeep Khosla, Vishal Mahajan, Ashish Anand, Mahesh Chaddha, Jatinder Arora, Gurpreet Singh, Gagan Kalsi and other members of the Jalandhar chapter lent valuable support to make sure that the charity effort reached the right people. Administrative support was provided by Madhu Pillai and Rimneet Kaur from the Chandigarh headquarters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/good-samaritans-work-24x7-to-help-residents-in-distress-85122
15-05-2020||Goraya||Safai sewaks honoured||Uninterrupted power must: BKUNakodar: Bharti Kisan Union (Lakhowal), led by district president, Jaswant Singh, and general secretary, Harminder Singh, on Thursday demanded that for direct paddy transplantation from May 15, 10 hours’ uninterrupted power supply to agriculture sector should be ensured. In a memorandum to CM Capt Amarinder Singh submitted through the SDM, they said the government should arrange migrant labourers for paddy transplantation. Plantation of pussa and other varieties of paddy, should be allowed from June 1 and the rate of paddy and basmati should be fixed at Rs2,900 and Rs4,000. They demanded the release of arrears of sugarcane growers immediately and insurance cover for every farmer. OCHonorarium for Anganwari staffNurmahal: On a call given by Anganwari Employees Federation of India, members of All Punjab Anganwari Mulajam Union Block, Nurmahal, held a demonstration in support of their demands. Local secretary of the union Krishna Kumari said they demanded that workers and helpers of the union be declared frontline workers in the war against Covid-19. She said till the fulfillment of their other demands, the workers should be paid Rs24,000 per month and helpers Rs18,000 honorarium per month. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/safai-sewaks-honoured-85123
15-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||This club ensures availability of blood units in these testing times||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 14Members of the Hindustan Welfare Blood Donors’ Club have been making all-out efforts to avoid a shortage of blood during the lockdown.Recently, the club had organised a blood donation camp in which 250 donors donated their blood. Members of the club had picked up and dropped half of the donors at their homes.Members of the club have been identified by their qualitative work in blood donation services.To fullfil the need for blood, the club has been picking up many of the blood donors from their homes and dropping them back.Established in 1995 and registered in 2000, Phagwara-based Hindustan Welfare Blood Donors’ Club, which has also been playing the role of a watchdog, has been collecting over 4,000 units annually on a regular basis. Following the social distancing norms, the club organised a blood donation camp in Phagwara on Wednesday. As many as 15 people donated their blood at the camp.Vitin Puri, general secretary of the club, said, “We have managed to collect 250 units of blood during the lockdown. There have been innumerable occasions when people refused to donate blood. People just don’t want to come out. We don’t call anyone who has been distributing langar or has been engaged in any other public activities. This narrows down the choices we have left in donors.”The impact of the lockdown can be gauged from the fact that from late March to mid May, the club used to collect 700-800. But this year, 250 units have been collected.Notably, the club is also known for raising the alarm on a number of discrepancies in the functioning of various blood banks in the state, including the government blood bank in Phagwara earlier this year.Vikram Gupta, president of the club, said, “As Phagwara was lately in the green zone, we had also sought government permission for a bus to visit villages to collect 300 to 400 blood units, which could be donated across blood banks. But, the permission for the same was denied. Last Sunday, there was a need for 24 blood units in Phagwara. With the summers and monsoons approaching, we just want blood banks should have adequate units to deal with any eventuality.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-club-ensures-availability-of-blood-units-in-these-testing-times-85126
15-05-2020||I have been taking rounds of the constituency||‘I am committed to 
creating more jobs’||The authorities concerned have made efforts to facilitate wheat procurement and the process is going on smoothly despite lockdown.The other major crop of the area is sugarcane and a sugar mill near Dasuya is state’s major sugar mills. Sugarcane procurement was also on. I have also tried to streamline the process so that farmers do not face hassles in bringing the produce to the mill.Employment has always been a point of concern for the Kandi area as there are ample natural resources but least employment opportunities. Growers are mainly marginal farmers sowing and harvesting mainly to fulfill family needs. I have been concentrating on promoting industries, especially labour-oriented small scale units in area. With the help of Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora, the Industies Department has been urged to set up industrial zone in Kandi. Since a large chunk of land in the constituency is taken over by the Bhakhra Beas Management Board (BBMB), the requirement of land for industries can be fulfilled by utilising surplus BBMB land. I have written a letter to BBMB chairman in this regard and the matter will be taken up further with the help of the minister. I am committed to provide more employment opportunities to people and setting up of industries in the area is a key factor.(As told to Sanjiv Bakshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/i-am-committed-to-creating-more-jobs-85128
15-05-2020||Raju Virk||‘Leather industry will take a year to pick up pace’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?The Punjab and Haryana High Court had already ordered the shutting down of tanneries in the Jalandhar leather complex. Some non-polluting units, however, were operational outside the complex, but after the lockdown, it proved to be a double whammy. The industry, which was on ventilator, is nowhere right now.How much time will it take for the revival of the industry?Leather products are not essential items and people won't buy products anytime soon when the lockdown is lifted. It will at least take six to 12 months for the industry to come back on track.What challenges will the industry face in future?Once the lockdown is lifted, people will buy leather-related items after a long time. Their priority will remain on buying essential things. This is the major challenge that we will face in the coming time.Do you also see any opportunity?We are also expecting that we may get some boom and there could be good prospects in future. As China is the major producer of shoes, we think that people might stay away from buying and using Chinese products. So in this way, we will be benefitted. But, it will all depend on the length of the lockdown.What is the strategy or plan to restart the unit?It all depends on demand and supply. Thereafter, we will be able to find out how can be fulfilled the same. As of now, there is no point of making any strategy.How does exodus of migrant workers affect the work?They are free to go to their families and we cannot stop them. But, they will eventually come back and we share an immense bond with them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/leather-industry-will-take-a-year-to-pick-up-pace-85130
15-05-2020||Jalandhar||27 Dubai returnees quarantined in Jalandhar||As many as 27 persons from Dubai landed in Jalandhar today. Of them, 11 have been kept at a private hotel and 15 others who could not afford to pay for their stay have been kept at the Radha Soami Dera in Goraya.While a list of 26 hotels and a paid institutional centre had initially been released for the returnees in Jalandhar, with workers unable to pay for their stay, alternative arrangements are being made now.Of the total 27, one returnee having a kidney disease was referred to the Civil Hospital, while a pregnant woman was shifted to the quarantine centre at NIT, Jalandhar.All returnees from Dubai were brought to meritorious schools at 4.30 am today. They were screened and checked and found asymptomatic. Barring two, none of them have health complications. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/27-dubai-returnees-quarantined-in-jalandhar-84851
