16-05-2020||Phagwara||PPE, ration kits distributed||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ppe-ration-kits-distributed-85429
16-05-2020||Garhshankar||Educational institutes seek loan from Centre||Manish Tewari, MP Sri Anandpur Sahib, on Friday assured to raise the issue of the growing financial problems of educational and technical training institutes with the Central Government. He hold a meeting with principals, vice-chancellors of different colleges and universities, through video conferencing.He is constantly holding meetings with different sections, so that their problems can be resolved. All educational institutes’ personnel said between the lockdown and recession, they managed to pull-out the month of March and April, but now the situation was out of control. Thousands of teaching and non-teaching staff are associated with the institutes.There are no other means of income other than charging fee to pay the salary to the staff. Even children of weaker sections are exempted from the fee, but those who have the means, pay them.Similarly, they also demanded that the Union Government must give them an economic package like other classes. The government has an under-taxation of Rs 5 crore for the universities, which should be allowed to be used or they should be provided some kind of loan, which they will gradually withdraw later. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/educational-institutes-seek-loan-from-centre-85419
16-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Couple sustains burn injuries in cylinder blast||Phagwara, May 15A Bihari couple sustained critical burn injuries when an LPG cylinder blew up at their house at CRP Colony in Urban Estate locality, on Thursday. The victim has been identified as Milan (38) and his wife Seema (34).They were admitted to the Civil Hospital, Phagwara. Senior Medical Officer Dr Kamal Kishore said the condition of the duo was critical as Seema sustained 75 per cent and Milan sustained 55 per cent burn injuries.SHO, City, Onkar Singh Brar said Milan was fitting the gas cylinder and repairing a minor fault when the cylinder suddenly blasted. Fire tenders, headed by Fire Superintendent, Jaswinder Singh, made hard efforts to rescue the couple and brought the injured to the Civil Hospital. The SHO said three kids, including two sons and one daughter of the victim, escaped unhurt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/couple-sustains-burn-injuries-in-cylinder-blast-85423
16-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Man murdered at his home||Phagwara, May 15Some unknown persons murdered a labourer, identified as Kashmir Singh (70), with iron rods at his residence in Guru Nanak Nagar locality late last night.Surinder Singh Chand, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Phagwara, said here on Friday that the wife of the victim, Savita Rani (65), told the police that the assailants barged into their house and attacked upon her husband with iron rods, who sustained head injuries. He was brought to the Local Civil Hospital where he was declared brought dead.The DSP said the police had registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC and handed over the body to the family after autopsy. The cause behind the murder could not be ascertained yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-murdered-at-his-home-85427
16-05-2020||Hoshiarpur||Chabbewal MLA helps Kashmiris return home from Hoshiarpur||A group of Kashmiri labourers commenced their journey on foot from Chandigarh to Kashmir and reached Hoshiarpur on Thursday night after three days.They were noticed by Rajiv Vashisht, chairman, RTI Awareness Forum, and interacted with them. They said they were going to Kashmir on foot. MLA, Chabbewal, Dr Raj Kumar was passing from there.Noticing the group of labourers standing there, he asked from Rajiv Vashisht and the Kashmiri labourers about their problem. Dr Raj immediately arranged food for them, served it to them personally and arranged a tempo traveller at his own to sent them to the Jammu border.He sent his son Nishant Kumar to procure the pass for them. He immediately approached the SDM office and got passes issued for labourers and driver so that they would not face any difficulty on the way.“In this hour of difficulty, we all have to be vigilant not only for our protection from Covid-19 but also to help those who are in need,” said Dr Raj. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chabbewal-mla-helps-kashmiris-return-home-from-hoshiarpur-85420
16-05-2020||---||Special team formed to prevent locust attack||Jalandhar, May 15The Agriculture Department has asked farmers of the state to remain cautious about locusts attack on their crop.On Friday, a team was formed by the district Agriculture Department to monitor the situation. Its first meeting was held under the guidance of the Chief Agriculture Officer, Surinder Singh.According to experts, Lohian Khas, Shahkot and Nakodar blocks in the district are sensitive and demand higher attention. At the meeting, it was also decided that spray and insecticide would be made available in the blocks. A joint team has been formulated to keep a check on areas adjoining the district. It will submit reports to the district Agriculture Department.In January, swarms of locusts descended in Rajasthan and attacked crops, making farmers in Punjab worried about damage to their crops in case the insects reach their fields. The situation in Rajasthan was so tense that farmers had to opt various odd ways such as beating drums to keep the locusts away from their farms.According to a department official, locusts can attack any crop. “A locust has a lifespan of 50 to 60 days. It flies in a gregarious way and destroys the vegetation,” the official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/special-team-formed-to-prevent-locust-attack-85422
16-05-2020||Our Correspondent||215 migrants leave for Jharkhand||Phagwara, May 15A total of 215 natives of Jharkhand, residing in Phagwara and surrounding areas, who were willing to return to their native villages were sent to Jalandhar in 10 special buses, which started from Phagwara on Friday evening.Pardeep Chottani, SDO, water supply, checked all required documents of the migrants before boarding the buses.Chottani said the migrants were dropped at Jalandhar railway station to board shramik special train this evening. He informed that more than 500 migrants were registered on Thursday but only 215 reached at Phagwara bus stand to board the buses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/215-migrants-leave-for-jharkhand-85417
16-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Health Department warns residents of impending dengue season||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 15Already grappling with the coronavirus pandemic, the health department has another reason to worry this season —- vector-borne diseases.Urging residents to take precautions, health staff of Shahkot block today launched an awareness campaign to warn residents of the impending dengue season. They celebrated ‘Friday-Friday’ under the guidance of Senior Medical Officer Dr Amardeep Singh Duggal and under the supervision of BEE Chandan Mishra.ANM and Asha workers went door to door to make people aware of steps to be taken to prevent the breeding of aedes aegypti – the mosquito causing dengue. Multipurpose health supervisors and workers urged residents to maintain regular cleanliness and prevent water logging.Dr Duggal said National Dengue Day was celebrated on May 16 every year. “Also, every Friday, the department, under the ‘Friday-Friday’ campaign, motivates people to clean the sources of water and prevent water logging in their homes. Since it is not possible to call people at one place and give them information amid the Covid outbreak, employees will go door to door and make people aware about it,” the SMO said.Explaining the importance of ‘Friday-Friday’, Block Extension Educator Chandan Mishra said the department had set the day to make it a habit for people to clean water logging and mosquito breeding sites. He said once a week, if they cleaned or changed the water of cooler and other things, the larva of dengue mosquito died.Awareness campaign||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-department-warns-residents-of-impending-dengue-season-85418
16-05-2020||Jalandhar||Mayor inspects sanitation in Jalandhar||Members of the health and sanitation ad hoc committee along with Mayor Jagdish Raja on Friday monitored the lifting of waste from the city and inspected the vehicles lifting the trash. Today 400 tonnes of garbage was lifted from the city. Chairman ad hoc committee Balraj Thakur and member Jagdish Samrai along with other members have been continuously looking after the cleanliness amid the pandemic.Mayor Jagdish Raja held surprise inspection of the sanitation works in city today. Thakur said it was found during inspection that the vehicles carrying garbage were 15 years old and were not in roadworthy condition. “They should be stopped and transport department must check this, because any accident could take place,” Samrai said. “Many vehicles don’t even have registration numbers. Because of heavy rush and one-way traffic towards Wariana, trash carrying vehicles take longer time to come back, so, there must be another way so that more waste could then be lifted from the city,” Balraj Thakur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mayor-inspects-sanitation-in-jalandhar-85424
16-05-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Govt must exempt cold storage units from octroi’||THE lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the business community hard, including cold storage units. Rajinder Marwaha, the owner of Marwaha cold storages, throws light on the issues of the cold storage industry and expectations from the government in an interview with Charanjit Singh Teja. Excerpts:How has lockdown affected cold storage units?Cold storage units suffered a major blow after the imposition of the lockdown. There are around 40 major cold storages in the district. Every cold storage unit employs around 30 workers. The industry is depended on hotels, restaurants, marriage palaces and tourism. When everything is shut, cold storage units can't survive alone. All units have large scale power connections and Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is regularly sending power bills on an average basis. Due to the lockdown, goods carrier vehicles are off road. Major space in the cold storages is now empty as fruits do not arrive in the city. But, we have to pay all expenses.Most of the cold storages in rural areas keep agrarian products. Farmers store potato seeds and vegetables. Traders store fruits such as apple and orange. We have to keep operating our units even 90 per cent space is vacant. Paying all expenses such as power bills and salaries is a major challenge. — Rajinder Marwaha, owner of Marwaha cold storagesDo you expect resumption of business in near future?The cold storage industry will revive on the return of normalcy. Hotels, restaurants and resorts will not likely open even after the curfew as people will abstain from dining out and going for outings. When the government will lift the curfew, it is likely to grant permission to the hospitality sector to resume functioning only with riders as it will avoid gathering of people and ensure social distancing. Until the hospitality industry revives, we can't expect resumption of business.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?Every cold storage unit has some permanent employees, but workers are engaged in loading and unloading work on contact. We have staff who get salaries that include manager, accountants, machine man and office boys. We are paying them salaries. We will take care of our workers as most of them are with us for years. The government should also support them. Contractual labour returned home. Most of the workers in cold storage units were from Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal. Shortage of workers will spell trouble after reopening of units.Do you consider the current crisis a challenge or an opportunity?It is a challenge for cold storage owners to operate the unit without required storage. Most of the cold storages in rural areas keep agrarian products. Farmers store potato seeds and vegetables. Traders store fruits such as apple and orange. This time, we did not get apple from Kashmir. We have to keep operating our units even 90 per cent space is vacant. Paying all expenses such as power bills and salaries is a major challenge.What are your expectations from the government?We need an economic package for revival. At least, the government should subsidies our power tariff as we deal with agrarian products. Now, PSPCL is collecting bills on an average basis, which will not help. We have been demanding exemption from octroi tax on power for long. Now, government should exempt us from it. Cargo should be revived at the Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport Amritsar so our vegetables and other perishable items can transport to other countries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-must-exempt-cold-storage-units-from-octroi-85430
16-05-2020||---||Migrants look up to him in these perplexing times||Jalandhar, May 15Sushil Kumar (39), councillor of Ward No.2, has been on his toes since the Covid-19 outbreak. A large number of migrants live in the ward and for Sushil, the main challenge was to provide ration and other essential item to them. Coming forward in these testing times, he ensures that he visits every household and fulfil the needs of ward residents, especially poor people.“I stay in touch with them and I know they are the ones who were the worst-hit. So for me, my ward residents are my priority,” he said.The councillor has also been helping migrants in their registration for going back to their native places. “I have asked them to contact me in case of any problem,” he said.Sushil said he had got every narrow street sanitised on his own. With the help of NGOs, the councillor started providing cooked food to needy people in his ward. He arranged money to provide ration to ward residents.He said he had never expected that the pandemic would hit the poor harder. “I am so concerned about the people of my ward that I make strategies on a daily basis to provide them assistance,” he said. He has been providing medicines to needy people. Earlier, he was organising langar for needy people in his ward.In the beginning, he had alleged that there were some problems in getting food packets from MC officials.“When I sought food packets from MC officials, I saw a cross sign was marked on my name on one of the lists. When I asked, the officials said the ration had already been given,” he said, adding that he did not understand that why everyone was indulging in politics rather than helping the needy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migrants-look-up-to-him-in-these-perplexing-times-85431
16-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||Teen finds solace in sketching, reading books||Jalandhar, May 15A canvas, some pastel and charcoal pencils and a variety of erasers are keeping Manraj Singh (14), a resident of Nijatam Nagar, busy these days. Stuck at home due to the nationwide lockdown, he is pursuing his passion of sketching portraits quite seriously.Father feels luckyAs children are stuck at home for a long time now, it is a big challenge for parents to keep them engrossed in something worthwhile. However, I find myself lucky in that case as Manraj has adjusted as per the scenario and have been utilising his time sharpening his sketching skills and paying attention to his studies. — Ranjit Singh, Manraj's fatherHe says that sketching and painting does a lot more than pass your time. "It gives me a healthy outlet for expressing and letting go of all my feelings and fears. As many people are considering doing it now more than ever, it is needless to say that its benefits are plenty", he said, adding that art brings out the creativity in people.A student of Class XI at MGN Public School, Adarsh Nagar, Manraj says he is passionate about sketching since he was too young. He hasn't taken any professional coaching and learnt the art by watching a few tutorials and practising it at home. "I have made two portraits during this lockdown. Although I take eight to nine days completing one piece, as shops were closed and I didn't have some material available with me, so it took me a little more time".Among two sketches, his favourite is the portrait of Ravi Singh Khalsa, founder of Khalsa Aid, which he says is the tribute from his side to the Khalsa Aid warrior who is leading from the front in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and helping the needy across the world. He further said his second portrait was of Lord Shiva, and he took nearly 25 days to complete it.He also proudly informed that his portrait of Khalsa Aid founder was shared by Ravi Singh on his official social media accounts, and he received a lot of appreciation worldwide.The son of Jalandhar-based businessmen, Ranjit Singh, Manraj said he had been doing several other things too to keep himself busy. "I have been following a fixed routine starting from morning exercise, meditation with my father and then attending my online school and tuition classes. Besides, I am reading books, playing games online and doing video calls to my friends and cousins", he said, adding that his parents were very supportive. They have always motivated him to work on his skills and never pressurised him in context of academic results.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teen-finds-solace-in-sketching-reading-books-85432
16-05-2020||IN these tough times||‘Awareness key to tide over crisis’||Two-and-a-half months ago, I started an awareness campaign in the area and held a meeting with the NGOs and social service organisations of the area.Foodgrains and essential items were distributed in the area with the help of the Punjab Government and NGOs of Tanda area. As many as 8,500 bags were supplied by the government and a similar number of families were supported by me personally and with the help of NGOs. My NRI friends, too, have done a lot in making huge contributions.The mobile hospital being run by me has served corona warriors and their families. We have made five to six rounds of providing medical facilities, medicines, protective material, sanitisers and other facilities to the families of corona warriors.I plan to conduct a drive in the area post the lockdown, so that people may protect themselves. After taking NGOs, social and religious organisations and socially active people of the area along, a massive awareness drive is on cards and it would be launched soon.(As told to Sanjiv Bakshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/awareness-key-to-tide-over-crisis-85433
16-05-2020||Nakodar||Rs 4.5 Lakh Travel fraud: 1 booked||DC: Safety first at tehsil complexesJalandhar: DC Varinder Kumar Sharma asked SDMs to ensure that social distancing norms were maintained in tehsil/ sub tehsil complex. In a communiqué to SDMS and Circle Revenue Officers, the DC said in the wake of Covid-19 epidemic, it was the need of the hour to ensure that utmost care is taken while doing work in tehsils and sub-tehsils especially pertaining to the registration of land. He said the provision of masks and sanitisers must be ensured at complexes at every cost. TNSOnline project on Machine learningJalandhar: The Engineering and Technology Department, GNDU regional campus, Jalandhar, held an online project-based learning workshop on ‘Machine Learning’ in collaboration with Coding Blocks, Delhi. It was aimed at skill enhancement of students of B Tech Electronics and Computer Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering and Electronics and Communication Engineering branches. TNSMan held with pistol, cartridgePhagwara: The Sadar police seized a .315 pistol and a live cartridge from a person on Thursday and arrested him. The suspect has been identified as Bobby of Bishanpur village. He was nabbed at a checkpoint. A case under the Arms Act has been registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-4-5-lakh-travel-fraud-1-booked-85428
16-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Home delivery of cooked food, sweets, bakery items begins in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 15Sick and tired of cooking all three meals and still unable to satisfy the taste buds of family members? Things are set to ease soon, as the district administration on late Thursday night gave nod to restaurants, ice-cream parlours, bakeries, juice bars and sweetmeat shops to open for home delivery.Quite a few families in the city are learnt to be somewhat heaving a sigh of relief but there are many, who would still prefer to keep outside food at bay amid Covid-19 scare. However, restaurants have boldly started advertising that the food ordered from them would be untouched by bare hands, would involve the use of technology and be completely sanitised and safe for consumption.Most eateries have resumed their tie-ups with Swiggy or Zomato for home delivery. The craving for garlic bread is set to be over, as Pizza Hut has already started publicising the launch of its home delivery by using taglines such as ‘From our oven to your hands, we ensure your food is touched only by you! Experience the contactless takeaway and enjoy your favourites in the safest manner’. The city’s popular RK Dhaba also announced to start home delivery from today itself.Aman Mittal of Lovely Group, says: “We may resume the functioning of our bakery and sweetmeat shops in a day or two. We need to work out on the number of employees who would have to be called in and adding up technologies to ensure that our customers go completely satisfied with regards to sanitisation. We are also waiting for the clarity from the administration on allowing takeaway facilities.”A few bakeries in the town, including Parkash Bakery, Fancy Bakery, Kaypee Bakery and Dashmesh Bakery, had experimented home delivery of cakes last Sunday on the occasion of Mother’s Day. All these bakeries have since then resumed partial operations and are set to keep other snacks ready for delivery from the coming days.Basant Kumar, who runs a juice bar in the city near Namdev Chowk, said: “Since our outlet was shut for the last two months, we need to clean and sanitise the entire premises first. We also need to make arrangements for takeaway or home delivery. So, it will be from Monday that we will get fresh fruits from the mandi and resume operations.”There is good news for non-vegetarians as well. Even as some outlets had started supplying raw poultry and sea food items, cooked chicken, mutton, fish, shrimps and prawns, too, would be available at some places from tomorrow. Ashu Bhalla, who runs Vimpi’s and Shaolin restaurants in the city, said: “For two months, we remained confined to delivery of frozen non-veg. But from tomorrow, we will start delivering cooked food too. There of course will be some troubles in restarting the business as our staff has not cooked food for long, but we hope to live up to the expectations of Jalandharites once again. We also have developed an app for easy placing and tracking of orders by our customers.What the order says…||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/home-delivery-of-cooked-food-sweets-bakery-items-begins-in-jalandhar-85414
16-05-2020||---||79 +ve patients discharged in Jalandhar as per new SOP||Jalandhar, May 15The Health Department, in consonance with the new Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) prescribed by the Government of India, on Friday discharged 79 patients, who were found Covid positive, but were asymptomatic and fit.These patients were discharged from the local Civil Hospital after a team of doctors led by Senior Medical Officer Dr Kashmiri Lal thoroughly examined them. Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Chawla and Medical Superintendent Dr Harinder Singh said as per the new SOP, patients who were mild/ moderate symptomatic at the time of admission to the isolation facility and became symptom-free would be considered for discharge from facility and would be advised home isolation. They said the patient would be eligible for discharge after the 10 days of onset of symptoms and no fever for three days with oxygen saturation (SpO, over 93 per cent) without oxygen support. They said as per the directions, the patient should be clinically assessed for the resolution of symptoms by the treating medical officer.The Civil Surgeon and Medical Superintendent said the patient should be carefully monitored by the treating medical officer and record of temperature, oxygenation level (with pulse oxymeter) or any other relevant signs/symptoms. They said the patient, who was being discharged, should have the requisite facilities at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts, i.e. clean, well-ventilated rooms with attached washrooms for patient/home contacts. They said the treating medical officer would certify that the patient was symptom-free as per guidelines and fit for home isolation. They said the patient would give the undertaking for self-isolation to ensure the availability of adequate facilities for isolation.The Civil Surgeon and Medical Superintendent said a caregiver would be available to provide service on 24x7 basis, adding that a communication link between the caregiver and hospital would be established for the entire duration of home isolation.They said care giver and all close contacts should take hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis as per the protocol and as prescribed by the treating medical officer. They said the patient should be instructed to follow social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/79-ve-patients-discharged-in-jalandhar-as-per-new-sop-85415
16-05-2020||Jalandhar||Shops open, traffic back to almost normal in Jalandhar||Near-normal level of traffic was witnessed on the city roads on Friday as the administration allowed all shops to open from 7 am to 6 pm.The curfew relaxation of three more hours has made people start to inch towards normalcy. Earlier, the shops opening timings were from 7 am to 3 pm. A number of vehicles could be seen moving past Jyoti Chowk, PNB Chowk, Model Town, Ladowali Road, 120-feet road and even markets including Phagwara Gate, Books Market etc.Several auto repairs, grocery and retail shops remained open for 11 hours. Most shopkeepers allowed four to five customers to enter at a time. Banks and government offices too remained open till evening. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shops-open-traffic-back-to-almost-normal-in-jalandhar-85416
16-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||15 return from Dubai, had to borrow money||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 15“Kukkran de khudde ch rehnde si, hun ghar parte ne” (They lived in dingy rooms. Now, they have finally returned home),” says a much-relieved Baldev Singh as his son Arvinder landed in Jalandhar after several arduous months in Dubai.Brothers Gurwinder Singh (33) and Harjinder Singh (30), who served as valets in Dubai, looked confused when asked which hotel they would like to stay for quarantine on reaching Jalandhar. They didn't have money pay for the hotel stay.‘Not paid since March’We haven’t been paid since March. The company sent us without the customary money for flight. The flight back home cost us 700 Dirhams, which we borrowed from fellow Punjabis. — Gurwinder Singh, Shahkot residentMany of the 15 workers, who returned from Dubai yesterday, didn’t have the 700 Dirhams to pay for their flight back, leave alone money to stay at a hotel. Jobless and hungry, they begged and borrowed for the flight back home.Gurwinder Singh, a Shahkot resident, says, “Compared to the musty bunk in the room, it’s like heaven here. Open skies, three-square meals, milk and tea, when we ask for it. We are taken care of and feel lucky to have made it home. There are hundreds stuck in Dubai awaiting their turn for the flight. Many of them aren’t even being given food.”Homecoming has meant freedom for the 15 of the total 27 people who landed in Jalandhar on Thursday. Without salaries, they are the dispensable workforce of the Middle East.Baldev Singh, father of Arvinder Singh, from Uggi village, said, “It’s awful there. My son worked as a valet. It’s been six months since he received his salary. He was putting up in a shabby hall. My two more sons are in Dubai. One has to stay back due to visa obligations.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/15-return-from-dubai-had-to-borrow-money-85314
