17-05-2020||---||Allow opticians to open shops: Assn||Jalandhar, May 16 Members of the local Optical Association have approached the district administration, seeking permission to open clinics and optical shops. Terming vision glasses as an essential commodity, the members said since the lockdown, they have been receiving requests for new spectacles and also repairs of earlier ones from the residents. “Our customers, most of them elderly and children attending online classes have been sending requests for eye glasses. Therefore, like shops selling other essential items stores, we too must be allowed to open our stores. We have submitted a memorandum in this regard to the Deputy Commissioner,” said Jasjit Singh, the general secretary of the association. The vice-president of the association, Gagan Pal Singh, said: “We have been receiving requests for visionary glasses and change in prescription due to increased exposure to digital devices.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/allow-opticians-to-open-shops-assn-85922
17-05-2020||---||14 found +ve in Phagwara subdivision||14 found +vein Phagwara subdivision Our Correspondent  Phagwara, May 16  A total of 449 suspected cases of Phagwara subdivision were examined at the Civil Hospital till May 16 and the samples of all were sent for testing. Senior Medical Officer (SMO) Dr Kamal Kishore said here on Saturday that 427 patients out of these 449 were tested negative, while 14 were tested positive, including one young boy of Phagwara, who was tested positive last night. The SMO said the report of eight suspected patients was still awaited who had been quarantined till now, adding that 159 persons have been home quarantined as precautionary measure.  Meanwhile 12 patients were discharged from Kapurthala, four from Punjab Technical University and five patients were discharged from Phagwara on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/14-found-ve-in-phagwara-subdivision-85923
17-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||Heroin, drug money seized||Nakodar, May 16  The police seized 10 gm of heroin and drug money of Rs 9 lakh from a person on Sunday and arrested him.  The suspect has been identified as Kewal Krishan of Mohalla Kilian. Senior Superintendent of the Police (Rural) Navjot Singh Mahal said the suspect, who was travelling in a two wheeler (PB 08 DT 45432) was intercepted at a checkpoint.  A case under Sections 21,22,61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the suspect. The SSP said four cases under the NDPS Act were already pending against him at the city and sadar police stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/heroin-drug-money-seized-85924
17-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||645 migrants leave for Jharkhand||Hoshiarpur, May 16 In the wake of nationwide lockdown, 645 persons from Hoshiarpur district were sent to Jharkhand via special train in Jalandhar. The district administration provided them free buses which left from ITI Hoshiarpur for the railway station Jalandhar from where they boarded the train. Of these 645 persons, 493 were from Hoshiarpur subdivision, 98 from Dasuya, 43 from Garhshankar and 11 from Mukerian subdivision. SDM Major Amit Mahajan interacted with migrants and wished for their bright future. Residents of Jharkhand who left via buses from Hoshiarpur said that every necessary facility was provided by the district administration during the lockdown. Migrants said they would return to Hoshiarpur after the end of lockdown.  Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said residents of different states who wish to go back were being sent to their states. Free bus and train facility have been provided to the passengers going to Jharkhand. Medical screening of these persons was done, food and drink were also provided. Mukerian Tehsildar Jagtar Singh was present along with the team at the railway station Jalandhar to facilitate them board the train. Earlier, 127 persons were sent to Uttarakhand via buses from the district. 36 leave for Gwalior by bus   Talwara: While the process of sending migrant people to their homes, 36 residents of Madhya Pradesh, who wanted to go home at their own expenses, left for MP by hiring a private company’s bus to Gwalior. During this, Santosh Kumar, Pramod Kumar, Nand Ram, Deepak Kumar, Dharminder, Rakesh Kumar, Suresh Kumar, Priyanka and Arun told that by hiring private company bus for Rs 60,000, the migrants paid Rs 1,700 per person. They thanked Joginder Pal Shinda, member of Nagar Panchayat, Talwara, and the local administration wholeheartedly for supporting and providing them all sort of help during lockdown. Talwara Naib Tehsildar Manohar Lal said the migrants were screened at the BBMB Hospital in Talwara. Before leaving for their native state they were provided food and water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/645-migrants-leave-for-jharkhand-85925
17-05-2020||Avneet Kaur---||RMOs allege discrimination in duty allotment at Civil Hospital||Jalandhar, May 16 Rural Medical Officers (RMOs) rendering their services in treating coronavirus patients at the local Civil Hospital have alleged discrimination in allotment of duties. They alleged that duties were not being allotted to particular doctors on recommendation of politicians or higher authorities in the department while others are being overburdened by doing nine duties in one rotation. Besides, they also alleged that the district Health Department had not deputed a single Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) doctor in Covid-19 wards and they were given lighter duties such as contact tracing and taking care of patients in quarantine centres at Meritorious School and the National Institute of Technology (NIT). Of the total 67 RMOs assigned duties in isolation wards, only 43 have been attending to Covid patients, while 10 of them have been given duties similar to PCMS doctors, three have been exempted on medical grounds and around eight of the RMOs are untraceable and never found doing duty at the hospital, they alleged. The RMOs said among those 43 working RMOs, there was unequal distribution of duties. “At this time of crisis, discrimination among the staff members, using political affiliations or connections to reduce working hours or get limited number of shifts, is something not acceptable,” said one of the RMOs. He further presented pictures of roaster of the Civil Hospital which are in possession of The Tribune, pointing out the disparity in allotment of duty. “While one RMO is doing nine or seven duties in one rotation, others are doing only one or two. There is no proper distribution of duties, some of the doctors are overburdened, while others are having enough time to relax,” he said, adding such laxity by the department was really a matter of concern. They said they had brought the matter to the notice of the authorities concerned and raised questions over irregularities in allotting duties, but they never got a satisfactory reply. Meanwhile, Gurvinder Chawla, Civil Surgeon, Jalandhar, said allotment of duties and working of RMOs comes under the jurisdiction of the medical superintendent, while the medical superintendent said Dr Chanjeev was looking after duty allotment of RMOs. Surprisingly, Dr Chanjeev, in-charge, duty allotment, said the allocation of RMOs was being done by the Civil Surgeon and he was only looking after internal roaster assigning duties as per the workforce he had been allocated. He confirmed that 43 RMOs were working and said among them six were specialists whose duties had been assigned, so basically the number of RMOs working at present stands at 36. When questioned about the untraceable RMOs, he said the Civil Surgeon knows about the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rmos-allege-discrimination-in-duty-allotment-at-civil-hospital-85926
17-05-2020||---||Union flays principals for paying meagre salaries||Jalandhar, May 16 The Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) organised a meeting of its office-bearers via videoconferencing to discuss the important issue of salary crisis of its teaching cadre across the state amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Dr Bhram Ved Sharma, president,  and Dr Sukhdev Singh Randhawa, general secretary, condemned college principals across the state for paying meagre salaries to college teachers for April. Prof Ghanshayam Sharma, vice-president, and Prof Tarsem Singh Bhinder, GNDU area secretary, said  the PCCTU had been regularly fighting and initiating fruitful dialogue with the state government to facilitate expeditious release of salary grants to colleges during the past one year consistently but it was unfortunate that the Principal Association of Colleges had not even bothered to organise a single meeting with the state government regarding the salary grants so far which was condemnable. Dr Vinay Sofat, executive council member, and former general secretary, PCCTU, said with consistent efforts of the PCCTU, the government had recently released the salary grant of Rs 90.7 crore which had been credited to college accounts. Therefore, principals should pay proper salaries to teachers amid the  present crisis. Dr Sofat also apprised that the PCCTU had also taken up the issue of 1,925 recruited teachers across the state working on a nominal salary of Rs 21,600 for the past three years but sadly the state government has not bothered to release its share of 75 per cent till date to colleges and had adopted a dilly dallying attitude. He warned that if this practice continues, the PCCTU would be forced to hold a strong agitation across the state when the lockdown was lifted. The office-bearers thanked state minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa for releasing salary grants to colleges this month to address the woes of the teaching community in this hour of crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/union-flays-principals-for-paying-meagre-salaries-85927
17-05-2020||Phillaur||Woman sets husband on fire after spat||A woman allegedly set her husband on fire at their house in Atwal Colony here on Wednesday night.    Ramandeep Kaur set her husband on fire by sprinkling spirit upon him when he was sleeping after a spat with her. Victim Gurpreet Singh, a railway employee, sustained  sustained 45 per cent burns and was taken to CMC Hospital, Ludhiana, for treatment.   Davinder Singh Attri, DSP, Phillaur, said the couple got married almost seven months ago and  Ramandeep Kaur was annoyed with him for not taking her for shopping and to her parents’ place during lockdown.   The DSP said the police had recorded the statement of Gurpreet and registered a case under Section 307 of the IPC against Ramandeep Kaur, who is  at large. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-sets-husband-on-fire-after-spat-85928
17-05-2020||---||‘Arrange meeting to tackle Covid waste’||Kapurthala, May 16Former Punjab minister and MLA Kapurthala Rana Gurjit Singh on Saturday hosted a lunch for those who survived from coronavirous, at the Covid facility centre. Raising the issue of tackling the Covid waste management, he urged the Chief Minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh to immediately convene a meeting of four departments in this regard.Flagging the issue with the CM during a video conference on the sidelines of lunch, the MLA said it was the most important issue as ways and means needed to be evolved for effective disposal of  waste, which could cause a threat to the human life. He urged the CM to call a meeting of the local government, Department of Rural Development and Panchayat, Health and Family Welfare Department and Pollution Control Board, to tackle the problem. The former minister said all departments should be asked to formulate a joint strategy to combat the covid-19 waste.The MLA appealed the Chief Minister to ensure that the proper disposal of waste, generated by the Covid-19 patients, was ensured at the earliest. He said as the medical waste of the state was disposed of in five insulators installed across the state, in the same manner a holistic strategy must be evolved to tackle with this waste too. Rana Gurjit Singh impressed upon the CM that it was the need of the hour to save the precious lives of people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/arrange-meeting-to-tackle-covid-waste-85932
17-05-2020||  ||‘Need to tweak business methods to tide over coronavirus crisis’||Ramesh Mittal says they are capable of bringing in changes to create opportunity The lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 has impacted almost everyone, including students. Ramesh Mittal, chairman, Lovely Group, discusses the current scenario and shares his views on extraordinary circumstances during an interview with Deepkamal Kaur. Excerpts:       How has your work been affected due to the lockdown? What are your future plans?  We do business in four sectors – retail, food, automobile and education. Since our retail business Lovely Wannabuy comes under essential services, it went on even during the lockdown. After the Thursday orders of the government to resume bakery and sweets with home delivery, we have resumed that too through Swiggy and Zomato. We have initiated technological steps to ensure proper sanitisation and increase shelf life of our products without addition of any preservatives. Automobile centres have opened in green zones and educational institutes will only open after receiving orders from the government.     What efforts have been taken to ensure education of students does not suffer?  With regard to the education sector, every institute is getting affected like ours. Since we were technology-ready and we had systems in place for imparting online education, we started it within three days of the university getting shut. We have completed all our semester work on the LPU Live app, including giving projects and assignments to the students. We are expecting that classes will start by July-end or mid-August. We, somehow, are not very hopeful of good international students taking admission to our institute this year. We have offered 20 per cent scholarship for frontline warriors, their siblings and their children if they want to get enrolled with us. We have also set up a 1 million US dollar fund for promoting any invention or idea related to Covid-19.  Most of the international students who were here have returned, so how do you expect that classes will start soon?  Since travelling will have to open sooner or later, international students will be able to come back only when they feel safe. Till the time, they will be with us. We will conduct online classes for them as we cannot run away from our responsibility. We might have to use the offline and online mode of education simultaneously.The lone Covid-19 case at LPU had caused panic. What is the situation now?  We really got worried at that time, but timely action helped us check any further spread. Since almost all students have gone back home, there is no reason to worry now.  How have you been paying salaries to your employees?  What efforts are you making to keep your labourers with you?  We have paid almost full salaries to our employees. We of course are worried about a likely shortage of labourers as Shramik trains started running when we were about to reopen our sweets and bakery shops. The decision of the government to start trains at this time has come as a double whammy for us. It can have an adverse impact too as we will have to enhance technology for less manpower. It will eventually lead to the rise in unemployment.     Has Covid-19 impacted your expansion plans?  We were expanding the automobile business in Ludhiana when the lockdown was announced. So, some of our plans have slowed down, but not shelved off. For the automobile sector, most people think that there would be a few buyers owing to less income. But, we are looking at the positive side as we expect more people will use cars now. Owing to the Covid threat, people will avoid travel in public transport and hence, our sales can go up again.  What is the message for your staff, students and parents?  Be positive. There is a lot of negative news all around. But, only positive sentiments can help us on this stage. Start respecting doctors, nurses and policemen more as they are the ones who have been helping us come out of this trouble. We have started providing counselling to them as well.  What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown?  Nothing stays forever. There can be a dramatic change and we just need to focus on evolving technology and adapting to diversity in the market so that people keep on investing in your business.Do you see the current scenario as a challenge or an opportunity?  It is a challenge as well as an opportunity. It is a challenge because nobody knew that this kind of situation would arise. Those who will be able to deliver products and services by bringing in changes in the systems will be able to create an opportunity. I think we are capable enough of doing it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/need-to-tweak-business-methods-to-tide-over-coronavirus-crisis-85934
17-05-2020||Making all efforts to help people in crisis||‘Making all efforts to help people’||People in my constituency had helped me in my difficult times and now   its my turn to help them in this crisis and I am trying my  level  best to do so.Since the day the lockdown was announced, I have  not stayed at home for even a day. I keep visiting  villages and localities of my constituency and meeting people to know their needs and problems  so that these can be solved. I have been providing  food and ration  to people of the area. As many as 260 villages of the  constituency and all wards of Mukerian town are covered and I am making efforts to make sure that no one sleeps on an empty stomach in the area. I was helped and supported by  my friends and several  organisations, which are run by them. Several people contacted me for their needs. Many of them needed curfew  passes due to various reasons and I helped them to get the same in a hassle-free manner. Now, the lockdown is  gradually eased and shops are being opened. The life is moving  towards normalcy but there is an economic crisis before us. The state  is facing tough times and  so is the nation. In the present scenario, it becomes essential that we all  contribute towards economic development  of the country and for it, we should buy Indian products. In days to come, I will be launching a drive to  make people aware of buying Indian  products and shun dependency over imported goods. (As told to Sanjiv  Kumar Bakshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/making-all-efforts-to-help-people-85935
17-05-2020||  ||NEET aspirant pursuing her passion of writing to kill boredom||Life during lockdownDeepkamal Kaur  Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, May 16  With extension in dates for various entrance examinations amid the nationwide lockdown, it has become monotonous for students to concentrate any more on studies. In this situation, some students have begun utilising their time in unique ways.   Simran Bawa (18), a student of MGN Public School, who has been preparing for NEET for months, has now been pursuing her passion of writing to kill the boredom.  Simran has begun penning a novel, ‘A Thing of Beauty’, with 25 chapters. She has already published five chapters of her book on Wattpad, an app for passionate book readers and writers. She has written a two-sided story of high school life of a teenage girl, who is currently rectifying the mistakes she had committed in the past. The story runs in two formats – past and present – going almost simultaneously.  “I had started writing for time pass, but now I am interested in it more than anything else. The appreciation, comments and suggestions I got on uploading each chapter are further encouraging me to write more,” she said.   “I have delved in literature so much in the past nearly 45 days that now, I am even thinking of changing my career line. I will surely take NEET for which I have registered. But, I may not pursue MBBS. I have shared it with my parents and they too have agreed to my changed plan to pursue BA (Honours) in English. I have applied for it in Panjab University, Chandigarh.”  The budding author said, “Besides preparing for NEET, my main focus for now is on completion of my novel so that it reaches the maximum number of literature lovers. For now, I have been getting 700+reads on my Wattpad page.”  Simran has also been trying her hand at writing poetry. She has already published one. “I have been writing poems since Class IX. I had also maintained a diary. But, I had never disclosed about it to anyone before,” she said.  She gives all credit for developing writing skills, good vocabulary and nice expression to her teachers and mentors in her previous school.   “It is all because of spending 10 years in St Joseph’s Convent School as a student. My parents, who work in insurance firms, have constantly motivated me for the same. Even at this crucial juncture, they have not pressurised me to follow any particular stream. But, they are suggesting me to give a try for the medical entrance exam as well,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/neet-aspirant-pursuing-her-passion-of-writing-to-kill-boredom-85936
17-05-2020||  ||Leaving fear aside, 471 volunteers assist cops in containing Covid spread||Ajay Joshi  Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, May 16  Keeping all kind of fears aside amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a large number of volunteers have been assisting the police in the enforcement of curfew in all major locations of the city.  They have been tirelessly performing their duties for over eight hours every day and providing their assistance to policemen on the frontline. Like many police personnel, they also continue to perform their duties in the scorching heat.  ACP (headquarters) Bimal Kant said, "As many as 471 volunteers have been roped in with the city police. The initiative was undertaken to support the police in keeping a check on people who venture out on streets without any valid reason and violate the curfew orders. In accordance with the Commissioner of Police, the initiative was implemented last month to seek cooperation from residents and help the police fulfil their objective of maintaining a complete lockdown.”  The volunteers are mostly in the age group of 20-35 years. A few are around 40 years as well. They have been deployed in sensitive locations and checkposts, including containment zones, vegetable markets and areas near the Civil Hospital.  Special T-shirts with the ‘Punjab Police Volunteer’ logos have also been provided to them.  Ravinder Singh (22), a resident of Nagra village, who used to run a mobile repair shop before the lockdown, said, “I have been manning at the Maqsudan checkpoint for the past 28 days. I was approached by a PCR team which informed me that the police were looking for civilians who could volunteer in helping them in strictly imposing the curfew. Subsequently, I agreed to it.”  Similarly, Surinder Pal Singh and Rajinder Singh, who used to hold theekri pehras in their residential colonies in the Kabir Nagar area during the lockdown, said after police personnel approached them, they assembled at the PAP ground where they were given training and apprised them of their duties. Rajesh Kumar, SHO, Division 1 police station, said, “Volunteers take all safety measures while performing their duties. We also provide them healthy meals every day. They perform their duties in three shifts.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/leaving-fear-aside-471-volunteers-assist-cops-in-containing-covid-spread-85937
17-05-2020||SD Sharma||'Music, in all its manifestations, is a dynamic phenomenon', says Jalandhar-based sitar player Manu Kumar Seen||Music, in all its manifestations, is a dynamic phenomenon, which grows with the growth of life, feels Jalandhar-based sitar maestro, Pandit Manu Kumar Seen. A top grade artiste of the All-India Radio, Seen was initiated into classical vocal music and tabla by his illustrious father Lachhman Singh Seen, the torch-bearer of the Punjab gharana of tabla. Seen Jr mastered the nuances and techniques of the sitar under the tutelage of Ustad Shahid Parvez Khan from the Etawah gharana.Seen shares his journey and his observations on the classical music scene in North India with Lifestyle Tribune...Emergence of an artistRecalling his maiden tabla performance at Harivallabh Yuva Sangeet Sammelan in 1982, Seen says he won the competition. He repeated his tradition of excellence by winning the same in 1983, not as tabla player but as a sitar player.“I have participated in all prestigious music festivals in India also in the UK, USA, Canada and Indonesia,” he says.Credited with about 10 music albums, Seen claims to have invented two ragas — Madhuranjani and Brijeshwarikauns.A great sammelanAccording to Seen, artistes and art lovers of India, especially from the North, are indebted to Saint Harivallabh, in whose honour Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan was initiated way back in 1875 at Debi Talab, Jalandhar. The annual event later earned the distinction of a national festival of classical music. The Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, had attended the Sammelan in 1919.Guru-shishya tradition“Unlike other subjects, music can be best learnt through the disciplined, dedicated and blessed tutelage of a guru, who intuitively realises the aesthetic calibre of his disciple, awakens his dormant abilities and grooms him. I was indeed lucky to be born in a reputed musical family and raised amidst soulful strains of sitar and soft rhythmic spells of tabla,” he says.Less opportunities“Despite the mushrooming of music departments in colleges and universities, there are not many takers for music as a subject for the reason that employment opportunities are few. Talented students opt for contemporary Western or Punjabi pop and reality shows, which comparatively ensure better dividends and instant fame, though short-lived.But knowledge of classical music makes the perfect base. My son Rishab Seen, a classically trained musician, has a band called Sitar Metal Band. They perform worldwide. Recently, Rishabh performed with Bollywood singing icon Arijit Singh,” says Seen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/music-in-all-its-manifestations-is-a-dynamic-phenomenon-says-jalandhar-based-sitar-player-manu-kumar-seen-85888
