18-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Covid impact: Band artists lose rhythm of life||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 18Raj has been playing dhol and other instruments in weddings since last 15 years but he has now decided to leave the family profession and is ready to work as a labourer in a factory. Because of the pandemic, Raj has been forced to borrow money from his relatives and friends to support his family.“I have a family to look after. I am devastated. Kuch nahee bacheya. Kadi nai socheya si, apne pushtaini kamm nu chhadna payega, asi loka nu khushiya dittiya, ajj aap khatam ho gaye. (Nothing has been left. Never thought I would have to leave my family profession. We gave joy to people but have been ruined now),” says Raj.Many like Raj say that they would now look to work as labourers in factories, while some others say that all their lives they had only learned to play bands and nothing else.They have a feeling that now marriages won’t happen the way they used to be, so they were finished. “No one would want band artists and dholwalas now,” they sum up.These artists have also taken loans from several people who are now asking for the repayment. Since this was the marriage season, band artists had brought dresses on rent, which are now lying unused. However, they would have to pay the rent on the dresses.Chandar, a band artist by profession, breaks down as he shares his plight. His life had become a challenge. He is now fearful for his family’s future. “Hum doosron ki khushi mein khush hone waley hain, aaj humari zindagi mein andhera hai. (We used to be happy in others happiness, but today our lives are in the dark)”Chandar has a band team and plays trumpet in marriages and other big events. But now, since no big marriages are taking place amid the pandemic, band artists and dhol players, who used to infuse life in marriage functions, are looking for ways to survive.Chandar explains, “We are the ones whom banks don't pay loans, but we get it from private parties on higher rate of interest. When we earn money from marriages, we repay the lenders. What would we do now? This though is not letting me sleep.”  Chandar says he cannot cry in front of his family because he is the only bread earner and he will have to stay strong. But a mention of his children makes his throat choke. “I have two children, one is studying in Class X and the other in Class XII. Earlier, I had thought that if they won’t study, at least they would become band artists, but even that is not possible now because the band is nowhere,” says a teary eyed Chandar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-impact-band-artists-lose-rhythm-of-life-86470
18-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Left with no money, Dubai returnees unable to pay for quarantine facility||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 17Manpreet Singh from Chakoki, a driver who was laid off days after the lockdown by his Dubai company, and Manjit Singh from Rampur Jagir, who was also asked to return to his country, returned home after borrowing money from their family members.OfficialspeakI received intimation late on Saturday night that there was a pregnant woman among the positive cases. Another pregnant woman among returnees had tested negative. The patients have been shifted to the isolation ward. They won't be asked to pay during isolation. The staff is taking good care of them and nutritious food is also being provided. — Dr Jasmeet Kaur, Kapurthala Civil SurgeonHowever, they now have to pay Rs800 per day for mandatory quarantine. Escaping penniless existences at Dubai, the 10 Dubai returnees who have been kept under quarantine at a paid facility in Kapurthala, said they were unable to pay for the quarantine.A 34-year-old pregnant woman of Dhaliwal village and a 29-year-old man who lost his job of four years as an electrician with a Dubai-based company were among the five positive cases who were reported in Kapurthala on Saturday (four of them Dubai returnees).The 29-year-old man who is jobless and received merely 20 days’ allowances in Dubai (from March 11 onwards) was laid off after the lockdown was implemented. While the positive cases were shifted to the isolation ward on Saturday, the 10 people kept at the institutional quarantine at Anand College will have to pay throughout their stay there.For 14 days’ stay, they will have to shell out Rs11,000. Faced with a similar dilemma, the mandatory paid quarantine in Jalandhar had been relaxed to accommodate 15 workers moved to a free dera facility.The 29-year-old positive Dubai returnee said: “I went to Dubai on March 11 with 200 Dirhams in my pocket and survived two months on that money. I wasn’t paid a penny there and worked different shifts such as that of a delivery boy and an electrician to survive in Dubai. I received 20 days’ allowance – 800 dirhams – a few days before my flight. We were shifted to the isolation ward. But we are still being expected to pay for the three-day quarantine.He said it was worse for those who have been left behind. “I’ve kept a UP migrant, who was duped by a travel agent and didn’t fly back for fear of getting arrested, back at the room, where I was living. He hides behind buildings, alleys to pass nights,” the 29-year-old said.Manpreet Singh from Chakoki, who is among the 10 patients at the paid quarantine centre, said: “Clearly we came back because we didn’t have the money to survive. We are among the 80 people of my company, who were laid off. Our visas were cancelled. We got no money all March and April. I can’t pay 800 a day. I have my mother, father and two young siblings at my village and am the sole breadwinner. But the conditions were such that they arranged money for me to come back. I am bothered about work, which I will have to find here. But the government is asking me to pay instead, which I can’t.”Ranjit Singh from Rampur Jagir said though he was lucky that his daughter registered him with the embassy but he, too, can’t afford to pay.Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal said: “As per the NHA guidelines, NRIs have to be kept in paid quarantine facilities only. Currently, that is the arrangement we have made.”Two pregnant women among returnees in Kapurthala A 34-year-old five-month pregnant Dhilwan native said: “Otthe reh ke care nai hundi (Couldn’t have taken care of myself there). I had to make a very hard decision of parting with my husband and travel back during the lockdown. He is a storekeeper there. He hasn’t been laid off but hasn’t been paid either. Keeping me along was risky. I came back with another pregnant woman seated right next to me. She tested negative. I am being given proper care. The Civil Surgeon and staff are extremely cordial and ask me several times about my health.” She said since her husband had no money with him, she can’t pay for the quarantine facility, adding that she had come to her parents’ house in Dhilwan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/left-with-no-money-dubai-returnees-unable-to-pay-for-quarantine-facility-86151
18-05-2020||---||Cops add murder charge in FIR||Jalandhar, May 17A day after the post-mortem report of Nawanshahr-based journalist Sunpreet Singh Mangat (35) confirmed that his death was no accident, the Nawanshahr police added Section 302 (IPC) in the FIR.While outraged family, media and social organisations had raised objections over his death being termed an ‘accident’ in the original FIR of the case, his post-mortem report released on Saturday clearly stated he was stabbed 14 times.Mangat was found dead on the roadside on the Udhowal turn near Rahon on May 10 moments after a conversation with his father. The incident was initially ruled an accident by the police, which had registered a case under Sections 304 A and 279 of the IPC on May 11 at the Rahon police station against unidentified persons for hitting his vehicle.However, the death being ruled an accident enraged various social organisations and the family of Mangat, who demanded the FIR be converted into a murder case. In a letter written to the SSP and the SHO Kapurthala, Balwant Singh, father of Sunpreet, had questioned the FIR stating facts and circumstances show it was not an accident. He also raised points in the letter that no wreckage or signs of collision were seen on Sunpreet’s bike and injuries to the abdominal area, chest, neck seemed to be caused by sharp weapons.Journalist organisations, the Association of Democratic Rights, and the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee in Jalandhar had also condemned the death being termed as an accident. Sunpreet is survived by his father (62), mother (62), wife (34) and two minor kids.Nawanshahr SSP Alka Meena said, “After receipt of the post-mortem report on Sunday, the police have added Section 302 of the IPC in the FIR. The case was termed as an accident in the original investigation conducted by the SSP and the SHO. However, we have shifted the case to the CIA staff and based on the complaint of deceased’s father, an investigation into the case was also being monitored by the SP (D). The police are on the lookout for those involved in the crime.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cops-add-murder-charge-in-fir-86153
18-05-2020||Our Correspondent||‘FinMin’s announcement on education welcomed’||Hoshiarpur, May 17Announcements made for the education sector during the press conference by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman have been widely welcomed. Educationists and teachers say that provision of online teaching and education channels by the Central Government are definitely the revolutionary steps to promote education sector.Monika Sood, Principal of DAV Senior Secondary School, Hoshiarpur, described the declaration of ‘one class, one channel’ as very beneficial novel step for children and said that it would provide excellent learning to the students. “The addition of 200 new textbooks in the e-pathshala by the government will prove very beneficial. It will be of great help in raising the standard of education”, she said.Teacher Raghuraj Verma said provisions announced by the Finance Minister would definitely benefit the spread of education among students. With the introduction of DTH channels, the students will benefit greatly during the lockdown and even after Covid-19 crisis. This is a commendable move of the government and the students will get the benefit of diversified learning.Deepak Vishisht, Headmaster, Government School Kila Barun, said: “These steps will definitely take the education sector to new heights. The teaching activities of different teachers on different channels will diversify the teaching. It will record the efforts of the teachers and their educational support activities in audio-visual form which will later become a means of recording the history of the education sector”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/finmins-announcement-on-education-welcomed-86154
18-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Fire breaks out in shanties, 60-yr-old dies||Mahilpur, May 17As many as 17 shanties of migrant laboruers at Chakk Narial village were burnt to ashes after a fire breaks out on Sunday evening. A 60-year-old man putting up in a shanty was charred to death.According to information, some farm labourers from Budaun in Uttar Pradesh have been living in the slum for the past 20 years. Around 4 pm, they went to the fields for work after having lunch.Victim Khemkaran, father of a labourer, was in a shanty when the fire broke out. Being physically challenged, Khemkaran could not come out and was burnt alive in the shanty.With the help of nearby people, the workers managed to douse the flames. But, 17 out of 20 shanties were burnt to ashes.Migrant labourers said all items, including their hard-earned money, lying in the shanties were burnt. After getting information, administration officials and Chabbewal MLA Dr. Ram Kumar reached the spot and provided help to the victims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fire-breaks-out-in-shanties-60-yr-old-dies-86155
18-05-2020||---||44 samples taken at camp for Covid test||Jalandhar, May 17The samples of sanitary workers and sewermen were collected for Covid testing during a camp held at Lal Rattan here today.Nodal Officer Dr Harish Bhardwaj, Dr Inder Pal, Dr Amit, Dr Partap Singh and Dr Deepak collected the samples of 44 persons, including SDO Ravinder Singh.At similar camps held earlier, the samples of 385 persons were taken, of which seven were found positive.Balraj Thakur, chairman of the Sanitation and Health Ad hoc Committee, was also present.He said safai karamcharis were in the high risk category of Covid infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/44-samples-taken-at-camp-for-covid-test-86156
18-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||He takes it as one in a lifetime chance to enjoy small things||Jalandhar, May 17Dr Krishan Kumar Rattu, a renowned author and media expert, has been utilising his free time effectively. He says that though catastrophic in nature, the lockdown has also given ample time to contemplate, to be with the nature and to listen to the silence around.I have been following a very simple yet productive routine. From reading, writing and watching television, I sit along with my family and we discuss our personal lives and public affairs. I also make sure to give some time to meditation", he said, adding that they were witnessing this once in a lifetime event. "We should take inspiration from this and imbibe in our lives — Dr Krishan Kumar Rattu, A renowned author and media expertHe said he had been using this period in completing his anthology focussed on human nature and sufferings. Quoting the lines, ‘Ham bhi dariya hain, hame apna hunar malum hain, Jis taraf bhi chal padhenge, rasta ho jayega’, Dr Rattu says he feels inspired. “No matter what the situation is or how hard it gets, my focus remains on keeping myself positive, utilising every second and giving my best,” he added.He said he had also been spending time watching news and reading newspapers, especially the events about China. He has also started writing a book titled ‘Black Season’- a story of journey unto death, which is about the agony and pain of people, particularly the migrants across the world, and how has the Covid-19 pandemic affected and changed their lives.Talking more about what he has been doing these days, Dr Rattu, a former Deputy Director General, Doordarshan and Prasar Bharti, and who has more than 70 books to his credit, said he had recently read, ‘Wuhan Diary’ written by controversial author Fang Fang and wrote its review and translated the same in Punjabi.“I have been following a very simple yet productive routine. From reading, writing and watching television, I sit along with my family and we discuss our personal lives and public affairs. I also make sure to give some time to meditation”, he said, adding that they were witnessing this once in a lifetime event. “We should take inspiration from this and imbibe in our lives,” he said.His achievementsDr Rattu has received the Shiromani Sahityakar by Government of Punjab, Bhartendu Harish Chandra award for ‘Media Revolution and Changing Social Aesthetics’, Indira Gandhi Rajbhasha award by the Ministry of Home Affairs for ‘Functional Hindi’- Best Book of 2013. Also, he has been awarded by the Language Department, Government of Punjab, for ‘Sadak Sansad Te Aadmi’, Best Contribution to Urdu Literature Award by the Haryana Urdu Academy, Government of Haryana, for ‘Lahoo Ki Baarish’ and Gandhi Darshan Smriti Award by the Madhya Pradesh Vidhan Sabha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-takes-it-as-one-in-a-lifetime-chance-to-enjoy-small-things-86158
18-05-2020||Nakodar||Travel fraud: 3 agents booked||Corona warrior felicitated by pmNawanshahr: Former MP and in charge BJP, Rajasthan, Avinash Khanna, on Sunday honoured former chairman Block Samiti, Saroya, Haramrinder Singh by presenting him an appreciation letter from PM Narendra Modi for his unique community service activities for combating Covid-19 at Chandpur Rurki village in Nawanshahr. Khanna said he had been helping patients of the backward area by fetching their medicines from PGIMER, Chandigarh, since March 20. The PM, in the letter, said India had been fighting the dreaded pandemic with the zest of such corona warriors at ground zero. OC70,000 litre lahan seizedPhagwara: The Phillaur police on Sunday seized 70,000 litre lahan stored in Mand area along the banks of the Sutlej near Bholewal village to prepare illicit liquor. Phillaur DSP Davinder Attri said the police got a tip-off after which a raid was conducted. The police, accompanied by Excise and Taxation Inspector Baldev Krishan, recovered 70,000 litre lahan stored in 95 tarpaulins; eight drums; 700 litre illicit liquor; three gas stoves; two cooking gas cylinders and two tubes. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/travel-fraud-3-agents-booked-86160
18-05-2020||Open House||We have to be vigilant, should not lower our guard||Health staff, cops’ role commendableCovid-19 has engulfed the world and Punjab is no exception. There is anxiety all around. Still, Punjab and its CM have done better than many states, except perhaps Kerala. The lockdown and curfew were imposed quite early resulting in lesser number of cases and deaths. Many deficiencies occurred, particularly when pilgrims and others were brought back from Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra, which was already a hotspot of Covid-19. They might have been infected there or in Indore, which was another hotspot. They should have been put in a tent city or any other secluded place on the Punjab-Haryana border, instead of bringing them straight to Punjab and then sending them home. Much later, they were called back and tested. Unfortunately, the parties indulged in political slugfest and blame game. The health staff and police have done a commendable job in saving many lives. We have to be vigilant and can’t lower our guard. Lockdown should be extended and opened in a gradual manner. Social distancing and wearing of face masks should be strictly implemented.Dr JS WadhwaNeed to conduct more tests in red zonesThe initiative of the government in clamping curfew in the state, before the national lockdown was announced, is highly laudable. The role of the local administration in implementing the guidelines of Covid-19 pandemic while ensuring the supply of essential items to the public is praiseworthy. But the government could not timely explore the augmentation of more testing facilities in the state and also the testing process of suspected patients was delayed, as in the case of Hazur Sahib returnees, thereby resulting in loss of precious time. Moreover, the volume and speed of testing in red zones need to be increased along with random testing in other areas.Jagdish ChanderTake strict action against violatorsThe state government should take stringent action against those who are violating the lockdown norms. The coronavirus will stay with us for 8-10 months or more. In such a situation, we need to understand that we have to live with the virus. The government should lift the lockdown cautiously for the betterment of the country as well as society as the nation’s economy is already in the doldrums. Gatherings of up to 10 persons should be allowed with masks and if anybody violates the norm, a heavy fine should be imposed. Events such as religious gatherings and cricket matches should be put on hold and multiplexes should remain closed.Saahil HansBring changes to fight coronavirusAt the outset, we need to understand that Covid-19 is here to stay. We have to learn to live with it by bringing about the required changes such as avoiding gatherings, maintaining social distancing and inculcating the habit of washing our hands at regular intervals. By now, almost every individual has learnt about the disease either from social media or news channels. The bottom line is not to panic. Getting infected is not the end of the road. If our immunity is strong, it will pass off like a normal flu. Those who need to be looked after with care are elderly, small children and those suffering from ailments such as cancer, diabetes, heart and kidney-related diseases and other chronic illnesses. They need to be hospitalised in case they get the infection. The government is doing its bit. In a country like ours where we have a huge population, it’s practically not possible for the government to ensure all facilities to every citizen. We can do our bit by paying our domestic helps and making them aware of staying at home and other precautions to fight Covid. The citizens should realise that they have to do their bit as the virus will stay here for long.Dr Manveen MannReduce working hours of industriesThe lockdown is beneficial for the nation as well as for community. Has it caused any harm? Nowadays, several people are stuck at their homes amid the pandemic. Some people think this time is beneficial. However, some opine that it is a bad phase for the country. In my opinion, it is a good time, which people should utilise. However, it also has disadvantages such as economy slowdown. As soon as the lockdown was implemented due to Covid, the government ensured closure of markets to contain the virus. Closure of shops and other establishments has hit the economy of the country hard, which has further resulted in increase in petty crimes. There are also advantages. Fitness level of people has increased as instead of using their vehicles, they have started walking to nearby markets and other places. People should continue this lifestyle in future too. Another benefit is the cleaner environment due to less vehicles and closure of industries. Rise in the population of birds has also witnessed due to these reasons. I believe that if people use their vehicles in a limited manner and the industries decrease their working hours, our planet will become a better place to live in.Gourav HuriaQUESTIONThe schools are closed for indefinite period due to Covid-19 pandemic. Do you think that online teaching can compensate for the classroom teaching, which is completely amiss for the past nearly two months?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (May 21).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/we-have-to-be-vigilant-should-not-lower-our-guard-86161
18-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||Virtual group brings NGOs on a single platform to help needy||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 17The ongoing lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 has affected a number of people, especially the poor. However, several NGOs in the city have been making all-out efforts to ensure that they get essential items at the earliest in this time of crisis.Taking a step towards it, NGOs have formed a virtual group, ‘Jalandhar Crisis Fighters’, on WhatsApp and Facebook for better coordination among them to provide assistance to those affected by the lockdown.Besides providing help to needy people, the group has launched a crowdfunding initiative to mitigate the economic crisis of the poor.The group was formed by Puneet Khanna (34), who runs an NGO, ‘Haryawal Punjab’. He said the purpose of forming the group was to bring people working for the common cause on the single platform.“With the help of good Samaritans, essential items, including dry ration, medical kits, sanitisers, masks and food, are easily made available to needy people. The NGOs working under the one roof coordinate among each other and cater to the needs of people in their areas. Instead of working individually, the NGOs now work collectively. As many as 160 people from various social service groups and religious committees are part of the virtual group,” said Khanna.The NGOs associated with the group include ‘Helping Hands’, ‘Shani Seva Sewarth Trust’, ‘Ek Kadam Ek Koshish NGO’, ‘Sarbat Di Sewa Welfare Society’, and ‘Youth Blood Donor Organisation and Welfare Society’. Besides, people people working for treatment of stray animals are also associated with the group.Talwinder Singh Rinku, president, ‘Tera-Tera Hati’, an NGO, said, “With the help of the group, we provide food and ration to people in many areas. Information is shared on the group and the NGO working in the area concerned comes forward for the aid. The group helps us reach the needy.”Similarly, Advocate Davinder Pal Singh, who provides free legal aid, said, “The objective of forming the group is to extend a helping hand to needy people.”‘Jalandhar Crisis Fighters’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virtual-group-brings-ngos-on-a-single-platform-to-help-needy-86162
18-05-2020||FIRST of all||‘Thankful to those who helped’||Meeting people and visiting almost every village is a prime part of my routine. I make sure that people don’t gather around when I meet them, but I ensure that I listen to everybody carefully, as they tell me about their problems. The administration, police officials and health workers really played a very good job in helping people and controlling the situation in my constituency. Also, most of the area is backward, there are people who are lower middle class and belong to economically weaker sections, so, provision of ration and food for them remained the biggest challenge for us, but several good Samaritans, NGOs really helped us and I also provided the same on my own to needy people.Even middle class people had to face a lot of problems. They cannot even ask from others and there are several people who are now out of jobs, which is the main concern and these are the problems that are still prevalent. But still, I would thank those who have provided help to the needy at this stage.(As told to Aakanksha)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/thankful-to-those-who-helped-86163
18-05-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Survival a challenge this year for automotive sector’||Kanav Aggarwal, chief executive officer of Jaycee Motors, dealer of Maruti Suzuki, Maruti Suzuki Nexa and Royal Enfield, talks about the automobile sector and the impact of the lockdown on it in an interview with Neeraj Bagga. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted the sale of cars?The coronavirus has spelled trouble for all sectors. So, the situation is similar for the automobile sector. The sale of cars has dipped since September and the number of enquiries has reduced sharply. The first quarter of the year saw a 25 to 30 per cent fall in the sale of four-wheelers in comparison to the corresponding period last year. There was a 12 to 15 per cent dip in the sale of two-wheelers in the first quarter this year as compared to same period last year. The district administration has prohibited the opening of showrooms. But, service centres were allowed to open with limited staff. Two months after the lockdown, most of the vehicles will require maintenance service.In the coming days, the sale of cars will be demand-driven rather than desire. Apparently, it will depend on the need of an individual. Impulsive buying will not take place. The entire business will depend on the behaviour of the market. — Kanav Aggarwal, CEO, Jaycee MotorsDo you expect resumption of your business in near future?In the coming days, the sale of cars will be demand-driven rather than desire. Apparently, it will depend on the need of an individual. Impulsive buying will not take place. The entire business will depend on the behaviour of the market.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to employees?We paid salaries of March and disbursed partial salary of April. Since the service centre has been permitted to open, I have been figuring out how to call employees so that they must be paid well and on the social distancing norm must be followed. We have installed the sanitising apparatus to ensure complete sanitisation of vehicles.What is the share of online trading in your profession?The share of online trading is very limited till date. However, enquiries have increased from five to 15 per cent during the lockdown.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?Survival has become a challenge in the current year. Health is paramount. We introduced Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to disinfect all vehicles to keep the entire staff healthy.What are your expectations from the government?The government must stand by entrepreneurs. It is expected from the government that it looks after employees in the toughest period when the sales have vanished.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/survival-a-challenge-this-year-for-automotive-sector-86164
