20-05-2020||---||8,701 screened in Shahkot for Covid||Jalandhar, May 19In the Shahkot block, as many as 1,713 houses were visited by health teams and 8,701 persons were screened today. According to information received from health officials, 13 persons, who came to the block from outside, were quarantined in Shahkot.As the work of conducting health screening of people from other states is being held in a regular manner, Block Extension Educator Chandan Mishra said it was a matter of concern for the Health Department officials that a huge crowd was being witnessed at sugarcane juice vends along with other food joints.“We are advising vend owners to at least use disposable glasses and we are also asking people to maintain social distancing. Such scenes are being witnessed since yesterday,” they said.Senior Medical Officer (SMO) Amardeep Singh Duggal also advised people to wear masks when they come out of homes and not to gather in big numbers at shops.“Everyone should follow the norms properly as the relaxations in the lockdown are for the convenience of people and it doesn’t mean that there is no risk of contracting the virus. People must take proper precautions,” the SMO said.Duggal said everyone must wear masks in a proper manner as it was a common sight that people wear masks, covering their mouths but not nose. It was not the right way to wear it. The health officials have also been advising people to not to touch their masks regularly as it would increase the risk of getting infected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-701-screened-in-shahkot-for-covid-87274
20-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Students get ready for exams amid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 19CBSE Class XII students, who had been anxiously waiting for the new date sheet for their postponed exams due to the pandemic, are now finally heaving a sigh of relief and can start their preparations without much uncertainty. Admission of students to colleges for higher education will depend on their performance in the exams.Students anxious, need to be back in formThe date sheet for pending 29 subjects, starting from July 1 to 15, had been released yesterday by the CBSE. The students had been anxious due to the present situation as the spread of the virus had been increasing each day, dimming the chance of any possibility of quick conduct of the examinations. To add to this, the repeated extending of dates of entrance tests, including NEET, AIEEE and CLAT, had made the exam preparations for the students never ending and it had begun taking toll on their mental health.Though the CBSE had earlier said students would be given at least 10 days’ time to prepare for the remaining board exams, it has in fact given around 45 days for them to start preparing all over again.Shruti, a Class XII (commerce) student of a local school, said: “My business studies examination is stuck up. I prepared from one of the two syllabus books when the examination got postponed on March 19. Since it is a relatively easy subject and we can score well in it, it can help improve my overall results.”While some students remain optimistic about the present scenario others have dim views for the same, saying that now it had been too long for their minds to be back in form to study for the board exams and they need to plan up well now as their entrance tests too would be fall in between.Ayush, a law aspirant, said: “I really need to come back in form and bring my study schedule on track. This morning, my CLAT examination, which was earlier scheduled for June 21, too has got postponed for the fourth time and the new date is to be announced on July 1. Hence, I really need to plan everything again.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-get-ready-for-exams-amid-pandemic-87276
20-05-2020||AS curfew has been lifted from the state||‘Govt should reduce relaxation hours’||With the death of a Covid patient in my area on Monday, it’s now become more significant to prohibit residents from misusing the relaxations. Poor residents have been taken care of by our team on a regular basis. Since the outbreak of the disease followed by lockdown, around 10,000 food packets, including pulses, rice and wheat flour, have so far been distributed in my area. Also, we are in constant touch with those who got deprived of basic needs during curfew.Considering the shortage of safety kits at the Bholath Civil Hospital, 50 Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits were provided to doctors and nursing staff. Besides during Lockdown 4.0, my main approach would be to suggest people to not to come on roads and only one person of a family should come out to purchase goods from shops.The government has lifted the curfew at a wrong time as Covid cases are on the rise. Therefore, I appeal from the government to reduce the relaxation time from 7 am-7 pm to 7 am-11 am. Moreover, with the help of local residents, we are also keeping a tab on the production and sale of illicit liquor, which is eating up the government revenue.(As told to Ajay joshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-should-reduce-relaxation-hours-87278
20-05-2020||Kapurthala||25-yr-old youth shot at home, critical||Two Chandigarh-based assailants entered the house of a youth at Mohalla Bakkarkhana and opened fire at him here on Tuesday.Four bullets hit the victim, Sunny (25), in his lower body. His family members immediately took him to the Civil Hospital. Doctors at the hospital said the victim’s condition is critical.In his statement to the police, Sunny said he was sleeping in his house at 5.30 pm when four of his distant relatives came. While two of them, including his maternal aunt, stood outside, the two others who entered opened firing on him with a revolver without even telling the cause. He said when he tried to save himself, they even took out a sharp-edged weapon and hit out at his hand leaving him badly injured.He said he had no enmity with the assailants and was rather shocked at the incident, though cops claimed that they had caste conflicts with his aunt’s son-in-law, who was one of the attackers.While Sunny’s mother was sitting in the verandah, his brother and other family members were on the first floor at the time of the incident. They escaped unhurt in the incident.SP Mandeep Singh said two assailants had been identified as Sanjay and Raju. DSP Harinder Singh Gill and SHO (City) Harjinder Singh reached the spot and started investigation. A case has been registered under Section 307 of the IPC.One is baffled how the assailants managed to come with weapons all the way from Chandigarh to Kapurthala in the lockdown when there is a tight security everywhere.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/25-yr-old-youth-shot-at-home-critical-87279
20-05-2020||Hoshiarpur||Back on roads: Bus service to begin from Hoshiarpur today||The state government has allowed to start the government bus service from May 20 under certain conditions. The service will be started on various routes from the Hoshiarpur bus stand on Wednesday from 7 am to 7 pm.According to information, the buses will run on Chandigarh, Jalandhar, Dasuya, Mukerian, Ludhiana and Tanda routes from Hoshiarpur.Only 50 per cent of the passengers will be allowed to travel on these buses. Every bus going on these routes will start from Hoshiarpur and halt only at its last destination. A separate ‘cabin’ has been built on each bus to protect the driver and conductor.Plastic curtain hanged in the name of cabinWhen cabins built for the driver and conductor were seen, the case turned out to be something quite different. The cabin built on buses of the Hoshiarpur depot were nothing more than a transparent platic curtain hanged between the driver and passengers. The cabin is not made with a solid or strong material but by hanging the transparent plastic curtain, tied with plastic cane. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/back-on-roads-bus-service-to-begin-from-hoshiarpur-today-87280
20-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||Nawanshahr councillor delivers ration kits, cooked food to needy||Nawanshahr, May 19Param Singh Khalsa, councillor from ward no.2, Nawanshahr, has been working tirelessly since the day the lockdown was announced. He said with the assistance of 15 volunteers, he has been delivering ration kits and cooked food to needy persons.“Ration distribution has been rationalised and special efforts have been made to ensure that needy persons are fed while maintaining social distancing and all other guidelines of the administration,” he said.The councillor said the first rule he devised before starting distributing ration and organising langar that none of his volunteers or he himself would take selfies or click pictures while providing food to needy persons.He said so far, he has distributed around 4,000 ration kits among needy persons and migrant workers in the district. “My focus is not only on my ward, but whole Nawanshahr. We have made our contact numbers public. We ask every person we meet to further share the number and convey the message that whosoever need any help, may contact us. Our priority at this time is to ensure that no one sleeps without food,” he added.Divulging more details, the councillor said since March 23, he has not stayed at home for even a single day.“I keep visiting villages and meeting people to know their needs and problems so that these can be solved. Many times, we have also arranged medicines, vegetables and fruits for people on their request. Now, the lockdown is gradually eased and shops are being opened, the demand for the raw and cooked food has decreased,” he said.He said his team is now working to help migrant workers by giving them packed meals. “As migrant workers are boarding buses, we reach the bus stand around 3 am to offer them tea, milk and biscuit packets. We also provide them packed meals on their way to home,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-councillor-delivers-ration-kits-cooked-food-to-needy-87282
20-05-2020||Jalandhar||This chess marvel is trying her hand at cooking, gardening||Disability is no deterrent for chess player Mallika Handa (25), who has won accolades both at the national and international levels. The chess marvel, who is hearing and speech impaired, had also competed with able-bodied players in the 43rd World Chess FIDE Olympiad that was held in Georgia.Disability no deterrentHearing and speech impaired, Mallika Handa (25) has won accolades both at the national and international levels.The chess marvel had also competed with able-bodied players in the 43rd World Chess FIDE Olympiad that was held in Georgia.Mallika had won silver in the fifth World Deaf Blitz Chess Championship in Manchester and she was given a rousing welcome by the district administration at the local railway station on her return.Now, with the country under the lockdown due to the Covid outbreak, she is spending most time in cooking and gardening.Her mother Renu Handa shared that earlier, Mallika would not get enough time to pursue her hobbies of gardening and cooking. “Now she spends most of her time near plants and also has been preparing several new dishes,” she said.Renu says Mallika also devotes at least one hour in practising chess. “She cannot live without playing chess, as she feels so incomplete without it,” she added.“Mallika is also aware of the pandemic that has hit the world. In the starting, she would not let anyone go outside and would keep the house keys with her so that everyone stays inside. She always advises her father and brother to wear mask before venturing out,” says Renu.This chess champion had also won the National Championship for the Deaf that was held at Mysuru in Karnataka from January 8 to 12. Mallika had won silver in the fifth World Deaf Blitz Chess Championship in Manchester and she was also given a rousing welcome by the district administration at the local railway station on her return.Her mother resented that Mallika has played several state and national-level competitions and won medals, but the government never extended any help to her. “My daughter should be given job,” she demanded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-chess-marvel-is-trying-her-hand-at-cooking-gardening-87283
20-05-2020||Phagwara||Immunity tablets distributed||Four Sanitising machines givenPhagwara: Members of Guru Nanak Mission Welfare Society, Phagwara, headed by former councillor Iqbal Singh Kundi, donated four sanitising machines to Health Department. Members presented the machines to Civil Surgeon Kapurthala Dr Jasmeet Bawa. Society president Kundi said the society had already provided 20 such machines to various organisations in the city. OCpolice personnel examined on dutyPhagwara: Medical teams examined police personnel performing duties in Goraya, Phillaur, Bilga, Nurmahal and high-tech naka at the Sutlej bridge, Phillaur. SSP (Rural) Navjot Mahal appreciated police personnel for performing duties as frontline warriors during Covid-19. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/immunity-tablets-distributed-87285
20-05-2020||Rajan Bedi||‘Govt should defer dues of bizmen’s power bills, taxes’||Has the lockdown impacted your warehousing business?Warehousing is a priority sector so there was no prohibition on its functioning. Wheat and approximately 15,000 tonnes of rice were delivered from the warehouse in Kapurthala to various states during the lockdown period. You can well imagine that Punjab fed entire the country by supplying rice and wheat.What are your future plans?We will start constructing a new warehouse with capacity of 20,000 metric tonnes at Kartarpur from Wednesday. We expect to open another hotel in Amritsar after the revival of the economy.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?Apart from salaries, we have been providing round-the-clock food and logistic facilities to 60 staff members at the hotel. Around 1,000 people, including labourers, masons, drivers and technical staff, are directly or indirectly involved in the warehousing sector and all of them were paid in time. They finished construction of warehouse with a capacity of 50,000-metric tonne for the FCI at Khasa. Around 12 lakh wheat bags are being stored in the warehouse.What is the share of online trading in your profession?There is no scope of online trading in the warehouse sector except for exchange of communication.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?This is something which could derail the entire spectrum of business and normal life. We had to close our hotel and meet all expenses when the income had vanished.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It is an opportunity for the medical sector and fast-moving consumer goods. However, for other sectors, it remains a challenge. We have to put in all our energy and resources to get momentum. Now, we will have to start from zero and shore up resources to re-infuse capital in the chain supply of business.What are your expectations from the government?The government should defer the dues of electricity bills and all kinds of taxes. Even after opening the economy, it will take eight to 10 months for industries and businesses to achieve the previous level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-should-defer-dues-of-bizmens-power-bills-taxes-87286
20-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||Power engineers protest bias in assigning duties||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 19Intensifying their agitation on the call of the Punjab State Electricity Board Engineers (PSEB) Association, power engineers of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and Punjab State Transmission Coorporation Limited (PSTCL) across the state today wore black badges against the biased attitude of the Ludhiana administration.Around 2,000 assistant engineers and engineer-in-chiefs across the state working in the PSPCL/PSTCL participated in the protest. They claimed that administration officials of several districts, especially Ludhiana, were partially assigning administrative duties to PSPCL/ PSTCL engineers and technical staff, ignoring the “essential nature” of their duty to supply electricity to consumers in the state, thus endangering the power supply system.Er Jasvir Singh Dhiman, president of the association, said there was a resentment among engineers against such attitude of the district administrations, that was creating hurdles in the working of engineers who are answerable to the state and consumers for maintaining the essential service of power supply. In some cases, senior engineers of the rank of Additional Superintending Engineer and Senior Executive Engineer have been asked to come in shifts and keep the record of patients at Covid centres, ignoring the nature of their duties. While the PSPCL was already suffering due to the staff crunch, the distribution of administrative duties had put extra burden on them, rued Dhiman.Power engineers have limited days to prepare for the paddy season with limited staff and it appears that the district administrations are oblivious to the chaos that can result from non-maintenance of the system in the summer season. The Ludhiana administration, due to the bias distribution of duties, seems to have ignored the necessity of ensuring reliable electricity supply in cities.The association demanded cancellation of all non-departmental duties assigned to power engineers and district administrations be instructed to not to assign general non-departmental duties to engineers and technical staff. Deputy Chief Engineer, Jalandhar circle, Harjinder Singh, who is also an executive member of the association, said the engineers assigned administrative duties should shortly be relieved from additional duties, otherwise they would further intensify their protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/power-engineers-protest-bias-in-assigning-duties-87287
20-05-2020||Jalandhar||MP, MLA review flood control measures||Lok Sabha MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh and MLA Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia on Tuesday reviewed flood control arrangements in the light of the contingent plan prepared by all departments, in the possibility of any flood-like situation in the district.Accompanied by DC Varinder Kumar Sharma and Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal, the Lok Sabha MP and the MLA chaired a high-level meeting of all the departments at the District Administrative Complex here.During the meeting, they stressed the need for putting in place a viable mechanism for completing all flood control arrangements. They said elaborate arrangements must be put in place to tackle any flood situation in the district. They also asked officials to jointly visit flood-prone areas and start the strengthening work wherever required, especially along the Sutlej.Meanwhile, the DC and the SSP said the administration was already alert to avoid any untoward incident due to floods in the rainy season. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-mla-review-flood-control-measures-87288
20-05-2020||Phagwara||Migrants told to stay back||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migrants-told-to-stay-back-87289
20-05-2020||Hoshiarpur||Online writing, quiz contests mark Pi Day||The Aryabhatta Mathematics Club of the DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, celebrated Pi Day by conducting online writing and quiz competitions. Students were asked to write various facts, history and interesting information about mathematics and in this competition Kajal and Sandeep Kaur got the first prize, Pratibha and Diksha second, while Bhavna stood third and Alka was awarded with an appreciation prize.The club also conducted online Ramanujan Mathematics Quiz-2020. There were 43 participants in the preliminary test and 12 were selected for the four teams’ viz. Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta. The quiz had five rounds and quiz master was Nidhika, a student of BEd semester-IV. Team Delta comprising of Priya, Harsimran and Jasmeen got the first prize while team Alpha comprising of Akshi Gupta, Megha Gupta and Kamaljeet Kaur got the second prize. Principal Shyam Sunder Sharma congratulated the winners of both events and appreciated teacher-in-charge Roma Ralhan for the success of the events. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-writing-quiz-contests-mark-pi-day-87290
