21-05-2020||Pankaj Mehra||‘Covid made us realise the need for tech upgrade’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?The demand has temporarily vanished in the market. The flow of liquidity has been affected and people are holding back payments. Exports have completely stopped. I have to cut down the production by 40 per cent due to the less demand in the domestic and international markets.How do you see the upcoming days for your business?After taking due permission from the District Industrial Corporation, we had started operations at the unit on April 7 as we had provided boarding and lodging facilities to labourers on the factory premises. Hence, I had to shell out Rs3,000 more on each labourer to hold them back. Though I have 60 per cent migrant workers, I had to offer accommodation facilities to even local workers on the premises. We had been planning full automatisation of the factory, which is currently being managed on semi-automatic and manual modes. However, the Covid-19 pandemic has made us realise the need for technology upgrade.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?I did not stop paying salary and wages to my workers at all. I even paid overtime to some labourers when the factory had opened after a fortnight.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?The biggest lesson is to meet expenses even when the income has stopped. Besides, running the factory with minimum labour. Labour shortage hits the output.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?We believed opening the mill was a challenge. Turning it into a success will be an opportunity.What are your expectations from govt?The government should provide advance on the minimum rate of interest to my industry to overcome the severe economic situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-made-us-realise-the-need-for-tech-upgrade-87800
21-05-2020||Phagwara||Torture: Mother, son booked||Police officials honouredPhagwara: Members of the Punjab Young Peace Council, headed by Ashwini Kohli and Ashwini Dasour, on Wednesday honoured SP Manwinder Singh, DSP Surinder Singh Chand, SHO Onkar Singh Brar, for discharging their duties as frontline warriors during the Covid-19 crisis at a function. The members of the council also honoured Traffic in-charge Ranjit Singh Virdi, ASI Amarjit Singh and Surinder Singh, who set an example of honesty by returning a purse containing Rs 1 lakh to a woman a few days ago in the town. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/torture-mother-son-booked-87801
21-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Writing songs to make best of time||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 20Akhilesh Nagar (24) is a young star in the making. He is a writer, composer as well as singer. In the lockdown, he has released a new song titled ‘Lifeline’, written and sung by him only. He is pursuing his master degree, besides devoting equal time to music.This talented music lover has also been writing and composing songs during the lockdown and is spending almost the entire day in creating new ideas and penning down songs on new and different subjects. “The moment some normalcy returns, I will start work in full swing,” the singer said.His musical journey started with his first video song ‘Chann’ that was released in 2017. “After this song, companies started approaching me and then there was no looking back,” he shared, adding that one of the most famous and appreciated songs was ‘Gussa’, for which Nagar had given the music.“I am not someone who wants to release back to back songs, but my focus remains on producing good ones and provide real content to my audience,” Nagar expressed.When asked what does he likes the most, singing, writing or composing, the answer came swiftly, “Mujhe art se pyar hai (I love art). Even if I don’t know how to paint, I can look at a painting for long if it amazes me, this is how I respect the art and artists. So, in the same way, I always enjoy every process of making the song, be it writing, or composing.”Nagar said he was his own critic too. “I can repeat the whole process of composition of a song many times, until I get satisfied. My effort is to take best out of me,” he explained, adding that now his focus is on completing his studies first and then make his name in the music industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/writing-songs-to-make-best-of-time-87803
21-05-2020||IT perhaps has been the longest lockdown and I feel that it was with the support of the administration and people that we have been able to sustain as of now.||‘Convinced labour not to leave state’||The two months of lockdown involved my role at different stages. Initially, I along with my team leaders, had to convince people through meetings, calls and online channels to stay indoors and not venture out risking their lives. Residents in rural areas were easily convinced but urban people, especially those living in congested areas, continued to come out more often and hence, they remained vulnerable.The next major task was to feed all those people, especially daily wagers, who lost their livelihood. I ensured that relief material coming for Jalandhar via trucks was equally distributed in all nine Assembly segments. The Radha Soami Dera, which cooked meals for 1.5 lakh persons in Jalandhar, came as a big support.I made sure that all city areas and all villages were sanitised, many of them repeatedly.I think the biggest role that I have played so far is for the industry. As some industrialists approached me to contain labourers, I got in touch with their leaders. I told migrants that the industry was about to start and there will be no threat to their income. They seem to have now got somewhat convinced. As per the data I have been provided, only 45,000 migrants from the total registered number of 1.5 lakh have gone back. The rest, I am told, have agreed to stay back.(As told to Deepkamal Kaur)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/convinced-labour-not-to-leave-state-87804
21-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||She motivates others amid gloom||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 20As doctors, nurses, police personnel and administration officials have been busy performing their duties to fight coronavirus, Amrit Kalsi sits calmly at her place and counsels them to maintain good physical and mental health in this time of crisis.Deputy director of Training and Counselling, CT Institutes, Kalsi has been running a counselling cell from her house for all those feeling fatigued and demotivated in these days. Every day, she has been taking numerous calls, spending 30 to 45 minutes on every caller and telling them how they can perform their duty with cheer and vigour.“While running a happiness centre in the institute for the past two years, I have held quite a few sessions with all kind of people. They have been on my contact list. It has been my daily practice to send them motivational quotes. I have developed a good rapport with many officials. So, these days whenever they feel the need for counselling, I have been just a phone call away,” said the counseller.She said, “A DSP-rank officer, who is now posted in Ludhiana, made a video call two weeks ago. The officer told me that he was no longer enjoying the duty of sitting in the Sun while there was no one on roads. He told me this is not what they had been trained for. I counselled him that he is a government employee and will have to perform all the tasks assigned by the government. If he would understand and accept that more quickly, he would feel relieved and do it more patiently and creatively. I told him that he would have to do it anyways. He understood that and messaged me days saying ‘Thankyou’.”Kalsi said it is not just officials and doctors but also housewives, women working from home these days, students and parents who have been making calls to her consistently.“Many women call me saying that it is really tough standing all the day in the kitchen so as to keep their families happy. They say it is taking a toll on their mental health. I tell them that there is nothing to feel upset about it as they should rather think it to be a God-sent opportunity for them to spend whole time with their families and serve them variety of hot and fresh meals. I advised them that in case they felt stressed, they could involve their families in helping them with doing other simpler chores in the house”, she added.She has even held webinars on self-growth and stress in transgenders. These days, she has even been preparing the script for a play on the lockdown stress, which she will broadcast on Facebook.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/she-motivates-others-amid-gloom-87805
21-05-2020||Ajay Joshi---||Passengers throng bus stand as roadways resumes services||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, May 20 As the Punjab Roadways services resumed in the state on Wednesday after almost two months of suspension due to the Covid-19 outbreak, a large number of local residents gathered at the local bus stand from the wee hours. While social distancing went for a toss at the bus stand, roadways staff and bus conductors greeted the passengers with sanitisers and thermal scanners. As per directions of Punjab Transport Minister Razia Sultan, only 50 per cent occupancy was allowed in buses. While 24 passengers were seated in a 48-seater bus, 26  passengers boarded a 52-seater bus. Owing to the unavailability of schedule and 50 per cent occupancy rule, passengers remained troubled throughout the day. Many also complained of not catching buses, despite waiting for long. Balwant Singh, a physically challenged passenger who had come to the city from Amritsar with his wife, a cancer patient, said: “Initially we waited for over an hour to board a bus to Jalandhar from Amritsar and after reaching here, we waited nearly for two hours to board a bus to Chandigarh. Drivers told us that they can’t depart till all reserved seats are occupied. We are going to Mohali for my wife’s treatment. She could not get her regular medicines during the lockdown period.” Lakhwinder Singh, another passenger, who was going to Amritsar said, buses were going only when all seats were occupied. Unlike in the past, there wasn’t any fix timetable for the buses. Meanwhile, Navraj Batish, General Manager, Roadways Depot-1, said, the buses services were resumed between selected routes in non-containment zones of the state. Only 15 buses of Punbus today operated from Jalandhar and before sending them on roads, all of them were sanitised, said Batish. On many buses, the area was divided with the help of plastic sheets to prevent contact of drivers and conductors with passengers. As per statements of workers at booking counters, the buses, including roadways and PRTC, plied on around 22 routes. While maximum trips (6) were made between Amritsar and Ludhiana, three Pathankot, two Hoshiarpur, one each to Mohali, Ropar and Batala. Later, drivers and conductors said they didn’t get enough passengers and on two-three trips, only 10-15 passengers were ferried.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/passengers-throng-bus-stand-as-roadways-resumes-services-87790
21-05-2020||---||Covid testing in city from June 10||Covid testing in city from June 10 Jalandhar, May 20 The Covid-19 testing lab at the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL) in Jalandhar will be functional from June 10, said Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary after visiting the RDDL campus here on Wednesday. He was accompanied by local MLA Rajinder Beri.   During the visit, laboratory joint director Dr Harwinder Singh Kahlon, deputy director animal husbandry Dr Mohinder Pal Singh and other experts briefed the MP and the MLA about the diagnostic services provided by the RDDL. They informed that the lab has done exceptional work in the areas of bird flu, rabies, glanders, brucellosis, TB and anthrax.  MP Chaudhary said given the high number of Covid-19 cases in Jalandhar, he had requested the Chief Minister  to set up a testing laboratory in the district. He appreciated the work done by all the health professionals and hoped that the new lab would help them in serving the humanity.  The lab is being set up under the aegis of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, and several doctors from the RDDL have already undergone training there in the Covid-19 testing protocols. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-testing-in-city-from-june-10-87791
21-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||From Amritsar to Jalandhar on foot, 12 labourers camp under bypass||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 20Manjay Kumar Rai (36) is camping with five of his associates under the Pathankot bypass in Jalandhar. Walking off to Samastipur, 1,513 km away (and Saharsa), the group of five people, who are part of an extended 12, started off from Amritsar a few days ago and have been spending nights under bridges, shop canopies and trees to make the arduous journey thousands of kilometres away.The night over at the bridge has a slight reassurance from a do-gooder, who has asked them not to go walking so far, assuring an alternate arrangement.Electricians in Amritsar, the five are a part of a group of 12. The other seven are headed to UP, who decided to walk to Bihar/UP after scurrying for food for two months at their Amritsar establishment. Finally, packing up their goods they headed Bihar-wards, when they were convinced that staying in Amritsar any longer meant starvation.While the arduous trip back home didn’t necessarily guarantee better livelihood, Manjay says: “Kya karenge ji? Do mahina to dekh liya. (We have seen for two months). We didn’t get to eat anything. We survived on ration leftovers and savings. Now, we have exhausted our resources. Staying any longer would mean starvation. Finally, we decided to go back. At home, I have a mother, father, wife, five children. We will find a way to survive.”He said: “A do-gooder gave us some food and brought us till here. He has asked us to stay put so that some arrangement for travel could be made. So, currently we are waiting. Who wants to go walking? But we are poor, no one listens to us.”Subodh Kumar, Manjay’s associate who is headed to Saharsa, says: “We met the seven UP men on the way only. So, to ease collective burden we started walking together. Hum to vifal ho gaye hain. Hamara koi nahi sunta (we have failed. No one listens to us). Right now, we are camping under a bridge. Some do-gooders have offered help, otherwise we would be starving. A common man has no option but to begin walking on foot. We tried making it work at Amritsar, but no one helped.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/from-amritsar-to-jalandhar-on-foot-12-labourers-camp-under-bypass-87792
21-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||Subsidy worth Rs 1.40 cr released for SCs in state||Phagwara, May 20 Lending a helping hand to the needy and underprivileged sections of society to combat the Covid-19 crisis through self-employment, the Punjab Schedule Caste Land Development and Finance Corporation has released subsidy worth Rs 1.40 crore for the Schedule Caste (SC) brethren. Chairman of the Corporation Mohan Lal Sood said: “The pandemic has adversely affected the economy across the globe and left number of people unemployed,”. He said many people were suffering to arrange two square meal for their families. Sood said in such a grim scenario, the state government, led by Chief Minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh had came forward for lending a helping hand to the needy. The chairman said on the directions of the CM poor families of SC community were being assisted for setting up their own employment ventures. He said: “As many as 1,404 eligible beneficiaries have been issued 1.40 crore by the Corporation under Bank Tie Up scheme for self employment. The District Managers have been asked to transfer the amount into the bank accounts of the concerned beneficiaries, adding that in the coming days, these beneficiaries would get loans worth Rs nine crore, which would be a succour by the state government to needy people. The chairman said the corporation had in its other schemes, including approved loans worth Rs 12.35 crore during 2019-20, out of which Rs 9.11 crore had been disbursed to the beneficiaries. He said the remaining ones would also be distributed very soon.  Sood said staff of the corporation had worked hard during the pandemic and contributed their one day’s salary for the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/subsidy-worth-rs-1-40-cr-released-for-scs-in-state-87794
21-05-2020||---||Webinar: Experts discuss posture issues while working from home||Jalandhar, May 20Dr BR Ambedkar NIT, Jalandhar, organised a ‘Webinar on ergonomics and psychological issues of working from home (WFH)’ during the Covid-19 pandemic.Prof LK Awasthi, Director, and Dr LP Singh, coordinator of the programme, welcomed experts Dr Dhurjati Majumdar, Additional Director, DIPAS (DRDO), Delhi, and Puroitree Majumdar, a clinical psychologist from Bengaluru. Prof RK Garg, Dr SK Mishra, Dr Anish Sachdeva, Dr Rohit Mehra, Dr Sonia Chawla and other HODs from the host institute also participated.Highlights Professor Awasthi highlighted and appreciated the coordinator for realising the need of the hour and planning this webinar as people are not used to work from home. It is entirely different from the routine and some issues are definitely there in terms of sitting posture and mental imbalance or stress.Dr LP Singh delivered the first lecture on the workstation design and seating issues. He mentioned that egonomics deals with the designing the work place and fitting the job, equipment and work environment to the employee or worker.He deliberated upon the issues related to the use of portable computing devices such as laptop, smart phones etc and different postures adopted that deteriorate physical health.He started with ‘N-E-W’ mantra ie neutral posture, eyes, elbow height, work area, and gave some work place self-assessment tips related to WFH.He discussed some tips given by the International Ergonomics Association (IEA), especially ‘20-20-20’ mantra — there should be a planned break at least every 20 minutes and one should look at some object 20 ft away from the screen at least for 20 seconds. It would be good if one looks at some green plant/tree. Further, he mentioned about keeping the height of the screen at eye level — the top of the screen should be at par of eyes.Dr Dhurjati Majumdar, Additional Director, DIPAS (DRDO), New Delhi, delivered a lecture on ergonomics to deal with physical stress in the current situation.He highlighted that teenagers believe that they can manipulate six to seven forms of media simultaneously and 95 per cent of the population is multitasking every day. He mentioned that adults check their smartphones every six-seven minutes. Further, Dr Majumdar emphasised on intense physical stress due to prolonged sitting that can lead to bio-mechanical and physiological disorders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-experts-discuss-posture-issues-while-working-from-home-87795
21-05-2020||Hoshiarpur||NRI donates ventilators to Civil Hospital||Dubai-based chief trustee of the Sarbat da Bhala Charitable Trust  Dr SP Singh Oberoi, handed over two ventilators worth Rs 12 lakh to the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital on behalf of the Trust. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait thanked Dr Oberoi and the trust for this noble cause. She said due to the installation of these ventilators, the Civil Hospital would be able to provide better health facilities to the patients.  Dr Oberoi said while the Union and state governments were doing their work during the Corona pandemic, it was the duty of social service organisations also to contribute to the service of the people. He said 20,000 PPE kits, 20,000 N 95 masks, sanitisers and around 10 lakh three layer masks were provided to government medical colleges and civil hospitals by the trust. He assured the district administration and Health Department that the trust was ready to provide any medical equipment in future. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said by installing ventilators at the hospital, the patients who earlier had to be referred to speciality hospitals would now be provided treatment here. He said the staff had already been trained to operate the ventilators.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nri-donates-ventilators-to-civil-hospital-87796
21-05-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj ---||Farmers convince labourers to stay back for paddy season||Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, May 20 Farm labourers who had come to the city in November and were to leave by April are now stranded here due to the lockdown. Now with the paddy season approaching, farmers have urged them not to go back. Farmer Kulwant Singh said he had convinced his 15 labourers not to go back and instead earn here. “Earlier, they also wanted to go and even approached us for registration in Shramik trains, but since they have not received any message yet, they have made up their mind to stay back and earn here,” he said. The labour had come in the sugarcane season.  Another farmer, Sukhwant Singh, said,” I want to give them advance so that they stay here till this paddy season. But I am also a little wary that they will leave the moment they get the message from the administration to board the train. This is a tough situation for the farmers and everyone is doing their bit to make sure that the labour stays here and they (farmers) don’t have to suffer any problem in the paddy season,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-convince-labourers-to-stay-back-for-paddy-season-87797
21-05-2020||Nakodar||119 migrants from Nakodar leave for Uttar Pradesh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/119-migrants-from-nakodar-leave-for-uttar-pradesh-87798
21-05-2020||---||Stranded migrants shifted to shelter homes||Jalandhar, May 20Twelve migrant workers, who were waiting to receive a confirmation message from the administration to board Shramik Special trains, were today lodged at Radha Swami Shelter Homes.Having no means left to survive in the city, the daily wage labourers were running from pillar to post to get help. Unable to get any information from officials at registration centres regarding the schedule of the trains, the migrants today arrived at the local bus stand only to find that there was no bus available that could send them back to their homes.However, when the police got to know about their situation, they were shifted to the shelter homes. Some of the migrants also included those who had come from Amritsar on foot.While narrating their plight, Raghu Yadav, an 18-year-old daily wager, said: "We have been homeless for the past eight days. Officials at the Balle Balle farm did not tell us about the train timings and we were not guided in a proper manner. Eventually, some local residents told us to go to the bus stand where free bus service was available for the migrants. But all went in vain."Assisant Commissioner of Police (Headquarters) Bimal Kant said labourers had been shifted to the Radha Swami Shelter Homes at Chokan village on the Hoshiarpur road."As per the directions of Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, temporary shelter homes have been set up at various places in the city and the migrants who are getting in contact with the police are immediately lodged there. After their medical check-up, the migrants were provided free food and stay. Therefore, we urge that local residents who are coming across with migrants should refer them to police personnel, who would further take care of them," the Assisant Commissioner of Police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stranded-migrants-shifted-to-shelter-homes-87799
