22-05-2020||Jalandhar||Families await reunion as domestic flights set to begin||As domestic flights are set to start from May 25 and the Aviation Minister on Thursday released the SOP, there are several families in Jalandhar who are waiting to unite as some of the members got stuck in other states due to the lockdown.Dilemma over health safety, quarantine issuesThough the beginning of flights was being eagerly awaited, many of them are still in a dilemma over the issues of health safety and institutional quarantine. Many parents whose working children are stuck in Mumbai, Hyderabad or Bengaluru say that they will first check if the Chandigarh or Amritsar administrations will move their kin to 14-day institutional quarantine or not and only then they would ask them to return.Inderdeep Kaur, a teacher from Hoshiarpur, whose daughter is working in an IT company in Bengaluru, said, “My daughter was to come home for vacation in March end but the lockdown forced her to stay back. Since then, she has been working from home, which is going to continue. We have asked her to come only if she is sure that she does not face any inconvenience while coming or going back.“If she will be quarantined here for two weeks and again for the same period in Bengaluru after return, then there is no point coming and getting inconvenienced for full one month,” she said, adding that had she preponed her flight by a week or so, she would have been staying with us. “After all, cooking for herself for 60 days with no one to company her for even the meals is not that easy,” she rued.However, there are some families who are confident of safety of their children and they want them to be home by all means. Harvinder Pal Singh, XEN, IKGPTU, Kapurthala, said his two sons worked in Mumbai and Hyderabad and it had been six months since he met them. “Usually, we get to see each other in two to three months. Either we visit them or they come over.“But this time it has been too long and they are finding it extremely difficult to stay inside the room all the time and cooking and working as well. Union Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri has left it to the states to decide on institutional or home quarantine. Since the Punjab Government has already clarified that it will be home quarantine for those landing by domestic flights. So, we have told them to get tickets and return as soon as possible,” he added.Dr GN Nikhil, a faculty member from Dr BR Ambedkar NIT, who had gone to his home in Hyderabad, says he had been waiting for the flights to resume so that he could join his duty. “I came home as my father had expired but then flights were grounded and I got stuck here. The institution has opened in the meantime. Now that the flights will start operating on May 25, I will observe things for a week or so and if I see that all systems are in place and people are landing without hassles, I too will return to my duty.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/families-await-reunion-as-domestic-flights-set-to-begin-88261
22-05-2020||Jalandhar||One more +ve;  12 discharged||With one more person testing positive in the district, the tally has reached 218.Meanwhile, as per the new guidelines, 12 asymptomatic patients were discharged from the local Civil Hospital, bringing the total number of cured patients to 181.They were discharged after a thorough examination and go ahead from a team of doctors, led by Senior Medical Officer.As per the health authorities, all these patients will have to remain home-quarantined for 14 days.Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinder Chawla and Medical Superintendent Dr Harinder Singh said as per the new SOP, patients with mild/ moderate symptoms at the time of admission at the isolation facility were being discharged and advised home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-more-ve-12-discharged-88270
22-05-2020||Itook the Covid crisis as a challenge as it is the time for a joint struggle||‘Time for joint struggle, not dirty politics’||I continued visiting all areas in the constituency to help poor labourers, including migrants. I have organised langars and also provided a large quantity of medicines to the needy. I have taken the lockdown as an opportunity to be with residents and find out issues they are facing. I have collected huge amount of money from my own sources to organise community kitchens.My team of dedicated workers has distributed thousands of ration kits so far. My better half has organised 12 langars at various places in Phagwara.I had been advising my supporters and opponents that this is not the time to indulge in cheap politics. I told people to follow the lockdown norms, wear masks when they step out of their homes and maintain social distancing to prevent themselves from the virus.(As told to Ashok Kaura)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/time-for-joint-struggle-not-dirty-politics-88289
22-05-2020||Jalandhar||Intemperate conduct: ASI tenders apology to court||Two days after the district courts issued a show-cause notice to an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the city police for intemperate conduct and behaviour in the court, the guilty ASI today tendered an unconditional apology for his unacceptable conduct in the court.On Tuesday, the court was hearing the bail plea of Parminder Kumar Mehmi, father of Amol Mehmi who allegedly dragged Jalandhar ASI Mulak Raj on his car’s bonnet on May 2 during curfew. When Additional District and Sessions Judge Parminder Singh Grewal asked the ASI to specify as to whether the police had beaten the main accused, Amol, at the time of arrest or not, he replied in a loud voice that “the police have every right to beat the accused at the time of his arrest in the case”.Subsequently, the court directed the ASI, Surjit Singh, who brought the police file to the court, to file his reply on the next date of hearing on May 21 as to why necessary legal proceedings should not be initiated against him.The court said ASI Surjit’s arrogance and intemperate behaviour was highly reprehensible, which was not expected from the member of a disciplined force like the police.While forwarding the show-cause notice, ACP Dharampal, Model Town, Jalandhar, who is the supervisory officer of the area, said ASI Surjit had tendered his unconditional apology with respect to his conduct and behaviour in this court on May 19. Following which, the court today accepted his apology and dropped to initiate any legal proceedings against him on the fact that the ASI has realised his mistakes.Meanwhile, the court also granted bail to Parminder Kumar Mehmi on legal conditions. Amol, the main accused, already granted bail by the court in the case on May 13. In the absence of any CCTV footage of the alleged spot of the scuffle, the ACP submitted the video footage of the link that was downloaded from a YouTube channel. The police had registered the case against the father-son duo under 307 and other relevant sections of the IPC, sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act on May 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/intemperate-conduct-asi-tenders-apology-to-court-88294
22-05-2020||---||Parents protest against fee demand||Jalandhar, May 21Parents of children studying at Dayanand Model School, Model Town, today held a protest outside the campus alleging that the school authorities are asking them to pay fee and repeatedly sending messages to purchase books.‘Attempt to put pressure on parents unjustified’Parents of children studying at Dayanand Model School alleged that while the state government had issued orders asking the school authorities to be considerate towards the parents and not force them for fee immediately, any attempt by the authorities to put pressure on them was not justified. They alleged that those who did not want to buy stationery with the sets of books available from the campus were being forced to pick the whole lot, which was again an unjustified move.The parents alleged that while the state government had issued orders asking the school authorities to be considerate towards the parents and not force them for fee immediately, any attempt by the authorities to put pressure on them was not justified.The protesters alleged that those who did not want to buy stationery with the sets of books available from the campus were being forced to pick the whole lot, which was again an unjustified move.School Principal Vinod Kumar could not be contacted for comments. The school teachers, too, refused to share any information or respond to the queries related to the issue.Rashmi Vij, Assistant Regional Officer, DAV Schools, said, “Our schools are following all norms of the government. We have been quite considerate towards parents who cannot pay monthly fee and have even asked them to approach us. We are ready to help them. The government has not stopped us from levying monthly tuition fee, which we have to take to give salaries to our teachers. With regard to issue of forcing students to buy stationery in the set, the Principal can reply as I am not fully aware of the whole situation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parents-protest-against-fee-demand-88295
22-05-2020||Jalandhar||This driver becomes a ray of hope for many in testing times||This morning, he ferried a labourer who fell off scaffolding. A month ago, he drove all the way to Sahnewal in Ludhiana to drop a family of four members - a labourer his wife and children, including an ailing daughter - to their destination. Driver Tara Chand (65) has been the lifeline of people of Rurka Kalan during the Covid-19 lockdown.Noble serviceDuring the lockdown, Driver Tara Chand (65) ferried people to Phagwara, Jalandhar and Ludhiana, most of times during medical emergencies. He brought medicines to those who were unable to travelA driver associated with the Youth Football Club (YFC), Rurka Kalan, Tara's services saved a number of lives amid the lockdown and helped many others. At a time when the number of Covid cases was on the rise, Tara picked up patients, brought medicines and rescued stranded labourersA driver associated with the Youth Football Club (YFC) ,Rurka Kalan, Tara's services saved a number of lives amid the lockdown and helped many others. At a time when the number of Covid-19 cases was on the rise, Tara picked up patients, brought medicines and rescued stranded labourers.He has four children and several grandkids. He said his family neither interfered in his work nor suspected him for staying out till late.Tara said, "At the age of 65 years, the coronavirus has never scared me. I never felt I was at risk. For me, it was work as usual. I kept going out for two to three times a day. There are times when people totally relied on me for help. Since I had a curfew pass, I was more than happy to do my job.""There was a moment when things got really scary. A woman had suffered a heart attack during the lockdown and she had to be taken to a hospital in Phagwara. Everyone was very apprehensive but thankfully she made it through. It gives me immense satisfaction that I could become a medium to help these people during the lockdown," he added.During the lockdown, he has ferried people to Phagwara, Jalandhar and Ludhiana, most of times during medical emergencies. He brought medicines to those who were unable to travel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-driver-becomes-a-ray-of-hope-for-many-in-testing-times-88296
22-05-2020||Jalandhar||Fruit trader selling masks, hand sanitisers to make ends meet||With the lockdown adversely affecting small traders, Jayant Jagga, a local fruit dealer at Maqsudan fruits and vegetables mandi, has now switched to the sale of masks, sanitisers, gloves and polythene bags.Jagga, who was a commission agent of all seasonal fruits, says commercial activities have come to a standstill during the lockdown. To make both ends meet, he has now started selling Covid safety kits, which now only seem to be in demand."When the curfew was imposed on March 23, we tried to sell all our fruits kept in the stock. We did not earn much as most of the stock was sold at throwaway prices. I had been into the fruit business for the last one decade. This is for the first time that I witnessed such a huge downfall. The business remained only 10-20 per cent after the curfew. As only vendors with passes were allowed to enter the mandi, the demand suddenly fell. I was forced to look for alternates to make both ends meet," added Jagga.He says he would resume the fruit business only when residents would be also allowed to enter the mandi as daily wagers do not invest in costly fruits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fruit-trader-selling-masks-hand-sanitisers-to-make-ends-meet-88297
22-05-2020||Nakodar||Man duped of Rs 4.5L, 2 booked||Bank manager commits suicideJalandhar: The chief manager of Canara Bank hanged himself to death on Thursday. The victim has been identified as 43-year-old Gurpal Singh, a resident of New Raja Garden, Mittapur. He is survived by his wife and two sons. On the statement of his wife Preeti, the police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174, CrPC. She said he was working as chief manager in Canara Bank, Phagwara, while she had gone out of town to attend a ceremony with her sons. Gurpal committed suicide in his house at around 1.30 pm when he was alone. The SHO said a suicide note was also recovered, but didn’t held anyone responsible for his suicide. TNSMigrant booked in murder caseNakodar: The police on Thursday booked a migrant worker, Habir Kareta of Jharkhand, under Section 302, IPC, on the charge of murdering another migrant Mohammad Azim (40). The police said the body of the victim, with injury marks, was found in a wheat field in Tahli village on Wednesday morning. A minor fight over money was said to be the cause behind the murder. Raids are on to nab him. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-duped-of-rs-4-5l-2-booked-88298
22-05-2020||Sharad Aggarwal||‘Hike in steel prices will have bad effect on hand tool industry’||How have your operations been hit so far? What are your future plans?Our industry has been shut for nearly five weeks. We opened up on May 4 with 30 per cent staff. The problems of getting labour and raw material are affecting us badly as of now.How will the manufacturing sector come out of the crisis?The main issue with my industry is that we may not be able to get export orders as we had been getting earlier. We had been sending all hand tools like small screws, wrenches, pliers and screwdrivers to European countries and the US. We may be able to finish up with all export orders in hand in a month or so. We really do not know what will happen next.How do you expect to resume operations at a time when labourers are returning to their native places?Our 25-30 per cent labour has moved out. We had different sections of skilled labour such as some in grinding and some in tool room. Since the strength in some sections has fallen badly, the entire assembly line gets affected.Did you try to convince your labour to stay with you?All hand tool industrialists helped the labour in one way or the other. We paid their wages and provided them advances. Besides, we have also provided them ration. But when they came to know about a free ride home, they did not look back. Since we have all helped them, we expect them to come back soon. Owing to fewer activities as of now, we are not much affected. But as we pick up, we will need them back. By then, they might return.What is the response of your vendors?The biggest problem for the hand tool industry is an increase in the price of steel, which has gone up by almost 10 per cent. So, raw material will be costlier and hence, the finished product will also be costlier. Another problem affecting us is that the creditors have dried up. Vendors want us to make immediate payment while they had been earlier allowing a credit period of 30 days. So, things are becoming problematic as of now.What lessons have you learnt from the crisis?The spread of the coronavirus and the whole lockdown period came as a wake-up call for all. We hurt Mother Earth and took it for granted and it hit us back. But, the whole situation makes me realise that we must be gentle with nature. It has also become us habitual of interacting via video conferencing.Do you see the current scenario as a challenge or an opportunity?Of course, it is a challenge. But it has made me and all industrialists stronger. I can see them more determined to fight back. Sitting at my place for the first time for so long, I got a chance to interact with my family and talk to myself. I have once again set out new goals and analysed my strengths and weaknesses. This will help me in the longer run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hike-in-steel-prices-will-have-bad-effect-on-hand-tool-industry-88299
22-05-2020||Our Correspondent||eSanjeevaniOPD  begins, says Civil Surgeon||Phagwara, May 21The state government has started the eSanjeevaniOPD service due to the Covid-19 pandemic to facilitate people.This was stated by Kapurthala Civil Surgeon Dr Jasmeet Bawa while talking to newsmen here on Thursday. She said the aim of starting this facility was to provide uninterrupted health services to the public.She said through e-anjeevaniOPD patients could consult doctors via video conferencing and seek medical advise.The esanjeevaniOPD aims to bring specialised healthcare services to the citizens of rural and urban areas while staying at home. Besides, this gynaecology service through eSanjeevaniOPD will start from June 1.Dr Sarika Duggal of DMC Kapurthala said this facility was also available in the COVA Punjab mobile application. She added that to avail the benefits of the service a person should have a computer, laptop or a tablet, along with webcam, speakers and access to internet connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/esanjeevaniopd-begins-says-civil-surgeon-88302
22-05-2020||---||Non-payment of cane dues:  Farmers to protest on May 28||Jalandhar, May 21The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba) will hold a dharna against non-payment of sugarcane dues by private and government sugar mills on May 28 in Phagwara.“The government is not helping us in the matter. We have given several letters and memorandum to officials and leaders in this regard but to no avail,” members of the union said.They said the dharna would be held outside sugar mills on various days. “The farmers are in a poor condition at this point. On one hand, the government asks us to not to commit suicide but on the other it itself isn’t helping us, which has forced farmers to protest amid this crisis,” the members said.Kirpal Singh, a farmer from the Shahkot block, said the mills had failed to clear the payments for the past five months. The sugarcane farmers had held a massive protest in December 2018, demanding the release of dues by government and private sugar mills in the state.They said they were left with no option but to leave their families and hold dharnas. With the dues not being cleared, farmers said they were left with no option but to take loans from arhtiyas and banks to make ends meet.They said sugarcane was the only crop that was helping the state get out of the vicious circle of paddy and wheat crops but the present condition of the sugarcane growers shows that the government hardly cared about the concept of crop diversification.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/non-payment-of-cane-dues-farmers-to-protest-on-may-28-88305
22-05-2020||Our CorrespondentChabbewal||Chabbewal MLA helps fire victims||A total of 20 shanties of 18 families of migrant labourers, of Chak Narial village of the Chabbewal constituency had lost their belongings in a fire that broke out in their shanties three days ago.All 20 shanties of families were gutted in the fire.MLA, Chabbewal, Dr Raj Kumar, had immediately arrived and assured all help to them. On Wednesday, Dr Raj distributed 18 tarpaulin tents, 18 utensil sets, 18 ration kits, 36 beddings and ration among these families.Dr Raj said the migrants were the backbone of our system and he was ready to help them. The migrants thanked Dr Raj who himself came forward to help them. Dr Raj conveyed thanks to the Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait and secretary, Red Cross Society Naresh Gupta, for contributing to the relief work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chabbewal-mla-helps-fire-victims-88308
22-05-2020||Jalandhar||Cong: Centre must launch NYAY to help poor across country||Members of the Youth Congress organised a protest in all Assembly constituencies of the Jalandhar urban area on the 29th death anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, who was assassinated in a suicide bomb attack.Angad Dutta, Jalandhar urban chief, said: “Rajiv Gandhi was the youngest Prime Minister of the country. With a vision of modern India, he led the country on the path of modernisation by bringing revolutionary changes in telecommunications and IT sectors in India. The nation will always remember his ideology,” he said.He further said the lockdown has badly affected the migrants and the poor. “To extend a helping hand and give them justice they deserve, the Centre should launch NYAY scheme across the country. We urge the Centre to pay Rs 7,500 to all BPL families under the NYAY scheme as poor are the backbone of the country’s development process,” said Dutta.Randeep Sandhu, Bob Malhotra, Jaskaran Sohi, Charanpreet Channi, Sunny Kumar, Parveen Kumar, Ishu Kalra, Abhishek Jain, Karan Pathak and all other office-bearers of the Youth Congress took part in the protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-centre-must-launch-nyay-to-help-poor-across-country-88310
22-05-2020||Hoshiarpur||Social distancing ignored on Rajiv Gandhi’s  death anniversary||The District Congress Committee, Hoshiarpur, remembered former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on his death anniversary. Congress workers in the district office, led by the district president Dr Kuldeep Nanda, paid floral tributes to Rajiv Gandhi.During this, social distancing was not maintained despite a ban on any kind of event or gathering by the Deputy Commissioner. According to the orders of the Deputy Commissioner (DC), the gathering of more than 10 persons is not allowed for marriage and funeral purpose. The situation was such that 17-18 persons, including the District Congress president, stood close together while being photographed.It can be clearly seen in the photograph that leave the distance of one or two meters. There is not even a distance of one foot between them. District president Dr Kuldeep Nanda said Late Rajiv Gandhi devoted his entire life for the unity and integrity of the country. His martyrdom inspired us to remain devoted for the country. He aksed the activists to take inspiration from Rajiv Gandhi’s life and contribute for the development of the country. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/social-distancing-ignored-on-rajiv-gandhis-death-anniversary-88312
22-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Cops distribute eatables among kids in Phillaur||Phillaur, May 21The Jalandhar (Rural) Police, led by Senior Superintendent of Police, Navjot Singh Mahal, on Thursday donned the cap of a Santa Claus for bringing smile on the faces of children at an orphanage in Phillaur by distributing fruits and biscuits among them.The SSP, accompanied by Superintendent of Police Sarabjit Singh Bahia and Deputy Superintendents of Police Sarabjit Rai, Jaspreet Singh and DS Attri, on Thursday visited the orphanage at Sri Krishna Pingalwara, Phillaur, and distributed fruits, biscuits and water bottles among them.Interacting with children, he shared the message regarding the ways and means to prevent the spread of the Covid-19. Mahal assured the children of his full support and also lauded the role being played by the managers of the orphanage for ensuring comprehensive development of the children.Meanwhile, continuing the drive to boost the morale of the police personnel the SSP distributed new uniforms among policemen in Goraya and Phillaur.He said the drive was aimed at augmenting the resources of the force, adding that the move would benefit around 1,500 police personnel who were discharging duty round-the-clock in hostile circumstances.Mahal distributed the kits among police personnel, comprising of sanitisers, masks, gloves, chyawanprash and others, to boost the immunity of the cops as well as volunteers, who were working side by side with the force.Later, the SSP enquired about the well-being of an Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) Balvir Singh, who was injured while performing duty at the checkpost Hazara. He asked the doctors about the treatment being given to the ASI and asked them to take care of him. He also met family members of the ASI and assured them of his full support in any kind of medical assistance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cops-distribute-eatables-among-kids-in-phillaur-88314
22-05-2020||Phagwara||IT official Bali helps migrants||Additional Income Tax Commissioner Dr Girish Bali got emotional to see 20 Uttar Pradesh migrant labourers, along with their five kids, going to Hardoi on foot in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday.He asked his driver to stop his car and met them. Though he tried to convince them that they should stay here, but they were adamant to go. Then Dr Bali contacted the district administration, Jalandhar, and all migrants were temporarily shifted to Radha Swami dera nearby.Dr Bali gave them money and fruits. It’s a tragic situation for migrants, he said. He said now these migrants would be sent to their native place by the next available train. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/it-official-bali-helps-migrants-88318
22-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Nature is revolting to reclaim its kingdom: Pathankot SSP||Tribune News ServicePathankot, May 21When Pathankot SSP Deepak Hilori is quizzed what will happen in the future, his stock reply is “We all are blind and sailing on the same leaking boat.”Before the lockdown kicked in, the officer remained busy managing the routine affairs of the department. Now, the mundane has been relegated to the back burner. The nature has forced upon him new duties like asking people to maintain social distancing, wearing mask and extending a helping hand to his colleagues in these taxing times.The officer feels that viruses do not respect borders. “It is high time we put aside our egos and do what is necessary to limit, or even, halt the damage. The nature is revolting to reclaim its kingdom. If we cannot make peace with her now, what is the point of existing?”, he says.As he speaks, he gets a call from an SHO awaiting instructions on how to deal with farmers not practising social distancing in the grain market. “Deal with them with kid gloves. A few rough words from you could trigger off tensions. Try to tell the farmers that whatever we are doing is for their benefit,” he urges his officer.Hilori believes that every single reduction in the number of contacts a person has per day with others will have a significant impact on the ability of the virus to spread. “This strategy saved thousands of lives during the 1918 Spanish flu pandemic and, more recently, in Mexico city during the 2009 flu,” he says.The officer opines that strange things are happening in strange times.“At a time when corona panic has the potential to wreak havoc, the abiding message from the literary depictions of plagues and pandemics is that the only solution is not every man for himself, but a collective response of universal brotherhood. The irony is that even as the practical response is to close borders, the long-term solution is coming from people banding together, fighting the virus across borders with Chinese doctors, Israeli labs, American scientists and Australian production techniques. The virus is actually testing how well we can collaborate across borders even as we try to shut them down. And, if nothing else, it also reminds us that another way forward is possible—teleconferencing and Skyping instead of the arduous exercise of criss-crossing the globe. That might not be a bad thing for our beleaguered planet,” he maintained.He is again disrupted by a call. His subordinate informs him the decks have been cleared to send back 1,200 migrants to J&K who were stranded in the city following the curfew.“We made certain these people were taken care off. Now it is time to wish them adieu. The J&K government has agreed to take them back,” he says with a relief writ large over his face.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nature-is-revolting-to-reclaim-its-kingdom-pathankot-ssp-88320
22-05-2020||Hoshiarpur||7 more test positive in Hoshiarpur||With seven more Covid positive cases today, the total number of positive cases in the district has risen to 103.These seven cases were traced during the testing of 92 samples of people who had come in contact with Covid-19 positive patients.Civil Surgeon Jasbir Singh said today’s new cases included five patients from Jalalpur village, who had been in contact with the Covid-19 patient who had died in a Jalandhar hospital a few days ago. One more patient has returned from Maharashtra and another has been tested positive in the Dasuya subdivision. He was admitted to Government Medical College, Amritsar, where he was tested positive.Till date, a total of 1,710 samples have been taken, of these 1,462 are reported negative, 103 positive and reports of 115 samples are awaited. As many as 29 samples were found invalid. In the district, 89 patients have recovered so far, five had died and nine are active cases. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-more-test-positive-in-hoshiarpur-88321
22-05-2020||Vijay C Roy||Jalandhar leather industry in distress||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21Hit by the lockdown, the Rs 1,200-crore Jalandhar leather industry is in distress. Besides supply chain disruption, the closure of the US and European markets due to Covid has put a strain on their working capital. Due to this factor, they can neither think of diversification nor close down their operations.Jalandhar industry“The manufacturing across sectors has gone through turmoil. However, the leather industry has been hit hard. The sudden lockdown has disrupted the raw material supply and exports. Amid the pandemic, 60% of export orders were cancelled by the exporters as the markets were closed globally,” said Ajay Sharma, secretary, Punjab Leather Federation.According to manufacturers, a majority of clients from the overseas cancelled the orders they had placed before the outbreak of Covid-19.Industrialists said the lockdown has led to a whopping financial loss in terms of exports. In addition to this, imported raw hides are also rotting in containers at ports.In Punjab, leather industry is majorly concentrated in Jalandhar comprising tanneries and manufacturers of shoes, bags, jackets, purses and belts. Currently, the tanneries are closed on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court because of non-fulfilment of environmental norms.The industry is dominated by tiny, cottage and MSMEs. The industry size is pegged at Rs 1,200 crore with 50% turnover coming from exports.There are around 200 units which are engaged in the manufacturing of finished leather (dry work) and stitching. According to the industry, the lockdown has hit at a time when the industry was already under the crisis.“We have resumed partial operations. The industry was closed for almost two months. Despite no sales, we had to bear rent, staff cost and other recurring costs which put a strain on our finances. We can’t even think of diversification as we are hardly left with any capital to start afresh,” said Deepak Chawla, Director, Jay Dee Leather (P) Ltd.As a result, the precious working capital of the tiny, cottage and MSMEs is stuck and it will take at least 6-8 months for the situation to normalise.According to the industry, since the major leather clusters in the country are closed, they are facing raw material shortage and producing with whatever stock is lying with them.“Though the industry has started partial operations, it is still facing issues pertaining to raw material and market for finished products,” Sharma added. According to him, the exporters are not able to commit to orders due to the freeze on industrial activities.The exporters complained that despite negative sentiment against China, they are not able to cash in on the demand because of cheaper imports from Vietnam and Bangladesh. They are of the view that exporters need some handholding to survive this crisis.Besides demanding interest-free loan, the industry says the government must amend the labour laws to give entrepreneurs confidence to invest more in creating larger capacities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-leather-industry-in-distress-88339
