24-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Awaiting nod to board train, migrants camp under flyovers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 23Hundreds of migrant labourers have been camping near the city bypass awaiting nod to board Shramik Special trains.A majority of them have received messages confirming their registration and a follow-up message saying “dhairya banaye rakhein” (please be patient), but the call for boarding the trains never come. In many cases, it has been nearly a month since they last heard from the authorities. Driven away from the railway station by the police, they are now camping under flyovers in the city.Most of the crowd comprises jobless workers and their families from Faridkot, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Jalandhar. Those from neighbouring districts had heard that they were required to board the train from Jalandhar.The district administration has so far sent 79,800 labourers to various destinations via 66 trains. With the city’s underpasses becoming migrants’ abode, many vendors have opened small shops to cater to their daily needs.Putting up at Pathankot bypass, Munna Alam, a native of Betiyan (Bihar), shows his bruised arm. He alleges that he was beaten up by the police while queuing up at one of the screening centres in Jalandhar. He has tried six times to get on to a train to Bihar, but to no avail.Similarly, Sudhir Kumar, who came from Faridkot, says, “I came here day before yesterday. There was no train from Faridkot. I got registered and also got the message, but never got the green signal. The wait seems endless.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/awaiting-nod-to-board-train-migrants-camp-under-flyovers-89063
24-05-2020||---||Adampur airport to reopen tomorrow||Jalandhar, May 23Even as the Adampur airport is set to restart its services from May 25, there will be daily flights to Jaipur in addition to Delhi.As per the schedule set by flight operator SpiceJet, the flights will take off from Jaipur at 7:20 am and reach Adampur at 8:50 am. Then, it will leave from Adampur at 9:10 am and reach Delhi at 10:25 am. It will again take off at 10:55 am from Delhi and reach Adampur at 12:10 pm. At 12:30 pm, the flight will take passengers from Adampur to Jaipur, culminating there at 2 pm.Officials shared that the addition of Jaipur as a new destination was already a part of the Udaan Yojna and an approval for the same had been received in March. The plan to start and conclude the flights from Jaipur could not be implemented at that time as flights had got cancelled.Deputy Commissioner Varinder K Sharma said: “All passengers reaching Adampur via flights will have to undergo 14-day home quarantine. Orders are the same for all inter-state travellers by bus or train and have been reiterated by the state government even today. For those coming from outside, institutional quarantine will have to be ensured.”The officials added that all SOPs issued by Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri being updated from time to time with regards to conduct of domestic flights would have to be adhered. The list of dos and don’ts include having Aarogya Setu app on mobile phone before starting the flight, no ticket to those above 65 years of age and less than 10 years and no permission of eatables.Even as the Centre has been directing all government and private companies to ensure installation of Aarogya Setu app in mobile phones of their employees for contact tracing, the same is not being checked with coronavirus patients visiting Civil Hospitals of the state.“Instead, officials entrusted with the duty to trace contacts have been checking for Cova app. Punjab had introduced Cova app before Aarogya Setu app became functional. Hence, we continue to stress with the state-used app as of now,” said a senior administrative officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adampur-airport-to-reopen-tomorrow-89048
24-05-2020||---||Two nurses among 4 new Covid cases||Jalandhar, May 23With four new patients reported in Jalandhar today, the district tally has reached 222. Two of the new patients are health workers, female nurses aged 22 and 27 years, from the Civil Hospital as well as a private hospital and the other two are males, aged 55 and 30 years. One of them is a resident of Dada Colony in Jalandhar. Both nurses hail from Hoshiarpur and Gursdapur, respectively. However, both were infected while treating Covid patients.The Civil Hospital nurse was infected while treating a female Covid patient, now deceased, at the hospital. While the private hospital nurse was infected while treating a Bhogpur-based patient.Jalandhar Nodal Officer Dr TP Singh said: “Both nurses were tested positive while treating Covid patients. Their contact tracing is being done by the health authorities.”1 tests positive in PhagwaraPhagwara: A 65-year-old resident of New Sukhchain Nagar was tested positive on Friday. She was sent to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital, Kapurthala.SMO Kamal Kishore said the woman went for medical treatment at a private hospital in Jalandhar where she was tested positive for Covid.The team of the Health Department sealed the area and all six other family members of the woman had been home quarantined and their samples were sent for testing today.Meanwhile, the Phillaur administration on Thursday evening sealed a street in Talwann village after a resident tested positive for coronavirus.DSP Davinder Singh Attri said a 62-year-old resident had been shifted to the Jalandhar Civil Hospital after he was tested positive. The victim had gone to a Jalandhar hospital for his check-up where he was tested positive for coronavirus.Meanwhile, members of Dr Ambedkar Memorial Committee, Punjab, headed by its president advocate Kuldip Bhatti, today distributed ration kits among needy families at nearby Nangal village. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-nurses-among-4-new-covid-cases-89049
24-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||YFC volunteers, ITI students stitch, distribute 6K masks||Jalandhar, May 23Doing their bit in the district administration’s fight against Covid-19, the Water and Soil Conservation Department in collaboration with the Rotary Club, Goraya Midtown, ITI Women Lajpat Nagar, and Youth Football Club (YFC), Rurka Kalan, has taken up the task of making 6,000 masks and donating the same to government offices, field labourers and other frontline warriors.Soil conservation officer Lupinder Kumar said the cloth for making the washable masks was given jointly by the Water and Soil Conservation Department and the Rotary Club while the stitching part was managed by ITI girl students and YFC volunteers.He said they had got 6,000 masks stitched and these were distributed among field labourers, staff of government offices and frontline warriors, including police personnel, sanitation staff, fruit and vegetable vendors.“As wearing masks is mandatory while venturing out, it was observed that many people, especially labourers, were using non-washable masks. There are many vendors and other people who were found throwing used masks. Thus, we took the initiative to stitch as well as promote use of home-made washable masks,” he said, adding that they had also advising people to not to throw masks in public places and wash it properly with soap and hot water and dry it properly before they were used. He said the task was teamwork and every member has put their best effort to make it possible.“We have to win over the pandemic together as ‘we’ not ‘I’,” he added.Dharam Paul, Principal, ITI, Lajpat Nagar, said girl students of the institute had themselves volunteered for the task and besides attending online classes on a daily basis, they were also devoting time in stitching these masks from their places.“We helped the Water and Soil Conservation Department in getting these 6,000 masks stitched. Besides, the institute, with the help of its staff members and students, have also stitched another 11,000 masks, which have been distributed among needy persons living in slums and police personnel,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/yfc-volunteers-iti-students-stitch-distribute-6k-masks-89050
24-05-2020||---||PF reduction will be applicable for 3 mths||Jalandhar, May 23Regional PF Commissioner Sunil Kumar Yadav has said the government has announced various measures to provide relief to employers and employees of the establishments covered under the EPF and MP Act, 1952, distressed by lockdown to prevent spread of Covid-19 and other disruptions due to pandemic.The reduction in statutory rate of contribution from 12 per cent to 10 per cent would be applicable on May-June-July salary period for all class of establishments covered under the Act announced by the Central government as part of “Atma Nirbhar Bharat” package has been notified. The notification is available under the tab ‘COVID-19’ on the home page of EPFO website.The above reduction of rate of contribution is not applicable to establishments like Central and state public sector enterprises or any other establishment owned or controlled by or under control of the Central government or the state government. These establishments shall continue to contribute 12 per cent of basic wages and dearness allowances.The reduced rate is also not applicable for PMGKY beneficiaries, since the entire employees EPF contributions (12 per cent of wages) and employers’ EPF & EPS contribution (12 per cent of wages), totalling 24 per cent of the monthly wages is being contributed by the Central Government.Reduction in the rate of EPF contributions from 12 per cent to 10 per cent of basic wages and dearness allowances is intended to benefit both 4.3 crore employees/members and employers of 6.5 lakh establishments to tide over the immediate liquidity crisis to some extent.As a result of reduction in the statutory rate of contributions from 12 per cent to 10 per cent, the employee shall have a higher take home pay due to reduction in deduction from his pay on account of EPF contributions and employer shall also have his liability reduced by 2 per cent of wages of his employees. If Rs 10,000 is monthly EPF wages, only Rs 1,000 instead of Rs 1,200 is deducted from employee’s wages and employer pays Rs1,000 instead of Rs1,200 towards EPF contributions.In cost to company (CTC) model, if Rs10,000 is monthly EPF wages, in CTC model the employee gets Rs 200 more directly from employer as employer’s EPF/EPS contribution is reduced and Rs 200 less is deducted from his/her wages.Under the EPF Scheme, 1952, any member has the option to contribute at a rate higher than statutory rate (10 per cent) and employer can restrict his contributions 10 per cent (statutory rate) in respect of such employee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pf-reduction-will-be-applicable-for-3-mths-89051
24-05-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Eliminate fear of Covid for success of resort biz’||Vishal Sareen, managing director of Festyn Era and Festyn Royale resorts, says weddings have been a robust driving force for the economy. His family has been into the event management of weddings for the past nearly 45 years. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, he urges the government to initiate steps to dispel the fear of Covid-19 among people so that they can start thinking of organising marriage functions. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your business?As many as 150 marriage functions scheduled to take place in my two resorts between March 23 and May 30 were cancelled. Wedding functions are a major source of revenue generation and many trades such as banqueting, dairy, floral business, boutiques and saloons depend on marriage events.Do you expect resumption of your business in the near future?The government has allowed a gathering of not beyond 50 persons at an event, which is insufficient for the progress of the business as each resort is spread in acres. For the time being, a gathering of not more than 200 persons with all precautions and norms should be allowed. We have to postpone the opening of the third resort in October.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?I have retained my all employees and paid them salaries. However, workers from Bengal involved in the installation of tents, cooks from Uttarakhand and waiters from Nepal have left for homes.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?I have learnt that one must never put entire money in a trade. I have been reinvesting to extend the family business as the third resort is under construction. This taught me that there should be diversification in choices of business.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It is definitely a challenge. It is difficult to eliminate fear from the minds of people. On my part, I ensure that hygienic measures such as sanitisation of each person and commodities are followed.What are your expectations from the government?The government should make efforts to eradicate fear among people. Thereafter, people will start planning marriage functions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eliminate-fear-of-covid-for-success-of-resort-biz-89054
24-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||With relaxations in lockdown, demand for fitness equipment surges||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 23Amid uncertainty and anxiety due to the Covid-19 pandemic, people focus on their health and do exercise to beat the lockdown blues. Taking advantage of the relaxations given under 'Lockdown 4.0', residents have been daily visiting sports shops to purchase equipment that will make their fitness regime at home more exciting.Since the announcement of relaxations, the demand for fitness equipment and indoor games have surged, said sports goods dealers here.Karan Khurana (28), an engineer, who resides in Mota Singh Nagar, said, “I was in Delhi when the lockdown was announced. However, I managed to reach home in my private vehicle. Though I consider myself fortunate enough to be at home, a few days after self-confinement, I started missing my daily workout sessions in the gym. With all outdoor movements and activities coming to a standstill during the lockdown, I didn't want to end my fitness journey. Therefore, I resorted to weightless exercises. As we now have to opportunity to go out to buy essential items, I have been gathering all basic workout equipment, which can be easily used at home.”Vipan Mahajan, director, Nova Fitness, which is also known as Phillips Sports across the country, said the business has resumed in local markets. "Every day, we have been selling sports equipment to 15-20 customers. The demand for several workout tools such as dumbbells, skipping ropes, barbells, resistance bands, abs roller, push-up and pull-up stands, battle ropes, stability balls, yoga mats and weights has increased," he said.“Customers say they only need equipment that can be used at home to maintain fitness and improve muscle strenghth. Besides, people prefer playing indoor games such as badminton and carom these days. There is less demand for equipment required to play outdoor games,” Mahajan added.Mayuri Muskan, a fitness lover, said, “As gyms have been lying shut, I have been taking the help of online lessons to keep myself fit. I have been purchasing all basic workout equipment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-relaxations-in-lockdown-demand-for-fitness-equipment-surges-89057
24-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Mother anxious about daughter’s academic fate||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 23These are moments of anxiety for Charanpreet Kaur, a resident of Defence Colony here, as her daughter Jasika Walia is in the stage to get admission to a good commerce college.Worries are endless for Charanpreet, who has been mentoring her daughter to maintain the top position in the school since her childhood. Jasika had passed Class X from St Joseph's Convent School with 97.2 per cent marks in ICSE.Jasika, who is now a student of Class XII at MGN Public School, Urban Estate, was appearing for her CBSE exams exactly two months ago when the exams got postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.Jasika is still to appear for her two board exams - IP and Business Studies. The examination has now been scheduled for July 7 and 9.Charanpreet, a housewife, said, “At this crucial juncture, various questions are running in my mind about Jasika's future. Will she be able to prepare for her exams well and restart her studies all over again? Will she be able to score good marks in board exams? Will she be able to crack entrance tests of some colleges she has been vying for? Will she be able to get admission to one of the top commerce colleges of the country?”She said, “Jasika had appeared for online test and interview to get admission to Christ College, Bengaluru, in BBA earlier this month. By God's grace, she cleared the test as well as the interview. But, we somehow dropped the chance by not paying the fee. We wanted her to try for other colleges as well where there is time. She has already applied for Delhi University where the board exam results will decide her fate. She is yet to take her entrance test of IIM-Indore and Rohtak where she has applied for an integrated course. The exam, which was earlier planned to be held online, has been postponed. She has also filled forms of the Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies in Mumbai. Now, we have our fingers crossed.”“I get bouts of anxiety. But minutes later, I also start feeling relieved. I keep on telling myself that if the lockdown is delaying our plans, so is the case with all students. So, the exam postponement, subsequent delay in results, postponement of entrance tests and other issues are not happening with us alone. I say this to myself many times a day and just keep on telling my daughter not to feel stressed. I tell her to keep on brushing her general knowledge and preparing for the online tests. Rest, I have left it to the Almighty to take care of my daughter's fate,” said the anxious mother.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mother-anxious-about-daughters-academic-fate-89060
