25-05-2020||---||Jalandhar Passport Seva Kendra set to resume operations from tomorrow||Jalandhar, May 24To facilitate the general public, the Government of India has decided to resume the functioning of Passport Seva Kendra (PSK Jalandhar-I) in Eminent Mall, Near Guru Nanak Mission Chowk from Tuesday, Regional Passport Officer, Jalandhar, Raj Kumar Bali said on Sunday.He said the PSK would resume its functioning from Tuesday with its 50 per cent appointments in normal category. Likewise, he said for enquiry purpose, 50 per cent online enquiry appointments have also been released for the Passport Main Office, adding that Tatkal applications were still suspended till further orders.Bali said Passport Seva Kendra (PSK) in Hoshiarpur was already functioning since May 6. He advised applicants to adhere to social-distancing norms while visiting PSKs. He said the applicants must wear a mask, carry sanitiser, download and install “Aarogya Setu” app and follow government’s social-distancing norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-passport-seva-kendra-set-to-resume-operations-from-tomorrow-89717
25-05-2020||Aparna Banerji---||A ‘rebirth’ for three brothers from UP||Tribune News Service  Jalandhar, May 24  “Aisa lagta hai punarjanma ho gaya (It is like a rebirth),” says 18-year-old Parkash.  Prakash along with his two brothers Kanhaiya and Dharmendra, who had been hitch-hiking from Amritsar to reach Ballia, 1,300 km from here, finally boarded a Shramik Special train to Buxar from here Saturday morning and reached home last evening. After several months of struggle, the trio has finally met their family.  Their 40-year-old mother, who met them from a distance as per social-distancing protocol, broke down seeing her sons back home.  Parkash says, “This is our rebirth. We are happy to be back home. There was no food, no certainty. At least now we are with family. I was elated to see my mother. Our entire family came to meet us.” The brothers are at a quarantine centre at a school in their village. They were screened at Buxar as well as Ballia. They say they will look for some work here after their quarantine is over.     With nothing to eat anymore, the three brothers, Prakash, Dharmendra and Kanhaiya, began an arduous journey on foot from Amritsar to their home town Ballia district in Uttar Pradesh, 1,318 km away, four days ago. They decided to walk to their village Noorpur with tattered ‘chappals’ and a bag with two sets of clothes. On the fourth day of their journey, they camped under the Pathankot bypass in Jalandhar. They were accompanied by five other workers, also on way to Ballia on foot. All eight have now reached back home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-rebirth-for-three-brothers-from-up-89718
25-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||Milk van catches fire after accident||Hoshiarpur, May 24 A milk-supplying van and a car collided head-on near Banjarbagh Petrol Pump on Chintpurni Road in Hoshiarpur on Sunday.  The van of Today Milk which was carrying milk from Moga to Himachal Pradesh caught fire after the collision. The occupants were rescued by passers-by. Assistant Sub Inspector Gurmel Singh of PS Sadar police station said investigation in the case is under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/milk-van-catches-fire-after-accident-89719
25-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur count 107||Hoshiarpur, May 24The district reported four new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total count to 107.The Health Department had taken samples of 60 persons, who had come in contact with other Covid patients. Of them, the report of 56 persons came negative on Sunday.Giving this information, Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said so far, a total of 1,962 samples of people showing symptoms of Covid have been taken. He said of these, 1,634 samples turned out to be negative.The department is waiting for the reports of 192 samples, while 29 samples were found to be invalid. At present, the district has 14 active cases and five had succumbed to the infection.The new four cases are contacts of a patient of Nangali Jalalpur village, Tanda, who had died a few days ago in Jalandhar. Of them, three are of the same family of Purika village of Mukerian subdivision.Budhabar SMO Dr Jatinder Kumar said all four patients have been sent to the isolation centre in Rayat Bahra College, Hoshiarpur. He added that a list of people who came in contact with them will be prepared and their samples will be collected.Mukerian SDM Ashok Kumar said Parika village has been sealed and a team of the Health Department has been carrying out door-to-door screening of residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-count-107-89720
25-05-2020|| ---||Residents object mandatory quarantine norm for flyers||Jalandhar, May 24  With the state making 14-day quarantine mandatory for those coming to the state via domestic flights, trains or buses, some local residents have raised objections over the move.  They questioned the purpose of installing the Aarogya Setu app and screenings at railway stations and airports if the 14-day quarantine period had to be made mandatory.  Maj Gen Arun Khanna (retd), currently serving as the chief administrator of a housing society, said there were people who had to travel to meet their ailing parents. It would be difficult for them under the current rules. “We cannot even imagine the mental trauma of such people who have to travel for family exigencies”, he added. He said while on one hand, the government was asking people to learn to live with the virus, on the other side, it was imposing restrictions. “Will the administration also quarantine the taxi driver in whose vehicle a passenger will travel to and from the airport or railway station?” he asked. Akhil Verma, a businessman, said if he had to travel for work for three to four days, was the 14-day quarantine logical?  “We do understand that this quarantine is for our safety, but what is the purpose of resuming flights if one cannot visit hospital and offices after reaching their destination?” he asked.  He asked if all migrants who had returned to their native places had also been quarantined. “The Ministry of Civil Aviation had last week allowed the states to formulate their rules regarding passengers’ movement. Civil Aviations Minister Hardeep Puri has also been repeatedly emphasising that those taking domestic flights need not be quarantined,” he added. Anita Gulati, a local resident, said her daughter had been stranded in Delhi for three months now. “Earlier, no mode of transportation was available through which she could come back. But now when services have been resumed we cannot call her back. The reason is she will be quarantined and the chances are there the administration may restrict all family members from venturing out,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/residents-object-mandatory-quarantine-norm-for-flyers-89721
25-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Underground ring main system started||Hoshiarpur, May 24The 66 kV 12.5 MVA substation was inaugurated by local MLA and Industries and Commerce Minister Sundar Sham Arora. With the construction of this substation, Hoshiarpur has become the first city in Punjab to start the ring main system based upon underground cable connecting four substations. PS Khamba, Deputy Chief Engineer, Power Corporation, Hoshiarpur, said built with a cost of Rs 22 crore by laying underground cable, the ring main system connects four power houses of 66 kV each at the Mall Road, Gaushala Bazar, Circle Office and Sadhu Ashram. Through this system, in case of any failure at any substation, the supply can be given to the consumers without any hindrance by running the supply from the other substation. With the launch of this system in Hoshiarpur, the city dwellers will now get uninterrupted power supply in summer and new industries will also be given power connections immediately. The new substation has five feeders of 11 kV and will serve around 24,000 consumers, shopkeepers, business establishments of the city. Earlier, the supply was from only one feeder at Sadhu Ashram and any fault at this substation stopped supply to all 24,000 consumers. Now each of 11 kV feeders connected to Mall Road substation will be serving around 5,000 consumers leading to lesser load over feeders and bringing down the transmission and distribution losses. Arora thanked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Baldev Singh Sran, CMD, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, his entire team and the grid construction company.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/underground-ring-main-system-started-89722
25-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Workers from other dists hitch rides, walk to Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 23A cardboard factory worker from Faridkot (a native of Sipol in Bihar) came to the city in an auto-rickshaw to catch a train to Bihar, an Amritsar man walked all the way with fellow labourers, nine vegetable vendors from Hoshiarpur came walking and hitching rides; and Basant Kumar from Kapurthala went walking to the Sultanpur bus stand from his farm with wife and two children and caught a bus to Jalandhar. They all have a common pursuit — catching their train to go home.Penniless, laid off jobs they have been pursuing for years, men, women and children in hundreds are taking huge risks to reach Jalandhar to catch Shramik Special trains. While the 68th Shramik Special chugged out of the city today, labourers are taking uncommon pain to reach Jalandhar as the news had reached them that they will find a train here.The Tribune team has met labourers from Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Faridkot and Hoshiarpur, who all got registered in their districts. But with relatives staying away with many of them having medical emergencies back home, they lost hope and came walking to Jalandhar. Right from 3 am, huge queues were witnessed outside screening centres in the city for those who were waiting for a train.While over one lakh people registered from the district, hundreds of labourers have come from other districts, turning it into a huge migrant hub. Bypasses are flooded with migrants with each span of the bridge having over 100 migrant camping migrants.A cardboard factory worker from Faridkot says he caught an tempo to Jalandhar to catch the train but was chased away from the screening centre by the police. When asked why Jalandhar? He replied: "I came day before yesterday. There was no train from Faridkot. I got registered but got a message – be patient."He said: “They said I’d get a train from Kotkapura or Faridkot but the call never came. Somebody told us there is a train from Jalandhar, hence, three of us came in a tempo. I had also queued for the train, at the screening centre, but was driven out of the line.”Nine vendors from Hoshiarpur, all vegetable sellers working for years, have found themselves without work. They came to Jalandhar days ago, walking and hitching rides. Vinayak Shah (42), Suresh Shah and Rajesh (20), all lost their means of subsistence in Hoshiarpur ever since the lockdown. They said they tried thrice to get curfew passes for vegetables back at Hoshiarpur but failed to get them.Rajesh, who hails from Saharsa, is worried for his mother’s health who is waiting for a surgery. He came from Hoshiarpur and is in a hurry to reach home. Another man was seen chasing bystanders at the highway questioning everyone "UP ka train milega?Ganpat walked from the Sultanpur Anaaj Mandi to the local bus stand with his wife and two little children to catch a bus to Jalandhar. He said: “Makaan malik ne ghar se nikal diya. Taala laga diya. Kahaa jayein. Kaise jayein?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/workers-from-other-dists-hitch-rides-walk-to-jalandhar-89726
25-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||Adapting to new normal, garment traders switch to online sale||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 24After no business for almost two months, local garment shop owners are making all efforts to make up for their losses and even exploring the option of switching to online sale of merchandise.They are also well aware of the fact that people would hesitate coming out of their houses, especially when the Covid threat still looms large.Shopkeepers are opting for all available avenues to counter the setback they faced due to the lockdown.Undoubtedly, maximising sale through online modes seem to be the popular option, wherein products are delivered on the doorstep of customers.The traders are getting themselves acquainted with digital platforms, and retailers and wholesalers are also hiring delivery personnel and training the existing store staff for e-commerce.Rehmat Collections, a leading retail garment shop near Babrik Chowk, has also adopted similar means to boost up the sale. Training of the existing staff, video call demonstrations and phone bookings for contact less delivery of goods are among the new measures being adopted by them to bring the business back on tracks.Arjun Papneja, owner of Rehmat Collections, said the lockdown had hit their business hard. The last two months were crucial. That was the time for winter stock clearance and adding fresh stock of summer. “Utilising the relaxation time of 9 am to 6 pm, we are making all efforts to increase the sale while ensuring social distancing at our shop. Not more than two-three customers are entertained at a time and they are also directed not to rush outside the shop. We have circulated our phone numbers among our clients. They take appointment prior to coming. Apart from this, we are also offering free home delivery facility. Our staff assist clients in choosing their outfits and after selection we hire workers to deliver the same on their doorstep. At the shop, customers are greeted with sanitisers and those without mask are not allowed to enter,” added Papneja.For resuming the business, the retailers have also slashed the prices of garments. Papneja said he had also cut prices by 30-50 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adapting-to-new-normal-garment-traders-switch-to-online-sale-89727
25-05-2020||Avneet Kaur||Dreaming to become entrepreneur, he is utilising tech to sharpen his skills||Jalandhar, May 24The son of a vegetable vendor, Saurabh Behal, who passed his Class XI exams in the commerce stream with 92 per cent marks, said he was excited to attend his school, meet teachers and friends after the declaration of his results. But Covid-19 played a spoilsport as he received his results through WhatsApp.“I had always heard this from my elders that things never go in a way we plan. For the first time, I believed that it is true,” he said, adding that getting promoted to Class X and XII is always special and a bit stressful. This time, the feeling is hard to explain.A student of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Ladowali Road, Saurabh said though this pandemic has been helpful in healing nature and teaching lessons for life to many people, losses to many in their businesses and the plight of migrants have disappointed him.“For the first time, I have been attending online classes. I haven’t spent so much time using the mobile phone and exploring e-content in my life. This is all like a new learning experience for me,” he added.On being asked how he has been utilising the lockdown period, Saurabh said he has devoted fixed hours to his studies. Besides, he has been discovering new websites and YouTube channels that provide knowledge about entrepreneurship.He said he wishes to become an entrepreneur to give his family a good life and help his father manage the family expenses.Divulging details about his routine, he said, “I wake up early in the morning to help my father Rajesh Behal arrange his vegetable rehri (cart). Thereafter, I get ready and have my breakfast. Later, I attend online classes. In the day, I give some time to self-study and play online games. In the evening, I complete my assignments given by teachers and Google about multinational companies, their set up and stories of their CEOs.”“These are testing times. Many students, including me, are worried as the academic calendar has gone for a toss. We have no idea when things will normalise. We don’t get anything by taking stress,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dreaming-to-become-entrepreneur-he-is-utilising-tech-to-sharpen-his-skills-89728
25-05-2020||Can online lectures compensate for classroom teaching?||Online learning forfeits the very purpose of education||Creativity at stake with e-learningThe coronavirus outbreak has greatly disrupted our educational system. Schools, colleges and universities across the country have been closed to keep students safe and healthy at home. But many academic institutions, particularly schools, have started conducting virtual classes through different digital and social media platforms, and television channels to complete the syllabus and prepare students for pending exams. Though it is imperative to maintain the engagement of students during the nationwide lockdown, the new experiment has not been smooth. It seems a mere alibi to justify the performance of their social responsibility and charging of fee. No matter how hard the endeavour be, this unplanned and rapid shift cannot make up for the academic loss suffered by students. There is practically no alternative to classroom activities. Forced online teaching and learning process is fraught with challenges such as lack of requisite digital equipment, reliable internet access and sufficient technical know-how. Confused and stressed, students have to struggle hard to receive instructions. It has had a negative impact on their physical and mental health. In the absence of proper interaction with teachers and peers, creativity is at stake. Moreover, the practical part of education such as sports, lab work and manual skills is completely amiss. Home-learning programmes thus forfeit the very aim and purpose of education in the prevailing scenario.DS KangAir lectures on DoordarshanWhen schools, colleges are closed due to Covid-19, online education has become the talk of town. Schools are providing online lectures to students, where a teacher delivers lecture to all students of the same section and class. Sometimes, it seems very difficult for teachers to satisfy the queries of all students in 30 to 40 minutes. Where schools are showing gratitude on charging only tuition fee for two to three hours of study, parents had to buy a spare laptop, phone or tablet and the additional expenditure of the internet pack. Slow internet speed is another problem, especially for those living in remote areas. Uniformity in syllabus and education is the need of the hour. Lectures should be aired on Doordarshan, which will solve the problem of network issues and spending additional money on gadgets.Samriti SharmaNo substitute for classroom learningSpending a fairly considerable time under strict lockdown remained a very insipid experience. But it taught many new valuable lessons. Being a student of BBA, LLB, I kept worrying about studies through the new set-up being introduced during this period. The student community was made to learn many new aspects about studies during these precarious conditions. Right from the start of my student career, I was accustomed to classroom learning, but now, abruptly I stood accosted with online studies. The implementation was very sudden and abrupt and everyone had a tough time. But we have to start from somewhere. Thus, I treated it as a new beginning. The online system of studies stands nowhere equal to classroom studies. Our teachers are no doubt very learned and experienced, but since the new technology has come in the way, it makes the process difficult for teachers and pupil both. Teachers have to put an extra labour and students have to make an extra effort to understand lectures, for which they are not specifically accustomed. The new system has started showing its evil effects as well. It has been seen that students have started having eyesight problems owing to constantly being glued to computers or mobile phones. I can squarely conclude that online studies are no substitute for classroom studies.Neelabh NaagarStudents need teachers physicallyClassroom teaching is considered the best way of teaching. In my opinion, every student needs a teacher in a physical form. The government should allow reopening of coaching institutes, colleges and universities because students are mature enough to understand the current situation. Primary schools should be put on hold, but students studying in Class XI and XII should be allowed to come to school by following lockdown norms. Students miss their friends, teachers and routines. Their education is suffering. As to how to make it possible for teachers and students to maintain distance and other factors should be discussed. The authorities should also plan to shrink class sizes.Saahil HansGradual return to normalcy only way outEverything came to a standstill in this pandemic. After two months, we however, seem to be inching back to normalcy (the new normal with all precautions). Education took a massive hit during this period. Herculean efforts by the school managements and teachers is seeing students attending online lessons, getting online tests, but can this really serve the purpose ? There are various factors that come to play. Firstly, every student may not have access to a computer or a laptop. The argument that every household has at least one mobile phone with the service providers doling out data at nominal rates may not be of use if there are two or three children whose classes are going on simultaneously. Secondly, there is nothing that comes close to classroom teaching, where the interaction between a student and a teacher is beyond comparison. A good teacher can judge from the face of a student whether he/she is following the lessons or not. Classes should be started in such a way that 50 per cent students attend classes on one day and the other half the next day. Higher class students need practical classes which cannot be covered through online teaching. Young children can be taught at home as their syllabus is easy to cover. Gradual return to normalcy is the only way out.Manveen MannOnline teaching A revolutionary stepCovid-19 is an opportunity to uplift education to new heights. Online teaching is effectively compensating for classroom teaching. Rather it is the need of the hour and a revolutionary step benefitting students. Extraordinary interest shown by students is proving its success. Punjab Education Secretary Krishan Kumar has done a commendable job in imparting online education to government school students. Motivated by the move, government teachers are giving their best in the time of crisis. Moreover, the Union Finance Minister recently announced the launch of 'One class, one channel' which will prove a boon for the education sector.Monika JainIt is the Last and the only optionIt takes a lot of efforts to suddenly resort to the process of online teaching. I agree that this medium of teaching cannot compensate for classroom teaching at all. But believe me, this is the last and only option which we have to opt for in these difficult times when students are literally crying for socialisation. They are in dire need of mingling with their friends at their educational institutions. However, the positive thing is that if the process of online teaching can incorporate interesting and engaging anecdotes and mind-opening stories, a complete transformation can take place. I believe that delivering yoga and aerobic classes can also help the students relax their mind and sharpen their acumen. The only point we need to focus on is to give due weightage to the learners'' emotions and creativity. Teachers must adapt to new and innovative ways to impart their skills. The students can be encouraged to write their feelings in the form of a poem, song or even a short story. The bottom line is they need to be involved in a fruitful manner. In these challenging times, we have to take double responsibility of our students by making them count in the virtual mode of teaching and learning.Simranjeet Singh SainiOnline education system a failureThese uncertain times of Covid-19 have posed hindrance to all people, including students. To overcome this situation, schools are trying to upgrade themselves in terms of technology by compensating students for the loss of physical classes. However, in my opinion online teaching is proving to be a failure. Firstly, students of government schools are not equally privileged like their private school counterparts and most of them can't afford smartphones and laptops. Secondly, many rural areas, where a majority of the government schoolchildren reside, do not have access to Internet and have poor network issues. Thirdly, students can misuse class 'screen sharing' option to display any objectionable content. Online education may be provided by sharing material to students, which they can access as per their convenience. Their assignments should be corrected by teachers and given inputs to improve their writing abilities.Pahul SondNo match for classroom teachingOnline teaching has become a necessity but not a choice due to the pandemic. It is proven that people above 60, particularly male, and children below 10 are more susceptible to the virus. But virtual teaching can't be as good as classroom teaching. I remember that we would bow and touch the threshold of the classroom before entering it. We used to be in awe of teachers because of corporal punishment during those days. But the good thing was that we also spent time playing with our friends during recess and after school hours. Those friendships and bonding were continued for years. All such things will be gone with online teaching. It will be dull and unsentimental. There will be no emotional bonding between teachers and pupils. People like me still have connections with our school friends. In a nutshell, I online teaching can't be as good as classroom teaching.Dr JS WadhwaBest available option during pandemicGiven the extraordinary circumstances created by coronavirus, resorting to online teaching temporarily is the best option available with us. The children being a vulnerable section, deserve to be treated in a special way and there are chances that the norms of social distancing and other basic precautions may be violated at any level. Moreover, the period of isolation can be best utilised by parents for having close and effective interactions with their wards to solve any issue faced by them. Both parents and their wards will feel relaxed and secure at home and it will also help save their time. However, teachers should make themselves available online to their students for a specified period in case they need any assistance.Shashi KiranOpening schools a better optionThe Covid-19 pandemic has turned the world topsy-turvy. It has been two months since schools were shut to ensure safety of children. Was it a right step? I differ. Online teaching can't compare with the real experience of a classroom. Internet connectivity is erratic and the voice quality deteriorates every now and then. Most of the children are reporting symptoms of eye strain resulting due to compulsory viewing of computer or mobile phone screens for long hours. The online teaching has also deprived children of physical interaction with their friends. Giggles, laughs and secret talks between classroom buddies have disappeared. Many teachers admit that while teaching from home they fail to get proper response from children. Is there a viable alternative available? In Israel, schools have reopened with children divided into smaller groups in different shifts. It can be an alternative. The norms of social distancing and sanitation are strictly adhered to. There is no school assembly or other social gatherings. In fact, the children learn important lessons of sanitation from the school which would protect them from Covid and also other diseases. Opening of schools seems to be a much better alternative in the present circumstances.Gulbahar S SidhuVirtual education playing vital roleSchools have been closed for an indefinite period due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It is really a tough time for students, teachers and parents. Online education plays a vital role in this situation as students are in touch with their teachers. At least they are learning at home. The Punjab Government initiated good steps for providing online education to government school students. Online education cannot be fully substitute of classroom teaching but it serves 80-90% of the same. Teachers are doing their best in the present situation. Students are also getting the hang of online learning. Parents are much aware about the situation and they are also helping their children.Chander ShekharCan't compensate for classroom teachingI do agree with the fact that virtual learning is the need of the hour but it is another fact that it can't compensate for classroom teaching. Though virtual learning doesn't require waking up early and one can study in a comfortable manner, there is a lack of association and close relationship between teachers and students and among pupils. Moreover, classroom teaching also cultivates good habits of discipline and punctuality, which play an important role in shaping one's life. Physical interaction is also beneficial for the all-round development of children. Besides, classroom teaching breaks the monotony of life. Children meet their friends, do different activities and improve their mental health and abilities too. Teachers also work with enthusiasm every other day. Schools hold various extracurricular activities in addition to competitions and exams, which result in skill development. Hence, classroom teaching is much more effective than online teaching.Dimpy KhuranaOnline lectures Not accessible to allSchools have been closed for an indefinite period due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Online teaching is going on. But according to me, online teaching cannot compensate for classroom teaching. Technology cannot inspire students. Teacher acts as a guide and mentor also and this role cannot be compensated by technology. Moreover, all students do not have access to computers, smartphones and Internet. Children from underprivileged sections are facing problems in the absence of gadgets.Kavita Sabharwal QUESTIONThere are plans to start a Jaipur-Adampur-Delhi flight. Is this the right time to start flights to a new destination when the state governments have already announced 14-day home quarantine for all domestic flyers? Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (May 28).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-learning-forfeits-the-very-purpose-of-education-89733
