27-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||Encroachments are back in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 26Post-lockdown relaxations, shopkeepers have returned to markets, so are encroachments. The city, which remained encroachment-free for a month, is set to witness chaos again. Vehicles could be seen at major locations jostling for space due to encroachments, causing huge traffic snarls.Apparently with mercury soaring high, roads around electricity markets remain the most affected ones. Shopkeepers at the electricity market in Central Town have encroached upon roads by putting up their ACs and coolers, resulting in a traffic mess. As residents throng the market every day, the absence of traffic police personnel force drivers of auto-rickshaws, four-wheelers and two-wheelers to keep blowing horns.Though the traffic snarls occur frequently throughout the day, except a few police personnel at the Central Town chowk, no other traffic police official was seen deployed on the road.Traders on most of the roads have displayed their articles for sale, covering a considerable portion of roads, thus leaving a little room for vehicles to pass through. Even pedestrians face a harrowing time in markets. The vehicles parked in a haphazard manner leads to further trouble.The civic body appears to have turned a blind eye towards the menace. Besides residents, shopkeepers also rue about traffic chaos.Aditya Maheshwari, owner of ‘Glory Fans and Appliances’ said rush of vehicles had become a regular affair here and forget about social distancing, people even try to look for closest way to enter shops. There was no mechanism for the smooth passage of vehicles. Another shopkeeper said: “For the past two weeks, the rush of vehicles has returned in the market and it seems to be becoming a regular scene at the chowk. However, due to the absence of the traffic police, they had to face a lot of inconvenience.Shopkeepers at the electricity market in Central Town open their shops after 9 am and these remain open till 6 pm. Fans, coolers and air conditioners are in demand at the shops. The sale even goes after 6 pm at many establishments.Meanwhile, ACP (Traffic) Harvinder Singh assured that he would look into the matter and would deploy traffic police personnel to control the flow of vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/encroachments-are-back-in-jalandhar-90578
27-05-2020||Nawanshahr||Killers of Sunpreet confess to another murder, say cops||The district police today claimed that the gang that killed former scribe Sunpreet Singh Mangat had executed another murder.SSP Alka Meena said on the night of March 21, a man identified as Jasvir Singh of Siana village (Balachaur) was found dead along the roadside on the Rahon-Jadla road. He was a preacher and was on the way back to his village after performing his duty of Akhand Path at Sultanpur village near Rahon.She said during the police remand of the suspects, they revealed that they had also murdered a man on the night of March 21, when he confronted them during snatching of cash and other valuables. They killed him on the spot and did not take his scooter or mobile phone. They used a dagger during both crimes and wounds were made to look like that of a mishap.The SSP said in both cases, the first impression was of an accident but after getting the autopsy reports, it became known that wounds were like stabbing. The mystery behind the two cases was cleared with the recovery of the dagger from Jagdeep Singh, alias Babbu Bajwa.Alka Meena said the first murder of Jasvir Singh was committed by Jagdeep and Harsh with the help of their two minor accomplices.On confession of both suspects, when the medical report of Jasvir was procured from the Health Department yesterday, it was found that it mentioned that there were six stabs (three on chest, two on head and one on hand) as was in the case of Sunpreet whose body had 14 stabs.She said the gang of teenagers and youngsters up to the age of 24, was working on a modus operandi of not taking other items other than cash or valuables as revealed by its members. She said the gang was operative in Ropar and Jalandhar districts, besides Nawanshahr. Both minors were produced in the Juvenile Court and sent to Observation Home by the court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/killers-of-sunpreet-confess-to-another-murder-say-cops-90579
27-05-2020||---||Parents protest hike in fee by Sainik School||Kapurthala, May 26Peeved at a 10 per cent hike in the tution fee by Sainik School, Kapurthala, the Parents’ Association today lodged a protest against the management. The association wants the management to roll back its decision to increase the tution fee and other incidental charges.Major demandsRollback of a 10% hike in tution fee for this academic sessionPermission to pay dues in four installments.The academic calendar to be counted as 220 daysCiting the state government’s order, the parents also urged the state Education Department to include Sainik School under the same ambit as private schools.Navdeep Kumar Sharma, an elected parent representative, said the department, in a circular released after the Covid-19 outbreak, had directed private schools not to take incidental charges from the parents if they are conducting online classes for the students.However, the school management asked them to deposit incidental charges, including all miscellaneous expenses, of the lockdown months. “Even as most parents have suffered financial losses during the lockdown, the school authorities aren’t paying any head to our demands”, he said.The tution fee has been increased from Rs 79,860 (2019-2020 ) to Rs 1,26,984 in this session.Vikas Bansal, a student, said, “In the wake of the lockdown, we have suffered huge losses. We urge the school management to take diet, incidental and other allied charges for 220 days only instead of 295 days.The Principal couldn’t be contacted for her comments. Kapurthala DEO said a meeting would soon be held with the school principal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parents-protest-hike-in-fee-by-sainik-school-90580
27-05-2020||THE lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 has affected the valve industry as well. In an interview with Aparna Banerji||‘Industries need to strengthen customer base amid pandemic’||How has the lockdown impacted the valve industry?There has been a severe impact of the lockdown on the industry. At present, we can't get the raw material from outside and we can't even send our own consignments. The business depends on the availability of raw material and our ability to transport our manufactured products. But all units at various places, including Mumbai, Pune, Chennai and Ahmedabad, where we ship our products have been lying shut. Our products are largely dependent on the demand from industry intensive cities and at present, there are none. Raw material has also been hit. For making a single valve, 40 to 50 items are required. We need teflon, rubber seals, hardware items and wheels. We have to do casting first, which has come to a halt.How has the manufacturing capacity been hit?Our manufacturing capacity has been reduced to 40 to 50 per cent. The industry is currently running at 50 per cent losses. Forget about profits in 2020 and 2021. We are incurring all regular costs, rentals and labour cost at a time when our activities and output have been drastically reduced. So, while we don't get dividends, there is no reduction in the regular expenditure. Additionally, the industries with less than 100 labourers are exempt from paying PF and we ask why not include those with more labour. This is giving some people a reason to fudge records or lay off employees.What is the scenario of labour in the industry?During the harvest season every year, 20 to 25 per cent labour leave for home. But due to panic this year, 30 to 35 per cent have left. Our industry runs with 50 to 55 per cent labour. Many of the skilled workers, who have expertise in one or other fields, have already left. This has broken the chain of processes involved in the making of valves.Does the lockdown offer any hope to the industry?I don't think so there is any hope due to the lockdown. However, some steps are necessary for industries to tide over the crisis. At this time, industries should not take any loan. They need to strengthen their customer base and cater to limited but reliable customers. Besides, they also need to reduce expenses as much as possible.How much time the industry will take to come out of the crisis?We hear that things will improve by September. It will take minimum six months after the lockdown for things to get back on track. We are not expecting normal functioning of the industry any sooner than March 2021. This will depend on the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/industries-need-to-strengthen-customer-base-amid-pandemic-90581
27-05-2020||Jalandhar||Students share their views on ‘What is bigger — Pandemic or Financial Crisis’||Following a debate among students, Kanya Maha Vidyalaya has sought their views on the most debated topic, ‘What is bigger – Pandemic or Financial Crisis’.This activity was carried out by the PG Department of Economics. Nearly 30 students shared their views in the form of videos on the issue with relevant pictures and supporting data. The major view was emerged out that both pandemic and economic crisis have a devastating impact on the country, but a long-drawn pandemic like the coronavirus has more wide-raging and widespread adverse effects than an economic crisis.HighlightsStudents said a pandemic is a human crisis, which is threatening to human lives, and will also lead to the worst economic recession. It creates prolonged instability, anxiety and unrest among the most vulnerable and poorest sections of society while throwing the whole economic structure off balanceA few students opined that coordinated, decisive and inclusive policy actions of governments can downscale the impact of social and economic crisis caused by the pandemicStudents said a pandemic is a human crisis, which is threatening to human lives, and will also lead to the worst economic recession. It creates prolonged instability, anxiety and unrest among the most vulnerable and poorest sections of society while throwing the whole economic structure off balance. A few students opined that coordinated, decisive and inclusive policy actions of governments, which include providing technical and financial support across all sectors, can downscale the impact of social and economic crisis caused by the pandemic.Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that it is important that students must be completely aware of the whole pandemic situation that has arisen due to Covid-19 and they should also have an opinion on all impacts that this pandemic will have on society.Likewise, other colleges have also concentrated their e-discussions around similar topics. CT Group Campus director Dr. Jasdeep Kaur Dhami discussed a topic, ‘Emerging trends in management’, in a webinar organised by the International Journal of Advance Study and Research Work in association with the Smt. KG Mittal College of Arts and Commerce, Mumbai.Dr Dhami explained various functions of management with help of working efficiency of a mother. She said, “Even in the period of lockdown, all mothers are doing their level best to deal with the current situation. We shall focus on the working of management, where ‘surviving against odds’ becomes the new norm. The overall economic impact of the outbreak will surpass functions for years to come. The current situation may encourage the ‘Gig Economy’ that will encourage companies to shift from permanent employment towards more contractual workers.”Similarly, the Department of Design of the Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar, organised a webinar on ‘Reflections and Reassurances from Textile Crafts during and after Covid-19’.The webinar mainly talked about textiles and crafts in the current scenario, which is the second largest employed sector in the country. The discussion on the future plans, new parameters and innovations also took place.One of the speakers Dr Simmy, who is an associate professor at Lady Irwin College, New Delhi, talked about the problems the artisans are facing amid Covid- 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-share-their-views-on-what-is-bigger-%E2%80%94-pandemic-or-financial-crisis-90582
27-05-2020||---||Heatwave to continue for next few days||Jalandhar, May 26As the temperature has seen a significant increase in the region for the past few days, the Indian Meteorological Department today issued a circular mentioning the next two-three days are crucial for climatic variations due to the heatwaves.The city has already started feeling the heat with the mercury soaring high. The mercury was recorded the highest around 45°C on Tuesday. However, there was some relief in the evening when the temperature dipped to 38°C. As per reports, the temperature in the city is likely to range between 44°C and 46°C for the next two days.While hot and harsh weather conditions prevailed throughout the day, absence of wind made things worse. The notification by the Met Department reads “after observing the heatwaves and temperature on Tuesday, it seems that the temperature would be above normal at most places across the state.”As per data recorded with the Agri-Met Department of Punjab Agricultural University, the temperature has been fluctuating between 42°C- 44°C.Surinder Pal, a Met Department official, said: “The temperature will further rise in the next 48 hours and the heatwaves would cause disturbance in the atmosphere. The heatwaves are expected to settle down by May 29 and rain is also expected to provide some relief from the scorching heat.”The temperature for the subsequent days will be — Wednesday 45°C, Thursday 44°C and Friday 34°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/heatwave-to-continue-for-next-few-days-90583
27-05-2020||Our CorrespondentNawanshahr||Nawanshahr govt school holds PTM via app||Lending new dimensions to the ‘Ghar Baithe Sikhiya’ programme of the state Education Department, Government Smart Middle School, Karimpur, here, on Monday organised the parent-teacher meet (PTM) via Zoom (a videoconferencing app).Following the guidelines received from the Education Secretary to hold virtual PTM for Classes VI to XII from May 23 to 25 and make calls to all parents, Monika Sharma, English mistress-cum-in-charge of the school took the initiative to bring all parents together on a single platform and discussed their wards’ performances as well challenges being faced by them during the present crisis.Sharma said before organising the PTM via Zoom, she had a telephonic conversation with students and parents in rural areas during which she guided them about the Zoom app and its functioning.“The students were smart enough to learn to how to use the app and around 11 am, we started the PTM,” she said.She said there were 50 students in Classes VI, VII and VIII and a majority of the parents were able to attend the PTM online via the app.“The parents were happy as it was their first such experience. They lauded the efforts of the Education Department for providing the education facility during the lockdown,” Monika said.Harman, a student of Class VI, said she had been attending classes via Doordarshan TV channel. She said her mother was elated after the video call and was surprised over the advancement of technology and how the communication system had been changed.She said since the imposition of lockdown, the school had been providing education facility through TV, Radio and other social media tools under the ‘Ghar Baithe Sikhiya programme. Besides, taking regular classes as per the given schedule, teachers had also been managing online weekly tests as well as other activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-govt-school-holds-ptm-via-app-90584
27-05-2020||Jalandhar||Lockdown no deterrent for this young civil services aspirant||Engineering students have been taking the help of the Internet to prepare for competitive exams these days to enhance their knowledge amid the lockdown.Paavan Misser, a sixth-semester student at the DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology (DAVIET), is pursuing BTech in Electronics and Communication and has been preparing for the civil services exam.Paavan said the placement process starts in the seventh semester. “Had there been no such crisis, we would have cleared the semester by now and placement drives would have started. But at present, things are uncertain and everything depends upon the situation,” he said.Unlike a majority of the students, Paavan doesn’t have an aim to go abroad, but he is eyeing on cracking the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exams for which, he has been reading and gaining knowledge in various subjects.He is focusing on the websites that exclusively provide sessions on clearing the UPSC. Besides, he has been listening to educators guiding the students on clearing the competitive exams.Paavan said thankfully, he brought books before the lockdown to prepare for the competitive exams. Now, it is not that difficult to prepare as he has sufficient material to prepare for the exams.On being asked about problems by students during the lockdown, he said, “Students who had not purchased the books and other learning material would have faced some problems. But, studying online is the solution to every problem. Everything is available on the Internet.”He added, “We have got ample time to prepare for the exams and we must utilise it wisely and work hard to achieve our goals.”During the lockdown, Paavan also praised his teachers for encouraging students to prepare for the aptitude tests. “They were the ones who asked us to enhance the aptitude skills. Our teachers have also been guiding us. Apart from taking online tests, our online classes really prove to be fruitful at this time,” said the young civil services aspirant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lockdown-no-deterrent-for-this-young-civil-services-aspirant-90585
27-05-2020||Jalandhar||This photographer starts making masks that reveal identity||Prior to the lockdown, Anuj Kapoor ran a photo studio-cum-gift shop in Sodal Nagar, wherein he would also offer to print pictures on gift items such as mugs, clocks, cushions and scrolls. Ever since he reopened the shop about a week ago, there were no buyers for such stuff. So, he decided to introduce something that is the need of the hour, and it somehow clicked.At ‘Photo wala gift’ (as he has named his shop), he is still clicking pictures and superimposing them using gadgets and pressing machines that were already available with him. But the item used for the purpose now is cloth face masks, one of the most sought-after items since the Covid-19 spread. Send him any picture, print, design, cartoon character from your phone and he prints it on the mask within a few minutes, and women, youth and children are really liking it.He added, “The cloth that he is using for mask is a mix of cotton and polyester which is soft on face and washable too without causing any damage to the print. I am using already stitched masks with elastic strings on either side for grip.”He shows some readily available prints of masks - floral designs, those with wordings ‘Namaste’ and ‘Stay strong, stop coronaviru’, a paired mask one with ‘bride’ and another with ‘groom’ printed on it and characters such as avengers, angry birds and spiderman. He added that since masks had become a necessary wear, these could even now be designed along with every dress. Some shops selling readymade garments and suits have already approached me with the concept, he quips.But Anuj says, “The most sought-after design remains the printing of lower face. The youth are coming to me with a bold image of their face. We use the lower part of the nose and mouth which gets covered and print it on the mask. When worn, all portion of the face gets shown on it. Thus, a person, who somehow gets partly unrecognisable due to the mask, can get back his complete look even on a covered face using this technique.”Anuj says he has started getting so much work now that he has had to create a same setup at home and work from his place in the night to complete the orders. “Since I have to shut the shop by 7 pm as per the government directives, I am not able to finish work. But the visitors often remain in a hurry and I cannot afford to lose them at this stage. So reaching home, I work for three-four hours more to cover up all pendency to be ready to deliver the next day,” he shared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-photographer-starts-making-masks-that-reveal-identity-90586
27-05-2020||Jalandhar||F&CC meeting on May 29||Trucker held in hit-and-run caseNakodar: With the help of CCTV footage, the police arrested the suspected truck driver, Amit Kumar of Hathras, a native of UP, in a hit-and-run case. A local youth, Jasnoor Singh, was killed in the incident on the Nakodar-Nurmahal road on May 17. SSP Jalandhar (Rural) Navjot Mahal said after the incident, the truck driver fled from the spot and an FIR under Section 304-A, IPC, was registered on the statement of father of the deceased. He said owing to circumstances of the case, it was converted to the 304 of the IPC. Springing to action, the Nakodar Sadar Police SIT was set up that traced the truck to Phillaur barrier. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fcc-meeting-on-may-29-90587
27-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||NRI brides queue up for passport as centres reopen||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 26As the Passport Sewa Kendras reopened today after a gap of nearly two months, newlywed women were among the first ones to turn up.Donning red bangles, as many as 50 newlywed women were among the 241 applicants to put up their applications for getting a new passport at the local office. Having got married just prior to the lockdown, these young women had come from various parts of Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Phagwara and Moga.Many say they have been waiting for the passport office to reopen so that they could at least get the passport before the embassies open and the flights resume. Most of these women are married to NRIs and are eager to join their husbands abroad.Kulwant Kaur of Moga, who got married on March 1, travelled 45 km to apply for her passport. “My husband is based in Toronto. He was here till about a few weeks ago and left on a special flight. The Moga passport office has not opened yet. So I got an appointment here. I just hope that all my paper work is done by the time flights resume as I want to be with him at the earliest.”Similarly, Navjot Kaur, who got married in February this year, travelled 20 km from Phagwara along with her sister-in-law, who too was sporting a “red churra”. Navjot said: “My husband Jasvir Singh and his brother are based in Portugal. They run a shop there. They were here ahead of the lockdown and both got married. They too are stuck here and are helping us get our paper work completed.”Regional Passport Officer Raj Kumar Bali said he noted that many applicants on the first day were newlywed women. He said, “We have opened only one of the two kendras in Jalandhar. We want to see how people are responding to the situation. In normal days, we have a slot for 700 applicants at one kendra. But as per the government instructions, we gave only 350 appointments and called only 50 per cent staff.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nri-brides-queue-up-for-passport-as-centres-reopen-90444
