31-05-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Good news for Jalandhar shuttlers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 30The interim committee of the District Badminton Association (DBA) here on Saturday decided to open Raizada Hansraj Stadium from June 3 for senior state and national-level players.Issuing guidelines to all the members, the DBA has asked the players to get their fresh entry cards made, adhere to the time slots given to them, get Cova App downloaded and maintain social distance as they enter, leave and use any provision at the stadium.A member of the interim committee, Ritin Khanna, today showed that foot-pressing sanitisers had been installed everywhere in the stadium. “A new entry gate has been opened wherein players will not have to touch knobs. Shoe sanitisation facility has been kept. All players will show entry card and slot timings. They will undergo thermal screening. Gymnasium and canteens will remain shut. Players will bring their own water bottles and towels and keep them safely. No handshakes, hugs or high fives will be allowed among players. Shuttlecocks will be exchanged through rackquets and will be picked by servers from the floor”, he said.He said that players below the age of 10 years have been strictly barred from playing as of now and only the players in advance stages would be allowed. “Now that the government has relaxed working hours, we will be able to have sessions from early morning to late evening. The seniors will start one-hour session from 5.30 am to 10 am and then again in evening from 5 pm to 8.30 pm. For the younger lot, there will be two sessions of two hours each from 10.30 am to 12.30 pm and 2.30 pm to 4.30 pm. We have five courts and will allow 15 players in one session, two of whom will be in each court and third waiting to get a chance from loser in the game. In all, about 135 players will be able to get back to the game daily”, he said.Khanna added, “There has been tremendous pressure from the players and their families asking us to reopen service but we wanted all things to be put in place before getting it restarted. We hope we will manage most players in these sessions. If there will be more rush, we will get the sessions staggered with players being allowed on alternate days giving chance to more persons. Thankfully, the coaches of the academy have not gone back and are with us and they have agreed to work on half salary”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/good-news-for-jalandhar-shuttlers-92177
31-05-2020||---||Two arrested with 100-kg poppy husk||Jalandhar, May 30The City Police today busted another interstate drug racket with the arrest of two drug peddlers. They also recovered 100 kg of poppy husk from their possession. The accused have been identified as Warandeep Singh (33) of the New Santokhpura locality and Swaran Singh (45) of Singha village here.Commissioner of Police (CP) Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said a team of the CIA-Staff-1 had set up a naka in Transport Nagar as it got a tip-off that occupants of a truck (bearing registration No. PB06 Q 3286) had brought poppy husk from Jammu. The truck, in which the consignment was kept, was parked outside Lassi Dhaba.Bhullar said following the tip-off, ACP (North) Satinder Chadha was called to the spot and a search was carried out in the truck. While checking the vehicle, the police found that a special cavity was created between the cabin and truck body. The contraband was kept in plastic bags in it.The CP said the suspects were arrested by the police and a case under Sections 15, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act was registered against them at the Police Station No. 8.During preliminary interrogation, Bhullar said Warandeep revealed he was earlier an auto-rickshaw driver and purchased the truck from Harminder Singh of Maqsudan, six months ago.“Harminder is at present lodged at the Kapurthala jail in a drug case. Warandeep said he, along with Swaran, had gone to Jammu for delivering cold drinks in the truck on May 22 and bought poppy husk from there at a cost of Rs 2 lakh,” said Bhullar.Moreover, Warandeep had also been involved in a drug case in the past when the police arrested him with 10-kg poppy husk in June 2018.The CP added that the suspects would be produced in a local court and would be taken on remand for further probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-arrested-with-100-kg-poppy-husk-92178
31-05-2020||Our Correspondent||NRI couple found murdered in Phagwara||Phagwara, May 30A Canada-based NRI couple was reportedly found murdered with sharp weapons at their residence in Onkar Nagar here late this evening.Senior Superintendent of the Police (SSP) Satinder Singh confirmed the incident and said a police team led by SHO (City) Onkar Singh Brar rushed to the spot.The SSP said the deceased couple had been identified as Kirpal Singh Minhas (67) and his wife Davinder Kaur (65). The couple came to Phagwara from Canada in November 2019 for a few months and had been stuck in the town due to the lockdown. They were planning to return back.The SHO (City) said though the room of the deceased was seemed to be ransacked, nothing was found missing.He said one of their tenants, Jassi Dholi, was found missing. The police have registered a case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sent the bodies for autopsy in the local Civil Hospital. The SSP said the police were looking for the absconding tenant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nri-couple-found-murdered-in-phagwara-92179
31-05-2020||Hoshiarpur||‘Country will win battle against Covid’||On the completion of the one year of the second term of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi government at the Centre, Hoshiarpur MP and Union Minister of State for Industries Som Parkash congratulated the PM, BJP leaders and all BJP workers of the country.“Programmes are banned, so the party is recounting its achievements through social media”, he said, adding that in 2014, Prime Minister Modi gave a mantra to the nation, “Everyone’s development”. “The first 5-year term will be known as the foundation stone for establishing the country as an economic superpower of the world while The first year of the second term will be known for its historical achievements” , said Som Parkash.He said the country will win the battle against the Covid-19 epidemic with the efforts of the Union Government. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/country-will-win-battle-against-covid-92180
31-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||‘Preserve Buddhist relics found in Ayodhya’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 30Members of several Buddhist groups in the state have written to the Prime Minister requesting Buddhist relics found in Ayodhya, UP, be preserved and protected. They have submitted a memorandum to the ADC, Jalandhar, over the issue on Friday. Arun Kumar, the general secretary of the Federation of Ambedkarites and Buddhist Organisations (FABO), UK, has also sent a letter to the President in this regard.Organisations Write To Prime MinisterThe organisations which have wrote to the PM through the district administration include the Ambedkar Mission Society, Punjab; Ambedkar Bhawan Trust; All India Samata Sainik Dal, Dr Ambedkar Memorial Trust, Dr Ambedkar Welfare Society, Punjab Buddhist SocietyIn the memorandum addressed to the PM, Buddhist groups wrote: “We request you that Buddhist remains have been found on the site of Ayodhya during the levelling of land for the construction of the Ram temple. This is the Buddhist heritage and it has to be preserved under the custody of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). We request you to take immediate action to preserve theseThe organisations which have wrote to the PM through the district administration include the Ambedkar Mission Society, Punjab; Ambedkar Bhawan Trust; All India Samata Sainik Dal, Dr Ambedkar Memorial Trust, Dr Ambedkar Welfare Society, Punjab Buddhist Society.In his letter, Kumar has demanded from the Archaeological Survey of India to secure and preserve the Buddhist site and artefacts excavated at the Ram temple site in Ayodhya.”FABO has also sought from the President that he should “intervene and order the ASI to secure the site and preserve our national heritage. I also request that further excavation should be carried out in the presence of Buddhist, Hindu and Muslim representatives so that the research is not compromised.”In the memorandum addressed to the PM, Buddhist groups wrote: “We request you that Buddhist remains have been found on the site of Ayodhya during the levelling of land for the construction of the Ram temple. This is the Buddhist heritage and it has to be preserved under the custody of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). We request you to take immediate action to preserve these.” Those who have sent the memorandum include Sudesh Kalyan, president, Ambedkar Mission Society, Punjab; Baldev Raj Bhardwaj, finance secretary, Ambedkar Bhawan Trust; Jaswinder Wariana, president, All India Samata Sainik Dal; Ram Lal Dass, general secretary, Dr Ambedkar Memorial Trust; Sham Lal, general secretary, Dr Ambedkar Welfare Society; HB Sampla, president, Punjab Buddhist Society.Ambedkar ally, Lahori Ram Bali (90) also released a video on the issue today.In the video shared on social media, Bali says: “I appeal to the Central Government that relics found in Ayodhya be preserved. During the digging and levelling works, they should not be destroyed. Finding of Buddhist relics in Ayodha has come to the notice of Buddhists across the world and requests are being sent from England, Canada and the US that the relics should be preserved and protected. We hope that the Centre will take requisite action and buddhist community in the country will not be disappointed.”Santosh Dass, president, FABO, UK, said: “It would be a travesty if the ancient Buddhist relics are destroyed or appropriated as Hindu relics. These artefacts are an important part of India’s history and must be saved. The President must intervene in the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/preserve-buddhist-relics-found-in-ayodhya-92181
31-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Woman gives birth to baby in ambulance||Phagwara, May 30Saraswati, a resident of Goraya, on Thursday evening, gave a birth to a male child in an ambulance while she was on the way to the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar. The driver of the 108 ambulance service said they got an emergency call and were taking the woman from the Civil Hospital, Phagwara, to the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar.When they reached near the Jalandhar Cantt, the woman delivered a male child. She was assisted by the staff present in the ambulance. Later, both mother and child were medically examined at the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, and found fit.13-yr-old boy killed in mishapJalandhar: A 13-year-old migrant boy on Saturday died on the spot in a road mishap after the cycle he was riding was hit by an over speeding tractor-trailer. The pillion rider had a narrow escape. The victims have been identified as Sushil Kumar (13) and the pillion rider, Vishal (12). The incident occurred around 10 am at Randhawa Masandan village when the boy was heading towadrs their home. Investigation Officer, Raghuveer Singh, said both victims were residents of Gadaipur area. The police had taken the vehicle in their possession, while its driver was absconding. An FIR has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-gives-birth-to-baby-in-ambulance-92182
31-05-2020||---||Eight trains to run from June 1||Jalandhar, May 30Eight trains will move past the Jalandhar railway station as the Railways restart services from June 1.The trains include those starting from Amritsar to Maharashtra, Bihar, Haridwar and West Bengal. These include Sachkhand Express (Amritsar to Nanded), Durgiana Express (Amritsar to Kolkata), Paschim Express (Amritsar to Bandra in Mumbai), Golden Temple Mail (Amritsar to Mumbai Central), Jan Shatabdi (Amritsar to Haridwar), Shaheed Express (Amritsar to Jaynagar), Saryu Jamuna (Amritsar to Jaynagar) and Karmabhoomi Superfast (Amritsar to New Jalpaiguri).While most bookings are being done online, some visitors at counters complained they were not getting tickets for journey prior to June 25. Radhey Krishan, who used to run a stall at the railway station, said he had come to book a ticket to his hometown Faizabad. “I have been rendered jobless and my wife and children are surviving on small savings that we had. I have been told that there reservation facility is not available at the moment,” he said.Jalleshwar Mehra, who ran a stall of cold drinks, said he had earlier booked a ticket to Bilaspur in Chhatisgarh on April 12 and had come to get refund. “I live in the adjoining Bashirpura locality here with my family and have no work to earn a living. I am unsure when I will get work or return to my place,” he said showing the confirmed ticket of a Shramik train that he got earlier but was denied at the later stage.An ITI student from Mehr Chand Polytechnic said he had come to seek refund of tickets that his family had booked for Faizabad last month to attend a marriage. “We could not go then, so I came to get back the money and see if there is any possibility of getting tickets booked any time soon,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eight-trains-to-run-from-june-1-92183
31-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Pathi booked in sacrilege case||Dasuya , May 30The police have registered a case against a pathi for desecrating the Guru Granth Sahib. In this regard, Hoshiar Singh, a resident of Tihada village, lodged a complaint with the Dasuya police. He said he served in the gurdwara of the village. He alleged that on May 26, Narinder Singh, alias Seth, resident of Tihada, who's serving as pathi in the gurdwara, intentionally torn the page of Guru Granth Sahib. The  police have registered a case against the suspect Narinder Singh under Section 295-A.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pathi-booked-in-sacrilege-case-92191
31-05-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Slowdown is best time to make new developments in any field’||AMARINDER S Dhiman, CEO, Dhiman Group, talks about the present scenario and strategies after the lockdown to boost the economy. Dhiman Group, which is manufacturer and exporter of confectionary machines, has plants in India and Chicago. In an interview with Aakanksha N Bhardwaj, he says it is time to think of developing the business instead of putting blame on someone else. Excerpts…How has the lockdown impacted your business?Initially, we faced problems as our business was suddenly hit and supplies were affected. Customers were hesitant and reluctant in purchasing products. Now, things are improving gradually.Recently, we started making masks. We engaged in the process when the lockdown was announced and got success within a few weeks. In the factory where we were manufacturing confectionary machines, we started developing mask-making machines. In the candy factory, we started making masks.Amarinder S Dhiman, CEO, Dhiman Group Did you plan anything new during the nationwide lockdown?We have done something different. We immediately started developing our own mask-making machines. Looking at the need of the hour, we used our resources such as the design section and the manufacturing section for manufacturing mask machines. I don't believe in sitting idle and wait for the situation to get normal. Instead, I used the lockdown period to develop mask-making machines. Recently, we started making masks. We engaged in the process when the lockdown was announced and got success within a few weeks. In the factory where we were manufacturing confectionary machines, we started developing mask-making machines. In the candy factory, we started making masks.What lessons as a businessman have you learnt during the lockdown?I believe that the best time to make development in new fields is during slowdown because when there is heavy rush of the customers, there is a high demand and pressure. So, during that period, you don't get time to think of new development.Are you also facing problems due to a shortage of migrant labour?We used to have labour from UP and Bihar. But, we figured it out that they were not regular. So, a couple of years ago, we decided that we would hire local labourers here. In this way, we didn't have to face any labour shortage after the lockdown.How much time will it take for the business to revive?Nothing is certain at present. We don't know how long this problem will stay. I believe it would take another six months for the situation to come back on track.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/slowdown-is-best-time-to-make-new-developments-in-any-field-92192
31-05-2020||Aparna Banerji||Her YouTube classes prove to be a boon for many students||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 30Pooja Bhagat (19) wants to be a fashion designer and Mansi Anand (19) aspires to become a commerce lecturer. Their professor ensured that their studies don’t affect due to the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19.However, before March 22 when classes in educational institutes were suspended, teachers and students were worried about their studies.Initially, there were setbacks. Students from Jammu had no Internet connectivity and had left for their places near Holi, leaving their laptops and books behind. But, eventually Internet connectivity got better and other students sent PDFs of their books to them. In the end, the need for learning online and finding new means to get lessons made students more confident and resourceful.Binoo Gupta, Associate Professor, Hans Raj Mahila Maha VidyalayaTeachers were in a fix to complete the syllabus of students. But, the Internet solved their problems and devised ways to help students in pursue their dreams.For the past three months, Binoo Gupta's around 150 B.Com and BBA students from Punjab, Haryana and Jammu have been attending online classes in which she gives lessons in Income Tax and Cost Accounts on YouTube. These 150 students include aspiring chartered accountants, fashion designers, lecturers and entrepreneurs.Binoo, an associate professor, PG Department of Commerce and Management, Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, has been teaching B.Com and BBA students online as per their semester requirements since the lockdown was announced.Days before the lockdown, they formed a WhatsApp group, Income Tax, to continue the studies of students.Before March 14 when a meeting held at the college to make efforts for teaching online, certain WhatsApp groups were formed and a few videos were uploaded.Initially, she started online classes by making WhatsApp videos and audios. She also started taking classes on Zoom app. Later, she started uploading videos on her YouTube channel.Now, students have completed their syllabus after attending online classless.Binoo said, “Initially, there were setbacks. Students from Jammu had no internet connectivity and had left for their places near Holi, leaving their laptops and books behind. But, eventually Internet connectivity got better and other students sent PDFs of their books to them. In the end, the need for learning online and finding new means to get lessons made students more confident and resourceful. They uploaded PPTs and organised webinars. They found new ways for getting lessons.”Pooja, a semester-four student of B.Com, said, “I opted for the commerce stream because it will help me chase my dream of becoming fashion entrepreneur. Leaving a few glitches aside, the online lessons give us more time. Initially, we were nervous, but now we are enjoying.”Mansi said, “Initially, we were nervous, but things got smoothened as time passed. We have finished our syllabus and now, we are revising our concepts. Barring a few network problems initially, online learning has been fun.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/her-youtube-classes-prove-to-be-a-boon-for-many-students-92194
31-05-2020||Ajay Joshi||At subsidised rates, fruit dealers expecting hike in sales||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, May 30Owing to a considerable shortfall in the consumption demand, the supply of fruits remained limited at the Maqsudan fruit market here.According to sources, the distribution of fruits has sharply declined in the wholesale market in the past two months. Though the mandis remained open, unavailability of consumers hampered the average sale. Compared to normal days, the quantity of fruits sold in the market fell by around 90 per cent in the first phase of the lockdown and continued to fall about 60 per cent.These are major buyers of fruits in the city and their closure substantially reduced the demand. During this season, fruit chart used to remain in high demand. Dealers jointly suffered a loss of over Rs90 lakh due to the lockdown and now, our main focus is to scale up the sale without any loss. We are now storing fruits as per the market demand and have reduced the rates. one box of cherries is now being sold for Rs80-100, which was earlier sold out for not less than Rs150.Inderjit Singh, President, Maqsudan Fruit Mandi AssociationHowever, with relaxations in Lockdown 4.0, local dealers are coping up with losses by reducing the market prices of fruits.Inderjit Singh, president, Maqsudan Fruit Mandi Association, said though relaxations have been given, many consumers, including hotels, dhabas, restaurants, and marriage palaces, are still buying fruits and vegetables.“These are major buyers of fruits in the city and their closure substantially reduced the demand. During this season, fruit chart used to remain in high demand. Dealers jointly suffered a loss of over Rs90 lakh due to the lockdown and now, our main focus is to scale up the sale without any loss. We are now storing fruits as per the market demand and have reduced the rates. For instance, the price of one carton of Kashmiri apples, which used to be sold out for Rs1,000, is around Rs500-600. Similarly, one box of cherries is now being sold for Rs80-100, which was earlier sold out for not less than Rs150,” he added.Other fruit dealers said the business will likely to grow if residents will be allowed to enter the madi. Vijay Kumar, owner, DD Mango Company, said they discarded a huge quantity of pineapple, banana and green coconuts due do the sudden call for the lockdown. “Items worth lakhs decayed in stores as we couldn't supply fruits,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/at-subsidised-rates-fruit-dealers-expecting-hike-in-sales-92195
31-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur reports 6 new Covid cases||Hoshiarpur, May 30The district reported six new Covid cases on Saturday. Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said now the number of positive patients in the district had reached 121, of which 27 are active cases.He said of the six positive cases found today, four are from Tanda block’s Nangli Jalalpur village, while one case is from Sajjana village in Mand Pandher block and one from Ramdaspur village. He said so far 2,368 samples had been taken from the district, of which 2,005 were found negative and reports of 213 samples were yet to come. As many as 89 persons have been cured so far while five have died. Twentynine samples have been found invalid so far.The Civil Surgeon said those persons who will violate the home quarantine norms will be fined Rs 2,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-reports-6-new-covid-cases-92197
