01-05-2021||Shimla||COVID-19 cases cross 1 lakh-mark in Himachal Pradesh, death toll at 1,500||Himachal Pradesh on Saturday recorded 885 fresh COVID-19 cases, pushing the total number of cases to 1,00,172, a senior health official said.Besides, 16 more people succumbed to the virus pushing the death toll to 1,500, Special Health Secretary Nipun Jindal said citing the data updated till 2 pm.There are 18,130 active COVID-19 cases in the state, the official stated.As many as 1,164 coronavirus patients have recuperated from the infection in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 80,478, Jindal said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-cases-cross-1-lakh-mark-in-himachal-pradesh-death-toll-at-1-500-246810
01-05-2021||---||Virus-infected Himachal labourers ‘isolated’ in toilet||Dharamsala, April 30A contractor allegedly isolated his five Covid-hit labourers in an under-construction toilet at a bus stand in Pangi area of Chamba district. Video images of the labourers sleeping in the toilet evoked shock and anger among local residents.Chamba Deputy Commissioner DC Rana, when contacted, said: “Officials, who were sent to Pangi to verify the facts, found that the contractor had allotted a room to the labourers at the under-construction bus stand. They were using the ‘sulabh shauchalaya’ at the bus stand as washroom. The SDM, Pangi, has now moved the labourers to an inn.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/virus-infected-himachal-labourers-isolated-in-toilet-246534
01-05-2021||Shimla||To ramp up testing, Himachal to buy RT-PCR machines||To ramp up Covid testing facilities, the state will procure more RT-PCR machines. The additional machines will help in ensuring timely reports of the samples, which are getting delayed due to a thrust on extensive testing, especially RT-PCR tests. “The state is purchasing more RT-PCR machines for the existing centres and will also provide more staff for multiple runs in these centres,” said Dr Nipun Jindal, MD, National Health Mission.The Central Government had asked the states to raise the proportion of RT-PCR tests in the overall testing up to 70 per cent, as they give more reliable results. “The state has eight RT-PCR labs with a total testing capacity of 4,900 samples per day,” said Dr Jindal. “Besides, we have been informed by the AIIMS authorities that an RT-PCT lab will be set up at AIIMS, Bilaspur, soon,” he said.Besides RT-PCR tests, the state is doing testing through Rapid Antigen Tests and TrueNat. While Rapid Antigen Tests are being done almost in the same proportion as RT-PCR tests, only a limited number of tests are done through TrueNat. “While any number of Rapid Antigen Tests can be done, our TrueNat capacity is 700 tests and it can be done at 25 locations in the state,” said Dr Jindal.The Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC), Shimla, which has a capacity to do 800 tests and has a high workload, has demanded an additional RT-PCR machine. “The principal’s office has taken up the matter with the government. I believe we will get it soon,” said Dr Janak Raj, Medical Superintendent, IGMC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-ramp-up-testing-himachal-to-buy-rt-pcr-machines-246509
01-05-2021||Nurpur||Nurpur traders refuse to abide by new timings||Most of the shopkeepers of Nurpur town did not follow the appeal of the local Beopar Mandal for reducing the hours of opening the shops from Friday, in the wake of increase in the number of Covid patients.The Beopar Mandal had appealed to the shopkeepers to open their shops from 9 am to 4 pm. However, they kept their shops open as usual.Barring a few shops, including those of goldsmiths, all others remained opened in the main bazaar, Niazpur, Chogan and Dunga Bazaars after 4 pm in the town.The shopkeepers said they had to close their shops during the weekend lockdown on Saturday and Sunday and there was no justification for reducing the time of opening the markets. They pleaded that all markets were being opened for full day in the adjoining areas of Jassur, Rehan, Bhadwar and Kotla. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurpur-traders-refuse-to-abide-by-new-timings-246514
01-05-2021||Our CorrespondentPalampur||Vax centres overcrowded in Palampur, staff in tizzy||The Covid vaccination drive has gathered pace in Palampur in the past few days. Most of the hospitals and health sub-centres can be seen overcrowded with people.In many health centres, people are reaching as early as 6 am to collect tokens, though the vaccination starts at 10 am. The health officials are finding it difficult to handle the crowd. In many centres, the authorities had to call the police for maintaining social distancing and saving themselves from manhandling.The Tribune team today visited some health centres in Palampur, Dheera and Baijnath sub-divisions, where the vaccination drive was in full swing. A huge rush was witnessed outside the centres. A doctor on duty said the pace of vaccination was slow initially, but with the rising number of infected patients and deaths inthe district, more people were coming forward for vaccination. He said because of technical glitches in the portal, many a times, it took 10 to 15 minutes to vaccinate one person.“All efforts have been made to maintain distancing, but sometimes it becomes difficult to handle the rush, as in most of the hospitals, the waiting area is limited.So, social distancing is not possible. Tokens are distributed daily in the morning, and then, one by one, a person is called for vaccination,” the doctor said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vax-centres-overcrowded-in-palampur-staff-in-tizzy-246521
01-05-2021||Our CorrespondentPalampur||Illegal mining goes on unabated in Thural villages||Illegal mining and quarrying is going on unchecked in Dhook, Dhaniara, Lahar and Umri areas in Thural.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that the government had auctioned two sites in Dhook and Dhaniara in January 2019, but no mining lease has been granted till date. However, in the absence of any check from the mining authorities, the two sites have become the centre of illegal mining. The government is losing royalty in worth lakhs of rupees daily. Hundreds of tractor-trailers, tempos can be seen lifting material from the areas situated on the bank of the Neugal.Illegal mining has not only created environmental imbalance, but also caused a huge loss to the state exchequer. It has resulted in flash floods, deforestation and landslides.It has also posed a serious threat to the existence of power substations, transmission lines, irrigation and drinking water supply schemes, local paths, village roads, bridges and cremation grounds.The issue is already under the scanner in various courts and the National Green Tribunal (NGT), still government agencies have become a mute spectator and allowed the mafia to flourish .The Aiwa, the Binwa, the Baner, the Mol and the Neugal have turned into a gold mines for the mafia.Rajiv Kalia, district mining officer, admitted that though the government had auctioned these points, no lease had been granted. He said he would look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-mining-goes-on-unabated-in-thural-villages-246527
01-05-2021||Ravinder SoodPalampur||Fix responsibility of mining officers, Butail writes to CM||Ashish Butail, local MLA and general secretary, HPCC, has expressed concern over large-scale mining and environmental degradation going in Neugal river at Bundla for the past few months. He said the IPH Department was constructing a retaining wall along the river to protect the Saurabh Van Vihar though a private agency had wreaked havoc posing serious threat to the existence of two bridges.Form probe teamIn a letter addressed to the Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, the MLA said he was shocked to see the extent of damage caused by mining in the middle of the river and along two bridges in gross violation of the mining policy of the state government.“The unscientific mining operations with the help of JCB machines and tractor trailers have wreaked havoc. Mining has caused craters 10 foot deep in a vast area, even saw tippers and JCB machines operating round the clock,” Ashish Butail added.Releasing a copy of letter addressed to the Chief Minister along with the copy of Mining Policy 2013 of the state government to media persons here today, Butail said no mining within 200 metres downward and 100 metres upward the river was allowed in the state. However in Neugal river there was free for all and contractor had extracted mining material just near the two bridges in gross violation of mining policy of the state. He said the whole illegal operation was in open defiance of the administration.The MLA also urged the Chief Minister that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) be constituted to conduct probe and fix the liability of officers responsible. “Let SIT give a report to you.”Gagan Ohari, contractor, said that the state government had allowed him to use the boulders from the river as per award letter and the IPH department had also deducted royalty from his bills from time to time. Therefore, he had not violated the law. He said whatever material he had extracted from the river was used for protection wall only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fix-responsibility-of-mining-officers-butail-writes-to-cm-246544
01-05-2021||Shimla||Addl DGP to handle Police Dept matters||Meanwhile, ADGP (CID) N Venugopal will look after the work of prisons and correctional services on superannuation of DGP Prisons, Somesh Goyal till further orders. TNS41-yr-old woman held with drugsShimla: The Shimla police on Friday apprehended a 41-year-old woman, a Cameroon national at Shoghi, and recovered 206-gram chitta (heroin) from her possession. She was arrested after a lead from a national of Democratic Republic of Congo, who was booked under the NDPS Act, following recovery of 3.19-gram chitta (heroin) at Megli in the outskirts of Shimla town on Thursday. During interrogation, the 25-year-old foreigner Congo national had disclosed that she was his main source of drug supply and backward linkage to the above NDPS Act case was worked out. The police are yet to disclose the identity of the foreigners involved in drugs trade. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/addl-dgp-to-handle-police-dept-matters-246546
01-05-2021||Shimla||No supplies, vax for 18-44 age group at govt hospitals delayed||Even though vaccination for 18 to 44 age group will not start in government health institutions till supplies are received but if the private hospitals have vaccine, they can start vaccination for this age group as per the price and vaccine type declared by them on COWIN portal.Stating this here today, Nipun Jindal, Director, National Health Mission (NHM), said since it has been communicated by the manufacturer that the vaccine supplies shall commence after three to four weeks, the third phase of vaccination shall be started in the state in government institutions only after that.He said the state has already placed an order of 73 lakh doses of Covid vaccine to be procured from Serum Institute of India in a phased manner over the next three to four months. “As such the vaccination for the 18-44 age group shall not start in the state till the supplies of the vaccines as per the order placed by the state is not received, which as per the manufacturer shall take around four weeks,” he confirmed.He clarified that there will be no issue in providing the first and second dose of vaccine for people above 45 years of age. “In fact the persons who are due for a second dose and have taken the first does four to eight weeks back should come forward to take the second dose so that effective immunity against the virus is built,” he stated.He disclosed that the state at present has a stock of 2.08 lakh doses for these categories and another 1.5 lakh will be received within a day or two. He said that 18-44 years of age group persons should get themselves registered on the portal but should visit the Government Covid vaccination centres only when they have scheduled appointment on the COWIN portal. The information regarding the receipt of vaccine for them shall be updated regularly through media.The state has seen an unprecedented surge in the number of Covid cases which have steadily increased from 218 (Feb 23, 2021) to around 18,000 in a very short span of time. The surge being observed in the second wave is much higher and steeper than the case progression in the first wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-supplies-vax-for-18-44-age-group-at-govt-hospitals-delayed-246434
01-05-2021||Mandi||No Public work in Mandi tehsil, sub-tehsil offices till May 31: Deputy Commissioner||Deputy Commissioner Rugved Thakur today ordered that the everyday work related to the identification, and verification of affidavits and hearing of judicial matters in tehsil, and sub-tehsil offices or regional agency offices in the district be postponed till May 31. He issued the order exercising powers conferred under the Himachal Pradesh Infectious Diseases (Covid-19) Regulations 2020.Thakur said that instructions had been issued to ensure that there is no congestion in the offices during registration of affidavits. Certificates should be issued online only. Stamp paper vendors had been asked to come to the tehsil and sub-tehsil offices in rotation. Besides, the order stated that it should be ensured that only a limited number of people visit the tehsil and sub-tehsil offices. A responsible person should be put on duty at the main gate of the tehsil and sub-tehsil offices, who should allow entry to only those having an urgent work. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-public-work-in-mandi-tehsil-sub-tehsil-offices-till-may-31-deputy-commissioner-246435
01-05-2021||Shimla||Students’ wing of Himachal Pradesh University protests varied pricing of vaccines||The Students Federation of India (SFI) unit of Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) today organised protests against different prices of vaccines fixed by the Union Government and accused them of nursing the interests of big business houses, leaving the common man in the lurch.The protesters demanded free vaccine for all. They asked the government to bear the cost of vaccine and purchase the entire quantity of vaccines manufactured by private companies. They opposed the decision to allow private companies to sell 50 per cent of the vaccine.Union leaders said vaccines were global public goods and it was the constitutional responsibility of states to provide them free of charge to everyone. Right to health flows directly from Article 21 of the Indian Constitution, and the right to free vaccine is a sub-set of it, they said, adding that free universal vaccination programmes had helped the country overcome diseases like polio completely.Campus Secretary of the SFI Vivek alleged that the vaccine policy announced by the Union Government was a reflection of complete surrender of the government to the interests of private monopolies and big business houses. Allowing private companies to sell 50 per cent of the vaccine produced at prices determined by manufacturers is ill-conceived, he said.“The Union Government has backed out of its commitment to ensure vaccines to states and the shortage of vaccine will only help the manufacturers sell vaccine at very high prices,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/students-wing-of-himachal-pradesh-university-protests-varied-pricing-of-vaccines-246436
01-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal's 10 private universities offer space for isolation centres||Private universities in the state have volunteered to provide space for micro Covid and quarantine centres with the assistance of the state government.As most of the students have returned home and online studies are going on, the accommodation at the private universities are vacant and they are ready to help the government in this time of crisis.Ten private universities are willing to provide space to set up Covid and quarantine centres, said Chairman of the Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPEIRC) Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (retd), who had an interaction with the chancellors and vice-chancellors of these universities.“APG Shimla University and Bahara University are keen to provide 150 beds for quarantine, and Indus International University and Maharaja Agrasen University have offered to spare one block each, while Baddi University and Chitkara University are offering five to 10 rooms,” he said. The Chief Secretary had been conveyed the offers, he added.Maharishi Markandeshwar University is already running a Covid centre. It is now willing to provide medical assistance. Jaypee University is willing to give space for Covid as well as quarantine centres while Abhilashi University, which is already running a 50-bed hospital, can spare 50 more beds for quarantine. IEC University has also offered five rooms with oxygen facility, beside 50 rooms.The accommodation can be used for Covid patients provided the government makes arrangements for oxygen in adequate quantity along with doctors and paramedical staff, said Maj Gen Kaushik (retd). Talks were also going on with the managements of other universities to support the cause, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachals-10-private-universities-offer-space-for-isolation-centres-246437
01-05-2021||Our CorrespondentHamirpur||HPTU to start MTech in  two colleges||The Himachal Pradesh Technical University (HPTU) will start MTech courses in two of its colleges from the next academic session. This was decided in the meeting of the academic council held here today virtually.Prof SP Bansal, Vice-Chancellor, said the courses would be started at the Mahatma Gandhi Engineering College Jeori in Shimla, and the Hydro Engineering College, Bandla in Bilaspur.He said the HPTU had also offered MSc in biotechnology and five postgraduate diploma courses to private engineering colleges affiliated to the university, if they furnished statutory infrastructure requirements.He said new diploma courses offered included diploma in performing arts, diploma in machine learning and artificial intelligence, diploma in big data, diploma in Internet of things and diploma in forensic science.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hptu-to-start-mtech-in-two-colleges-246438
01-05-2021||Shimla||Army allows Walker Hospital for Covid care||In a big boost to Covid facilities in Shimla, the Army has agreed to hand over Walker Hospital to the district administration for accommodating Covid patients. “We had sent a proposal to the Station Commander to turn Military Hospital into a Covid facility. We haven’t received the written confirmation yet, but the Army has agreed in principle and will hand over the hospital in the next two-three days,” said Shimla DC Aditya Negi.The administration is looking to create a Covid facility of around 100 to 150 beds at the hospital. “We will arrange the staff and oxygen cylinders. We will try and make it functional as early as possible after it’s handed over to us,” said the Deputy Commissioner.Besides, the IGMC has also enhanced its bed capacity from 147 to 217. The number of patients outnumbered the beds last evening, and the IGMC promptly laid out another 70 beds to accommodate them. “We have laid out 70 additional beds in the medicine ward. The ward has all the facilities and the patients will get same care as they have been getting in the Covid ward,” said IGMC MS Dr Janak Raj.Assuring that patients admitted in medicine ward will face no problem, Dr Janak Raj said they had been shifted to surgery ward. “There are not many patients in surgery wards these days. So, the patients were shifted there.”With the enhanced bed strength, the occupancy rate has fallen to 71.9 per cent at the hospital, which will reassure several people worried about the bed availability at the state’s premier institution.Meanwhile, the occupancy rate at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital (DDUH) has also fallen to 87.2 per cent. The hospital had overshot its actual 90-bed strength a couple of days back and even the additional 35 beds it had laid out were also occupied. “We have shifted around 15 patients who had become stable to the new facility at Ayurveda Hospital to open up space for more serious patients,” said DDU MS Dr Ravindra Mokta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/army-allows-walker-hospital-for-covid-care-246439
01-05-2021||Shimla||Shimla civic body to offer parking lots to residents on rent||The Municipal Corporation has decided to allot parking spaces in its various parking lots in the wards to the residents on the ‘first come, first served’ basis. “We have several parking lots that we have not been able to auction. So the House today decided to offer them straightaway to the residents on monthly rent,” said Municipal Commissioner Ashish Kohli.Other approvalsThe parking slots rented to the residents will bear their name or the vehicle number. “There’s a lot of demand for the parking slots. We already have received several applications. It will be beneficial to both MC and the residents—we will earn some income and they will get a parking space,” said Kohli.Besides, the House also approved the Tourism Department’s proposal to run a light and sound show at the Town Hall building. “The Tourism Department had given us a proposal for running a light and sound show at the Town Hall building. The department plans to run a 15-minute show, in which the state’s culture and history will be shown. It has been approved,” said Mayor Satya Kaundal.Also, the House approved the proposals to install electric charging stations at different sites in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-civic-body-to-offer-parking-lots-to-residents-on-rent-246440
01-05-2021||Ravinder SoodPalampur||No paragliding at Billing as Covid crisis persists||With the rising number of Covid 19 cases in Kangra district paragliding activities at Bir Billing have come to a standstill.Billing is among the top paragliding destinations of the world. Hundreds of paragliding enthusiasts dot the sky every day at Bir Billing but after the surge in Covid cases in the country and a large number of restrictions having been imposed on the movement of people, most of the hotels, home stays and tenting sites are deserted.“Hundreds of pilots throughout the world used to come here for a month or two. Locals, taxi operators, hotel owners used to make earnings from them. However, now there are no bookings as there are no arrival of tourists in the valley which is a big setback to tourism industry,” said Jaswant Pal, who runs a tenting sites near Billing.Pal said the remote Himalayan hamlet Bir has emerged the first choice of foreign visitors in the past 10 years after being counted among the world’s top paragliding destinations. However, coronavirus has hit them hard and no tourists have arrived here since March 2020when a nationwide lockdown was announced.Even though Bir, by and large, is free from the Covid-19, the hoteliers fear that visitors will not return any time soon as India has become one of the worst-hit nations in the world.What has made the matter worse is that the pandemic is also raging in the rural areas of Palampur like Chogan, Kandwari, Gopalpur, Bundla, Sungal, Baijnath where there are large number of home stays having four-five rooms, which are a major attraction of foreign tourists who stay here for months. In the past one year these home stays have hardly seen any foreign visitors.Despite being the worst hit, hospitality, travel and tourism sectors in Himachal have not received any direct financial assistance from the state or the Central governments. The government has not even waived minimum energy charges for these units.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-paragliding-at-billing-as-covid-crisis-persists-246441
01-05-2021||Anika||9-yr-old student of Loreto Convent guest of honour at international seminar||73 units of blood donatedThe Sunil Upadhyay Educational Trust organised a blood donation camp at HPU, in which 73 units were collected. Trust secretary Surender Sharma said they had urged the youth to donate blood before going for vaccination, as they would not be able to do so for a while after taking the jab. He further said students and others showed a lot of enthusiasm, and followed the SOPs during the camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/9-yr-old-student-of-loreto-convent-guest-of-honour-at-international-seminar-246443
01-05-2021||One can see potholes on the Boileauganj-Chaura Maidan road of the city. At one point on the stretch||Road full of potholes||Customers don’t wear masksEven with Covid at its worst, one can still find people without masks inside shops. Others, who are following the SOPs, feel inconvenient standing around these reckless people. Though ‘no mask, no service’ rule is on, the shopkeepers continue to entertain these people. —Suman, KasumptiIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/road-full-of-potholes-246445
01-05-2021||Solan||Oxygen producing units in Solan to install CCTV cameras||In a bid to regulate the manufacturing of medical oxygen in Solan, the Deputy Commissioner (DC) today directed all manufacturing units to install close circuit (CCTV) cameras.With reports of diversion of liquid oxygen cylinders to private individuals pouring in a six-member committee was constituted to regulate and control its supply.Monitoring panel constitutedThe committee headed by Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Anurag Chander Sharma has Superintendent of Police, Rohit Malpani, SDM Nalagarh Mahinder Pal, Deputy Director Industries, Sanjay Kanwar, Deputy Commissioner, States Taxes and Excise, Varun Katoch and State Drugs Controller, Navneet Marwaha as its other members.The committee inspected three oxygen manufacturers - Himalaya Gases, Shivalik Gases and Indo Gases in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial hub today.“Ever since the shortage of oxygen hit Delhi, hoarding of cylinders began and they were being sold at a high profit in several states. This has created a shortage of cylinders in the state as well. Reports of private individuals offering a much higher price to the manufacturers was also pouring in and this has aggravated the oxygen crisis,” said the ADC.The ADC said efforts were afoot to collect empty cylinders from industries in a bid to check their hoarding as their shortage was causing problems in distribution of oxygen. Though no irregularity has come to fore the committee will keep eye on their operations.Efforts were also on to enhance the state quota of 15 metric tonne from INOX Air Products, Barotiwala, which provides liquid oxygen to several northern states, informed officials in view of its growing need with the surge in Covid cases.DC KC Chaman said, “There is an impending shortage of oxygen cylinders in the district for the dedicated Covid care centres and other medical facilities. It was also reported that manufacturing units were not complying with the directed issued by the government. The six-member committee will examine its various aspects.”The State Drugs Controller will ensure that the drug inspectors visit the manufacturing units on a daily basis and obtain reports of daily sales. This report would be tallied with the state taxes and excise report on sales on a daily basisThe Deputy Commissioner, States Taxes and Excise, has been specifically directed to take stock of oxygen cylinders available with liquid oxygen manufacturers and ensure that there was no pilferage at any prohibited industrial unit in the area.The committee will also compile details of all industrial units which are prohibited from the consumption of liquid oxygen and they will ensure that they are not supplied any oxygen till further orders. Non- essential industries like steel and iron, glass and pharmaceutical manufacturers were others users of industrial oxygen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/oxygen-producing-units-in-solan-to-install-cctv-cameras-246450
01-05-2021||Solan||Covid patients’ kin bombard CM with plaints at Nahan||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who was on a day’s visit to Nahan to review the Covid preparedness of Sirmaur district, faced a barrage of complaints from the kin of Covid patients undergoing treatment at Dr YS Parmar Medical College.While he was proceeding to review the preparedness at the college, a woman alleged that her husband, who died of Covid an hour ago, was provided oxygen only after his death.Videos go viralCoinciding with the Chief Minister’s visit, several videos went viral wherein kin of Covid patients admitted to Dr YS Parmar Medical College condemned the working of the health staff.Another woman complained that there was none to provide oxygen to patients requiring it urgently. Some people alleged that doctors hesitated from visiting wards and patients were asked to shift to a higher medical institute.Relatives of two Covid patients had been waiting for hours for ambulances to take the bodies to their native villages. Sensing their agitated mood, officials delayed the Chief Minister’s visit to the college. He was made to wait at the Circuit House and was finally taken to the college after a delay of over half an hour, after the ambulances were arranged.Meanwhile, Thakur stressed the need to enhance bed strength and staff to deal with the surging Covid cases. He directed officials to improve the bed capacity and use Government Degree College, Nahan and Zila Parishad Bhawan where 200 beds could be added.He authorised Principal Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College, Nahan, to hire 50 nurses, four data entry operators, 20 class IV employees, three lab technicians and 10 operation theatre assistants for Covid duty on outsourced basis till June 30.“The government will ensure smooth supply of PPE kits, face masks, sanitizers and oxygen. The bed capacity in Government Hospital, Nahan, will be increased to 110 and the Ayurveda Hospital will be utilised as a dedicated Covid Care Centre. Its bed capacity will be enhanced by 25,” he said.“A few private hospitals in the district will also be used as isolation centres for Covid patients,” added Thakur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-patients-kin-bombard-cm-with-plaints-at-nahan-246464
01-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal ex-CM Virbhadra Singh admitted to IGMC||Former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh (86) was today admitted to the cardiac care unit (CCU) of the IGMC here after being airlifted from Chandigarh. He was undergoing treatment for Covid at Max Hospital at Mohali.Dr Janak, Medical Superintendent of the IGMC, said, “His condition is stable but he is facing problem in breathing”. Later, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur went to the IGMC to enquire after Virbhadra’s health.Meanwhile, 2,358 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 99,287. Besides, 37 persons succumbed to the virus.Ten deaths were reported in Kangra, seven in Sirmaur, five in Shimla, four each in Hamirpur and Una, three in Mandi, two in Kullu and one each in Solan and Kinnaur.Kangra again reported the highest 594 cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-ex-cm-virbhadra-singh-admitted-to-igmc-246485
01-05-2021||Dharamsala||More isolation centres being set up in Kangra||The Kangra district administration is ramping up isolation facilities. The health authorities felt the need for isolation facilities in the district as even asymptomatic patients, who do not require hospitalisation were being sent to hospitals and the demand for beds with oxygen facility was increasing.A senior health official told The Tribune that he got a call from a minister to get a patient admitted to a Covid hospital. The oxygen level of the person was found to be 97 per cent at the hospital and he did not require hospitalisation. When the minister was informed about the patient’s condition, the health authorities were told to adjust him somewhere, as it was a matter of a prestige for him.Health officials alleged that there were many patients, who did not require oxygen beds, but they had been admitted to Covid hospitals, creating a shortage of life-saving oxygen supply and beds for critically-ill patients. A senior doctor said that once they admit a patient, they could not ask him or her to be released from the hospital because of the fixed norm of 14 days or seven days stay.There have been incidents where the families of Covid patients were not willing to keep them in home isolation. As most of the houses in rural areas of Himachal on an average have just two rooms with shared bathrooms, it is difficult to keep Covid patients in isolation at home. Therefore, many families prefer to send Covid patients to hospitals, especially after the fatality rate due to Covid increased in the state and the country.Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said that an isolation centre had been started in the Dadh area and more such centres would be established in other parts of the district. “As the requirement of beds equipped with oxygen is increasing, we have decided to first keep patients coming for admission to the isolation facility at Dadh, where they will be screened by medical experts. Patients whose oxygen level falls below 90 per cent will then be shifted to the Dharamsala Zonal Hospital that now has 170 beds equipped with oxygen supply. Efforts will be made that only patients requiring critical care are shifted to Tanda medical college,” he added.Prajapati said, “All hospitals in the district now have ample supplies of oxygen and oxygen cylinders. Some private hospitals such as Balaji Hospital in Kangra and Vivekananda Hospital in Palampur have already provided us 50 per cent beds and we have started referring patients there”. Health experts recommend that isolation facilities may also be created at the PHCs or the CHCs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/more-isolation-centres-being-set-up-in-kangra-246493
01-05-2021||Palampur||Palampur village  containment zone after  15 test positive||The district administration today declared the entire Lambapatt village, 10 km from Palampur, as containment zone, after 15 villagers tested Covid positive on Wednesday night.Palampur Sub Divisional Magistrate Dharmesh Ramotra said the step had been taken for the safety and security of residents under the disaster management Act.He said despite repeated requests of the administration, residents of various villages were not following safety guidelines issued by the government like social distancing, wearing of face masks etc.Large gatherings in marriages have been reported in the past one week from the village, which led to the spread of Covid in the area.He said the police had been deployed in the village and in case of any violation, cases would be registered against defaulters.He requested the villagers to visit the nearest health centre for Covid test in case of cough, cold, fever and chest infection.The district administration has made adequate arrangements for the supply of essential goods and helpline numbers have also been issued for medical emergencies. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-village-containment-zone-after-15-test-positive-246494
