02-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Chamba private bus operators’ strike from May 3||Chamba, May 1The Chamba Private Bus Operators Association has called for a strike from May 3 and submitted a notice to the Regional Transport Officer (RTO) with regards to their demands.Association president Ravi Mahajan said that their main demands included exemption from transport taxes since the coronavirus outbreak, introduction of the Rs 50 lakh insurance plan for their drivers and conductors and an assistance of Rs 2 lakh as working capital.Meanwhile, Regional Transport Officer (RTO) Onkar Singh said that a notice about the strike by the private bus operators had been received. They would not run buses on various routes of the district from May 3.However, the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HTRC) bus service would continue, he added.The RTO urged the private bus operators to postpone the strike in view of the difficulties being faced by people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-private-bus-operators-strike-from-may-3-247146
02-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Man dies by suicide in Jawali||Nurpur, May 1Yashpal Singh (50), a resident of Keharian at Jawali in Kangra district, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree near the Jawali court complex today. He left his home last evening but didn’t return. His family members got worried and started looking for him. They found his body hanging from a tree a few yards away from their house this morning.The Jawali police took possession of the body. DSP, Jawali, Sidharth Sharma said that Yaspal worked at a factory at Sansarpur Terrace in Dehra subdivision. He was mentally upset due to a financial crisis and took the extreme step.The body was sent to the civil Hospital mortuary at Nurpur. A case has been registerd under Section 174 of the CrPc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-dies-by-suicide-in-jawali-247149
02-05-2021||---||Man arrested with 5.35-gram drugs in Mandi||Mandi, May 1A 23-year-old man was arrested by the police for possession of 5.35 grams of heroin.The accused was identified as Navin Kumar, a native of Lohardi village, under the Balh Assembly segment in Mandi.According to the police, the accused was sitting on the stairs at the Mahamaya Temple in the area, when a police official on patrolling, detained him for checking.During checking, the police recovered illicit contraband from his possession and arrested him under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.A case had been registered against the accused and the investigationwas under way, said a police officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-arrested-with-5-35-gram-drugs-in-mandi-247150
02-05-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Stationery dealers in Nurpur feel Covid heat||Nurpur, May 1The Covid re-surge spelling doom to stationery dealers and private schools in lower Kangra areas comprising Nurpur, Jawali, Indora and Fatehpur. They had suffered heavy business losses last year due to the pandemic.Ajay Jamwal , Private School ownerBus owners sufferI have less income but the expenses on maintenance of buses are rising.The stationery dealers, after the closure of schools, are doing very little business. Surinder Kumar, Subhash and Pravesh Mehra of Nurpur said they had incurred losses of 40 per cent to 50 per cent during the two academic sessions.Joginder Kumar of Nurpur and Rahul Tuli and Vijay Kumar of Jassur, who deal in schoolbags, said the pandemic had spoiled their two-year business. “Before 2020, we did a roaring business in April and May but now we are virtually devastated,” they said.The drivers and conductors of private school buses have been rendered jobless and the vehicles are lying idle on the school premises since the last session. Narinder Mankotia, president of the Fatehpur, Indora, Jawali, Nurpur Private Schools’ Association, said the government had neither waived taxes of private schools last financial year, nor this year despite several representations. He appealed to the Chief Minister to provide a relief package so that they could disburse salaries to the staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stationery-dealers-in-nurpur-feel-covid-heat-247151
02-05-2021||Hamirpur||Nadaun man dies due to Covid-19||Vivek Sharma, a journalist of Nadaun, died of Covid-19 yesterday. He was admitted to Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College and Hospital four days ago, but could not survive. He was diabetic.He is survived by his 12-year-old son, 15-year-old daughter and wife. Prem Kumar Dhumal, former Chief Minister, Anurag Thakur, Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs, and Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu, Nadaun MLA, condoled Sharma’s death. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nadaun-man-dies-due-to-covid-19-247152
02-05-2021||---||Foreign students selling drugs: Shimla Cops||Shimla, May 1The arrest of a foreign student by the Shimla police has exposed their involvement in drug peddling. A 25-year-old student of a private university in Shimla, a national of Democratic Republic of Congo, was arrested at Mehli on May 29 with 3.19 grams of chitta (heroin). He was a retailer in the drug chain.Following a tip-off from the Congo national, the police yesterday arrested 41-year-old Juliet, a Cameroon national, at Shoghi and recovered 206 grams of chitta from her possession. Investigation revealed that she was a wholesaler and was frequently visiting Shimla with drugs for the past one and a half months, said ASP Praveer Thakur.Both foreigners were supplying drugs to 10 to 50 clients in Shimla district and Juliet had roped in other people in the drug chain. She used to stay in a hotel in Fingask Estate in the capital city and was regularly smuggling drugs from Delhi. The cost of one gram of chitta is Rs 4,000 but it is supplied for Rs 2,000, implying that it is further diluted, police sources said.It is the first case where foreigners were themselves supplying drugs as earlier local peddlers were bringing drugs from Delhi. The accused used to travel by bus or take lift in vehicles to reach Shimla. They have been remanded in four day police custody.Earlier, Nigerians supplied chitta in the state but now nationals of other African countries are involved in the illegal trade. The police are enquiring about their passport details and the possibility of the passports being fake or expired cannot be ruled out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/foreign-students-selling-drugs-shimla-cops-247153
02-05-2021||---||Dental college to operate till completion of course||Solan, May 1The migration of second, third and final year students of MN DAV Dental College and Hospital at Tatul, near here, to existing dental colleges is not possible. So, the management has decided to keep the college open till the completion of the courses of all batches. This has come as a relief to about 105 students, who were facing an uncertain future, as the college management has been contemplating to stop functioning this year.The HP Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission had received a complaint from Naveen Sharma, a parent, about the college’s closure from this academic session. The commission had taken up the matter with the college authorities and it was informed on April 16 that as per a letter received from the Director, Medical Education and Research, dated March 23, the BDS students of the second, third and final years could not migrate to existing colleges. In view of the development, the college would continue to function till all batches complete their courses, said Sharma, who was informed by the commission officials.The Directorate of Health and Medical Education (DHME) had began an exercise to adjust students in three other private dental colleges of the state. It had sent letters to the college management in December 2020, to know how many students could be admitted to various batches. These colleges could only admit students against a few vacant seats, as the sanctioned strength could not be exceeded.The students were skeptical about the fate of the college when the authorities did not participate in the centralised counselling process last year, for admissions to the first year of the 2020-2021 batch at Himachal Pradesh University (HPU).The students, who are at an advance stage of professional learning, have now heaved a sigh of relief.Relief for students||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dental-college-to-operate-till-completion-of-course-247156
02-05-2021||Our Correspodent||Sea buckthorn project delayed in Lahaul and Spiti, laxity by Forest Department alleged||Kullu, May 1Lahaul Spiti Seabuckthorn Association president BD Pasera has alleged that the lackadaisical attitude of the Forest Department has delayed the ambitious project of sea buckthorn cultivation on 2,500 hectares of forest area in Lahaul and Spiti.Plant imported from China, Pak, RussiaHe said that a road map for cultivating 30,000 hectares of forestland with sea buckthorn in 10 years in Himachal, Uttarakhand, Ladakh, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh was prepared at a seminar in Shimla on October 24, 2018. He added that the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had approved the project and demanded detailed project reports (DPR) from all states in September 2020.Pasera said that the Forest Department finalised a project of Rs 104 crore to plant sea buckthorn on 2,500 hectares of forestland in Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur after discussions with scientists, farmers and representative of industries at a seminar held in Sundernagar on February 20, 2021. He added that later Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur in his Budget speech stated that the plantation of sea buckthorn would be undertaken on 250 hectares in Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts in five years.Pasera said that the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests had approved Rs 1,260 crore for the cultivation of sea buckthorn in the border areas of four states and one union territory. He added that the Central government had provided Rs 1,600 crore under the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) and Rs 800 crore under the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) to the state government for afforestation.He alleged that the Forest Department had failed to prepare the DPR for sea buckthorn cultivation on 2,500 hectares of forestland in Himachal and as a result the Central funds approved for the project may lapse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sea-buckthorn-project-delayed-in-lahaul-and-spiti-laxity-by-forest-department-alleged-247157
02-05-2021||Vishal Gulati||Dry spell leaves Himachal veggie growers in despair||Shimla, May 1Vegetable growers in Himachal Pradesh are sowing crops but reaping despair.Last year, the nationwide lockdown owing to the coronavirus pandemic caused losses to them and this year, a long dry spell has left them high and dry.“Owing to scanty rainfall from January to the end of March, crops have been severely hit in the entire area,” says Nasib Singh Thakur, a marginal vegetable grower in Kandaghat tehsil of Solan district.He says that almost 60 per cent of the rabi crops season such as peas, cabbage, capsicum, beans, cauliflower and cucumber have been damaged due to a long dry spell from December onwards.“During this season last year, we left much food on farms to just rot in the fields owing to the nationwide lockdown (March 25, 2020). This time, a hostile weather has taken a heavy toll on the crops,” says CD Verma, another vegetable grower of Jubbarhatti village, on the outskirts of the state capital.“Normally, we used to harvest peas worth Rs 60,000 in this season. This time, we have earned just around Rs 20,000 by selling peas,” he adds. Vegetable production generates a revenue of Rs 3,500 crore to Rs 4,000 crore annually and has emerged as an alternative economic activity in the agriculture sector.The returns on off-season vegetable cultivation are very high compared to traditional food crops.As per government estimates, cultivating off-season vegetables gives a net return of Rs 60,000 to Rs 2 lakh per hectare, whereas traditional crops fetch Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000 per hectare.Agriculture Department officials say that 146,508 hectares of the 413,134 hectares cropped area have been affected due to less rainfall between January and the mid of April, causing an estimated loss of Rs 108.20 crore.Chief Secretary Anil Khachi has said water supply schemes of the Jal Shakti Vibhag have also been hit due to scanty rainfall. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dry-spell-leaves-himachal-veggie-growers-in-despair-247143
02-05-2021||Shimla||Thunderstorm, rain lash Shimla||A severe thunderstorm and hailstorm, accompanied by lightning and sharp showers, lashed Shimla, its surrounding areas and some other places in mid and lower hills, causing a drop in maximum temperature.Dark clouds overcast the sky, reducing visibility to a few metres, disrupting traffic and vehicles were forced to move at a snail’s pace with headlights on during the day. The MeT office has issued yellow warning of thunderstorm and lightning in 10 districts tomorrow and on May 4 and 5 and predicted a wet spell over five days.The MeT office has also predicted rain and thundershowers in the mid hills and rain and snow in the higher hills. A fresh western disturbance lies over the region.The maximum temperature dropped by a few notches following a thunderstorm and rain and Una was the hottest with a high of 38 degree against 40.7 degree on April 28.The hailstorm has caused damage to apple and stone fruit crops while rain and storm damaged standing wheat and other crops. Bilaspur and Hamirpur recorded a high of 37 degree and 36.4 degree, followed by Sundernagar 33.9 degree, Nahan 32.2 degree, Solan 30.6 degree, Shimla 24.5 degree and Keylong 13.5 degree.Sundernagar recorded 11 mm rain, followed by Solan 3.2 mm, Shimla 3 mm, Fagu and Mandi 2 mm. The state received 155.1 mm average rain from March 1 to May 1, against the normal rainfall of 179 mm, a deficit to 13 per cent. The rain deficit was 26 per cent and 24 per cent in Sirmaur and Chamba, while Mandi, Kullu and Shimla has received 38 percent, 36 per cent and 18 per cent excess rains respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/thunderstorm-rain-lash-shimla-247158
02-05-2021||Ambika Sharma||Baddi unit sells 706 oxygen cylinders, booked||Tribune News ServiceSolan, May 1A case has been registered against Indo Gases, an oxygen producer at Baddi, for selling more than 706 oxygen cylinders to 36 companies and individuals after April 19 though it was authorised to sell only medical oxygen.Besides, the company violated the April 25 directions of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs banning the use of oxygen for non-essential purposes and sold cylinders up to April 29.The Centre has declared medical oxygen as a critical commodity in view of its rising demand for Covid patients. The company had a licence of medical oxygen valid till March 23 but it sold oxygen to industries in violation of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act.A joint inspection conducted by a committee headed by Solan Additional DC (ADC) Anurag Chander Sharma, SDM (Nalagarh) Mahinder Pal, Baddi SP Rohit Malpani, Deputy Commissioner (State Taxes and Excise) Varun Katoch, Deputy Director (Industries) Sanjay Kanwar and State Drugs Controller Navneet Marwaha yesterday found large-scale irregularities in the stock at Indo Gases.Based on the findings, a recommendation was sent to DC KC Chaman. “As the licence was sought under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, oxygen is considered a drug under the Act and the sale of oxygen cylinders for industrial use is a violation,” recommended the State Drugs Controller.Chaman said, “The Baddi SP has been directed to register an FIR and investigate the matter. The SDM, Nalagarh, has also been directed to collect all cylinders sold to local industries”.The SP said that a case under Section 3 of the Epidemic Act, Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, and Sections 188 and 336 of the IPC had been registered against Gurdeep Chandel of Indo Gases at Baddi police station. A probe was underway.A scrutiny of the e-way bills of the company led to a list of beneficiaries, including Ghaziabad-based SNJ Distribution, who was sold a total of 453 oxygen cylinders on April 24, 25 and 27. Besides, oxygen cylinders had been sold to private individuals, resorts, housing apartments and several industries, including those manufacturing batteries, cosmetics, chemicals, pharmaceuticals and adhesives.Issues like the price at which the cylinders were sold would also be enquired into. As against prices ranging from Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000 per cylinder, as high as Rs 62,000 had been sought in some cases, said officials probing the case.The sales records were examined electronically by the Deputy Commissioner, State Taxes and Excise, as well as through the e-way portal. Enquiries revealed that both empty and filled oxygen cylinders had been supplied in various parts of the country in violation of the April 25 orders of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs and the Solan District Magistrate.In the dockIndo Gases, an oxygen producer at Baddi, has been booked for selling more than 706 oxygen cylinders to 36 companies and individuals after April 19||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-unit-sells-706-oxygen-cylinders-booked-247154
02-05-2021||Ravinder Sood||Bumper crop but few to pluck tea leaves in Kangra||PALAMPUR, May 1Despite a bumper tea crop in the Kangra valley this year, the shortage of labour has hit the tea industry. The Covid has further multiplied the problems of tea growers as most of the labourers, which had gone to their native places in the winter, are yet to reach back and join tea leaves plucking. It has left many planters in the lurch.Story HighlightsThe production of green tea leaves has come down to 60 per cent as compared to the previous year. The quality tea leaves are plucked in April, May and June, which give the maximum returns to growersTea growers with small holdings are the worst hit where the fall in the production has been recorded up to 70 per cent.The area under tea is squeezing day by day. In 1997-98, the total production of tea was 17 lakh kg, which had come down to 10 lakh kg in 2018-19. Thanks to the apathy of the government, which has failed to take steps for the revival of the Kangra valley tea industry. A number of tea growers in Baijnath, Bir and Chauntra have abandoned their tea gardens in the absence of labour and high-cost of production.Since tea cultivation is no more a profitable venture, the gardens are being replaced with housing colonies, hotels, tourist resorts, shops and other religious places.A few people know that Kangra tea was awarded the gold medal at an exhibition in London in 1886. Until 1905, the Kangra tea was rated to be the finest in the world for its flavour. and quality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bumper-crop-but-few-to-pluck-tea-leaves-in-kangra-247159
02-05-2021||---||‘Baba’ buried against Covid norms, 14 booked in Solan||Solan, May 1The body of 60-year-old Baba Bharti, head of the Luthru Mahadev at Arki who had died of Covid, was given a samadhi (buried) on the temple premises by his disciplines in the wee hours yesterday in violation of norms. His 14 disciples have been booked for the violation of Covid protocols.Arki SDM Vikas Shukla said the Baba was admitted to MMU Medical College at Sultanpur after he complained of breathing problem for three days. He died on April 29 and his body was brought to Luthru village at night the same day. The administration had made arrangements for his cremation, as per the Covid protocol, but the temple management informed it yesterday that he was given a samadhi (buried) around 5.45 am.Shukla added that four disciples of the Baba had not only bared the body but also come in contact with it while 10 others were present during the burial. All of them quarantined themselves after the burial and they would be tested for Covid tomorrow.“It was a violation of the Covid protocols, and an FIR has been registered against four disciples, who had come in contact with the body and 10 others who were present during the burial”. The Baba had a massive following in Punjab, Haryana and HP, and the administration was worried that thousands of people would turn up for his cremation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baba-buried-against-covid-norms-14-booked-in-solan-247160
02-05-2021||---||NGOs, industry urged to deposit Oxygen cylinders||Solan, May 1The district administration today appealed to social organisations, NGOs, industries as well as common people to hand over oxygen cylinders to their area SDMs. It hopes to collect at least 1,000 oxygen cylinders in the district.The Deputy Commissioner issued an appeal saying it was illegal to store filled oxygen cylinders and anyone found violating the law would face legal action.A six-member committee is also inspecting oxygen manufacturing plants to regulate and control the availability of cylinders after reports of hoarding poured in from various states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngos-industry-urged-to-deposit-oxygen-cylinders-247161
02-05-2021||Shimla||Provide more beds at IGMC, says Rakesh Singha||Rakesh Singha, CPM MLA from Theog, has said that the creation of additional Covid care facilities at different places in the state without an uninterrupted supply of oxygen will not serve the purpose.“It would have helped had the oxygen infrastructure been created before the start of the second Covid wave,” he added.The government should ramp up the bed capacity at the IGMC. “Shift the OPDs from the IGMC elsewhere with the exception of super specialty departments, and increase the bed capacity there,” he added.Singha said the state needs to recruit 3,000 paramedical staff and volunteers to fight the pandemic. “A large number of volunteers are required to provide meals, medicines and ensure supply of oxygen to the patients,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/provide-more-beds-at-igmc-says-rakesh-singha-247162
02-05-2021||Mandi||Mandi DC urged for testing in wards||The Citizen Council Mandi has urged DC Rugved Thakur to ensure Covid testing in the wards of the Municipal Corporation through mobile vans to avoid crowding at the Zonal Hospital.OP Kapoor, president of the council, said for the past few days, a huge rush of people was witnessed at the Zonal Hospital, posing a risk of Covid spread. There is an urgent need to take steps to ensure a small number of people visit the hospital.He said that the Zonal Hospital provides health services to the people of the district, and witnessed a heavy rush of patients along with their attendants round the year. Long queues of people in front of the registration counters could be seen.“We urge the DC to start testing at other places in the town as well as via mobile vans in the MC wards. We request him to direct the health authorities to provide information of mobile vans so that the maximum number of people could avail of the services,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-dc-urged-for-testing-in-wards-247163
02-05-2021||---||Covid has killed more men than women in Himachal: Data||Shimla, May 1Covid-19 has been harsher on men than women in the state. Of the 1,484 deaths till Saturday, 970 men (65.4 per cent) and 514 women (34.6 per cent) have succumbed to the virus. According to data made available by the health authorities, the mean age of people, who died of the virus, is 63.4 years.Besides, 67.3 per cent victims had co-morbidities. Diabetes and hypertension have had the worst effect on patients. Of the total deaths with co-morbid conditions, 499 cases (49.9 per cent) had diabetes mellitus, 459 (45.9 per cent) had hypertension, 111 (11.1 per cent) had chronic kidney disease and 84 (8.4 per cent) had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.Most deaths (374) were recorded in Kangra district. Close to 90 per cent victims are those persons who had attained the age of 45 years.Also, of the 362 deaths from April 14-30, 67 persons had received the first dose of vaccine. There were only two cases of deaths registered after the second dose of vaccine. Both cases were reported in Kangra and the duration between the second dose and the death was four days and 16 days. In both cases, the deceased had succumbed before developing the effective immunity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-has-killed-more-men-than-women-in-himachal-data-247164
02-05-2021||---||500-bed Covid centre at Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial hub||Solan, May 1A 500-bed extended Covid care centre has been created by the local administration in Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial hub to deal with the rising cases.The space available at Government Degree College, indoor stadium and Radhasoami Satsang Bhawans at Kirpalpur, Baddi and Panjhera has been utilised, where beds and other facilities have been provided with the help of SDM, Nalagarh, Mahinder Pal.Being a bordering industrial belt, an increase in cases has been witnessed here, which has necessitated the urgency to create sufficient beds. The daily ingress of industrial workers from heavy viral load states such as Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, and movement of trucks to states such as Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat, has made this industrial belt vulnerable to Covid.As many as 4,805 positive cases have been reported in this industrial belt till now.“A 66-bed ESIC hospital at Katha, a 45-bed makeshift hospital at Nalagarh and a 77-bed Covid care centre at Nalagarh are available for patients,” said the SDM.Since many cases have been registered in rural areas, the residents have been resisting their stay at the Covid centres, which has became a cause for concern for the officials. While the industry management has begun institutional vaccination, the officials hoped that the daily ingress of workers from neigbouring states will be dealt with cautiously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/500-bed-covid-centre-at-baddi-barotiwala-nalagarh-industrial-hub-247165
02-05-2021||---||Shimla: Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital oxygen plant opens||Shimla, May 1The oxygen plant at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital (DDUH), Shimla, has become functional. It was inaugurated by Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj here today.The plant was sanctioned last year following a major spike in Covid cases. “The requirement of oxygen to fight the second wave is huge. The Centre had allotted five oxygen plants for the state. We have made the DDU plant functional,” said Bhardwaj.DDU Medical Superintendent Dr Ravinder Mokta said the plant would help them meet nearly one third of the hospital’s demand when all 125 Covid beds were occupied. “The plant will provide us a huge relief,” said Dr Mokta.The hospital fetched oxygen from Mandi and Baddi through trucks. With the plant becoming functional, the hospital’s reliance on cylinders will decrease significantly. Dr Mokta further said the plant would produce 300 litre oxygen per minute and 4.32 lakh litres per day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-deen-dayal-upadhyay-hospital-oxygen-plant-opens-247166
02-05-2021||---||Covid-19: 2,751 new cases, count goes past one lakh in Himachal||Shimla, May 1As many as 2,751 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally past one lakh to 1,02,038. Besides, 28 persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours.Eighteen deaths were reported in Kangra, six in Solan and one each in Shimla, Una, Kinnaur and Chamba.The highest number of 669 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 527 in Sirmaur, 334 in Solan, 282 in Hamirpur, 280 in Shimla, 157 in Mandi, 146 in Bilaspur, 83 in Chamba, 82 in Kullu, 63 in Lahaul and Spiti and 27 in Kinnaur. The number of active cases rose to 19,928.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-2-751-new-cases-count-goes-past-one-lakh-in-himachal-247155
02-05-2021||---||Himachal to seize undeclared Oxygen cylinders||Shimla, May 1The district administration has told all private hospitals, traders and individuals to declare the number of oxygen cylinders in their possession within the next 24 hours, failing which action would be taken against them.The deputy commissioner today directed all sub-divisional magistrates to confiscate undeclared as well as unutilised cylinders. While the oxygen supply situation in the state is comfortable at the moment, a shortage of cylinders is being felt.The state has sought 5,000 cylinders from the Centre. The order states many people and entities may have hoarded cylinders. In case of emergency, officials have been empowered to seize cylinders available with anyone. A similar order was issued by the Solan administration.Babu Lal Sharma, SDM, Rohru, said: “Oxygen cylinders have suddenly disappeared from the market. It is possible that people might have hoarded these.”FInally, DDU Hospital plant functionalThe oxygen plant at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Shimla, has become functional. It has the capacity to produce 300 litre oxygen per minute or 4.32 lakh litres per day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-to-seize-undeclared-oxygen-cylinders-246996
