03-05-2021||Politics over the use of state government helicopter seems to be raging in the social media. It is Shimla (Rural) legislator Vikramaditya Singh||Vikramaditya draws flak||Covering up shortcomingsFacing flak for lack of facilities by the kin of Covid patients at Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College at Nahan, CM tried to justify the shortcomings. He said since its construction was underway, its facilities were still akin to a district level hospital. Interestingly, the health department was quick to take credit while enlisting it as having a functional oxygen manufacturing plant though it was yet to be commissioned. Facilities might be at a nascent stage but one wondered how they were shown offering optimum usage during visits of Medical Council of India’s teams in the past.Politics above pandemicWhile people were suffering from corona virus and many were losing their life in hospitals some political leaders were busy taking jibes at each other on social media. The jibes of political leaders were not taken kindly by netizens who flayed them for playing politics when people were dying for want of medical facilities. The political leaders were accused of being insensitive towards the sufferings of common man and just trying to get media headlines instead of coming forward to offer help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vikramaditya-draws-flak-247616
03-05-2021||Even on a Sunday||No parking even on Sunday||Stop wastage of waterMany people can be seen washing their vehicles with piped water in Shimla. The recent rainfall and snowfall have certainly swept away the fears of water shortage, but still one should not waste water even if it is easily available. —Manish Choudhary, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-parking-even-on-sunday-247612
03-05-2021||In view of surge in Covid-19 cases||Departmental exams postponed||ABVP suggests ways to fight CovidThe ABVP has written a letter to the Prime Minister, in which it has offered suggestions on the issue related to youth and education, and what could be done to mitigate the damage done by the pandemic. The ABVP suggested to rope in 8 lakh physicians from BAMS, BHMS, etc, coming under the Ayush Department. Also, the ABVP suggested to put over 2 lakh MBBS students, who passed out this year, BSC nursing and paramedical students on Covid duties. The ABVP also suggested that vaccination centres should be opened on college and university premises.Research paper-writing competitionThe All-India National Educational Association said a competition on research paper for school teachers was being held to discuss the issues confronting society. The topics would be, how to enhance the feeling of 'EK Bharat Shreshtha Bharat' through education, effectiveness of online learning, and National Education Policy: Opportunities and Challenges. Those interested to participate in the competition will need to make a token payment of Rs 100 for online registration. The research paper, which will have to be submitted by May 31, will have a word limit of 3,000 to 5,000 and the participant can write it in Hindi, English or the mother tongue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/departmental-exams-postponed-247605
03-05-2021||---||44 deaths, 2,453 new cases in Himachal||Shimla, May 2The Covid situation in the state continues to remain grim with a total of 44 fatalities being reported in the last 24 hours.As many as 2,453 fresh cases came to the fore. The number of active cases today shot up to 20,727, with the total positive cases till now being 1,04,491.A total of 44 persons, including 10 persons in Kangra, seven in Shimla, six in Sirmaur , six in Una, five in Hamirpur, four in Mandi, three in Solan and one in Kullu, Kinnaur and Chamba died of Covid.Mandi reported the highest number of 537 cases, followed by 399 in Kangra, 385 in Solan, 288 in SirmAur, 213 in Bilaspur, 144 in Hamirpur, 110 in Una, 103 in Chamba, 43 in Kullu, 14 in Lahaul & Spiti and one case in Kinnaur.The total number of people who have recovered from Covid is 82,148.Covid meter||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/44-deaths-2-453-new-cases-in-himachal-247604
03-05-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi 
||Foreigners’ arrest: Drugs supplied from Chhatarpur||Tribune News Service  Shimla, May 2 Investigations of two foreigners arrested by the Shimla police with 3.19 gram and 206 gram chitta in the past three days revealed that the drugs were being supplied from Chhatarpur in Delhi.  A 25-year-old student of a private university in Shimla, a national of Congo, was the retailer while the 41-year-old Juliet, a Cameroon national, was the wholesaler reporting to two bosses in Delhi, said ASP Praveer Thakur.  The police are preparing a data bank of people whom chitta was being supplied as the two foreigners had 10 to 50 clients in Shimla. During interrogation, the police also found videos of violence in the accused mobile. In one video, the foreigners were seen beating up a peddler, who was tied for committing mistakes.  Till 2019, mainly Nigerians were involved in the drug trade which was being run from Nevada and Sarita Vihar of Delhi but now people from other African countries have also joined.  In most cases, local peddlers were arrested, who were unaware of the source and were handed over the drugs at metro station in Delhi by foreigners, not known to them and the case could be a major breakthrough in cracking the drug network.  Chitta (heroin) addiction has surpassed cannabis (charas) and other drugs and 34.61 per cent of addicts are chitta consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/foreigners-arrest-drugs-supplied-from-chhatarpur-247593
03-05-2021||Dipender Manta
||Engage idle ambulances for emergency: GVK EMRI head||Tribune News Service Mandi, May 2 Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, the demand for ambulance service has increased manifold in the district.  This situation has put an immense pressure on ambulance service provider GVK EMRI in the district. The company is operating under public-private partnership mode in Himachal. Its employees say the situation is getting very challenging for them day by day due to the increase in cases in the district.  They said they were serving without taking proper breaks, sometimes for over 36 hours at a stretch, in order to transport Covid-19 patients from their native places to Covid hospitals. They said there were ambulances attached with government hospitals at various locations in Mandi district which were non-functional due to official apathy. The Chief Medical Officer of Mandi should take stock of such ambulances and engage these along with its staff for transportation of patients in emergency cases.   They said it was a war-like situation and it was the responsibility of each person to do the needful to deal with the situation effectively. The Chief Medical Officer should direct Block Medical Officers to make use of these ambulances in emergency service with immediate effect. It would definitely ease the pressure on GVK EMRI authority, they said. In Mandi district, there are a total of 31 ambulances under the GVK EMRI authority to provide service to patients in emergency cases, out of which five were non-functional. GVK EMRI Ambulance Service state head Mehul Sukumaran said, “Due to the increase in cases, most of the ambulances were engaged in transportation of Covid patients. As a result, the transportation gets delayed for regular emergency patients.”   “If all ambulances, which are attached with government hospitals, are made available on road for  emergency services, it will help us provide better service to people in this crucial time,” he said. Despite repeated attempts, Mandi Chief Medical Officer Dr Devender Sharma could not be reached on his phone for a comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/engage-idle-ambulances-for-emergency-gvk-emri-head-247594
03-05-2021||Our Correspondent||1.6 lakh vaccinated in Hamirpur||Hamirpur, May 2As many as 1,62,113 persons have been vaccinated in the district till today. The number is almost 40 per cent of the total population.The district has the highest density of population in the state and is vulnerable to Covid spike, so maintaining social distancing is a major challenge.Dr Sanjeev Jagota, nodal officer for Covid monitoring, said today 11 sessions of vaccination were done in the district. As many as 431 persons were vaccinated today. It was a holiday, but people arrived for vaccination, he said.Devashveta Banik, Deputy Commissioner (DC), said the pace of vaccination in the district had increased and 1,62,113 persons were vaccinated till today. She said 16,875 persons were given the second dose of vaccination, while 1,45,238 received the first dose. These also included 10,444 healthcare workers and 5,078 frontline workers.The DC said all arrangements had been made to vaccinate people in the age group of 18 to 44 and the process would be initiated soon. These persons should register for the vaccination forehand, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-6-lakh-vaccinated-in-hamirpur-247595
03-05-2021||---||Exceed marriage limit of 20, serve in Covid hospital: DC||Dharamsala, May 2 The Kangra administration has decided that any person in excess of the declared list of 20 participants found attending a marriage function will have to perform duty in a Covid hospital. The measure has been taken considering frequent violations of the limit of 20 persons on gatherings in social, and religious functions. The government has restricted the number of persons at a marriage function to 20. Kangra district has about 5,000 marriages scheduled for May and the authorities fear that these functions may spread the virus.  Rakesh Prajapati, DC, said  before seeking permission for a marriage, the applicant would have to declare a list of 20 participants. Above the count, anyone found attending the function would be initially kept in isolation at a government facility and then deputed at a Covid hospital for some days to serve food to patients or for any other service deemed fit by  in-charge of the hospital, he added. The administration has adopted the measure to discourage people from violating the limit. Officials said even trained nurses and doctors were fearful of working in Covid hospitals and the administration was finding it hard to arrange manpower to serve patients. The fear is likely to discourage people from exceeding the limit on the participants in marriages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/exceed-marriage-limit-of-20-serve-in-covid-hospital-dc-247596
03-05-2021||Chamba||DC: 20 persons to be allowed at funerals||Chamba District Magistrate DC Rana on Saturday issued orders for taking precautionary steps to control the spread of Covid-19 in the district, using the powers vested under Section 34 of the Disaster Management  Act, 2005. The DM said all social, educational, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political gatherings had been completely banned in the district, and a maximum of 20 persons would be allowed at funerals. There would be a complete ban on dham and DJ at marriage ceremonies. Complying with the Covid protocol, only 20 members of the family would be allowed at the wedding ceremony, the DM stated. The places, where violations will be found, will be closed for 10 days. Social ceremonies such as ‘mundan’ had also been banned. However, such ceremonies could be conducted by close family members.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dc-20-persons-to-be-allowed-at-funerals-247597
03-05-2021||---||2 brothers die in Mandi mishap||Mandi, May 2 Two persons were killed when the car, they were travelling in, collided with a stationary truck on the Chandigarh-Manali National Highway near Dador in Mandi district today. The deceased were identified as Sushil Kumar (35) and Pankaj Kumar (23), both natives of Pehad village in Dharampur. Both were siblings. According to the police, Pankaj lost control over the vehicle. As a result, the car collided with the truck. They were rushed to Nerchowk medical college but succumbed to their injuries. “A case has been registered under 304 A, IPC, and investigation was under way to ascertain the actual cause of the death,” said a police officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-brothers-die-in-mandi-mishap-247598
03-05-2021||Lalit Mohan||Politicians drag feet over Covid help||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 2The politicians, who had offered their properties for setting up Covid centres in Kangra district, are now in a catch-22 situation and “looking for ways to wriggle out of it”.In the last week of April, former minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma wrote a letter to the DC, stating that he was ready to set up a Covid hospital in his house in Dharamsala. He promised to arrange oxygen beds to help the district administration in fighting Covid.Another senior Congress leader GS Bali stated that if Sudhir’s house was converted into a Covid centre, he would provide beds and the health staff from his hospital in Kangra.Minister for Forests and Youth Affairs Rakesh Pathania also offered his nursing college in Nurpur for Covid patients.On April 27, the Kangra DC accepted their offers and asked them to provide the details of beds equipped with oxygen cylinders, medical staff and other facilities that they would provide. The leaders were asked to provide the details by May 1.According to information gathered by The Tribune, no leaders have provided the facilities in their properties. All of them have their own reasons for delay in providing the promised services.Sudhir said when the district administration and the government could not get doctors and nurses to work in government Covid hospitals, how could he arrange them.“I have instead written to the district administration to set up an isolation centre at my residence. I will soon set up 40 beds to keep asymptomatic patients in my house. I will also arrange some oxygen cylinders and an ambulance. The patients will also be provided food and other facilities,” he said. He said, “I will soon launch a helpline to provide food to those isolated in their houses.Rakesh Pathania said he would soon respond to the letter of the DC. His nursing college was lying vacant and the administration was free to use it.“I have sent 25 nurses to serve in Covid hospitals,” he said. Sources in the Health Department, however, said just five nurses sent by Pathania had reported at Covid hospital in Dharamsala.Bali said a 40-bed facility would be handed over to the administration from May 8. He said creating proper facilities for patients was a time-consuming process. He would also provide three ventilator-equipped beds to the district administration.Fail to meet May 1 deadlineWhat they said||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/politicians-drag-feet-over-covid-help-247599
03-05-2021||---||Hail damages stone fruit, wheat crop||Shimla, May 2Shimla, its surroundings and some other places in mid hills were lashed by a severe hailstorm and sharp showers, bringing normal life to a halt today.Dark clouds overcast the sky and it was darkness at noon, forcing people to rush indoors. The hailstorm that lasted for about 90 minutes, disrupted normal life and affected traffic as vehicles had to move at a very slow pace with headlights on during the day.The local MeT office, which had warned of thunderstorm and hailstorm, issued a fresh yellow warning of thunderstorm and lightning in Solan and Sirmaur districts on May 4 and Kangra, Solan, Shimla and Sirmaur on May 5.The MeT office also predicted rain and thundershowers in mid hills and rain and snow in higher hills from May 3 to May 8 and rain and thunderstorm in lower hills from May 4 to 7. The hailstorm caused a massive damage to apple and stone fruit crops and standing wheat and other Rabi cropsWidespread moderate rain occurred across the state and Baldwara was the wettest in the region with 45 mm of rain followed by Narkanda and Bharari 18 mm, Bajaura 16 mm, Sundernagar and Rajgarh 12 mm, Guler 11 mm, Kumarsein 8 mm, Kumarsein 8 mm, Dehra Gopipur 7mm and Shimla 6 mm.There was no appreciable change in the minimum and maximum temperatures and Keylong and Kalpa recorded a high of 16.7 degree and 20 degree while Una was the hottest with a high of 38.4 degree, followed by Nahan 33.8 degree, Shimla 23.5 degree and Manali 25 degree.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hail-damages-stone-fruit-wheat-crop-247600
03-05-2021||---||Mix-up of bodies leaves  kin shocked in Solan||Solan, May 2 In a major faux pas, relatives of a deceased Covid patient, who were preparing to cremate their family member at Chambaghat, realised minutes before they were to light the pyre that they had been handed over someone else’s body. Solan SDM Ajay Yadav rushed to the spot around 5 pm and enquired about the body from the tehsiladar, who was present at the spot. The body was then   shifted  to the mortuary of a Solan hospital. Yadav said, “When the family unmasked the face to have the last glimpse, they were shocked to see someone else’s body. Since both patients shared the same title, it led to confusion in the hospital.” Since    five deaths have occurred at MM Medical College since last night, it was immediately checked if other four bodies handed to the families had been exchanged. Since there was no such issue, the body was taken back to the mortuary.   The body of a Covid patient is wrapped when it is handed over to the family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mix-up-of-bodies-leaves-kin-shocked-in-solan-247591
03-05-2021||Hamirpur||MOA doctors to help Covid patients online||With coronavirus pandemic showing no signs pf abating, the doctors of the state have come forward to serve the society. Dr Pushpinder Verma, Secretary, Himachal Pradesh Medical Officers Association, said today that doctors would provide medial consultation to corona patients in isolation as they would be available to the patients through helpline numbers.  Dr Verma said the doctors were open to help the society and the government at any level. He said that people need not be afraid but take precautions to avoid corona infection. He urged that anyone who was capable of serving people in general and corona patients in general should come forward to help at this crucial juncture.  Releasing the phone number, Dr Pushpinder Verma said the doctors would be available for help 24x7. Dr Pushpinder Verma (9418080049), Dr Vikas (9816754604), Dr Anurag (9816927789) and Dr Mohinder (9816927450) would provide the consultation. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/moa-doctors-to-help-covid-patients-online-247592
03-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Police pray for residents’ well-being||Nurpur, May 2 The police deployed at Nurpur and Jawali police stations here held prayers outside the temples on Sunday for the well-being of people, in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19. Led by Station House Officers (SHOs) of the police stations, the personnel exhorted people to follow the Covid protocol.  In the prayer meeting, the police maintained social distancing and wore face masks.  According to the information, following the direction of the Director General of Police(DGP), the SP, Kangra, launched this special drive of praying for the people, to spread the message of maintaining social distancing and wearing masks among the masses. Residents of the area lauded the gesture of the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/police-pray-for-residents-well-being-247584
03-05-2021||Chamba||Power station provides rescue material||To control the outbreak of Covid-19, the NHPC Chamera Power Station-I (CPS-I), Khairi, has provided rescue material to the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) of Chamba. According to an official communiqué issued here on Friday, this material would be distributed among public by the district administration. A total of 300 hand sanitisers of 500 and 100 millilitres, 2,400 three-ply and N95 masks, 150 PPE kits, five sanitiser stands and two automatic sanitiser dispensers were provided by the CPS-I as rescue material under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) of the NHPC. District Disaster Management Authority chairman-cum-Deputy Commissioner DC Rana appreciated the efforts of the CPS-I. He said the material provided by the NHPC in this difficult situation would definitely help the people of the district to fight the pandemic. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-station-provides-rescue-material-247585
03-05-2021||Ravinder Sood||100-bed Covid care centre set up at Paprola college||Palampur, May 2A 100-bed Covid care hospital has been created by the district administration in Rajiv Gandhi Ayurvedic College Complex at Paprola, 20 km from here, in view of the growing coronavirus cases. All the beds have been connected with oxygen supply so that immediate medical aid is provided to Covid patients.Deputy Commissioner Kangra Rakesh Kumar Prajapati, who is supervising the setting of the hospital in the district, said besides this centre, the district administration had also identified about half a dozen other sites for setting up such Covid care facilities in the district.The Kangra is the worst hit district by the pandemic where average 600 persons are being tested positive daily for the past one week while the mortality rate per day is 16 which is alarming. The weekend lockdown in the district has also proved futile as cases are rising daily.SDM Palampur Dharmesh Ramotra said all arrangements have been completed for opening of this Covid care centre and in the next two days the health department would start admitting patients. He said every room of the Covid Care Centre has been equipped with LEDs.“In the past fortnight a large number of Covid 19 cases have been reported from rural areas of Palampur, Baijnath, Jaisinghpur and Dheera sub divisions. Hundreds of persons have been isolated at home in the absence of beds in the hospitals. Some of them are in critical condition. Therefore, the administration has realized that more Covid care centres are needed to meet the emergencies as figure of Covid case has gone up manifold in the region,” said senior officer of the health department while interacting with The Tribune.Kangra is the largest district of the state bordering Punjab and J&K. In the past one month hundreds of tourists from high-load states like Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh visited the state resulting in surge in Covid cases. Besides, there were over 3500 marriages in the district which normally attract huge crowds. At such events Covid protocols are generally thrown to the winds.No update on bed availabilityShimla: A Health Department website had no updates on the availability of beds in Covid facilities across the state on Sunday. Health officials had started giving out information on the availability of beds over the last few days. This information is important for the people looking for beds for their patients. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/100-bed-covid-care-centre-set-up-at-paprola-college-247586
03-05-2021||Ambika Sharma
||Ensure O2 plants don’t divert supply, Drugs Controller told||Tribune News Service Solan, May 2 In a bid to  check pilferage of medical oxygen from manufacturing plants, Solan Deputy Commissioner (DC) KC Chaman today directed the State Drugs Controller (SDC) to ensure that the three plants in  the Baddi and Barotiwala belt  do not divert it for non-medical purposes.  “The SDC will also ensure that the state receives its share of 15 metric tonne (MT) of liquid oxygen from Inox Air Products from its total production of 120 MT to ensure that critical patients were not left bereft of this key commodity,” he said. Since manufacturers like  Himalayan Gases,  Indo Gases and  Shivalik Gases, who secure their refills from Inox Air Products, are bound to supply oxygen to the state, the officials will monitor their manufacturing  and supply as per the guidelines.  Chaman added that since these gas manufacturers are licensed by the drug control administration, the officials are supposed to ensure that industrial houses like steel and iron industries and others do not use oxygen at this critical juncture.   The Nalagarh Sub Divisional Magistate (SDM) was also  directed by the Deputy Commissioner to  ensure that MM Medical College at Kumarhatti, ESIC, Katha, and the makeshift hospital at Nalagarh were provided 200, 100 and 50 oxygen cylinders, respectively, from oxygen manufacturers  in Baddi and Barotiwala. A mapping of 384 oxygen cylinders has been done by the SDM till May 1.  In a bid to ensure optimum utilisation  and mobilisation of liquid medical oxygen, the DC directed all industries, individuals, commercial units, firms, retailers etc. having any stock of oxygen cylinders, regulators, flowmeter, humidifier  and oxygen canunula to declare their status within 24 hours before the SDM concerned.  Officials have been directed to inspect all stores in their jurisdiction and confiscate unauthorised cylinders.   Nalagarh SDM Mahinder Pal said about 500 empty cylinders had been collected from various industries, including those who had voluntarily offered them.  “Data of cylinders would be compared with GST returns and those found concealing the cylinders would be taken to task,” added the SDM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ensure-o2-plants-dont-divert-supply-drugs-controller-told-247587
03-05-2021||Solan||60 oxygen beds to be acquired from pvt college||The administration will soon acquire 60 beds, including 57 having oxygen support and three having ventilator support, at MM Medical College and Hospital, Kumarhatti. District Magistrate (DM), KC Chaman, said the beds would be acquired on May 4 from the private medical college and hospital. Earlier, 50 beds were acquired from the medical college, including 38 with oxygen support and 12 with ventilator support. The Chief Medical Officer had requested the administration to enhance the bed strength from 50 to 110 where 95 beds would be fitted with oxygen support and 15 with ventilator of level 3 offering specialty tertiary care.  DM KC Chaman said a mechanism was being devised to monitor whether patients in home isolation received medicine kit within two hours and received a call from the doctor. This will help contain the pandemic and reduce hospitalization.  The need for beds was rapidly increasing. As many as 146 Covid patients are admitted to various hospitals while number of patients under home isolation was 2,478. As many as 110 deaths have been reported and there were 2,983 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/60-oxygen-beds-to-be-acquired-from-pvt-college-247588
03-05-2021||Kullu||Remdesivir vials go missing from Kullu hospital||Thirty-six vials of Remdesivir injections, used for treating Covid infection, have gone missing from the regional hospital of Kullu. The hospital authorities lodged a complaint with the police on Saturday that 36 vials of Remdesivir, which were kept in a store which was accessible to only doctors and staff, had gone missing. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said injections had gone missing from the store which was under CCTV surveillance. He said a case under Section 406 of IPC had been registered and an investigation was underway.   This is the first case of missing essential drugs from the hospital and the suspicion is on the staff. The cost of each injection is reported to be around Rs 736. Dr Neena Lal, Medical Superintendent, Kullu Regional Hospital, says she informed the police as soon as the matter came to the fore. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/remdesivir-vials-go-missing-from-kullu-hospital-247589
03-05-2021||---||Pvt hospitals free to procure vaccine||Dharamsala, May 2Private hospitals are free to procure vaccine and administer it to patients above 18. Kangra CMO GD Gupta said this while talking to The Tribune over the involvement of private hospitals in the vaccination drive.The CMO said the vaccine was being delivered to government hospitals free of cost by the Union government. However, after April 30, the government had decided to rope in private hospitals too.He said after procuring the vials, any private hospital could seek permission for vaccination. A team of health officials would go to the hospital, inspect its infrastructure and give it permission, the CMO said.The vaccination to people of 45 years and above ws being carried out in Kangra. Around 11,000 people were being vaccinated daily.Meanwhile, sources said private hospitals were unlikely to get vaccine till June. Even states were likely to get vaccine for 18 years and above till mid-May and the vaccination drive was likely to start in June.They said some private hospitals had already placed orders for vaccine but were not likely to get supplies till June. The demand for vaccination among people had increased and thousands had applied on government portals. A huge rush was being seen outside government vaccination centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pvt-hospitals-free-to-procure-vaccine-247590
03-05-2021||Lalit Mohan||Dharamsala  hoteliers differ on closure of units||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 2Hotel associations of Kangra have a difference of opinion over closing down their establishments.President of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Upper Dharamsala Ashok Bamba announced on Friday that all hotels would be shut till May 12 as there was no tourists.The association said the government should ask the electricity board to waive demand charges of hotels and also waive the licence fee for bars as there was no customers. It would further review the decision on May 12.‘see HP as safe destination’The government should start a campaign to sell Himachal as a safe destination where professionals from across the country can come and work after producing their negative report, said hoteliersMeanwhile, the Hotel Association of Smart City Dharamsala has said there is no logic in closing down units for 12 days. Hotels already have no customers and are in a closed state. Most of the staff have been laid off.General secretary of the association Sanjeev Gandhi said as the temperature had started increasing in the plains, queries were being generated from Delhi and Mumbai where people were looking to come to Himachal to work from the state. Many professionals were looking for rooms. “If anybody comes to the state with a negative RT-PCR report, we are ready to offer him room for a longer duration. This will help us generate income,” he said.The hoteliers of Dharamsala said the government should help them sell Himachal as a safe destination where people from across the country could come and work after producing their negative report.A campaign should be started to project Himachal as a safe destination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-hoteliers-differ-on-closure-of-units-247577
03-05-2021||Mandi||Kullu-Manali hoteliers seek govt aid||The hotel industry of Kullu and Manali is on the verge of collapse because of the second wave of Covid-19. Room occupancy in hotels has reduced to below five per cent these days. As per hoteliers, around 15 per cent hotels have shut down voluntarily in Kullu district because of the sharp decline in tourist arrival. Similarly, hoteliers of Mandi and Lahaul and Spiti districts are also facing losses. They all are demanding a relief package from the state government to cope up with the current situation. Anup Thakur, president of the Manali Hoteliers Association, said, “We urge the state government to waive demand charges of electricity for one year and issue electricity bills to hoteliers at domestic rates. There was zero occupancy in hotels of Kullu and Manali in the past two weeks. In such a critical situation, the government should rescue the hotel industry, which is now on the verge of collapse,” he added. “We also request the government to waive the installments of bank loans of hoteliers for one year without interest. It will be a huge relief for us,” he added. Munish Sood, president of Mandi Hoteliers Association, said that the state and Central governments should give some relief package to the hotel industry to cope with the current crisis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-manali-hoteliers-seek-govt-aid-247578
03-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Govt flayed for roping in teachers for vax drive||NURPUR, MAY 2  The state Congress has condemned the government decision to rope in teachers of government schools for the Covid vaccination drive. Vasu Soni, secretary, Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC), said here today that the Education Department was already in the crisis as a large number of posts in government schools were lying vacant and now, school teachers would be deployed for vaccination drive, leaving thousands of students in the lurch. Soni said the state authorities should deploy employees of other government departments in this drive as all offices were working with 50-per cent capacity. He said the pandemic had already caused a huge academic loss to students and the new decision of the government pointed to the apathy of the government. The Congress secretary said there was a need to motivate teachers to conduct interactive online classes.  “Merely sharing of YouTube links and forwarding assignments will not help students in achieving fruitful results. The government should provide laptops and smart phones to poor students to increase the reach of online interactive classes,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-flayed-for-roping-in-teachers-for-vax-drive-247579
03-05-2021||---||MGNREGA work worth Rs 1,900 cr approved for Mandi district||Mandi, May 2Zila Parishad, Mandi, has approved over Rs 1,900 crore MGNREGA work for 2021-22.Pal Verma, Chairperson of the Zila Parishad, said the House unanimously decided to pass the shelf for all 11 development blocks of the district.Of these, works worth about Rs 1,862 crore for 82,299 schemes received from blocks and about Rs 40 crore for 453 schemes of line department were approved.“Along with the formation of five permanent committees of the Zila Parishad, the Biodiversity Committee and the District Level Forest Rights Committee were also formed. The House also unanimously approved the names of the members in the Forest Right Act committee,” he said.The Zila Parishad has urged the government to implement the old system of expenditure instead of e-tendering to get the members to work in the 15th Finance Commission.“The Zila Parishad is considering to develop a new app, in which all information about the district will be available,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mgnrega-work-worth-rs-1-900-cr-approved-for-mandi-district-247580
03-05-2021||UNA||Anurag approves oxygen plant for Una hospital||Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur today directed the Una district administration to set up an oxygen plant at the Palkwah makeshift Covid hospital in Haroli sub division of Una district funds for which will be provided by the Union government.  As per an official press release quoting DC Raghav Sharma, the Una district administration had sent a request to the Union MoS for help to tide over the Covid pandemic situation in the district. The press release stated that the oxygen plant sanctioned by the minister will have a capacity to supply oxygen at the rate of 500 liters per minute and will be sufficient to cater to about 100 patients simultaneously.  The DC said he had a telephonic conversation with Anurag Thakur today and the minister has sanctioned an oxygen plant based on Pressure Swing Adsorption technology, which is capable to produce pure oxygen. The equipment, he said, will cost about Rs 75 lakh.  Raghav Sharma said work on setting up the oxygen plant will be initiated at the earliest. He said Anurag Thakur has already supplied 55 oxygen cylinders to Una and 50 to Hamirpur district administration besides PPE kits, gloves and sanitisers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anurag-approves-oxygen-plant-for-una-hospital-247581
03-05-2021||Palampur||Markets to  shut at 4 pm in Palampur||The Palampur Beopar  Mandal at its meeting here today  decided to open markets only between  9am and 4pm from tomorrow. Earlier, the timing of the market was 9am to 8pm. Surinder Sood, president, of the mandal, said all shopkeepers would follow the decision. The rising number of coronavirus cases in Palampur had become a matter of concern. The mandal had taken the decisions to minimise the crowd in markets. He said he had informed the district administration.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/markets-to-shut-at-4-pm-in-palampur-247582
03-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Defer use of biometric machines for PDS ration: Depot holders||Nurpur, May 2 The Himachal Pradesh State Depots’ Association has urged the state government to defer the use of biometric machines for the distribution of ration to card holders in all government fair price shops in the state immediately.  Association’s state spokesperson Sudarshan Sharma said yesterday that these machines posed the risk of the spread of Covid among the ration card holders as well as the depot holders. He added that in view of the rise in Covid cases, the card holders were also hesitating from using the machines to avail of the ration from the fair price shops.  He said the families of 5,000 depot holders and 18.50 lakh consumers were under the constant threat of contracting Covid while using these biometric machines at the depots. He added that three depot holders in Nurpur had tested positive for Covid and are in home isolation. “Nirjanjan Singh, a depot holder at Sukhar in Nurpur, died of coronavirus last year but his family got no financial relief from the government even though he was declared a Corona warrior,” he lamented.  Sharma said that the depot holders were supporting the government in the current crisis but opposed the use of biometric machines in larger public interest.  He appealed to the Chief Minister to direct the authorities concerned to stop the use biometric machines for the time being.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/defer-use-of-biometric-machines-for-pds-ration-depot-holders-247583
03-05-2021||---||3.5K pvt buses to go off road in Himachal||Shimla, May 2Around 3,500 buses plying across Himachal will come to a halt from tomorrow due to an indefinite strike by the private bus operators’ union to protest alleged lack of support by the state government during the Covid-19 pandemic.The union had threatened to observe strike a couple of times earlier also, but those decisions were withdrawn at the last moment following assurances from the government. “We are fed up with empty assurances from the government. Now, there’s no way left for us but to halt our buses,” said union president Rajesh Parashar.The bus operators have been demanding special road tax exemption and Rs 2-lakh working capital to tide over the financial crunch. “The government has reduced the tax by 50 per cent for April, May and June, but there’s no word on August-March tax. We feel cheated,” he said.“Only 30 per cent buses were in operation during August-March. There is a clause on tax exemption in case the bus did not ply, but the government is not allowing us relief. On the other hand, it is doling out liberal financial aid to the HRTC,” he alleged.“Our business has taken a hit due to the Covid pandemic, but there’s no reduction in our liabilities, including loan repayment, insurance, vehicle maintenance and taxes,” he added.In the absence of any support from the government, many private bus operators were finding it difficult to make both ends meet, he claimed. “Many of them have started working under the MGNREGA scheme, while many others have taken to selling fruits and vegetables,” he said. “One of the operators committed suicide when the financier took away his bus due to the non-payment of loan instalments,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-5k-pvt-buses-to-go-off-road-in-himachal-247384
