05-05-2021||Solan||One killed, three injured in chemical blast at plywood factory in Nalagarh||A 20-year-old man was killed while three others were injured in a blast triggered by the leakage of chemicals from a plywood manufacturing unit in the Nalagarh industrial area at 10:55 am on Wednesday.The blast occurred in an iron mixing vessel, containing chemicals formaldehyde, ketone and phenol, at Samrat Plywood in Bir Plassi village.The deceased, Umesh, was crushed by the vessel which tumbled down causing the spillover of the chemicals.Baddi SP Rohit Malpani said as per the preliminary probe a blast occurred at Samrat Plywood in Bir Plassi village, inside a tank containing chemicals.After the blast, all the chemicals transformed into gases and it lead to a spillover in the vicinity. This led to the death of one worker while injuring three others. All are migrants.SDM Nalagarh Mahinder Pal and DSP Nalagarh rushed to the spot. Pal said one worker expired on the spot and three others were injured. The deceased has been identified as Umesh, who hails from the Badaun district of Uttar Pradesh. Those injured were KC Jha(57), from Rupnagar, Sonu(28) from Bijnaur district of UP and Chetan Pal (22) from Sambhal in UP.KC Jha was a chemical expert while those injured are helpers. They were rushed to a local hospital for treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/one-killed-three-injured-in-chemical-blast-at-plywood-factory-in-nalagarh-248512
05-05-2021||Lalit Mohan
||Paltry incentive for doctors, nurses flayed||Tribune News Service Dharamsala, May 4 The medical fraternity in the state has flayed paltry incentive ranging from Rs 1,500 to Rs 3,000 per month for doctors and nurses serving in Covid wards. In orders issued yesterday, the government notified incentives for doctors and the health staff working in Covid hospitals. The government notification states that 4th and 5th year MBBS students serving on Covid hospitals would get an incentive of Rs 3,000 per month, government contractual doctors Rs 3,000 per month, nursing students Rs 1,500 per month, junior and senior residents Rs 3,000 per month, contractual lab staff Rs 1,500 per month and GNM 3rd year students Rs 1,500 per month. A doctor serving in Covid hospital in Kangra, while talking to The Tribune, said that paying just Rs 3,000 per month to contractual doctors and Rs 1,500 per month to nurses was a cruel joke with them. The Haryana government was giving double salary to doctors serving in Covid hospitals. Many other states have also announced good incentives. “Instead of announcing this paltry incentive it would have been better that the government had not announced anything for us,” said the doctor. Dr Swatantra Mahajan, a retired District Health Officer and member, IMA Himachal, said the doctors and nursing staff are already stretched to the limit. On an average one doctor and nurse are catering to about 100 Covid patients per day in hospitals. The doctors and nurses are risking their life working in Covid hospitals. In such a scenario, announcing such a paltry incentive was insensitive on the part of government, he said. Doctors are alleging that more than 80 per cent staff were working on contract or even outsourcing basis. An MD doctor working on contract basis is paid a fixed salary of Rs 40,000 per month. The nurses working on contract are paid Rs 15,000 per month. Those working on outsourced basis are paid even less. It was high time that the government at least regularized the service of those who are working in Covid hospitals instead of announcing such paltry incentive. Sources also said the maximum load of critical patients due to Covid was on the medical colleges. The government has set up new medical colleges in Mandi, Chamba and Hamirpur district. However, all these medical colleges are reeling for want of doctors and other staff.  Proposal to recruit 300 more doctors has been shuttling between the finance and health department files for more than two years. The government has failed to recruit doctors. Minister for Health Rajiv Saizal was not available for comments despite attempts to contact him on phone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paltry-incentive-for-doctors-nurses-flayed-248438
05-05-2021||Pratibha Chauhan
||Private hospitals reluctant to provide Covid test facility||Tribune News Service Shimla, May 4 Despite the state government allowing private health sector to undertake Covid testing, there seems to be complete reluctance on the part of private hospitals to provide the facility to the people. The Health and Family Welfare department has authorized the respective Chief Medical Officers (CMO) in the districts to grant permission to the private hospitals to undertake RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests. So far only one private hospital, Sai Multi-Specialty Hospital at Hamirpur has sought permission to provide TruNat test for Covid. “Not even a single private hospital or testing centre in Himachal has so far come forward to provide RT-PCR testing facility despite permission being granted by the Health department,” revealed Nipun Jindal, Director, National Health Mission. He added that the necessary formalities will have to be completed with the ICMR for RT-PCR test by the private hospitals at their own end. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur also said the government was very disappointed with the reluctance on the part of the private health sector to provide Covid facility. “We have felt let down by this reluctance on the part of private hospitals to assist and contribute in this fight against Covid,” said Thakur. While the government officials said the private players were not keen to start Covid testing facility, there were some private players in Kangra and Solan who said their request for undertaking rapid antigen or RT-PCR had not been granted despite their keenness to do so. As has been the case elsewhere in the country, the state government had allowed private hospitals to start Covid testing facility to increase testing and detection and also extend the facility to those who can afford higher charges and reluctant to visit the crowded government testing facility at medical colleges and hospitals. People in the state have been demanding that Covid testing facility should be offered by private hospitals or testing centres as per the strict guidelines laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The letter by the Secretary (Health) to all the CMOs had pointed out that the log in credential and password for rapid antigen shall be provided by the respective CMO for their respective district. The report of the antigen tests would have to be fed by them on the ICMR portal. There are 13 private hospitals in the state where rapid antigen test (RAT) for Covid is being undertaken. This include three in Kangra, two each in Kullu, Kinnaur and Bilaspur and one each in Shimla, Sirmaur, Mandi and Hamirpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/private-hospitals-reluctant-to-provide-covid-test-facility-248439
05-05-2021||Hamirpur||Oxygen plant not functional, patients at risk||An oxygen plant installed at Dr Radhakrishnan Government Medical College and Hospital here is yet to be made operational, putting patients at risk.  The funds for installing the oxygen facility were released about six months ago and the plant building was also ready. The district administration and the health authorities had claimed that the oxygen plant would be made operational by last week of April or by May 2. It was learnt that the government had spent over Rs 50 lakh to set up the plant. On an average,  coronavirus was claiming four or five lives every day in the district. Meanwhile, the speed of testing samples for coronavirus has become another challenge for the health authorities as there is only one RT-PCR machine in the district.  Devasveta Banik, DC, said all work was completed and the administration was waiting for the commissioning engineer to arrive and make the plant operational. She said the administration had arranged sufficient cylinders to meet the emergency situation. The administration had also placed an order for an RT-PCR machine, she added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/oxygen-plant-not-functional-patients-at-risk-248440
05-05-2021||Shimla||Even a daily wager earns more, says HMOA secy||Even as Himachal Medical Officers Association (HMOA) has welcomed the state government’s decision to rope in MBBS and nursing students, it has expressed disappointment with the honorarium/incentive announced for their services.  Saying that Rs 3,000 per month for MBBS students and Rs 1,500 for nursing students was neither adequate nor respectable, HMOA secretary Dr Pushpender Verma said even a daily wager earns much more.  “The incentive of Rs 3,000 is fine for medical officers and resident doctors as it’s over and above their salary. But the students are not drawing any salary. They are being called to contribute in emergency situation and look at what we are offering them,” he said. Verma said the government would have done well to check how much the Delhi government is paying to the medical personnel for their services. “The Delhi government has authorized Covid facilities to hire additional man power to handle corona patients. They are offering Rs 4,000 per day/shift to interns and medical students and Rs 2,000 per day/shift to nursing students,” said Verma. “Look at the difference! They are skilled persons, our future medical professionals,” said Verma.  Meanwhile, the IGMC has already started using the services of MBBS students. However, instead of throwing them straight into the deep end, the IGMC is making them work in non-Covid wards.  “We want them to get some experience of handling the patients. We will shift them to the Covid wards when there’s absolute crunch,” said IGMC principal Surinder Sodhi. “Besides, we will also get interns in a few days. We will put them in both Covid and non-Covid wards as per the requirement,” said Sodhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/even-a-daily-wager-earns-more-says-hmoa-secy-248441
05-05-2021||Shimla||Fee hike: Shimla school told to submit details||Taking cognizance of complaints that Dayanand Public School, Shimla, has arbitrarily increased the tuition fee and other annual charges by up to 60 per cent, the Director, Higher Education, has asked the school management to provide details of tuition fee and other charges for academic year 2021-22 and 2020-21. The school management has also been asked to explain whether the mandatory provision of consulting the Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) before fee hike is followed. The department had directed all private schools vide its letter of December 5, 2019, to consult the PTA and hold a general house meeting to elicit opinion of parents on fee hike. The Director asked the school management that if the fee had been hiked after consulting the PTA and parents, the copy of the resolution should be submitted to the department, cautioning that any delay in furnishing the details  would warrant action.   The Private School Students Parents Front has welcomed the action by the department. It demanded the immediate roll back of the fee hike and directions for other schools to give the details of fee structure, failing which the front will be forced to intensify agitation. Convener of the front Vijendra Mehra and others demanded that the fee hike done without the consent of the general house should be immediately withdrawn. The government had directed the private schools last year not to charge any funds except the tuition fee as schools were closed during Covid and the students were not using the infrastructure and other facilities. However, many schools substantially increased the tuition fee. Mehra alleged that Dayanand Public School had increased the fee for nursery and KG from Rs 1,900 to Rs 2,800, fee for primary classes from Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000, middle classes from Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,250 and secondary classes from Rs 2,250 to Rs 3,500, implying that the annual fee hike ranged between Rs 12,000 and Rs 15,000. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fee-hike-shimla-school-told-to-submit-details-248442
05-05-2021||Palampur||Covid care hospital opens at Paprola||A 100-bed Covid care hospital was opened by the district administration in Rajiv Gandhi Post Graduate Ayurvedic College Complex at Paprola, 20 km from here, today. The hospital will be managed by the doctors of Ayurveda College, Paprola.  The state government has provided necessary infrastructure like beds, oxygen and other equipment needed to run the facility. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur personally inspected this hospital last week and granted financial and administrative approvals on the spot for its early commissioning.  Speaking to mediapersons at Paprola, Dr Vijay Chaudhry, Principal, Rajiv Gandhi PG Medical College, said in the first phase a provision had been made to admit 50 patients. Later, 50 more patients would be admitted. Dr Chaudhry is supervising the management of this Covid Care Hospital along with team of 20 doctors from his college. Chaudhry said till this evening seven patients had already been admitted to the hospital. He said the first patient, who was in a critical condition, was brought to the hospital early in the morning from Chadhiar. Later, six more patients form different areas of the region reached the hospital.  Dr Chaudhry today personally attended he Covid patients in the ward. He said that he would be available 24 hours and could be called at any time in case of emergency. He said Kangra was the worst-hit district and only 717 persons were tested Covid positive yesterday. The death rate was higher as compared to other districts. Therefore, a team of doctors of Rajiv Gandhi Post Graduate Ayurveda College had come forward to help patients. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-care-hospital-opens-at-paprola-248443
05-05-2021||Nurpur||Man held with heroin, charas||Following a tip-off, a team of the Kangra District Narcotics Crime Control Cell nabbed a drug peddler from Jassur near here last evening. The accused, Puneet Kumar, was held with 9.8 gm of heroin (chitta), 17.6 gm of charas and Rs 48150 cash from him. A case under the NDPS Act was registered against him and he was produced in the court on Tuesday for police remand.  Sub Divisional Police Officer (SDPO), Nurpur, Ashok Ratan said the accused had been fetching narcotics from drug suppliers of Chhanni in Indora subdivision and further selling these in the Jassur area to addicts. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-held-with-heroin-charas-248444
05-05-2021||Ambika Sharma
||Barely 17 pc people above 45 yrs get vaccine in Solan||Tribune News Service Solan, May 4 Barely 17 per cent of the population in the age group of 45 years and above has received the first dose of Covid vaccine  in Solan district. A total of 1,26,419 people have been vaccinated in the district, including those who received both doses. Figures secured from the Health Department revealed that  in the age group of 60 years and above, 35,286 people received the first dose while merely 4,363 got the second dose. From 45 years to 60 years, 62,225 received the first dose whereas only 2,374 were administered the second dose. Among healthcare workers, the results are better as a large number has received both doses. As many as 7,536 workers received the first dose while 5,982 got both doses. Among frontline  workers, 5,820 have received the first dose while barely 2,933 got  the second one.     “Since frontline and health workers remain at the forefront, it is important to vaccinate them,”said a senior health official. The government will soon start the  next phase of vaccination where people above 18 years will also be vaccinated. “Constraints like the lack of Internet availability, adequate space, including a vaccination room, waiting area as well as an observation area, have been encountered in rural areas. Since a person has to obtain an Aadhaar-linked registration to get vaccinated, the absence of Internet or one lacking good speed is acting as handicaps,” said a health worker. The staff involved in vaccination also rued that they were not provided vehicles to transport vaccines and were commuting in public transport taking risk.   As many as 123  deaths have occurred in the district. The positivity rate is 9.45 per cent while the recovery rate has plunged to 77.42 per cent. The decline in the recovery rate has become a cause for concern for the health staff. The death rate is 0.82 per cent.  There are 3,100 active cases and 411 cases were reported today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/barely-17-pc-people-above-45-yrs-get-vaccine-in-solan-248445
05-05-2021||Shimla||All-party meet  today, stricter curbs likely||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur will hold an all-party meeting tomorrow to generate a consensus and seek their cooperation in dealing with the Covid situation. “I will be seeking cooperation and suggestions from all political parties, including Congress and the CPM, as we explore the possibility of imposing stricter restrictions to tackle the worsening Covid situation,” he said. The all-party meeting has been scheduled for 9.30 am tomorrow before the Cabinet meeting. It is most likely that the Cabinet will take the call on imposing a lockdown or strict restrictions to curb public movement. The meeting was scheduled to be held today but owing to an inclement weather, the CM’s helicopter could not land at Shimla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/all-party-meet-today-stricter-curbs-likely-248446
05-05-2021||---||3,824 cases, 48 deaths in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, May 4 As many as 3,824 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 110,945. Besides, 48 persons died of the virus  in the past 24 hours. Fifteen deaths were reported in Kangra, 11 in Solan, six in Sirmaur, four each in Hamirpur and Shimla, three in Una, two each in Kullu and Chamba and one in Mandi. Kangra reported the highest 817 cases, followed by 802 in Mandi, 411 in Solan, 340 in Hamirpur, 323 in Shimla, 270 in Sirmaur, 258 in Una, 227 in Bilaspur, 158 in Chamba, 78 in Kullu, 54 in Kinnaur and 26 in Lahaul and Spiti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-824-cases-48-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-248447
05-05-2021||Dharamsala||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inspects 250-bed Radha Soami facility||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today visited Kangra district to inspect the 250-bed facility being created for Covid patients on the premises of the Radha Soami centre at Paror. He chaired meetings with Kangra officials through video-conferencing from Chamba and with Mandi officials from Kangra.  Thakur directed the  Kangra officials to create additional bed capacity in the district for Covid patients. He said that makeshift arrangements should be made at Paror to provide additional 250 beds within the next 10 days. The bed capacity at Paror would be gradually increased to about 1,000 beds, he added. Proper and smooth supply of oxygen must be ensured and the ICU bed capacity should be enhanced. He said that private laboratories must be empanelled so that more RT-PCR tests could be conducted and the results could be provided to people at the earliest. He added that  proper arrangements must be made for the transportation of patients to hospitals and back home after recovery. He added that the Union Government had sanctioned six PSA oxygen plants to be set up at the Civil Hospital, Palampur; Zonal Hospital, Mandi; Civil Hospital, Rohru; Civil Hospital at Khaneri in Shimla district; Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College and Hospital, Nahan; and the Regional Hospital at Solan. This would ensure adequate oxygen supply to about 1,400 beds in these health institutions. Thakur said the government had decided to provide incentives to doctors and paramedical staff on duty in Covid hospitals. He added that land was being identified in the Baddi-Barotiwala area to create additional 500-bed capacity. Later, he visited the Radha Soami Satsang centre at Paror and gave directions for the construction of the makeshift hospital at the earliest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-inspects-250-bed-radha-soami-facility-248448
05-05-2021||Vijay Arora||HC stays felling of trees in Shimla||Shimla, May 4The HP High Court has stayed all permissions of felling/lopping of trees in the Shimla Municipal area.Taking a serious note on the issue of illegally felling of green trees within the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation (MC), Shimla, the court issued notices to the state government and the MC, Shimla.Passing the interim order, the court clarified that the order would not be applicable to the Electricity Department of Himachal Pradesh.Passing this order, the court also directed the state government to inform the court about the status of felling of trees. After hearing the matter through video conference, the court listed the matter for further hearing on May 12. Till then the court has stayed all the permissions granted for felling of trees.A division bench comprising Chief Justice L Narayana Swami and Justice Anoop Chitkara passed this order on a PIL filed by Dimple Oberoi Vahali alleging therein that the state authority has granted permission for felling of trees in the MC area by flouting the orders passed by the court from time to time.She further contended that as per the information collected by her through RTI, it emerged that neither the authorities had followed the procedure established by law nor had the directions passed by various courts been adhered and complied thereto before granting the permission.It was further contended that as per RTI, from the year 2019 to 2021, as many as 155 trees had fallen, 305 had dried up, 900 were damaged by lopping, 141 healthy green trees termed as dangerous felled and 145 green trees had been felled as they posed hurdle in construction of buildings or widening of roads or laying electrical lines. In all, from 2019 to 2021, as many as 1,646 trees had been chopped from the forest cover within the jurisdiction of MC Shimla on one or the other grounds and by circumventing the statutory laws. No new plantation had been directed by the government authorities or the private land holders till date.She urged the court that to quash and set aside the permissions granted by Tree Committee for felling of trees. She further prayed that the state authorities be restrained from furthering the process of illegal felling of green trees or granting permission in future without the leave of the court in the garb of dangerous trees, or widening of existing roads in jurisdiction of Municipal Corporation, Shimla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hc-stays-felling-of-trees-in-shimla-248449
05-05-2021||Mandi||Minor alleges rape by father in Mandi||A minor girl today alleged rape by her father in Mandi district. According to the police, a complaint of sexual abuse of a minor girl by her father was filed at Dharampur police station in the district through Childline officials.  The victim alleged that the accused, who is a government employee, raped his two daughters, including the minor, several times and threatened them with dire consequences if they disclosed the matter to anyone. The victim broke down in front of Childline officials.  The SP said  on the statement of the victim, a case had been registered and the accused detained for questioning. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minor-alleges-rape-by-father-in-mandi-248450
05-05-2021||ibune News Service 
||Heavy rain lashes Solan, Narkanda, Manali||Shimla, May 4 A thunderstorm, lightning  with gusty winds of 30 to 40 kmph speed accompanied by intermittent rain lashed several parts of Himachal today, disrupting life and causing day temperatures to fall sharply. Shimla and its surrounding areas were lashed by a storm while Pandoh, Solan, Kotkhai, Narkanda and some other places experienced heavy rain. Visibility was reduced to a few metres as dark clouds hovered in the sky. The local MeT office has issued a yellow warning of a thunderstorm, lightning  and gusty winds blowing at a speed of 30 to 40 kmph  at isolated places in 10 districts from May 5 to 7. It also predicted a thunderstorm and rain in mid hills and rain and snow in higher hills from May 5 to 10 and rain and a thunderstorm in lower hills from May 5 to 8 as a fresh western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation lies over the region. There was widespread rain in the state; Pandoh received  47 mm, Solan 42 mm, Kotkhai  39 mm, Narkanda 35 mm, followed by  Dalhousie and Palampur 22 mm, Manali and Bijahi 19 mm, Mandi and Gaggal 18 mm, Jubbarhatti 17 mm, Baldwara  and  Karsog 15 mm, Khadrala 10 mm, Dharamsala and Gohar 9 mm and Baijnath 8 mm.   The maximum temperatures plummeted and Chamba  recorded a high of  18.5°C, 18 degrees below normal, while  Dalhousie recorded the day temperature of 13.9°C, nine degrees below normal, Sundernagar 25.7°C, 25.2°C, seven degrees below normal; Nahan 27.8°C, Palampur 23°C, Manali 19.6°C, four to six degrees below normal. Una with a high of 35.4°C was the hottest during the day  while Solan and Shimla recorded the maximum temperatures of 28.5°C and 21.7°C. The minimum temperatures also dropped marginally and Keylong and Kalpa in Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts recorded a low of 7°C and 7.2°C, while Kufri and Dalhousie recorded a low of 10.9°C and 12.1°C, followed by Shimla 14.6°C, Solan 14.9°C, Dharamsala 17°C, Nahan 20.2°C and Una 24.2°C.   Stormy conditions are not conducive for wheat and rabi crops and apple and stone crops and the forecast of a thunderstorm, gusty winds and lightening is adding to the worries of the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heavy-rain-lashes-solan-narkanda-manali-248451
05-05-2021||---||Thunag gets Rs 66 cr projects, stone laid||Mandi, May 4 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today virtually laid the foundation stones of development projects worth about Rs 66.36 crore in the Thunag area of the Seraj Assembly segment in Mandi district from Chamba. He laid the foundation stones of a wayside amenity at Devnalah gram panchayat at Bagsaid under the Nai Rahe Nai Manjile scheme to be constructed at a cost of Rs 3.79 crore, Government Senior Secondary School building at Sarachi (Rs 2.75 crore), a 165-metre double-lane traffic tunnel between Thunag and Lambathach on the Mandi-Gagal-Chail-Janjehli road (Rs 20.85 crore), Shillibagi to Deol Jainshla road, including a 30-metre span bridge under NABARD (Rs 12.61 crore), a 30-metre span double lane bridge on Ropari Khud at Thunag (Rs 3.50 crore). Other projects included staff quarters at the CHC, Gadagusaini (Rs 1.11 crore), Patikri Bara Shill Kashmblindhar road, including a bridge over Bakhli khud under NABARD (Rs 13.78 crore), PHC building at Bara in Chachiot (Rs 1.64 crore), Oak Tasar Basic Seed Storage building at Gadagussain (Rs 24 lakh), Sericulture Resource Centre at Dharot (Rs 37 lakh), and a bus Stand at Thunag (Rs 2.03 crore). The proposed tunnel on the Mandi-Gagal-Chail-Janjehli road to be constructed by the PWD would reduce distance by over 2.50 km.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/thunag-gets-rs-66-cr-projects-stone-laid-248452
05-05-2021||---||300 cylinders disclosed in Shimla||Shimla, May 4   People have declared around 300 cylinders in Shimla district following the orders of the district administration to disclose the stock a couple of days ago.  “As per the preliminary data, we have received the details of around 200 cylinders from urban and rural Shimla. Around 100 cylinders have been reported in Rampur. We are awaiting details from other areas,” said Aditya Negi, Deputy Commissioner. Negi had issued orders to confiscate undeclared and unutilised oxygen cylinders last Saturday following a shortage of oxygen cylinders and reports that individuals and private enterprises may be hoarding cylinders. Interestingly, all these cylinders have been disclosed voluntarily.   “Most of the cylinders are of industrial use. Once we get the final number, we will send the cylinders to oxygen plants for cleaning and then use these for medical purposes,” he said. He said that these cylinders would be used at additional Covid facilities in Shimla. “We will use the cylinders at the Walker Hospital. We are in the midst of arranging doctors, paramedical and Class IV staff for the hospital,” he added. “While the disclosure of cylinders so far has been voluntary, the administration can take strict action if anyone is found hoarding cylinders,” said Negi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/300-cylinders-disclosed-in-shimla-248453
05-05-2021||Una||Oxygen plant to be set up at Una village||The oxygen plant announced by Union MoS Anurag Thakur two days ago for Una district is likely to be set up at the makeshift Covid hospital in Palkwah village of Haroli in two or three weeks. A team of experts from Surat reached Palkwah today to inspect the health centre.  Manjit Juneja, head of the survey team, said the project was feasible and the report would be submitted to the  minister immediately. He said the plant will have a capacity of continuous supply of oxygen at 500 litres per minute, which will be sufficient for 100 patients at a time, adding that the complete machinery would be installed by the next 20 days.   Meanwhile, the Una  administration is increasing the strength of beds at the makeshift hospital from 60 to 110. Oxygen pipelines are being fitted by the side of each bed. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/oxygen-plant-to-be-set-up-at-una-village-248454
05-05-2021||Shimla||Judges told to help curb Covid surge||Chief Justice of the High Court Justice L. Narayana Swami has directed all district and sessions judges to coordinate with the health authorities to curb the rapidly rising Covid cases. An office order issued through Registrar General Virender Singh stated that all district and sessions judges of the state had been directed to get the judicial court complexes sanitised  on the periodical basis. No one would be permitted to enter the court premises without thermal scanning. Unnecessary visits or movements in crowded places would be avoided by all and leave would be granted only in exceptional circumstances. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/judges-told-to-help-curb-covid-surge-248455
05-05-2021||---||Cloudburst damages Bharmour highway||Dharamsala, May 4 Cloudburst damaged Chamba-Bharmour national highway today. The cloudburst reportedly occurred in a local rivulet near Kaner village and a portion of the Chamba-Bharmour highway was washed away. Some damage was also reported to private property of villagers of Kaner, located 20 km from Chamba. Reports said after heavy rain in Palyur gram panchayat, the water level suddenly increased in Saho-Palyur nullah, which created a flood-like situation. The reports said the rain also damaged a cowshed at Dalhotha village. Heavy currents of water created deep drains in the fields, damaging potato and maize crops. The rainwater also entered houses and cowsheds. The increased water level in the drainage led to the bursting of the drinking water pipeline. In the wake of the landslides triggered by the heavy rain, the movement of vehicles was disrupted on various local link routes of the district. Deputy Commissioner  DC Rana said there was no loss of life. A portion of the national highway was washed away which was restored by the evening.  “There were reports of damage to vehicles and properties. We have ordered officials to conduct a survey and submit a report so that compensation could be given to the affected people,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cloudburst-damages-bharmour-highway-248456
05-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||2 elderly persons test +ve after death||KULLU, MAY 4 Two persons, who were residing in a Vridh Ashram (old-age home) at Kalath near Manali, were found positive after their death.  District Programme Officer Dr Atul Gupta, who is the in-charge of the vaccination drive, said all 17 persons of the ashram had been given the first shot of the vaccine. Ranjeet Thakur, Block Medical Officer, Manali, said an elderly woman died four days ago and later on found Covid positive.  The samples of other residents were also taken and four of them turned out to be positive.  He said another elderly man, suffering from hypertension, died today and he was also positive.  Two employees of the institution were also found Covid positive. The infected persons had been isolated in the ashram. Sources in the Health Department said there would be no mortality after the formation of antibodies. They said a few persons could test positive after the inoculation. Manali SDM Raman Gharsangi said the department was monitoring the situation in the ashram and keeping a track on their health. The area had been declared a containment zone.  He appealed to the public to avoid loitering in the markets without any purpose and stay home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-elderly-persons-test-ve-after-death-248457
05-05-2021||Mandi||Poppy plants found on 10 bighas in Mandi||The police have found the illicit cultivation of poppy plants on 10 bighas at Tikkan in Padhar, Mandi district. SP Shalini Agnihotri said the police got an information that poppy plants were being cultivated at Tikkan.  “After a 4-hour trekking, a team reached the spot because the area was not connected with the road. Around 10 bighas were found covered with poppy plants,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poppy-plants-found-on-10-bighas-in-mandi-248458
05-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Two firms give 33 oxygen cylinders||NURPUR, MAY 4 Two oxygen suppliers from Jassur and Pucca Tiala in Nurpur yesterday provided 33 cylinders to the local administration to meet the rising demand of oxygen in Kangra district. The administration had appealed to suppliers or dealers to come forward for the service of humanity and surrender empty cylinders so that the precious lives could be saved.  Acting on the appeal, Mannat Air Products, Jassur, handed over 24 cylinders whereas OJS medical gas supplier, Pucca Tiala, gave nine to the administration. The SDM also appealed to people to give oxygen cylinders if they had in their homes. He said the administration would collect the cylinders from their houses and return after the situation eases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-firms-give-33-oxygen-cylinders-248462
