06-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal sees 28 more COVID-19 deaths, 1,465 cases||Himachal Pradesh on Thursday recorded 1,465 COVID-19 cases and 28 fatalities, a senior official said.According to data updated till 2 pm, the death toll in the state due to the disease now stands at 1,707 and the case tally at 1,16,252.Active cases in the state now stand at 25,475, the official said.Also, 1,864 coronavirus patients recovered from the infection during the day, taking the total number of recoveries in Himachal to 89,018, he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-sees-28-more-covid-19-deaths-1-465-cases-248974
06-05-2021||---||Curfew in Himachal till May 16||Shimla, May 5The Himachal Government today decided to impose a curfew to break the Covid transmission chain from May 6 midnight to May 16.The decision was taken by the Cabinet at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. “Our endeavour is to ensure that there is strict adherence to Covid norms without affecting people’s livelihood and causing much inconvenience to them,” the CM said.The closure of educational institutions has been extended till May 31. Class X annual exams of the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education have been cancelled and the students will be promoted to Class XI as per norms suggested by the CBSE. Class XII exams of the state board would remain suspended till further orders.All government and private establishments will remain closed from May 7 to May 16 midnight, while essential services such as health, electricity, telecommunication, water supply and sanitation will remain functional. “Marriages will be allowed during the curfew, but with a cap of only 20 persons and no feast,” the CM said.All government and private transport would continue with 50 per cent occupancy. Inter-state transportation would also continue. Industrial units would work as per the government guidelines.What’s allowed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/curfew-in-himachal-till-may-16-248732
06-05-2021||Lalit Mohan||Shortage of ventilator beds in Kangra hospitals big handicap||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 5Kangra district is registering increased deaths due to corona infection complications. Yesterday 15 patients died in Kangra due to the virus. Today also, a record 1,292 new corona infection cases and 12 deaths were reported in Kangra district. The high death rate in the district is being attributed to shortage of ICU beds equipped with ventilators.Sources here said that there were 60 ICU beds equipped with ventilators in Kangra district most of which are functional in Tanda Medical College. These ICU beds are catering to patients from Kangra, Chamba, Una and Hamirpur districts.A senior health official, while speaking to The Tribune, said as per data released by department of health of the Himachal government, presently there was an active caseload of over 9,000 in Kangra, Chamba, Hamirpur and Una districts. Even if 2 per cent of patients are expected to require critical care the state needs 180 ICU beds just in Kangra district. Senior health official said that high death rate being witnessed in Kangra due to Covid might also be related to lack of ICU beds.The sources here said that though about 15 ICU beds in Chamba district were available these cannot be made operational as there were just three anesthetist doctors there. There was shortage of anesthetist doctors in Tanda Medical College also. As per the rules, only an anesthetist doctor can operate ICU beds equipped with ventilators and treat patients.CMO Kangra, GS Gupta, when asked if there was shortage of ICU beds equipped with ventilators in Kangra district, said it depended on the situation and the patient load. “We are planning to add more ICU beds in other hospitals of Kangra besides the Tanda Medical College,” he said.The sources here said that given the load of active patients which was increasing almost every day the district might face shortage of beds equipped with oxygen facility. The number of the active patients in said four districts was above 9000 till yesterday – 5,775 in Kangra district, 1,017 in Chamba, 1,709 in Hamirpur and 1,438 in Una district. So even if 5 per cent of active patients require high flow oxygen equipped bed the about 450 beds would be required.At present, Kangra district has 170 beds equipped with high flow oxygen facility in Dharamsala zonal hospital, 120 beds in Tanda medical college and 25 bed facility in Paprola Ayurvedic medical college which the administration plans to enhanceto 100 beds.The Chief Minister yesterday reviewed preparations for creating 250 beds equipped with high flow oxygen facility in Radha Swami sect facility at Paror in Kangra district. The Kangra district administration has also got 50 per cent bed capacity in some private hospitals in the district.The sources in the health department said that since the cases were increasing each day even that much bed capacity might prove to be insufficient. Though the state government has imposed curfew of 10 days starting from tomorrow midnight health experts here have doubts if the measure would mitigate the corona infection in Kangra.They said that since the virus has already spread in hinterlands of the district the only way to deal with the crises was to create more health facilities in the form of high flow oxygen equipped beds and ICU beds equipped with ventilators to save life of people.‘Planning to add more ICU beds’CMO, Kangra, GS Gupta, when asked if there was a shortage of ICU beds equipped with ventilators in Kangra district, said it depended on the situation and the patient load. “We are planning to add more ICU beds in other hospitals of Kangra besides the Tanda medical college,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shortage-of-ventilator-beds-in-kangra-hospitals-big-handicap-248625
06-05-2021||Mandi||Oxygen plant at Mandi hospital in 10 days||A plant will be set up at the Zonal Hospital here within 10 days to meet the rising demand of oxygen supply for patients. It will generate 1,000 LPM (litre per minute) of oxygen.The hospital is equipped with the central oxygen supply system and critical patients are being provided oxygen with the help of cylinders. Once the plant comes up, the hospital will be able to provide direct oxygen supply to the central system.Chief Medical Officer, Mandi, Dr Devender Sharma said the Central Government had approved six oxygen plants for Himachal Pradesh, including one at the local Zonal Hospital. He said that on the directions of Deputy Commissioner Rugved Thakur, officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Health Department visited the Zonal Hospital today and identified a site for the plant.“The NHAI will prepare the framework for the oxygen plant and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will install all machinery to make it functional within 10 days. Once commissioned, the DRDO will hand over the plant to the hospital management,” he said.Dr Sharma said that the plant would generate 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute. An oxygen plant set up at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College and Hospital, Nerchowk, a few days ago would generate 500 LPM of oxygen. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/oxygen-plant-at-mandi-hospital-in-10-days-248626
06-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal gets 36 Oxygen concentrators, 186 cylinders||Himachal has started receiving equipment from other countries to fight the second wave of Covid-19.On Wednesday, the state received 36 oxygen concentrators sent from the UK and 186 oxygen cylinders from Taiwan.The state is facing a shortage of both oxygen concentrators and oxygen cylinders at the moment, following a major spike in the number of active cases as well as patients needing oxygen.The store of the Health Department was packed with supplies some time back, but now almost every day, truckloads of supplies are being sent to districts. “There is a demand for equipment from almost everywhere and we are promptly sending out the supplies to help the authorities contain the spread of virus,” said Dr Ramesh Chand, state nodal officer for procurement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-gets-36-oxygen-concentrators-186-cylinders-248627
06-05-2021||---||At all-party meet, CM seeks cooperation||Shimla, May 5Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today sought the cooperation of all political parties in the state to help break the Covid transmission chain by imposing a curfew in view of a sharp rise in cases.Thakur, while presiding over the all-party meeting here, apprised the leaders about the Covid situation in the state and steps being taken by the government to check the spread of the pandemic. It was also decided at the meeting that all MLAs would donate one-month salary towards the Chief Minister’s Covid-19 Fund.‘Adequate oxygen supply soon’The meeting was attended by Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Parmar, Parliamentary Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, Congress Legsilature Party leader Mukesh Agnihotri, Congress MLAs Asha Kumari and Dhani Ram Shandil and CPM legislator Rakesh Singha. “We have tried to devise a mechanism where there is no inconvenience to people and their livelihood is not affected yet the Covid restrictions are adhered to strictly,” he said.The Congress stressed the need for enhancing vaccination and ensuring timely Covid test results. Agnihotri assured the government that the Opposition would fully support its decisions in the larger interest of the people. He suggested common facility centres at Pandoga and Bathu in Una district for Covid patients.Asha Kumari said that the availability of essential medicines such as remdesivir must also be ensured in all district hospitals and medical colleges. CPM leader Rakesh Singha expressed the need for prompt shifting of critical Covid patients to hospitals from home isolation, besides creation of additional bed capacity at Tanda Medical College.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/at-all-party-meet-cm-seeks-cooperation-248628
06-05-2021||Shimla||3,842 new cases, 32 deaths in Himachal||As many as 3,842 Covid cases (highest till now) were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 114,787.Besides, 32 persons died of the virus — 12 in Kangra, seven in Mandi, five in Shimla, two in Solan and one each in Una, Chamba, Kullu, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Kinnaur.The highest number of 1,292 cases were reported in Kangra, followed by 683 in Solan, 416 in Sirmaur, 378 in Shimla, 266 in Bilaspur, 166 in Chamba, 140 in Hamirpur, 135 in Una, 133 in Mandi, 120 in Kullu, 78 in Kinnaur and 35 in Lahaul and Spiti.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-842-new-cases-32-deaths-in-himachal-248629
06-05-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Curfew decision gives Shimla residents relief||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 5The decision of the state government to impose a curfew from May 7 to 16 has come as a major relief for people, especially in Shimla district. The government was constantly being urged to take stricter measures in view of the spurt in Covid-19 cases.As many as 19,595 Covid cases and 239 deaths were reported in the state in the past one week while in Shimla district, 2,031 cases and 28 deaths were reported. Due to the increase in cases and fatalities, people are scared to go out of their homes and there is little business.Workers demand reliefBusiness establishments have retrenched about 50% workers. Employers are paying salaries as per the number of working days. We urge the government to give relief to the private sector employees,  who have lost their jobs. —Inderjeet Singh, Shimla veopar mandal chiefEarlier the business community was against lockdown but as the situation deteriorated, the Veopar Mandal Shimla suggested that a lockdown or a curfew be imposed for eight to 10 days. “Already, markets are closing at the weekend (Saturday and Sunday, eight days a month) and we had suggested a lockdown for eight to 10 days to contain the virus,” said president of the Shimla Veopar Mandal Inderjeet Singh.“Business establishments are unable to cope with the present crisis, and have retrenched about 50 per cent employees. Employers are now paying salaries based on the number of working days. We urge the government to give some relief to the private sector employees, who have lost their jobs,” he added.The stakeholders were speculating that the government may take a decision in this regard at the Cabinet meeting, he said.“It is already a curfew-like situation, so why not shut down and break the chain,” said Sanjay Sood, president of the Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association. Several hoteliers have either shut down their units or are offering 50 per cent rooms due to very little occupancy.Shimla case tallyApril 27 195April 28 215April 29 412April 30 186May 1 280May 2 216May 3 399May 4 323||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/curfew-decision-gives-shimla-residents-relief-248630
06-05-2021||Subhash Rajta||Workload goes up, staff short at cancer hospital||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 5The workload at the cancer hospital at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital has increased following a sharp surge in the pandemic. Even as the footfall in most other departments like surgery, medicine has reduced considerably, the cancer hospital is witnessing a surge in the number of patients coming to the hospital.“It’s happening because hospitals at Tanda and Newchowk have been converted into Covid facilities. The patients taking treatment at these hospitals are coming here now. Besides, the PGI is also not taking patients,” said Dr Manish Gupta, Head of Department, Oncology.Other hospitals made covid facilitiesIt’s happening because hospitals at Tanda and Newchowk have been converted into Covid facilities. The patients taking treatment at these hospitals are coming here now. Besides, the PGI, Chandigarh, is also not taking patients. —Dr Manish Gupta, Head of department, OncologyFollowing spurt in the cases, the number of chemotherapies and radiotherapies administered in a day has also increased significantly. “Normally, we give chemo up to 30-40 patients in a day. The number at the moment has risen to 50-60 per day. The number for radiotherapy has risen to 125-128 from 100 per day,” said Dr Gupta.Even as the number of patients and workload has increased, the manpower available with the cancer department has gone down. Even though the IGMC is not a dedicated Covid hospital and it continues to provide Covid services and it has the maximum number of Covid patients at the moment.“Like all other departments, we also need to depute our resident and other doctors for Covid duties. Besides, doctors are testing positive too. So, yes, manpower is an issue at the moment, especially in view of the increased workload,” said Dr Gupta.The hospital, however, is trying to dissuade the patients from coming to hospital if not required. “Our doctors are anyway in touch with patients on phone. Plus, we are advising patients through our e-sanjeevani portal too in case they just need to show their reports or needs any advice regarding medication,” said Dr Gupta.Along with the staff, cancer patients too are facing problems following the spurt in corona cases. According to Kalpana Sanghaik, who has been working with cancer patients for more than a decade now, many patients are postponing their chemo and radiotherapy because of the fear of catching the virus.Incidentally, this tendency to postpone necessary procedures has led to the progress of disease among many patients since the outbreak of the pandemic. “It’s become absolutely difficult for them, right from travelling to finding a safe place to stay in Shimla during their treatment. They have been hit the hardest by the pandemic,” said Sanghaik.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/workload-goes-up-staff-short-at-cancer-hospital-248631
06-05-2021||---||Private bus operators to continue strike||Shimla, May 5Private bus operators today decided to continue with their strike indefinitely, as the government made no announcement regarding their issues after the Cabinet meeting.The bus operators were hoping that the government would take up their issues at the Cabinet meeting and come out with a proposal. “We are really disappointed with the attitude of the government. We had a meeting Wednesday evening and all operators decided to continue with the strike,” said Rajesh Parashar, state president of the Private Bus Operators Union.Little impactAs the government has announced a 10-daycurfew from Thursday, the strike is going to have little impactAs the government has announced a 10-day curfew from tomorrow, the strike is going to have little impact. “Once the curfew is over, we will intensify our strike and hold fasts and take other measures to pressure the government,” said union secretary Ramesh Kamal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/private-bus-operators-to-continue-strike-248632
06-05-2021||Shimla||Ambulance employees demand daily incentive||The 108/102 Ambulance Employee Union has urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to consider them as well for Rs 200 incentive per day as offered to healthcare workers like nurses, ward boys and outsourced staff working in Covid facilities.Welcoming the decision to provide an incentive to others associated with Covid work, the union said 108/102 employees were also Covid warriors and deserved to receive a similar incentive.Serving in crisisThe ambulance employees have been offering services for the last one year. They should be given incentive as offered to healthcare workers. —Puran Chand, Ambulance employee union chief“The ambulance employees have been offering their services tirelessly for the last one year. They, too, should be provided the incentive so that they could continue providing their services with enthusiasm and dedication,” said Puran Chand, president. Ambulance Employee Union. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ambulance-employees-demand-daily-incentive-248633
06-05-2021||Ambika Sharma||BBN industry assn keen to inoculate all workers||Tribune News ServiceSolan, May 5In a bid to ensure optimum vaccination of their workers, the Baddi Barotiwala Nalagarh Industries Association (BBNIA) has mooted a proposal to pay for vaccination of their entire staff.Since industries face loss of work after its workers test positive, the BBNIA was keen to vaccinate all its workers. “As a moral responsibility towards our staff, the BBNIA had proposed to bear the cost of vaccination and a proposal was sent to the state government to allow them to vaccinate all their workers,” informed Sanjay Khurana, association’s president. It, however, failed to find favour with the state government as vaccination is being done as per the Government of India’s protocol and no such option has been made available to the industrial sector till now.71.17% vaccinatedTo ensure maximum people are covered in vaccination drive, 71.17% people in the 45 years and above age group have been vaccinated till date. This comprises 17% of the total population of the district comprising all age groups. —Senior medical officerThere were about 2,000 industrial units in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh area where lakhs of industrial workers are engaged in different industries. Since a sizeable chunk of majority hails from high caseload states like Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, etc.,the probability of spread of the Covid loomed large on the managements.Khurana said all managements were coming forward to get their staff in the 45 and above age group vaccinated.As an additional precaution, some managements have also sought vaccination certificates of their family members to rule out spread of the infection.The health officials in the district said they were targeting to vaccinate 1,44,000 people in the 45 to 60 age group as against 1,33,203 people vaccination till today.“In a bid to ensure that maximum people have been covered in vaccination drive, as many as 71.17 per cent people in the 45 years and above age group have been vaccinated till today. This comprises 17 per cent of the total population of the district comprising all age groups,” added a senior medical officer.Daily progress of vaccination drive is being monitored and 2,004 persons, including 56 healthcare workers and 58 frontline workers, have been vaccinated today.This also includes 1,270 persons in the 45 to 60 age group and 620 above the age of 60, informed a health official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bbn-industry-assn-keen-to-inoculate-all-workers-248634
06-05-2021||Solan||1 dies, 3 hurt in blast at factory||A 20-year-old worker, Umesh, was killed and three others were injured in a blast triggered by a leakage of chemical at a plywood manufacturing unit, at Bir Plassi village in the Nalagarh industrial area today.The blast occurred in an iron mixing vessel containing chemicals formaldehyde, keton and phenol around 10.55 am. This led to leakage of chemicals which triggered a high intensity gaseous reaction and the vessel as well as its lid were reduced to smithereens. The workers ran helter skelter to save themselves. Umesh, who was assigned the task of putting chemicals in the vessel and was standing on the stairs, was crushed under the heavy vessel which had tumbled down. He was killed on the spot.Baddi SP Rohit Malpani said as per a preliminary probe, a blast occurred at the unit inside a tank containing chemicals which triggered its conversion into gases. Its spillover in the vicinity of the site led to the death of a worker and injured three workers.A case under Sections 287,336, 337 and 304-A of the IPC was registered.Nalagarh SDM Mahinder Pal and the DSP rushed to the spot. The deceased, Umesh, hails from Badaun district of Uttar Pradesh. Those injured were KC Jha (57) from Rupnagar, Sonu (28) from Bijnaur of UP and Chetan Pal (22) from Sambhal in UP. Monetary relief has been disbursed to the injured and the kin of the deceased.KC Jha is a chemical expert and others injured are helpers. They were rushed to a local hospital for treatment.Chetan Pal, who suffered burn injuries, said he was engaged a month ago while the deceased was engaged 15 days ago by the company. They were not given safety gear or training to handle the jobs, and even at the time of the incident, no technical person was available to guide the labourers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-dies-3-hurt-in-blast-at-factory-248635
06-05-2021||---||Doctors celebrate patient’s birthday at Tanda college||Dharamsala, May 5Amid reports of patients suffering from Covid-19 being left unattended, doctors of the Tanda medical college today sprung a surprise on a 30-year-old woman of the district.The patient from Lambagaon village in Kangra district was admitted to the Covid centre of the Tanda medical college on April 24, when her oxygen level had dropped. Her condition had improved since then.Today, she got a surprise when doctors and health staff in PPE kits approached her with a cake and sang the ‘happy birthday song’ for her.Boosting moraleWe are boosting the morale of patients. They are isolated and away from their family members. The staff is trying to celebrate the birthdays of patients, who are on the path of recovery. —Dr Bhanu Awasthi, Principal, Tanda medical collegePrincipal of the Tanda medical college, Dr Bhanu Awasthi said the doctors in Covid hospital of the institute had been regularly taking such steps to boost the morale of the patients. They are isolated and away from their family members. In such a scenario, the staff was trying to celebrate the birthdays of patients, who were on the path of recovery, he said.The district administration of Kangra and the health authorities here have launched a drive to make viral stories of patients, who have recovered in the district, to motivate patients and their families.After some videos went viral, wherein patients were complaining of services at Covid hospitals, a demand was raised that CCTV cameras should be installed inside the said facilities. Former Congress minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma had also demanded that CCTV cameras should be put up, so that the family members could be assured that patients were being taken care of.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/doctors-celebrate-patients-birthday-at-tanda-college-248636
06-05-2021||Solan||Baddi ex-SP dies of Covid at 62||Former Baddi Superintendent of Police (SP) Basher Chauhan died of Covid at MM Medical College and Hospital here today.Chauhan, who hails from Shimla district, was living at Chambaghat. He was undergoing treatment for Covid for the past few days.He had served in Baddi from 2015 to 2017 and retired here.His body was cremated at Chambaghat.Meanhwile, police officials mourned his death in the district. Chauhan had also served at Solan as Additional SP. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-ex-sp-dies-of-covid-at-62-248637
06-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Volunteers cremate Covid victim||Nurpur, May 5A number of volunteers came forward to cremate a Covid victim, who died at Dhumaal village of Panjara gram panchayat in Nurpur on Tuesday.A man (45), suspected to be Covid infected, came from Noida last evening where he had been working with a company. His condition deteriorated this morning due to a drastic fall in the oxygen level. The family approached the local panchayat secretary, who informed the SDM, Nurpur. He immediately rushed an ambulance to shift him to the Covid care centre, but he died.The authorities, along with some volunteers, reached the house of the deceased and made arrangements for his cremation. The administration also sanitised the house and its surroundings. A number of volunteers of local NGOs have enlisted themselves with the local authorities for rendering emergency services during Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/volunteers-cremate-covid-victim-248638
06-05-2021||Solan-based Shoolini Institute of Life Sciences and Business Management (SILB) is starting free online coaching classes for science students||Free online coaching for students||Committee to solve pending issuesThe Himachal Pradesh School Lecturers’ Association has welcomed the decision to set up a committee to resolve various pending cases of different sections of teachers and lecturers. Welcoming the decision, state secretary Rajan Sharma said the decision would help in solving various pending cases of the teachers, which had been lingering on for many years. Now the teachers would get a platform to address their issues. The association extended its sincere gratitude to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Education Minister Govind Thakur for the formation of the committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/free-online-coaching-for-students-248639
06-05-2021||The Chowari bus stand is in a deplorable condition because potholes have developed on the ground and the authorities concerned are well-aware of the state of affairs||Chowari bus stand in neglect||Bus drivers flout normThe 50 per cent occupancy rate is not being followed in all buses in Shimla after the private operators have taken their buses off the road. It’s difficult to blame people too because they can’t keep waiting for buses for a long time. Some solution to the problem should be found at the earliest. — Naresh Verma, ShimlaWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chowari-bus-stand-in-neglect-248644
06-05-2021||New Delhi||Himachal announces curfew for 10 days starting 12 am tomorrow||The Himachal Pradesh government announced curfew restrictions for 10 days in the state—a development that comes as the state shows among the highest positivity rates for COVID-19 in India.Himachal’s cabinet, which met amid growing COVID infections in the state, said curfew will be enforced from 12 am (midnight) on May 7 to May 16 (midnight). Authorities will impose Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code to prevent large gatherings. Emergency and essential services will be allowed. Industries, agriculture, and other civil works will also continue. All private and government offices will remain closed during that period, as will all educational institutions. Those entering the state will either have to produce a negative COVID report to avoid quarantine or otherwise undergo a mandatory RTPCR test in the state.Class 10 examinations stand cancelled. Students in the class will be promoted to the next using internal assessments, along the same lines as the Central Board of Secondary Education, which cancelled Class 10 board exams in April. Himachal Pradesh has been reporting COVID positivity rate of 20 per cent lately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-announces-curfew-for-10-days-starting-12-am-tomorrow-248528
06-05-2021||Ambika Sharma||Himachal Pradesh institute’s antiserum trials show +ve results||Tribune News ServiceSolan, May 4Kasauli-based Central Research Institute (CRI) has manufactured an antiserum which has been found effective in neutralising the Covid virus, including its mutant strains. The test was conducted by the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune.Neutralises virusAntiserum is human or nonhuman blood serum containing polyclonal antibodies used to provide passive immunity against many diseasesAdded protectionIt will provide an additional protection to critical Covid patients and help reduce mortalityThe CRI had begun working on the antiserum in April last year in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research.Institute director Dr Ajay Tahlan said, “The test result is heartening. It will pave the way for further trial. A lot of work was involved in manufacturing the antiserum. Horses were inoculated with dead virus provided by the NIV and antibodies were developed. The antiserum was then sent to Pune for testing.”The antiserum will now be tested on more animals to study its efficacy. The animal toxological studies will be conducted at Hyderabad-based National Institute of Nutrition, he said.After positive results, the institute will send the antiserum to Central Drug Laboratory for final testing. If successful, the institute will approach the drug controller seeking nod for manufacturing its commercial batches. “The entire process will take at least a year. We are hopeful that good results will be achieved. This will help in reducing the Covid mortality rate,” Dr Tahlan said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-institutes-antiserum-trials-show-ve-results-248336
