07-05-2021||Shimla||56 deaths, 4,190 virus cases in Himachal Pradesh||Himachal Pradesh on Friday recorded 56 coronavirus deaths and its highest single-day spike of 4,190 cases, pushing the state's infection count to 1,22,906, a senior official said.  So far, the virus has killed 1,780 people in the state, where a curfew has been imposed to check the coronavirus spread till May 17. The number of active cases in the state has climbed to 29,513, the official said. A total of 2,363 coronavirus patients recovered from the infection, taking the total number of cured people to 91,573, he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/56-deaths-4-190-virus-cases-in-himachal-pradesh-249548
07-05-2021||The SFI Thursday demanded the resignation of Himachal Pradesh University (HPU) Vice-Chancellor Sikandar Kumar on moral grounds following the reports of his ineligibility for the post. The SFI alleged that he was ineligible to be Vice-Chancellor. According to the UGC ordinance||SFI demands VC’s resignation||Blood donation campThe School of Media and Mass Communication of APG Shimla University, in association with the Blood-Connect Foundation, organised a webinar on “Awareness without action is worthless” to encourage the youth and the public to donate blood for children suffering from thalassemia. Dr Tajender, a social activist from the Blood-Connect Foundation, said thalassemia is a genetic disease and its symptoms start appearing only after a few weeks of birth. She said that awareness among masses, parents, family members and the community through donors to donate blood for thalassemia patients can give the later a new lease of life.Date for HPU-MAT extendedHPU has extended the last date for filing HPU-MAT forms for admission to MBA till June 10. The university, however, has reserved the right to conduct or not conduct HPU-MAT, group discussion and interviews for admission to MBA depending upon the Covid situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sfi-demands-vcs-resignation-249438
07-05-2021||The water channel that drains rainwater from the areas near the Una railway station||Drain clogged with vegetation||Curfew harsh for dhaba ownersThe curfew will be pretty hard for the owners of small roadside dhabas or stalls from Dhalli to Kurfi. We have to earn everyday to sustain our families. For the next 10 days, we will have no source of income. We just hope the curfew is not extended. — Bhim Singh, DhalliIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/drain-clogged-with-vegetation-249437
07-05-2021||Chamba||Beautification plan for Chamba||A delegation of the local Municipal Council, led by president Neelam Nayyar, along with MLA Pawan Nayyar, met Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here on Tuesday and presented an action plan regarding the beautification of Chamba town.In addition to this, other action plans of the Pakkatala-Baloo link road, parking lot and conservation of Chowgan were also placed before the CM for financial provision, and the CM assured to approve these plans. On the occasion, Nayyar and council vice-president Seema Kashyap honoured the Chief Minister by presenting the district’’s famous artwork Chamba ‘rumal’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/beautification-plan-for-chamba-249436
07-05-2021||---||Nod to testing labs at Una, Kullu||Shimla, May 6Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today directed all district administrations to ensure effective implementation of the curfew imposed in the wake of a sharp surge in Covid cases in the state.He was presiding over a review meeting regarding the Covid-19 situation through video-conferencing from here with Deputy Commissioners, Superintendents of Police, Chief Medical Officers and Principals of Medical Colleges in Himachal Pradesh.He said that all Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police must ensure that general public strictly adhered to SoPs issued by the government to check spread of corona virus.Steps must be taken to enhance testing and most importantly reduce the delay in getting reports of tests. For this, private labs must be requisitioned. “Approval has been accorded to set up laboratories at Una and Kullu for which Rs 7 crore has been sanctioned. Possibilities must also be explored for setting up of testing lab in three government universities and IIT Mandi,” he said.“Under the present circumstances the priority was not only to ensure safety of the citizens, but at the same time ensuring that economy of poor and down-trodden remains protected,” he remarked.Thakur said that the state had sufficient oxygen, but the only constraint was cylinders for transportation of the oxygen. “We have urged Centre to provide oxygen cylinders to the state to cope up with the deficiency. Efforts must also be made to expedite setting up of PSA oxygen plants sanctioned by the Centre,” he said.Health Minister Dr Rajiv Saizal lauded the efforts being put in by doctors, para medical staff and other stakeholders to tackle the pandemic.Chief Secretary Anil Khachi said that the implementing agencies must ensure effective sharing of resources in wake of the pandemic.Director General of Police Sanjay Kundu said that stern action would be taken against violators of SoPs. He said that action would also be taken against people visiting the state by furnishing fake identity and wrong details.CM: Bridge gap between home isolation, hospitalsThe CM directed the officers to bridge the gap between home isolation and hospitals as it has been felt that the fatality rate in the state was increasing due to delay in shifting of serious patients in home isolation to the hospitals which was matter of concern. He also directed the health department to ensure maintenance of smooth supply chain of oxygen, PPE kits, medicines and other logistics during the corona curfew.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nod-to-testing-labs-at-una-kullu-249406
07-05-2021||Shimla||Police to impose curfew strictly||The police are all prepared to strictly enforce curfew from May 7 to 16 to break the chain of Covid-19. They today warned that a FIR would be registered and a fine of Rs 5,000 would be imposed if the 50 per cent capacity of a vehicle was exceeded.Attempts to enter the state with fake documents and a false Covid-19 negative report would also invite an FIR and arrest, a police spokesperson said here.The violation of mandatory wearing of mask or wearing it below the nose would attract a fine of Rs 1,000 and arrest if the offence is repeated. The police also instructed shopkeepers to ensure social distancing, including a provision of a queue with earmarked white circles at proper distances for customers, at all shops. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/police-to-impose-curfew-strictly-249407
07-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||NHPC centre notified as Covid facility||Chamba, May 6  Reviewing measures and to provide facilities to patients suffering from coronavirus in the district, Deputy Commissioner DC Rana said that the local nursing college had the capacity to lay around 150 beds. The DC said that the priority was being given to ensure availability of various facilities in the Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) set up in the vacant building of the nursing college. Additional Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Repaswal told in the meeting that the 30-bed medical centre of National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC) located at Surangani had been notified as the Covid care centre. CMO Dr Kapil Sharma informed that the capacity of beds at DCHC, Saru, had been increased from 90 to 130 and oxygen facility had also been provided.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nhpc-centre-notified-as-covid-facility-249408
07-05-2021||---||Long wait to rush back home||Shimla, May 6 Many people had to wait for hours for buses as they tried to rush back to their native places from Shimla today following the announcement of the curfew from Friday midnight. Even though buses will continue to run with 50 per cent occupancy during the 10-day curfew, the announcement caused some panic among people and they decided to get home as early as possible. “I saw far more people today than on other days waiting for buses. All of them were in rush to get back to their native places,” said Satyawan Pundir, a Shimla resident. “The buses were also less. I had to wait for more than an hour to get from Chotta Shimla to Dhalli,” he said. There was more than usual crowd at the Lakkar Bazaaar bus stand, from where people board buses for upper Shimla. “I want to go to Pulbahal but there there’s no bus for the last three hours,” said Sandeep Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/long-wait-to-rush-back-home-249409
07-05-2021||Ravinder Sood 
||Good Samaritan ensures dignified last rites of Covid victims in Palampur||Palampur,  May 6 Parminder Bhatia   (40) has emerged as a Covid warrior of Palampur, as he has cremated the bodies of several persons, who died of the virus. His services have been recognised by various social bodies, state agencies and the local Rotary Club. A tireless worker, Bhatia has been devoting time and money to serve people.  “Many times, family members fear touching the bodies of their near and dear ones, who have succumbed to Covid-19. Even in small towns like Palampur, Baijnath Jaisinghpur, on an average, 10 persons are dying everyday and similar is the situation in villages,” said Bhatia while interacting with  The Tribune.  “By providing a dignified cremation to the Covid victims, Bhatia’’s initiative spreads hope among the families which are  unable to cremate their dear ones due to the restrictions,” said  Dharmesh  Ramotra, SDM, Palampur.    Bhatia is  the head of the local  “Sani Seva Sadan” that has been working for the welfare of people for the past 10 years.  Since the virus started spreading in Kangra district,  Bhatia has been helping Covid patients by transporting them to hospitals,  providing them necessary medical aid, food etc on their doorsteps and by helping the bereaved families in cremating the lost dear ones. He has especially proved to be a boon to aged patients, who are living alone and have no family support here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/good-samaritan-ensures-dignified-last-rites-of-covid-victims-in-palampur-249410
07-05-2021||---||IIT Mandi invents tech to detect Ischemic stroke early||Mandi, May 6 Innovators at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) here have invented a method to simultaneously study variations in nerve functions and brain blood flow associated with brain disorders such as Ischemic stroke. The method helps in locating and classifying damaged sites (lesions) in the brain, brought about, or leading to neurological diseases. It helps in detecting Ischemic stroke disease in time. Dr Shubhajit Roy Chowdhury, Associate Professor, School of Computing and Electrical Engineering, IIT, Mandi, says, “Our invention is based on the fact that intricate interactions between nerve cells (neurons) and blood vessels (vasculature), called NeuroVascular Coupling (NVC) that regulates blood flow in the brain. Diseases such as Ischemic stroke adversely affect the NVC.  NeuroVascular Uncoupling results in such cases wherein nerve impulses do not trigger the required blood flow. Timely detection of the NVC is critical for the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of such diseases”. “Our method uses a multi-modal brain stimulation system to differentially stimulate different components of the NVU. It observes the resultant electrical nerve signals by EEG (electroencephalography) and the blood flow by Near Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS),” he says.  He adds that the IIT team has developed a prototype to detect Ischemic stroke disease in time. The developed device can also help in identifying the progress of diseases such as Parkinson’s and can in fact predict the occurrence of these diseases even before the presentation of symptoms. Chowdhury says that surveys have shown that nearly 30 million people in India suffer from neurological disorders such as epilepsy, stroke, Parkinson’’s disease, traumatic brain injuries, and neuro infections.  He adds that neurosurgeons and hospitals in India have indeed made significant advancements in neurosurgical diagnosis and treatment. The invention by the IIT team takes the diagnosis of neurological problems one step further and it will help in better detection and treatment of diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iit-mandi-invents-tech-to-detect-ischemic-stroke-early-249411
07-05-2021||---||Declare power sector staff as frontline workers, Himachal CM urged||Shimla, May 6A delegation of the Himachal Power Engineers’ Association met Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here yesterday and urged him to declare all employees of the sector as front line workers. The delegates said that it would make the power sector employees entitled to all benefits available to corona warriors in case of an untoward incident. The association also donated Rs 1 lakh to the Chief Minister Relief Fund. The association said that the power sector employees had been working tirelessly since the outbreak of the pandemic. They are also at risk of contracting the virus while performing their duties, so they be vaccinated on priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/declare-power-sector-staff-as-frontline-workers-himachal-cm-urged-249412
07-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||300 challans for norm violation in Kullu ; Rs1.5L collected as fine||Kullu, May 6 The Kullu police have issued more than 300 challans and collected Rs 1.5 lakh as fine from people not wearing masks in the past five days.  They are requesting people through the public announcement system and Rustom volunteers to follow Covid protocols.  Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said that Sonu, a resident of Dugilug village, was challaned and fined Rs 5,000  for violating Covid norms while celebrating his son’s mundan ceremony today. He added that the permission of the district administration was required for any type of gathering. Awareness drives were being organised and a strict vigil was being maintained to enforce Covid norms, especially in gatherings.  He said that the police were coordinating with Naib Tehsildars and Tehsildars and the people organising social functions were being told to strictly adhere to the Covid norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/300-challans-for-norm-violation-in-kullu-rs1-5l-collected-as-fine-249413
07-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM launches toll-free Covid helpline in state||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today launched a dedicated Covid helpline at Mukhyamantri Sewa Sankalp Helpline 1100 for facilitating the people regarding Covid-related issues.Appreciating the efforts of the Information Technology Department, the Chief Minister said any one can call on toll-free number 1100 from 7 am to 10 pm for seeking help. An executive would register the complaint and contact the authorities for providing necessary help to the person regarding testing, vaccination, home quarantine, medicines, ambulance and oxygen.He felt the need for making the service more user-friendly and simple.Principal Secretary, IT, Rajneesh detailed the salient features of the helpline. Director, Information Technology, Ashutosh Garg made a presentation regarding the helpline. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-launches-toll-free-covid-helpline-in-state-249414
07-05-2021||Ambika Sharma||Steel plants in Sirmaur, Una defy orders, use Oxygen||Tribune News ServiceSolan, May 6At a time when there is a nationwide crisis of medical oxygen, steel and iron manufacturing units in Sirmaur and other districts are functioning as usual using gaseous oxygen cylinders while these are shut in Solan.According to a notification, state governments have been directed to restrict the industrial use of oxygen for ensuring its availability for Covid patients.Since the notification makes no mention of air separation units (ASUs) producing gaseous oxygen, the operation of steel and iron manufacturing units in Sirmaur and Una are continuing.There is no shortage of oxygen in the state, whether the use of gaseous oxygen should be permitted for the industrial use has become a contentious issue among investors.Deputy Commissioner, Solan, KC Chaman, said in view of the oxygen crisis and the Centre’s directions, only medical use of both liquid and gaseous oxygen was ensured and the industrial use was restricted.The state has been allocated 15 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen, but following a spike in cases, the requirement is rising every day. The requirement of oxygen in Solan district, where nearly 400 cases are detected every day, has risen from two cylinders on April 1 to 232 on April 30.Eight steel units in Sirmaur district continued to function as usual with 10.5 lakh units power being consumed on a daily basis, said officials of the HP State Electricity Board. The Himachal Pradesh Steel Industries Association has raised the issue as to why steel plants in Solan district are prohibited while they are operational in other districts.Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, RK Pruthi, said being a continuous process industry, steel units had been permitted to operate.Arindam Chaudhary, who heads the Logistic Committee to monitor the availability of oxygen at all facilities, said, “There is no shortage of oxygen though its requirement has reached 25 MT as against 15 MT. There is no diversion of liquid oxygen and its use was restricted for medical purposes while ASUs have been left out by the Union Government. The state government will take a decision regarding its use as the association has also raised the issue as to why steel plants in Solan district are prohibited while they are operational in other districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/steel-plants-in-sirmaur-una-defy-orders-use-oxygen-249415
07-05-2021||Lalit Mohan||Confusion in Kangra, Una about fresh curbs||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 6Confusion prevails among the residents regarding the guidelines of curfew to be imposed in Kangra and Una districts from May 7 to May 17.As per the guidelines issued by the state government, it would mean more relaxations than the curfew in Kangra district. The administration has already imposed a weekend curfew in view of increasing Covid cases in the district. As per the new guidelines, there will be no weekend lockdown. Only Section 144 will be imposed under which more than five persons cannot assemble. Shops can also remain open on weekends.More relaxationsNow, there is confusion regarding which shops will remain open and which will not. As per the directions, all construction activities in government and private sectors will continue. However, there is no clarity if hardware shops will be allowed to open during this period.Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati, said Section 144 of the CrPC would be enforced in the state under which the gathering of more than five persons had been banned. People would be free to move out of their houses, but cannot gather in groups of more than five.The DC said all shops of essential items such as grocery, vegetables, roadside dhabas and vehicle repair, would remain open everyday till 6 pm. Private and government construction would continue.Prajapati said in Kangra district, the weekend curfew would continue. On the opening of hardware stores, the DC said he would take a decision in the next three-four days. For now, these stores would remain closed.Regarding entry on the inter-state and inter-district borders, the DC said preview regulations already in place would continue. People entering the state would have to produce negative RT-PCR reports not older than 72 hours and private transport could operate with 50 per cent capacity.There is demand to allow electrical and other repair shops to open, but the DC said for the time being, these shops would remain shut.Meanwhile, as per the orders issued by DC Raghav Sharma, all shops related to construction activities such as cement, iron rods, chips etc will remain open in Una district.Banks, LPG services, petrol pumps, shops related to agricultural activities such as seed, fertiliser shops and farm implements will remain open in both districts. The movement of farmers and labourers would remain unhindered.Marriages that have already been permitted shall be allowed under curfew. Officials said the orders could be amended as per the prevailing situation.In both districts, both private and government offices will remain closed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/confusion-in-kangra-una-about-fresh-curbs-249416
07-05-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||People question move to keep hotels open||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 6The imposition of the corona curfew in the absence of clear-cut guidelines has led to utter confusion and evoked sharp criticism from the general public, especially over allowing tourists to roam freely in the state.The SOPs issued today with regard to allowing tourists to visit the state during the curfew has generated a lot of resentment among people. They are indignant over the fact that while their movement within their own state is restricted to curb transmission, tourists can entre in their vehicles.Questions are being raised over expertise of the hotel staff to ascertain the veracity whether the RT-PCR report was from an ICMR recognised lab. “We are not allowed to move around freely except for emergency then why should tourists be allowed,” quipped a local.He added that allowing tourists has been done under the pressure of the powerful hoteliers lobby, whom the government cannot afford to annoy but the interests of the other small traders have been totally ignored.Himachal today recorded the highest-ever figure of 3,929 new cases in a single day besides 45 deaths. Questions are being raised on the wisdom of the authorities to allow tourists when the figure of new cases daily is now hovering close to 4,000 daily and the deaths at an average of 40 to 45 daily.Shopkeepers and traders too expressed resentment over the decision of the government today to allow operation of hotels. “It is so strange that when all shops, markets and entertainment places will remain closed during the curfew then why should tourists be allowed to enter,” said a shopkeeper in Chotta Shimla, here.He added that the government should hold the same concern for traders and small shopkeepers that it has for hoteliers who are far well off than them.Secretary, Tourism and Civil Aviation, Onkar Sharma today issued the SOPs for operation of tourism units in the state during the corona curfew. As per the SOPs, swimming pools, auditorium and assembly halls will remain closed, hotel staff will check ICMR lab RT-PCR negative report, not older than 72 hours for visitors from high load states of Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Punjab. The tourism units have been directed to strictly follow hygiene guidelines issued from time to time.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner, Shimla, Aditya Negi today issued the notification for the imposition of the curfew. According to the order all shops barring those selling essential commodities would remain closed till 6 pm every day. The movement of people would be totally restricted except for emergency works such as vaccination, to hospital or for the purchase of daily need goods in their locality.The Deputy Commissioner directed that the owners of hotels, dhabas and grocery shops should issue identity cards to their staff so that they could move around for their jobs.Permission to tourists to visit state resented||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/people-question-move-to-keep-hotels-open-249417
07-05-2021||Legal Correspondent||High Court restricts functioning from today||Shimla, May 6Taking into consideration the restrictions imposed by the state government from tomorrow onwards till May 16, the HP High Court has also decided to restrict its functioning.As per the office order issued through Registrar General Virender Singh, only extreme urgent cases will be taken up through the virtual mode during the aforesaid period. One Division Bench and one Single Bench will assemble daily.The order states that the staff of the Registry will work from home and remain available at their residence and will not be allowed to leave the station without the permission of the authorities. The leave/station leave will be granted only in exceptional circumstances. They staff may be called to the office at any time.Similarly, only extreme urgent cases will be taken up by the District and Subordinate Court in the state in the aforesaid period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-court-restricts-functioning-from-today-249418
07-05-2021||---||3,929 new cases, 45 deaths in Himachal||Shimla, May 6As many as 3,929 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 118,729. Besides, 45 persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours.Seventeen deaths were reported in Kangra, eight each in Solan and Shimla, five in Mandi, two each in Hamirpur and Kullu and one each in Una, Sirmaur and Chamba.Kangra recorded the highest number of 1,009 cases, followed by 498 in Solan, 477 in Mandi, 400 in Shimla, 368 in Hamirpur, 316 in Bilaspur, 232 in Sirmaur, 206 each in Chamba and Una, 82 in Lahaul and Spiti and 20 in Kinnaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-929-new-cases-45-deaths-in-himachal-249419
07-05-2021||---||Nurse ‘failed to identify’ Covid victim’s body||Solan, May 6 The attending nurse erred in identifying the body of a Covid victim at MM Medical College and Hospital on May 2, and as a result, another person’s body was handed to a Solan-based family. However, the aggrieved family detected the error minutes before cremation.  Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajiv Saizal had directed the district administration to inquire into the  matter. The aggrieved family had a traumatic experience,  as their loved one was shown as dead though he was alive till  Sunday and passed away the next day.  An inquiry conducted by the Additional Deputy Commissioner   revealed that there were two critical patients — Kewal Ram and Dhani Ram — admitted to the ICU ward of the medical college on Saturday night. They were unconscious and when Dhani Ram died, the nurse assumed that it was Kewal Ram. Both patients were elderly and critical and hence the mix up. She could not recognise the deceased. “A  report has been sent to the state government  and officials at the medical college have been directed to ensure  that a senior medical  officer is available to handle such a situation,” said KC Chaman, Deputy Commissioner, Solan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurse-failed-to-identify-covid-victims-body-249420
07-05-2021||Solan||18 more Oxygen beds in Nahan hospital||The district administration today arranged 18 oxygen supported beds in Shri Sai Multi-Specialty Hospital and trauma centre at Nahan for use by the Covid patients.  While 16 beds have been connected to the centralized oxygen supply, two others to oxygen concentrators. A team of clinical committee comprising Chief Medical Officer and Principal Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College inspected the hospital and gave their consent for use of Covid patients. The district administration will bear the expenditure from the State Disaster Relief Fund for the patients admitted there.  A bed equipped with ventilator and oxygen support would cost Rs 8,000 per day while one providing oxygen would be charged Rs 3,000 per day inclusive of the meals, informed Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, Dr RK Pruthi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/18-more-oxygen-beds-in-nahan-hospital-249421
07-05-2021||---||Covid curbs hinder nomads’ migration||Dharamsala, May 6The state Wildlife Department has decided to close all wildlife sanctuaries on an advisory issued by the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests.However, the orders of the Wildlife Department are posing problems for Gaddi and Gujjar nomads, who along with their sheep and buffaloes migrate to higher hills while passing through wildlife sanctuaries with the onset of the summer.They allege that wildlife officials are not allowing them to pass through sanctuaries, making their migration difficult. Gujjar shepherds migrate from the border areas of Punjab and Himachal to higher hills in Kangra and Chamba districts.A delegation of the All India Gujjar Mahasabha met the Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, today. The convener of the Mahasabha, Hassan Deen, said, “Several Gujjar families of Chamba migrate to border areas of Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts. They return home in Tissa, Salooni and Churah areas of Chamba district during the summer. These days, these people are facing difficulties in returning home due to Covid restrictions imposed by the civil administration and the Wildlife Department. We have urged the DC, Chamba, to help migratory Gujjars”.In an advisory issued on April 30, the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests has said that in view of the Covid surge, there is a possibility of the virus spreading to animals in national wildlife sanctuaries, parks and other protected areas. It advised all state wildlife departments to close national parks/sanctuaries and other protected areas immediately.Last year, during the lockdown, the Gujjar and Gaddi nomads of Himachal had faced difficulties in returning home. The Gujjars had even faced social boycott in some areas of Chamba after Tablighi Jamat members were accused of spreading coronavirus in the state. They were not allowed to enter villages on their migration path. However, Hassan Deen said that this year, they were not facing problems from locals but the wildlife authorities and the civil authorities were creating problems in their migration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-curbs-hinder-nomads-migration-249422
07-05-2021||---||SMC ensuring cremation of Covid victims with rituals||Shimla, May 6 The Shimla Municipal Corporation is ensuring proper cremation and burials in the presence of pundits and maulvis for Covid victims at the Kanlog crematorium.   “The bodies are being cremated and buried with all rituals, not just being disposed of,” said MC Commissioner Ashish Kohli. “We have so far done around 325 cremations and 10 burials, including of three Muslims, three Christians and four children at this crematorium.”  Initially, the MC had to perform the last rites all by itself as the relatives of the dead would not come to the cremation site.  So much was the fear that people would not show up to collect the ashes of the deceased. At one point last year, the ashes of around 70 bodies had piled up at the crematorium and the trust running the crematorium had planned its mass immersion.  “The situation has changed now. People do come for cremation. If someone wants to perform the last rites, we provide PPE kits to one or two members of the family and let them perform the rituals,” said Kohli. Given the spurt in the number of deaths, the MC has built three additional sheds at the crematorium. “There were five platforms at the crematorium. We have had days when more than five bodies landed at the crematorium, making people to wait for hours,” said Kohli. “It’s torturous for the people to wait in such circumstances. With these additional platforms ready, we will be able to provide better service to people,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/smc-ensuring-cremation-of-covid-victims-with-rituals-249423
07-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Kangra admn helps boy cremate mother||Palampur, May 6  The death of a 45-year-old woman yesterday, who was undergoing treatment for Covid at Tanda Medical College, had left her 18-year-old son helpless as no one came to help the boy cremate his mother. “I called my relatives but nobody came to my help. They lived in and around Palampur. I had no idea   how to perform the last rites of my mother whose body was lying in the mortuary of the TMC,” said the boy in tears. When the    matter was brought to the notice of Kangra DC Rakesh Prajapati by a local NGO late last night, he swung into action and directed SDM Dharmesh Ramotra  to make arrangements for her cremation. The woman was cremated with the help of volunteers today. Sanitation workers, the mortuary staff and ambulance drivers also helped him.  Such scenes are becoming common at the hospital mortuaries as the virus continues to take its toll. Some hospital staff say that many bodies lie unclaimed as family members do not come. “We  make calls on  mobile numbers of the kin of the deceased, but there is no response,” claims a hospital employee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-admn-helps-boy-cremate-mother-249424
07-05-2021||---||Himachal CM: Six new Oxygen plants enough for 1,400 beds||Shimla, May 6 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has thanked the Union government for approving six new PSA oxygen plants for the state.  He said these plants would be set up at the civil hospital, Palampur, zonal hospital, Mandi, civil hospitals Rohru and Khaneri in Shimla district, Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College and Hospital, Nahan, and regional hospital, Solan. He said this would ensure adequate oxygen supply to about 1,400 beds in the institutions. He said the Union government had already sanctioned seven oxygen plants for the state being established at Dharamsala, Mandi, Shimla, Chamba, Nahan, Hamirpur and Tanda. He said out of these plants, oxygen production has started in Dharamsala, Mandi and Shimla plants whereas remaining plants would also be made functional soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-six-new-oxygen-plants-enough-for-1-400-beds-249425
07-05-2021||Subhash Rajta||Did minister’s kin jump the queue to get jab on May 1?||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 6Did Vandana Guleria, BJP Mahila Morcha state secretary and daughter of Jal Shakti Vibhag Minister Mahender Singh, jump the queue to get Covid vaccination? While Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said he had no information about it, Vandana Guleria chose to not respond to the queries sent to her by The Tribune correspondent.The allegation that she got herself vaccinated even though she was not eligible for the jab has been levelled by CPM leader from Mandi, Bhupender Singh. Vandana Guleria had defeated Bhupender Singh in the Zila Parishad elections.Bhupender claimed that Vandana Guleria was 41-year-old and she got herself vaccinated on May 1. He claimed that she was not eligible to get vaccinated as the vaccination drive to inoculate people in the 18-44 age group had not taken off on May 1 as scheduled.The government had announced that the vaccination drive in the 18-44 age group would start from May 1 but it was suspended following the communication from the vaccine manufacturer that it would not be able to supply the doses before three to four weeks.Demanding an inquiry into how she managed to get inoculated, Bhupender Singh said it would send out a message among the masses that the influential people would get the vaccine even as they wait for their turn.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/did-ministers-kin-jump-the-queue-to-get-jab-on-may-1-249426
07-05-2021||Shimla||Full court reference on SC judge’s death||A virtual full court reference was held yesterday to mourn the demise of Justice Mohan Shantanagoudar of Supreme Court of India. Justice Shantanagoudar left for his heavenly abode on April 24 at the age of 62 in New Delhi.  He was elevated as the Judge of Supreme Court had a term till May 5, 2023.  Paying a tribute to him, Chief Justice L Narayana Swamy said he was a highly self-disciplined, intelligent, kind-hearted and simple person, besides being a distinguished judge, who had a profound knowledge of all branches of law.  Justice Narayana Swamy expressed his deep condolences to the bereaved family and said the passing away of Justice Shantanagoudar was a loss for the entire legal fraternity too. Ashok Sharma, Advocate General, Rama Kant Sharma, chairman, the Bar Council of Himachal Pradesh, Nareshwar Singh Chandel, president, the HP High Court Bar Association, and Bal Ram Sharma, Assistant Solicitor General of India, also paid tributes to Justice Shantanagoudar. A two-minute silence was observed as a mark of respect to the departed soul. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/full-court-reference-on-sc-judges-death-249427
07-05-2021||---||Himachal CM’s visit political, not for Covid review: Nayar||Chamba, May 6 The District Congress Committee (DCC) president Neeraj Nayar described the recent visit of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to Chamba as ‘political tour’ merely in view of the upcoming Mandi Lok Sabha byelections rather than Covid review meeting. The seat has fallen vacant due to the demise of former BJP MP Ram Swaroop Sharma. In a statement issued to media here yesterday, Nayar said in view of the coronavirus situation, Jai Ram Thakur could have held this Covid review meeting through video-conferencing from Shimla. But this crucial meeting of Covid in Chamba was a mere formality. While coming to Chamba district, the Chief Minister left no stone unturned to benefit Thunag in his home district by laying the foundation stone for development works worth crores of rupees, Nayar said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cms-visit-political-not-for-covid-review-nayar-249428
07-05-2021||Kullu||One held for possessing  gun illegally||The police have arrested one person and recovered a gun without licence from him, during a raid at his house at Fozal village in Manali yesterday.  Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said the police raided the house of Devi Ram (38) on secret information and recovered the unlicensed double-barrel type old gun. He said the accused had hidden the gun in his house and it had been procured by his father, who had passed away a year ago. He said no live ammunition was recovered from the accused. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/one-held-for-possessing-gun-illegally-249429
07-05-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal sees 60% rise in suicide cases||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 6The Covid-19 pandemic has increased the risk of psychiatric disorders, exacerbating suicidal behaviour. In Himachal, 218 persons ended their lives in the first three months of this year, an increase of over 60 per cent compared to the corresponding period last year.Factors to blameLoneliness, marital disputes, financial stress, health problems, unemployment & job stress, according to a surveyUncertain future and economic fallout, with no hope for early end to the pandemic, have been affecting the mental health of people aged between 25 and 60 years, say health experts. Isolated from the outside world, elderly persons and nuclear families are another section showing signs of depression, but are hesitant when it comes to seeking help, they say.Rising graphWhile 66 persons died by suicide in January, the count rose to 70 and 82 in February and March. The corresponding figures last year were 47, 44 and 43.Against 709 suicide cases in 2019, 856 were reported in 2020. The months of June, July and August (2020) accounted for 311 suicides when the pandemic was in its first phase.The other factors to blame are marital disputes, financial issues, drug addiction, health problems, unemployment, job stress and family problems. A survey conducted by the Himachal Pradesh State Mental Health Authority showed out that 42.92% of the people were worried about their future and family security, 40.46% were stressed due to financial losses while 50% felt anxious and depressed by reading and watching Covid-related articles.About 2.42% contemplated suicide while only 4.17% sought psychiatric consultation.“Friends and family members can play a crucial role by picking up early warning signs. Psychiatric help must be taken,” says Dr Sanjay Pathak, Senior Medical Superintendent, Himachal Hospital of Mental Health and Rehabilitation, Boileauganj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-sees-60-rise-in-suicide-cases-249310
