08-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal to suspend public transport from May 10, shops to open only for three hours||The Himachal Pradesh's government has decided to suspend all public transport and allow essential commodity shops to open for only three hours from May 10 onwards---new restrictions that come on a day when the state recorded 5,424 new COVID-19 infections.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur hopes the new restrictions will help break the chain of transmission.“Keeping in view the sharp surge in the number of covid cases and related deaths in the State, the State Government has decided to impose few more strict restrictions under corona curfew from May 10, 6 am onwards,” he said after a high-level meeting he presided over on Saturday.It was decided in the meeting that all the shops in the state, except those dealing with daily needs and essential commodities would remain closed. The daily needs and essential commodities shops would, however, remain open only for three hours a day. Their timings would be decided by deputy commissioners.It was also decided that all the public transport would remain suspended until further orders and private vehicles would only be allowed in case of emergency services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-to-suspend-public-transport-from-may-10-shops-to-open-only-for-three-hours-250021
08-05-2021||---||Himachal DGP inspects inter-state barriers||Solan, May 8Director General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu on Saturday inspected various inter-state barriers at Parwanoo, Baddi and Barotiwala and directed the staff to ensure their own protection while inspecting e-passes.“A request has been made to the district administration to provide selfie sticks to the police staff deputed at the interstate barriers to assess the e-passes App. Since they come in close contact with a visitor entering the state in the process of checking the e-pass, the danger of contracting Covid loomed large.” Kundu said 1,000 men from various battalions have been stationed at inter-state barriers in Solan, Baddi, Una, Kangra, Bilaspur and Shimla districts to ensure entry of people for bonafide purposes.He reiterated that those using incorrect identity or address would be booked.The DGP added that, “Corona curfew has been successful in curbing unnecessary movement of people in the state. Not only this, the uphill traffic from TTR inter-state barrier at Parwanoo has sizeably reduced after introduction of e-pass system by Haryana government.”As many as 1,300 people have entered through e-pass at Parwanoo while a daily movement of 35,000 goods vehicle was registered at Baddi where additional 5,000 people commute on a daily basis from nearby area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-dgp-inspects-inter-state-barriers-250008
08-05-2021||---||After Amitabh Bachchan, Donald Trump e-pass row, fliers told to re-register at Gaggal airport in Kangra||Dharamsala, May 8After reports that some people were making fake entries on Covid e-pass portals to enter Himachal, the local administration stopped fliers who came by air from Delhi at Gaggal airport in Kangra on Saturday morning.Many of passengers who had pre-approved e-passes were also stopped at the airport and asked to re-register for e-pass. This annoyed many passengers who alleged that they were being harassed.Earlier, the passengers were being allowed entry after scanning of e-passes.Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said that after reports that some people were making fake entries on covid e-pass portal to gain entry into the state, they were making attempts to verify the credentials of people coming with e-pass. This was causing some delay in allowing passengers to come out of the airport, he said.The Himachal police had on Friday said two fake entries were found in the name of Bollywood star Amitabh Bachchan and formet US President Donald Trump.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/after-amitabh-bachchan-donald-trump-e-pass-row-fliers-told-to-re-register-at-gaggal-airport-in-kangra-249910
08-05-2021||Instead of intensifying efforts for cleanliness and sanitisation following the Covid spike||Garbage heaps on highway||Repair the hand pump at Chamba villageThe hand pump in Chameenu village of Baraur area, along the Chamba-Saho road, is out of order for the past several months. The residents have urged the department concerned to rectify the snag as soon as possible. Even the passers-by face problem as they can’t drink water and quench their thirst. The department concerned must repair the hand pump and resolve the problem without any further delay. — Residents, Chameenu (Chamba)What our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/garbage-heaps-on-highway-249886
08-05-2021||A road linking the YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry||New farm block at Nauni varsity||NSUI opposes orders to vacate hostelThe NSUI has opposed the decision to close the hostels at HPU during the curfew. The administration has asked the students to vacate the hostel, following the announcement of 10-day curfew in the state. The NSUI said the university did not make any sense because students in the hostel were from remote areas and many were from outside the state. The NSUI said asking students to vacate the hostel and return to their native places would put them in danger when Covid cases were at peak.Class X students elatedStudents of Class X of the HP Board of School Education are a happy lot, as the state government has decided to pass them on the basis of internal examination and assessment, without holding the board examinations. The decision was taken in view of surge in Covid cases. A notification in this regard has been released.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/new-farm-block-at-nauni-varsity-249885
08-05-2021||Legal Correspondent
||HC denies bail to rape accused, says ‘no means no’||Shimla, May 7 “No means no” — the simplest of sentences have become the most difficult for some men to understand. No does not mean yes, it does not mean that the girl is shy, it does not mean that the girl is asking a man to convince her, it does not mean that he has to keep pursuing her.  This was held by the Himachal Pradesh High Court while rejecting the bail plea of a man accused of raping a 17-year-old girl. Rejecting the bail plea, Justice Anoop Chitkara observed that “the word ‘no’ doesn’t need any further explanation or justification. It ends there, and the man has to stop.”  The court further said the victim, in this case, said no to the accused when he started touching her, but he continued. “It nowhere implies consent, or zeal and desire to explore and feel each other in romantic love.” The court observed: “Neither the absence of resistance nor the unwilling submission implies consent in any language. When the curriculum does not include proper sex education, children raised by such societies fail women time and again.” As per the prosecution, on December 17, 2020, the victim was waiting for bus at the Rajgarh bus stand in Sirmaur district. The accused, who was her friend, reached there in his pickup Jeep and offered to drop her home. The victim boarded the vehicle, but the accused took a detour on the way. On enquiry by the victim, he said he would take a U-turn ahead and drop her at her home.  However, he did not do so, took the Jeep to a secluded place and started touching the victim inappropriately. The girl said no to him but instead the accused told her that if she would cry, he would force himself upon her. He then asked her if she would marry him, to which the girl said no. After that he committed sexual intercourse with her.  Based on these allegations, the police registered the FIR on December 17, 2020, under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hc-denies-bail-to-rape-accused-says-no-means-no-249821
08-05-2021||ibune News Service
||Bali Cong in-charge of Covid relief work||Dharamsala, May 7 Former minister and senior Congress leader GS Bali has been appointed party in charge of corona relief work in Himachal. He has been given the mandate to coordinate with the HPCC chief, CLP leader, all Congress MLAs and ex-MLAs to monitor all relief operations being done in different control rooms set up by HPCC. Bali, while talking to The Tribune, said that all Congress MLAs, ex-MLAs and district chiefs have been asked to submit their requirement for relief material required in their respective constituencies as early as possible. Presently, the party was planning to provide three ambulances to take patients to hospitals and bring them back. The party has also decided to provide free medicines, masks, sanitizers and foodgrains to people in the entire state. When asked that since the hospitals in Kangra were exhausting their capacity how the Congress intend to help patients, Bali said that 40 beds equipped with high flow oxygen supply would be provided to district administration soon in his Fortis hospital. Efforts are also being made to arrange for some ventilator equipped beds. He said that though the government was busy in treating corona patients suffering from complications, it should also ensure that other patients suffering from serious ailments such as cardiac, renal and cancer problems also get treatment in these testing times. Some hospitals should be dedicated for general patients suffering from serious ailments. Bali said that though the government was trying to do its best for corona patients, it was a time that every penny was diverted towards creating health infrastructure as people of the state were losing life to pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bali-cong-in-charge-of-covid-relief-work-249822
08-05-2021||---||Enhance O2 quota to 30 MT: CM to Centre||Shimla, May 7 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said that they had urged the Centre to enhance the fixed Liquid Medical Oxygen quota for the state from 15 MT to 30 MT to meet the escalated demand. He was addressing oxygen manufacturers of the state through video-conferencing from here today. “During the pandemic it becomes the duty of each one of us to help the community and lessen the impact of the virus. Himachal has surplus oxygen from production point of view but cylinders are required for its transportation,” he said.  He said they had urged the Central Government to provide 5000 D type and 3000 B type cylinders as the demand had increased manifold in view of the Covid surge. He said the state government would also increase production capacity of oxygen plant at the IGMC by 20 MT.  He asserted that the first and foremost priority of the state government was to ensure adequate supply of oxygen so that no one suffered. He said oxygen manufacturers in the state must ensure maximum production of oxygen so as to save every precious life, besides plugging leakage and wastage of oxygen. Thakur said the state government would ensure adequate and uninterrupted supply of electricity to all oxygen plants to ensure smooth production. He said the oxygen producers must also ensure uninterrupted supply to various parts of the state so that people do not suffer for want of oxygen. He said the state government had established oxygen control room in all the health institutions for ensuring proper storage and usage of oxygen. He said this room would also monitor demand and supply of oxygen. Additional Chief Secretary Industries Ram Subhag Singh said the department was ensuring all possible logistic support to oxygen manufacturers to ensure proper functioning of their plants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/enhance-o2-quota-to-30-mt-cm-to-centre-249823
08-05-2021||Kullu||Man drowned in Parbati||One person was drowned in the Parbati at Katagla bridge, near Kasol yesterday. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said Thakur Dass (33) of Chowki village, near Jari in Parbati valley, fell into the river and died.  The SP said locals spotted his body in the river, and the police and the rescue team recovered the body. Reportedly, the victim had gone near the river, when his foot slipped and he fell into the gushing water. The SP said there were no external injuries on the body of the victim, and no foul play was suspected.  He said the body of the victim was handed over to the relatives after the post-mortem. He said proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC were under way. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-drowned-in-parbati-249824
08-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Palampur civil hospital to have oxygen plant||PALAMPUR, May 7 An oxygen plant will be set up at the civil hospital here from the PM Cares Fund. The Central Government has assigned the DRDO the task to install 581 such plants in the country and one plant would be set up in Palampur. The funds for the plant have already been released to the DRDO.  Official sources told The Tribune that the Union Government had directed the Project Director, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), to undertake the construction of this plant.  A senior officer of the NHAI said that the DRDO had provided them design and site plan of the platform. The construction work was in progress and expected to be completed at the earliest.  Later, DRDO engineer would install the oxygen plant which will have capacity to generate 1,000 liter oxygen per minute.  Hailing the Government of India for sanctioning the oxygen plant here, Ashish Butail, local MLA, said the plant would prove a boon to the patients. Earlier, the hospital was dependent for oxygen supply on a private party. The MLA assured full cooperation to the DRDO in setting up the plant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-civil-hospital-to-have-oxygen-plant-249825
08-05-2021||Shimla||Him Ira shops to be opened for SHGs||As many as 24,500 self-help groups (SHGs) formed under the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) have been selling their products under ‘’Him Ira’’ brand and the logo of the Himachal Pradesh State Rural Livelihoods Mission registered in 2019-20. A spokesperson for the state government said to popularise the brand, the mission was now  setting up shops and weekly markets in the state. Currently, members of these SHGs have been provided space in the gram panchayat for the sale of their products. In addition, a weekly market is organised at the segment level in which women can sell their products directly to customers. The spokesperson said the main objective of setting up Him Ira shops and a weekly market was to provide a platform to women SHGs to sell their products.  It has been targeted to set up 100 shops in different parts of the state. So far, Him Ira shops have been established in 46 locations.  He said these SHGs had launched a new initiative to prepare hygienic food for employees of various departments, offices and canteens located in educational institutions and government offices.  In the first phase, the Department of Technical Education has agreed to provide space to SHGs to set up Him Ira kitchens in its 14 educational institutions.  The first such canteen has been established at Arki-ITI, Solan district. Similarly, “Him Ira Annapurna Meals on Wheels,” has also been started. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/him-ira-shops-to-be-opened-for-shgs-249826
08-05-2021||vinder Sood
||Palampur panchayat sets up isolation centre||Palampur, May 7 Bhattu Samula panchayat in Palampur subdivision of Kangra district has  converted the community bhawan at the village to an isolation centre for Covid patients.   The panchayat has come forward to help those who have no place to isolate themselves. At present, over 1,000 people are in home isolation in different villages of Palampur as all Covid care hospitals and isolation centres are full to capacity. Arun Rana, panchayat up-pardhan, has taken the initiative. He has installed 10 beds at the centre and told villagers that whosoever tests positive for Covid can spend his isolation period there. He said he had also made arrangements for breakfast, lunch and dinner for indoor patients. Besides, medicines, milk and fruit would also be provided to the patients.  Palampur SDM Dharmesh Ramotra has appreciated the initiative of the panchayat and assured it full support. He has urged other panchayats to set up such isolation centres to help the suffering people.  He had directed block development officers to visit all panchayats and discuss the issue with pradhans and encourage them to set up isolation centres. He said the way Covid cases were rising in the region, more isolation centres would be needed in every panchayat in coming days.  The SDM also requested the health authorities to provide medical support to the panchayat to run the centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-panchayat-sets-up-isolation-centre-249827
08-05-2021||KULLU||1.45 lakh poppy plants found, 5 cases registered||Kullu police have recovered 1.45 lakh poppy plants cultivated in around 18 bighas of land and registered four cases in Sainj valley and one case in Anni subdivision. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said the police spotted poppy plants cultivated in about 17 small fields of Hukmi Ram of Bhithu Kanda in Sainj valley. He said 71,063 poppy plants were recovered. Upon further search, 30,000 poppy plants were found cultivated in 2 bighas of Thakur Das of Braihan village of Sainj valley. Nearly 23,500 poppy plants were found in 3 bighas of Kishori Lal of Braihan village, he said.  The SP said 21,000 poppy plants were found in 1.5 bigha land of Ameer Chand of Braihan village. He said 507 poppy plants were found in an orchard of Shyam Singh of Grahna village  of the district yesterday.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-45-lakh-poppy-plants-found-5-cases-registered-249828
08-05-2021||Ambika Sharma||Approval to shift patients not granted, clinical panel disbanded||Tribune News ServiceSolan, May 7An emergency situation arose at the Regional Hospital, Solan, yesterday when 13 critically-ill patients arrived there around 6 pm. The health of 20 other admitted patients also deteriorated and all 33 required urgent shifting to a higher medical facility; the hospital has no functional ventilator. The issue was immediately referred to the clinical committee tasked with granting approval. The committee, however, did not give the go-ahead.Ventilator shortageThe committee comprises Dr Shyam Kaushik and Dr Vinay Kaushik, head of Paediatrics Department and head of Medicine Department at Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College, Nahan, respectively. They also are empowered to decide referral cases of Solan district.“The Chief Medical Officer was directed to shift the 33 patients to MM Medical College and Hospital and the ESIC Hospital, Katha, as the clinical committee did not grant the approval. As many as 19 ambulances were arranged from Nalagarh, Nauni, Kandaghat, Rotary Club, Cantonment Board, Kasauli as also from 108 services and the patients were shifted to higher hospitals immediately,” said KC Chaman, DC, Solan.He added that the issue was taken up with the Health Secretary today and the clinical committee was disbanded. “Healthcare facilities in the district have not been upgraded despite a steep rise in Covid cases. The lack of manpower is another handicap as the staff of peripheral health institutes has been shifted to major hospitals,” said a senior medical officer.There is a shortage of anathestists in the district. An anaesthetist is deputed at the Nalagarh hospital at and two at the ESIC Hospital, Katha, where several critical patients are admitted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/approval-to-shift-patients-not-granted-clinical-panel-disbanded-249829
08-05-2021||Lalit Mohan||In Kangra, RT-PCR reports delayed by over one week||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 7The RT-PCR reports in Kangra district are being delayed by over a week. Sources told The Tribune that the reports of RT-PCR tests conducted in Kangra district on April 29 were still awaited. This was posing problems for people who want to travel outside the state and require RT-PCR negative report, employees working in private and government sector and many patients who are symptomatic.Problem of human resource managementOne of my employees was having flu-like symptoms. I asked him to get an RT-PCR test done. It has been over a week but he has not received his test report. The delay in test reports is creating problems in human resource management.— Owner of an Industrial unitThe owner of an industrial unit said: “One of my employees was having flu-like symptoms. I asked him to get an RT-PCR test done. It has been over a week, but the test report has not been received. The delayed reports are creating problems in human resource management”.Some patients have expressed doubts over the delay in reports. They said the way reports were being delayed, it created doubts over their authenticity as samples were potent for testing for just 24 hours under ideal conditions. Some doctors said one-week delay in receiving the report might also be the time difference between life and death of Covid patients.Sources said in a video-conferencing meet yesterday, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had expressed concern over the delay in RT-PCR test reports. He had asked the district health authorities to ramp up testing facilities so that patients do not suffer.The CMO, Kangra, GD Gupta admitted that there was a delay. He said tests were being conducted, but due to huge samples being received daily in Kangra district, the reporting of RT-PCR tests was getting delayed. He said these days due to increasing number of cases in the district, more than 4,000 samples were being collected for RT-PCR tests. In the recent past, samples from Chamba were also coming to Kangra district. Due to such a huge number of samples received, the reporting was being delayed.The CMO said in government sector, the RT-PCR samples for Covid infection were being tested in Tanda Medical College laboratory and IHBT Palampur labs. In private sector, two laboratories of SRL and one other laboratory had been authorised to conduct RT-PCR tests. They were testing on an average 150 samples a day, he said.Asked why other private hospitals were not being authorised to conduct RT-PCR tests, the CMO said as per the ICMR norms, private laboratories would need to install equipment worth Rs 1 crore to meet the standards. In Kangra district, there were hardly any such big private hospital to install the equipment of that standard, Gupta added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-kangra-rt-pcr-reports-delayed-by-over-one-week-249830
08-05-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi
||Fake e-passes in names of Amitabh, Trump||Tribune News Service  Shimla, May 7  If Covid e-passes issued by the Himachal Government are presumed to be authentic, actor Amitabh Bachchan and former US President Donald Trump visited Shimla today.  E-passes (HP 2563825 and HP 2563287) with fake registrations issued for May 7 in the names of Amitabh Bachchan coming to meet Rajiv Sehjal and Donald Trump, a tourist from Chandigarh, have gone viral on electronic and social media. The registered vehicles were in the category of light motor vehicle bearing Chandigarh number plates. Both passes were issued under the essential service provider category.  A case has been registered on the complaint of the Department of Information Technology. It has been stated in the complaint that misinformation is being spread on social and electronic media about the issuance of wrong e-passes by the district administration, said Praveer Thakur, ASP, Shimla.  Interestingly, the mobile phone numbers, identity proofs and Aadhaar card numbers in both passes were the same. Investigation in the case was underway, he added. Congress leaders have expressed surprise that with such arrangements in place, over 15,000 persons have come to the state in the past two weeks. Despite several calls, the Director, Information Technology, was not available for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fake-e-passes-in-names-of-amitabh-trump-249831
08-05-2021||Shimla||4,190 new cases, 56 deaths in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 4,190 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 122,906. Besides, 56 persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours — 21 deaths were reported in Kangra, nine in Sirmaur, eight in Solan, six in Mandi, four in Shimla, three each in Bilaspur and Una and two in Hamirpur.The highest number of 1,605 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 518 in Mandi, 482 in Solan, 400 in Shimla, 317 in Bilaspur, 368 in Hamirpur, 281 in Sirmaur, 267 in Chamba, 119 in Una, 42 in Kullu, 16 in Lahaul and Spiti and 13 in Kinnaur. The number of active cases rose to 29,513. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-190-new-cases-56-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-249832
08-05-2021||our correspondent
||Isolation centre to come up at Nurpur MC hall||Nurpur, May 7 The local Municipal Council (MC) at its meeting offered a hall for setting up an isolation centre for Covid patients in the town. Ashok Sharma, president of the council, said that the civic body had requested the administration to set up an isolation centre at the MC hall. The MC would provide free boarding and lodging to them, he said.  Sharma said local MLA and Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania had provided two pressure washer machines for sanitisation, procured at Rs 5.40 lakh for the Nurpur MC.  “The MC will sanitise public places in the town and the houses of infected residents from next week,” he said.  Owing to rise in Covid cases in Nurpur town, isolation centres are required. Joint families live in small houses and home isolation of members, who test positive, has become a big challenge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/isolation-centre-to-come-up-at-nurpur-mc-hall-249833
08-05-2021||KULLU||Blaze kills man in Mandi village||One person was charred to death as a two-storey house caught fire in Mahadev panchayat in Sundernagar subdivision of Mandi district yesterday.  Mandi SP Shalini Agnihotri said that Rajender Kumar (34) was sleeping on the first floor while his parents Karam Chand and Lata Devi were sleeping on the ground floor when the house caught fire. She said that Rajender was trapped in the inferno while his parents managed to escape. The fire engine reached the house but the firefighters were unable to save the victim.  The SP said that the body of the victim was handed over to the family members after a postmortem examination. The cause of the fire was not yet known. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/blaze-kills-man-in-mandi-village-249834
08-05-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Walk-in, drive through Covid testing kiosks in urban areas||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 7With a major surge in cases, the Health Department has decided to set up walk-in and drive through rapid antigen test (RAT) kiosks in urban areas in Himachal so as to facilitate the public and to ensure timely detection and isolation.Avoiding overcrowdingWe have suggested that RAT testing facilities may be created by local administration to ensure accessibility to testing and avoid overcrowding at testing facilities. RAT testing shall also be started through Jeevan Dhara Mobile Health and wellness centres. — Nipun Jindal, Director, National Health MissionThe Health and Family Welfare Department has now issued directions for setting up of walk-in Covid testing kiosks in the urban areas to facilitate testing.A circular has been issued by the Health Department to set up dedicated RAT booths in cities, towns, villages, colleges, schools, community centers and other vacant places.“We have suggested that drive through RAT testing facilities may be created by local administration to ensure accessibility to testing and avoid overcrowding at RAT testing facilities. RAT testing shall also be started in the state through Jeevan Dhara Mobile Health and wellness centres,” revealed Nipun Jindal, Mission Director, National Health Mission.He said so far 16 lakh Covid tests have been conducted. Due to heavy load of samples, the laboratories in the state were facing a challenge to meet the expected testing targets. Presently, there are eight RT-PCR testing laboratories, 25 TruNaat testing and RAT at almost all health institutions in the government set up to enhance the pace of testing.The rate of TruNaat testing in private sector has been fixed at Rs 2,000 per test, inclusive of all charges and applicable taxes and RAT at Rs 300 per test. Presently, 20 private laboratories and hospital have started this testing and till date 1,309 and 23,668 tests have been performed through TruNaat and RAT in the private sector. The ICMR has circulated the guidelines regarding the testing during second wave of pandemic.In Himachal, the major Covid testing is being done mainly by government set up only as the private sector has not stepped forward to provide this facility. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had expressed his disappointment at the limited role being perform by private health sector.Nipun Jindal along with other team members today visited the RT-PCR laboratory at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) here to inspect the functioning in wake of the increase in pendency of Covid test reports.After reviewing the infrastructure and gaps, it was decided that adequate space will be provided for the functioning of another laboratory to augment the capacity of the existing lab and one more RT-PCR machine and automated RNA extractor will be provided to IGMC Shimla.Similarly, one automated RNA extractor will be provided to Dr RPGMC Tanda.The state had yesterday granted permission to the RT-PCR labs for engaging 29 additional staff to ramp up testing. Directions have been issued that the message regarding the test report should be sent immediately so as to ensure isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/walk-in-drive-through-covid-testing-kiosks-in-urban-areas-249835
08-05-2021||Subhash Rajta 
||At DDU, patients can now rate services||Tribune News Service Shimla, May 7 At the Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital, patients will now be able to jot down their experience at the institute at the time of discharge. The hospital has rolled out a feedback form for the patients in which they could rate the services provided to them by the hospital staff while they were recovering from Covid. “It will bring about transparency and put an end to rumours that often do the rounds on social media and elsewhere about the facilities in the hospital,” said DDU Medical Superintendant Dr Ravinder Mokta. The patients will be able to rate the hospitals on parameters like cleanliness in the ward and washrooms, quality of food, behaviour of doctors, nurses and other staff.  Incidentally, DDU had copped a lot of flak, including allegations of negligence and lack of care, last year when a Covid patient committed suicide in the hospital. Probably, it’s an attempt to negate the negative publicity that incident gave to the hospital. “We have been stressing on being polite and patient with the patients. The idea is to build a positive and supportive environment for them so that they feel as little stress as possible,” said Dr Mokta. Besides, the hospital is planning to have music system and speakers installed in each ward for the patients.  The attempt to come across as a patient-friendly place seems to be making a difference. While the feedback forms filled up by some patients discharged today were full of praise for the hospital and staff, some videos of the patients recovering in the hospital also sounded pretty satisfied. “I have been looked after really well by doctors and other staff. The food too has been good though one may not like it because of the impaired taste buds,” said Sandeep Chauhan, a youth admitted at the hospital. A couple sounded extremely grateful. “We are going home today, but we will not forget how we were looked after in the hospital. Nurses were extremely prompt, took care of us day and night,” said the husband.  Amidst the growing gloom, the hospitals seem to be working to keep patients in a good psychological space. The other day doctors celebrated the birthday of a patient at Tanda, and doctors in a Covid facility at Bilaspur, too, have been finding innovative way to keep the patients upbeat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/at-ddu-patients-can-now-rate-services-249836
08-05-2021||Hamirpur||NGO donates Rs 11 lakh to Hamirpur admn||The Senior Citizen Council (SCC), an NGO helping patients at Government Medical College and Hospital here, donated Rs 11 lakh to the district administration today. The cheque was handed over to the Deputy Commissioner by the governing body of the council.  The council has established a permanent community kitchen on the hospital campus. Members of the council serve meals, including breakfast, lunch, evening tea and dinner, to the patients daily.  The council has donated necessary equipments to the hospital to facilitate patients and their attendants. The DC thanked the members of the council. She said help from every corner would enable the administration to provide the best possible facilities to Covid patients. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngo-donates-rs-11-lakh-to-hamirpur-admn-249837
08-05-2021||Hamirpur||Hamirpur markets wear deserted look||The markets in the town wore a deserted look after the curfew was enforced today. There are over 2,000 shops in the town, but only around 20 remained open up to 6 pm. The police continued patrolling the town the entire day. Mandi SP Karthikeyan Gokulchandran said that people were advised to wear masks while moving out of houses and that, too, only for essential services. He added the violation of the SoPs would be dealt with strictly. DC Debasweta Banik said shops other than medical stores and eateries should be closed by 6 pm. She added that if shops open for a short duration, the curfew would be more effective. People were supportive and extended help, she added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamirpur-markets-wear-deserted-look-249838
08-05-2021||Una||Wheat grading machines for FCI units||Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar today directed the department officers to instal three additional wheat grading machines at the two procurement centres of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) located in Una district. Kanwar, along with Satpal Singh Satti, Chairman, State Finance Commission, inspected the FCI wheat procurement centres, located at Kangar and Takarla villages in Una. There were complaints from farmers regarding anomalies in price being offered by the FCI, as the wheat being brought at the centres by the farmers was not graded. Kanwar said 10 wheat procurement centres had been made functional in the state, so that the farmers did not have to travel outside the state to sell their surplus produce. He said during the present Rabi season, 24,338 quintals of wheat had been procured by the FCI from farmers of the state. Satti said farmers’ issues were discussed with the FCI officials and they were assured the government would give right dues to them. The officials were also directed to construct a new shed for storing food grains and a toilet block for farmers, who come to sell their produce at the Takarla and Kangar centres. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wheat-grading-machines-for-fci-units-249839
08-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||DC visits infected persons’ homes||Hamirpur, May 7 Deputy Commissioner Debasweta Banik visited the houses of Covid-19 patients in the district.  As many as 214 persons tested positive in the district today.  The district administration requested people to maintain social distancing, wear masks and wash hands repeatedly.  The Deputy Commissioner also visited the dedicated Covid care centre established at the District Ayurvedic Hospital.  She directed the health staff to serve patients sympathetically and try to maintain a healthy environment at the Covid care centre.  She said, while talking to the family members of Covid patients at their homes, that they need not worry, and in case of emergency, medical help would arrive at their doorstep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dc-visits-infected-persons-homes-249840
08-05-2021||---||Won’t end strike: Bus operators||Solan, May 7Private bus operators today refused to call off their strike after holding a virtual meeting with their counterparts across the state.Rajesh Parmar, president, Himachal Pradesh private bus operators union, said after a three-hour long meeting it was decided that till the government took a decision of waive special road tax on paper and their other demands, they would continue the strike.The bus operators have been demanding special road tax exemption and Rs 2 lakh working capital to tide over the financial crisis in the Covid pandemic. Though the tax has been reduced by 50 per cent for April, May and June, no exemption was granted thereafter though buses incurred heavy monetary losses.The operators said despite multiple assurances by the Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur as well as the transport minister, nothing has been done to give them relief.Raghuvindra Singh, president, Shoolini Private Bus Operators Association, said the government-run HRTC buses were plying at full capacity in violation of the norms.This would further add to the Covid crisis. The government should step in and take an early decision to provide relief to the private bus operators.The transporters claimed that unavailibility of adequate HRTC buses on rural routes was inconveniencing the people. They not only had to wait for long to get buses but also were exposed to huge crowds of people.HRTC buses not to ply in Hamirpur for 2 days||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wont-end-strike-bus-operators-249841
08-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Approval to upgrade Una hospital bed capacity: Satti||UNA, MAY 7 Chairman of the State Finance Commission Satpal Singh Satti today said that a nature park for public use would be developed in ward number 4 of Una city and that a sum of Rs 53 lakhs had been sanctioned by the state government for the purpose.  In a press release issued here, Satti said the park was a long-pending demand of the local residents and a 10 kanal plot of land near the Radha Swami Satsang complex in ward number 4 has been identified for the proposed park.  Satti said the Cabinet, during its last meeting, has approved the upgradation of bed capacity at the Una district hospital to 300 besides and sanctioned 74 new posts of medics, nurses and paramedics at the hospital. He said the new infrastructure and manpower would help provide better health care services to the people.  Speaking about the ongoing development works at the district headquarters, Satti said civil structures like district secretariat, BDO office, boys school and mother and child health care centre were being constructed at a cost of about Rs 100 crore. He said a new rain water drainage system for Una city was being implemented funds for which have already been provided to the Una Jal Shakti Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/approval-to-upgrade-una-hospital-bed-capacity-satti-249842
08-05-2021||---||Free foodgrains for ration card holders||Shimla, May 7 In the midst of the raging pandemic, lakhs of ration card holders in the state will be provided 5 kg foodgrains free of cost for May and June. The grains, which will be over and above their normal quota, will be provided under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKAY) to all those falling under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Priority Households (PHH) categories.  Under the scheme, 3 kg of wheat and 2 kg of rice will be given per person free of cost for the next two months. The scheme has been initiated by the Centre to provide additional cushion to the vulnerable section of society. This will benefit 79.88 crore beneficiaries across the country. “In Himachal, 28.64 lakh ration card holders of AAY and PHH families under the National Food Security Scheme Act have been allocated 16,283 MT of wheat and 11,820 MT of rice for the months of May and June,” said Rajesh Gulia, General Manager (Region), Food Corporation of India, Himachal Pradesh. He said as on May 6, 4,849 MT of wheat and 4,216 MT of rice have been lifted by the Himachal Pradesh State Civil Supplies Corporation for further distribution. “The Food Corporation of India has sufficient foodgrains in its godowns across the state and the foodgrains will be made available as per demand,” said Gulia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/free-foodgrains-for-ration-card-holders-249843
08-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal HC: Give details on beds, oxygen||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-hc-give-details-on-beds-oxygen-249714
08-05-2021||Shimla||Fake Covid e-passes in name of Donald Trump, Amitabh Bachchan to enter Himachal||The Himachal Pradesh Police have received a complaint about a fake registration for e-passes in the names of former US President Donald Trump and Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan.Sharing the information on its Twitter handle, the police said an FIR had been registered under relevant sections of the IPC and the IT Act in Shimla for further legal action.The fake registrations were received on the state government’s e-pass platform. The Jai Ram Thakur government had recently made registration on the platform for the issuance of an e-pass mandatory to enter the state in view of the rising Covid cases.HP Police is in receipt of a complaint regarding fake registration in the name of Mr. Donald Trump and Mr. Amitabh Bachchan in the Covid e-pass platform. Shimla Police is registering a FIR under relevant sections of IPC and IT Act for further legal action.@CMOHimachal  The e-pass in the name of Amitabh Bachchan, says he wants to travel from Sector 17, Chandigarh to meet Rajiv Sehgal on May 7. The vehicle registered is a Chandigarh number (Light motor vehicle) and the purpose described for the e-pass is a personal visit.In the case of Donald Trump, the pass is from Chandigarh, Sector 17 as well. Both passes were under the essential service provider category.Interestingly, the Aadhar number and mobile number in both passes are the same.Comments regarding the casual attitude of the concerned authorities and lack of verification mechanism galore and even the opposition leaders took to social media with snapshots of the passes, questioning the government.Insiders say that the e-covid pass system was on auto approval to save people from inconvenience and delays.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fake-covid-e-passes-in-name-of-donald-trump-amitabh-bachchan-to-enter-himachal-249498
