09-05-2021||Shimla||COVID-19: Three-hour relaxation in curfew in Himachal||The Himachal Pradesh government has announced a three-hour relaxation in curfew imposed across the state to combat COVID-19, an official spokesperson said on Sunday.The Himachal Pradesh government had on Wednesday decided to impose a lockdown in the state from May 7 to May 17.The district magistrates (DMs) have declared different timings for the curfew to be relaxed in their districts starting Monday.In Shimla, the relaxation will be from 10 am to 1 pm, DM Aditya Negi said.Similarly, the relaxation in Kangra and Solan will be from 8 am to 11 am, Chamba from 10 am to 1 pm and in Lahaul-Spiti from 11 am to 2 pm, the official said.During a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday, it was decided that the daily needs and essential commodity shops would remain open only for three hours in a day during the relaxation period and the timings would be fixed by the deputy commissioners.Besides, the Himachal Pradesh government has also decided to suspend all public transport from Monday to check the spread of COVID-19.All public transport will remain suspended till further orders and private vehicles will only be allowed in case of emergency services, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-three-hour-relaxation-in-curfew-in-himachal-250407
09-05-2021||---||BJP ex-MP abuses BMO,  audio clip goes viral||Dharamsala, May 8An audio clip of former MP and vice-president of the state BJP Kirpal Parmar, in which he was allegedly abusing the Block Medical Officer (BMO) of Fatehpur, has gone viral.In the clip, the former MP abused the BMO on the plea that the Covid centre, set up by privately managed Surya Hospital in Fatehpur, was not following the norms. The BMO was heard pleading that it was not he who had selected the hospital as a Covid centre. The decision was taken by the district administration.Probe beginsKangra DC Rakesh Prajapati said a probe had begun. The matter had also been taken up with Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. Medical officers are pressing for the registration of an FIR against the former MP. The ball is now in the court of the CM.The Himachal Pradesh Medical Officers Association, in a press note here, demanded an FIR against Kirpal Parmar. The association said doctors were working under pressure. Parmar had blamed the BMO for the poor arrangements in the private hospital. He had also threatened that he would get the office of the BMO burnt, the association said.Parmar said the audio clip had been edited. He said once a party worker had gone to the hospital for treatment. There was a single entrance in the hospital. The worker was operated upon in the hospital but got infected with the virus.“I had asked the BMO to find out if the arrangements in the hospital were proper or not. But he started justifying his action. I lost temper and used only one objectionable word against the BMO, which was made public, not the whole conversation,” he said.Sources said the district administration had sought a report from ground officials regarding the Covid facility at Surya Hospital. In the report, the officials found the arrangements satisfactory. The officials had also maintained in their report that there were two separate entrances to the hospital for the Covid ward and general hospital.Kangra DC Rakesh Prajapati said a probe had begun. The sources said the matter had also been taken up with Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. Medical officers are pressing for the registration of an FIR against the former MP. The ball is now in the court of the CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-ex-mp-abuses-bmo-audio-clip-goes-viral-250175
09-05-2021||---||Passengers stopped at Gaggal airport||Dharamsala, May 8After reports surfaced that some people were making fake entries on Covid e-pass portals to enter the state, the administration today stopped flight passengers from Delhi and Chandigarh at the Gaggal airport in Kangra today morning.Many passengers, who had pre-approved Covid e-passes, were also stopped at the airport and asked to re-register. This irked many passengers who alleged that they were being harassed.Earlier, the passengers were being allowed to go after scanning of Covid e-passes.Sources said an administrative official acted on his own and started asking the flight passengers to re-register themselves on the Covid e-portal at the airport. Since the move created a rush, it was resisted by some local passengers who said officials could just match their Aadhaar Card numbers with the information given in Covid e-passes rather than forcing them to re-register.Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, Rakesh Prajapati said, “After some reports surfaced that some people were making fake entries on the Covid e-portal to gain entry to the state, we are verifying the credentials of people coming with Covid e-passes.”On Friday, the Himachal police had stated that some people were entrying the state after getting Covid e-passes issued in the names of Bollywood stars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/passengers-stopped-at-gaggal-airport-250176
09-05-2021||Rajiv Mahajan 
||No dedicated Covid care centre for lower Kangra||Nurpur, May 8 Notwithstanding the surge in Covid cases during the second wave of the pandemic in the lower Kangra area, comprising Nurpur, Jawali, Fatehpur and Indora subdivisions, not a single dedicated Covid care centre has set up by the state government so far. For emergency medical care, Covid patients from the area have to rush to Dharamsala, Tanda and Palampur where the government had set up dedicated Covid centres in government institutions and private hospitals.  Inquiries revealed that over 1,000 active Covid patients were undergoing home isolation (quarantine) medication in lower Kangra areas till Friday evening. The state government has set up no quarantine facility in the region. Barring a private hospital with a 20-beds capacity in Fatehpur subdivision, the state authorities have so far established no dedicated Covid centre in the region, causing hardships for patients in shifting serious patients to far-away centres.    The demand of setting up a dedicated Covid centre at the 100-bed Nurpur Civil Hospital is gaining momentum. Information gathered by The Tribune reveals that most of the beds in the male and female indoor wards in the hospital have been lying idle ever since the second wave of Covid started. Patients fear visiting the hospital’s Out Patient Departments (OPDs) and get admission in indoor wards. Only 35 patients reported in all hospital OPDs on Friday whereas 150 persons have undergone Covid testing and 120 got vaccinated in the hospital on the same day.  Former local MLA and Kangra district Congress president Ajay Mahajan has demanded that the hospital be converted into a Covid centre with immediate effect. In a statement here today, he said the government should equip this hospital with medical staff and infrastructure required in treating Covid patients. He said the government should also identify other civil hospitals in Kangra district in which Covid centres could be set up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-dedicated-covid-care-centre-for-lower-kangra-250177
09-05-2021||Dinesh Kanwar||Sainik School faces neglect, needs funds for upkeep||Hamirpur, May 8Sainik School, Sujanpur Tihra, is struggling to survive due to the lack no funds for the renovation of its four-decade-old buildings. The school is ranked second in the country after Sainik School, Ghorakhal in Uttarakhand, among 33 sainik schools on the basis of the number of cadets joining as commissioned officers. It boasts of having 500 commissioned officers in Indian defence services.No MoU with stateThe foundation stone of the school was laid in 1974 by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. It was inaugurated on November 2, 1978, by then President Neelam Sanjeeva Reddy.However, the school authorities have been running from pillar to post to get the minimum required funds from the Union Ministry of Defence and the state government, but all in vain. The condition of the school buildings, especially hostels, mess and staff quarters, is deplorable. The condition of toilets is pathetic as the sewer often remains blocked and needs reconstruction. Fungus is visible on walls and dampness has further contributed to the unhealthy living conditions at the hostel.Two years ago, the school authorities had written to the Union Ministry of Defence to either provide funds to improve the condition of the school or close it down.Sources say that the major cause of the fund crunch is the absence of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the school and the state government. Other sainik schools in the country are provided the required grants by their states. In Himachal, the MoU between the school and the state government has not signed even 43 years after it was established. Another hurdle in the development of the school is undemarcated land.Capt (IN) MK Mahawar, Principal of the school, says that the state government should provide funds to make it better in terms of infrastructure and facilities. He adds despite all shortcomings, cadets of the school have reached the rank of Major General in the Army. Security will be a major issue after the admission of girl students from this session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sainik-school-faces-neglect-needs-funds-for-upkeep-250178
09-05-2021||---||Family blames IGMC staff’s negligence for son’s death||Shimla, May 8A family has alleged negligence on the part of doctors and other staff of Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Hospital here for the death of their 39-year-old son on Friday afternoon. “My son was on oxygen support. His oxygen cylinder got empty but no one came to replace it though we shouted and screamed for about half an hour. And by the time a doctor came, my son had already died,” said the wailing mother of deceased Rajender Singh.However, the IGMC administration said that it would inquire into the allegations if the family lodges an official complaint. “On preliminary investigation, we have found that the patient was critical and his oxygen level was quite low,” said IGMC Medical Superintendent Dr Janak Raj. “As per our information, the ward nurse and a couple of other staff members were present and there was no problem of oxygen. We have CCTV cameras installed in all wards. So, if there is a written complaint, we can check what exactly had happened,” he said.The aggrieved family, on the other hand, insists that none came to their assistance when their son started slipping into unconsciousness. “He was doing fine until an hour before his death. He had his lunch at 2 pm, went to the toilet, and had a good chat with me and his wife,” said his mother. “Around 3 pm, he got a bit restless and asked his wife to check if the oxygen supply was fine. When we saw him sinking, we shouted for the doctor and other staff to come to help us. No one came, and he was dead by the time a doctor arrived,” she said.Some patients in the ward shot videos on their mobile phones when the distraught mother was screaming for help. However, the videos were later deleted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/family-blames-igmc-staffs-negligence-for-sons-death-250179
09-05-2021||---||Ensure timely completion of roads: CM Jai Ram Thakur||Shimla, May 8 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today directed the Public Works Department (PWD) to ensure timely completion of development projects and quality in construction works. He stated this while presiding over a meeting to review the functioning of the PWD here.  He said as roads are the main mode of transportation in the state, an effective plan should be prepared to meet the desired targets while executing various road and bridge projects. “Special focus should be laid on completing projects nearing completion,” he added. Thakur said that under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, the state had constructed over 18,430 km of roads and connected about 2,406 habitations by roads. He asked the PWD officers to pay special attention on motivating people to donate land for the construction of roads to villages.  The Chief Minister said that the loan target under NABARD for 2021 was Rs 540 crore and the department had sanctioned 114 projects at a total cost of Rs 565.52 crore. He added that a special thrust should be laid on quality construction and maintenance of national highways keeping in view the heavy load of traffic.  He said that regular repair, maintenance and periodic renewal of the national highways must be ensured for making the drive for commuters better. He added that the work on World Bank-funded projects being executed directly by the Union Ministry of Roads, Transport and Highways should also be expedited and steps be taken for their time-bound completion.  He said that the execution of the ongoing projects of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) such as the Kiratpur-Nerchowk-Manali, and Parwanoo-Solan-Dhali roads must also be expedited. Principal Secretary, PWD, Subhashish Panda assured the Chief Minister that efforts would be made to complete the ongoing projects within the stipulated time period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ensure-timely-completion-of-roads-cm-jai-ram-thakur-250180
09-05-2021||---||Focus on dists with high positivity rate: PM Narendra Modi to CM Jai Ram Thakur||Shimla, May 8 Prime Minister Narendra Modi today took a detailed feedback on the Covid situation in Himachal and suggested Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to focus on those districts where the positivity rate and the death rate is very high. The Chief Minister said that the Prime Minister inquired about the number of Covid cases in the state, availability of oxygen, beds, oxygen cylinders, vaccine, essential medicines and logistics. “The Prime Minister assured him of all possible assistance from the Central Government and all logistic support to effectively fight the pandemic,” he added.  Thakur said that he apprised the Prime Minister of the steps and initiatives taken by the state government to check the spread of the pandemic, besides providing the best possible medical care to the patients.  He added that he urged the Prime Minister to enhance the oxygen quota for the state from the existing 15 MT to 30 MT and provide additional oxygen cylinders. He also urged the Prime Minister to provide adequate vaccines for the vaccination of people in the age group of 18 to 44 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/focus-on-dists-with-high-positivity-rate-pm-narendra-modi-to-cm-jai-ram-thakur-250181
09-05-2021||Palampur||Woman booked for beating up father-in-law||The Jaisinghpur police today booked  daughter-in-law of  102-year-old freedom fighter Sukhya Ram,  a resident of Manjera village,  for thrashing    him with shoes in the public.  The police  swung into action when  a video of the incident went viral in the social media this morning, showing a woman  mercilessly beating up an old man in the verandah of her  house. SDM Pawan Sharma and MLA Ravinder Dhiman rang  DSP Baijnath  BD Bhatia to act against the culprit. A police team reached the village  and registered  a case against the daughter-in-law. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/woman-booked-for-beating-up-father-in-law-250182
09-05-2021||---||Villagers come to aid of Covid +ve family||Dharamsala, May 8 Panchayat members of Baghru village in Rait block of Kangra district have set an example by helping a family in distress.  Prithvi Chand, a resident of Baghru village, died of Covid about a week ago. His entire family was also infected with the virus.  The family was isolated in their home, but they feared losing their wheat crop. Since the family members could not move out of their house, there was no one to take care of their crop.  They feared losing the crop due to consistent rain and inclement weather in the region. Pradhan of Baghru village Prakash Chand and members of the managing committee of a local committee came forward to help the family.  Prakash Chand said: “We called upon the village youth to help the family. We together harvested their crop and placed it safely in their house. No one can share the grief of the family, but at least we can help them in the time of need”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/villagers-come-to-aid-of-covid-ve-family-250183
09-05-2021||Solan||Cong questions delay in Mayor’s oath-taking||In the absence of any notification on the oath-taking ceremony for the newly elected  Mayors and Deputy Mayors in Municipal Corporations of Solan, Mandi, Dharamsala and Palampur, they have failed to assume charge till now. Polls to the newly created MCs were held on April 7. The Mayor and Deputy Mayor were  elected in the Solan Municipal Corporation   on April 16, while in three other civic bodies, they were elected on April 13.  General secretary, Pradesh Congress Committee, Kewal Pathania and  District Congress Committee president Shiv Kumar today gave a representation to the Deputy Commissioner (DC) and requested to hold the oath ceremony at the earliest. “Since the Mayor and Deputy Mayor  were elected democratically, it is unfair to keep these representatives waiting in Solan,” said Pathania.   “Keeping in view the grim Covid scenario, only the Mayor, Deputy Mayor and elected councillors can be invited to take  the oath. Since these elected representatives have a key role to play in this pandemic, there should be no delay in administering them the oath,” stated the Congress leaders.  As per the constitutional norms, they should be administered oath within 30 days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-questions-delay-in-mayors-oath-taking-250184
09-05-2021||Legal Correspondent
||Set up more Covid hospitals, labs: High Court||Shimla, May 8 The High Court has directed the state government to increase the number of laboratories/clinics/hospitals to increase testing.   The court directed the Central Government to ensure the availability of essential drugs, more particularly the life-saving drugs, to the state and enumerate in detail the steps taken in this regard on or before May 10.  A Division Bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice CB Barowalia passed these orders yesterday on a writ petition, highlighting the issue of lack of medical facilities in the state medical colleges and hospitals. The Bench directed the government to increase the number of Covid hospitals and consider the feasibility of establishing temporary hospitals with the help of any central agency, so that the sufficient number of beds, equipped with oxygen and ventilators, were available.  The court also directed to increase the number of ICUs in the hospitals as the second strain was said to be directly affecting the lungs of a patient.    It further made it clear that if private hospitals refuse to cooperate, the state government would forthwith take coercive steps.  The court observed, “Until and unless our frontline warriors are protected from the virus, it will be impossible for us to win the battle against it.” The court directed the state government to ensure providing PPE kits and other protective gears to all medical staff, looking after Covid patients. It directed the state to publish the names and locations of the testing centres, hospitals/Covid Health Care Centres in the media bulletin on a daily basis. It should also clearly indicate the availability of the total number of beds, vacant beds, beds with ventilators/oxygen and beds without these in each hospital/centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/set-up-more-covid-hospitals-labs-high-court-250185
09-05-2021||---||655 without mask pay Rs 4.23 lakh fine||Solan, May 8A penalty of Rs 4,23,000 has been realised from 655 persons for not wearing masks in the state in the last 24 hours.A penalty of Rs 28,000 has also been realised for violating Covid directions at marriages in Bilaspur, Chamba, Kangra and Shimla districts. As many as 383 of the 456 marriages were inspected. Only one marriage was being held without obtaining permission in Kullu district and a fine of Rs 5,000 was imposed on it.As many as Rs 21,000 has also been recovered for violations in markets from 23 persons while 12 FIRs have been registered, said DGP Sanjay Kundu here today.Kundu was on a day’s visit to the district where he inspected various inter-state barriers at Parwanoo, Baddi and Barotiwala. He directed the staff to ensure their own protection.A request had been made to the district administration to provide selfie sticks to the staff deputed at the inter-state barriers. Since they came in close contact with visitors entering the state in the process of checking the e-pass, the danger of contracting Covid loomed large.As many as 1,000 men from various battalions had been stationed at inter-state barriers in Solan, Una, Kangra, Bilaspur, Shimla and Baddi police districts to ensure the entry of people for bona fide purposes.He reiterated that those using incorrect identity or address would be booked.He said, “The uphill traffic from Parwanoo inter-state barrier has sizeably been reduced after the introduction of e-passes by the Haryana Government.”As many as 1,300 people had entered through e-pass at Parwanoo while the daily movement of 35,000 goods vehicles was registered at Baddi where an additional 5,000 people commuted on a daily basis from nearby area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/655-without-mask-pay-rs-4-23-lakh-fine-250186
09-05-2021||---||5,424 fresh Covid cases, 37 deaths in Himachal||Shimla, May 8As many as 5,424 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 1,28,330. Besides, 37 persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours.Fourteen deaths were reported in Kangra, nine in Sirmaur, 11 in Shimla, five in Hamirpur, three in Mandi and two each in Chamba and Una.Kangra was the worst hit with 1,260 cases, followed by Mandi 981, Solan 670, Shimla 568, Hamirpur 567, Sirmaur 319, Bilaspur 302, Una 261, Chamba 248, Kullu 126, Kinnaur 107, and Lahaul and Spiti 15. The number of active cases rose to 31,893.COVID METER||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-424-fresh-covid-cases-37-deaths-in-himachal-250187
09-05-2021||---||Ensure regular power to oxygen plants: Minister||Shimla, May 8 Power Minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary has directed Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited to ensure the interrupted power supply to Covid facilities and oxygen plants.  He asked employees to either avoid shutdowns and changeovers or if it can’t be avoided, advance information should be sent out and alternative arrangement be made to ensure these facilities face no problem. “The employees must work round the clock if some repair work needs to be done,” he said. Strict orders had been issued to the board to ensure the uninterrupted supply to all consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ensure-regular-power-to-oxygen-plants-minister-250188
09-05-2021||Palampur||MLA provides wood for crematorium||Ashish Butail, Palampur MLA and general secretary of the PCC,  today provided a  truck loaded with wood to the society,   which is looking after the   cremation ground.  With the rising deaths due to Covid, there was  an acute shortage of fuel wood to burn the bodies.  The stock had been exhausted last week. A  number of NGOs have also offered help to  the society.   Butail met members  of the society and assured  them support. He also told the society not to charge any amount from Covid victims and he would meet the requirement of fuel wood. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mla-provides-wood-for-crematorium-250189
09-05-2021||Rajiv Mahajan 
||Nurpur parks cry for maintenance||Nurpur, May 8 Children parks constructed in different wards of the town by the Nurpur Municipal Council (MC) by spending lakhs of rupees in the past two decades are crying for maintenance, causing resentment among people. Not only children, but also people of all age groups use these parks for recreation. In some parks, the MC has set up open air gyms. Owing to the poor upkeep of these parks, many people have stopped going there. Some parks are like small playgrounds, which are used even for social functions.    A thick growth of weeds in these parks a testimony to their neglect by the MC.  Promod Gupta, president, Nurpur Sudhar Sahba, lamented that huge public funds had been spent on the children parks but there was nobody to take care of them. He demanded regular maintenance and upkeep of the public utility places. Asha Verma, Executive Officer, Nurpur MC, said that for the time-being, the whole manual force of the MC was busy in Covid duties assigned by the government. “As soon as the work pressure on the MC reduces, I will ensure proper and timely maintenance of these parks in the town,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nurpur-parks-cry-for-maintenance-250190
09-05-2021||Ambika Sharma||Sirmaur bed count not yet raised||Tribune News ServiceSolan, May 8OPD suspendedThe bed strength in health centres of Sirmaur district has not been enhanced substantially despite a sharp increase in Covid cases.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur during a recent visit to Nahan had directed the district administration to add 110 more beds. The government had claimed that it had taken over Sai Hospital at Nahan that has 80 beds. However, the district administration had readied only 18 beds till Thursday.Only five of the 26 ventilators were functional in the medical college. Though the administration claims there is no shortage of oxygen, relatives of Covid patients admitted to the hospital have complained of non-availability of oxygen. They had expressed their grievances before the Chief Minister during his visit to Nahan.There are around 115 oxygenated beds in the district, including 50 in the medical college, 30 in the civil hospital at Paonta Sahib, five each at Dadahu, Shillai and Rajgarh and two at Sangrah hospitals.As the IGMC, Shimla, is facing an overwhelming rush of patients, doctors from Solan and Sirmaur districts are finding it difficult to secure referrals for critical patients. This has necessitated to have more beds with oxygen and ventilator support in the district. The need for more beds is even more pronounced in rural areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sirmaur-bed-count-not-yet-raised-250191
09-05-2021||Shimla||In Himachal, no public transport from May 10||With Himachal Pradesh registering the highest-ever 5,424 positive cases on Saturday, the government has decided to suspend public transport from May 10. Private vehicles will be allowed only for emergency services. Also, shops selling essential items will be permitted to open for just three hours.Passengers asked to re-registerFollowing reports of ‘fake’ entries on Covid e-pass portals, many air passengers from Delhi and Chandigarh were stopped at the Gaggal airport on Saturday and asked to re-register themselves, resulting in a commotion. TNSThe decision was taking at a Cabinet meeting headed by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who said the new restrictions were needed to break the virus chain. He sought people’s cooperation for effective implementation of the ‘corona curfew’ to check the spread of the pandemic.Essential item Shops to open for only 3 hrs655 challans issued on Day 1 of curfewTalking about his interaction with the PM, he said the latter had suggested greater focus on districts with a high positivity and fatality rate. Thakur said he had urged the PM to enhance the state’s oxygen quota from 15 MT to 30 MT. Meanwhile, Power Minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary asked officials to ensure uninterrupted supply to Covid facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-himachal-no-public-transport-from-may-10-250157
