10-05-2021||Vijay Mohan||North region’s schools allotted 6,300 new vacancies under NCC’s self-finance scheme||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 10The central government has allotted 6,300 additional vacancies for Junior Division NCC cadets to the schools in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh under the fully self-financing scheme.This long-awaited move is part of the expansion plan for NCC under which the government had approved additional one lakh vacancies for out of turn allotment of NCC to private or quasi-government schools which agree to bear all training expenses. Institutes having at least 500 students on its rolls can be allotted one company strength of about 150 cadets without any cost to the exchequer.This move comes in the wake of the demand from numerous schools who could not introduce NCC due to limited vacancies available. This will benefit the student community in a big way wherein they can be a part of nation building exercise and can get the ‘A’ certificate which will not only help them in admission to professional colleges but also accrue benefits in getting jobs.Besides getting basic military training, cadets will also get to attend camps, treks, mountaineering courses and leadership development capsules at a national level, as well as participate in various social service and community development activities.Additional Director General, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh NCC Directorate, Maj Gen JS Sandhu, said schools which are interested in getting out of turn allotment under the self-financing scheme can approach the nearest NCC unit and they will be given the necessary guidance in utilizing the scheme.In December 2019, the Central government had approved one lakh additional vacancies in the NCC under the aforementioned scheme to boost the cadet strength and bring more educational institutes within its ambit. Under the scheme, the institutes availing the new vacancies are required to bear all the expenditure incurred on training, uniforms, equipment, transport, refreshments, NCC staff and the hiring of instructors.Filling up the vacancies has been a slow process so far, which has been attributed to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent restrictions and shutdowns imposed to mitigate its spread. According to government data compiled in March, NCC is available in 17,644 educational institutes in the country so far, with 8,902 institutes, including 5,862 schools and 3,040 colleges, currently on the wait list to introduce NCC.In 2018, a performance audit, once in 2-3 years for schools and 3-4 years in colleges was introduced by the government. NCC is being withdrawn from non performing institutions and vacancies so freed are being allotted to institutes on the waitlist.NCC is the largest uniformed youth organisation in the world with enrolled strength of 13.48 lakh cadets, out of which 33.72 per cent are girls. The Army Wing comprises 84 per cent of the strength, with the balance being with the Navy and Air wings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/north-regions-schools-allotted-6-300-new-vacancies-under-nccs-self-finance-scheme-250829
10-05-2021||---||Thunderstorm alert issued for Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, May 10The Meteorological Department has issued an orange weather warning for thunderstorm in Himachal Pradesh from Tuesday to Thursday.The Shimla MeT office forecast rain in plains and low and middle hills and rain and snowfall in high hills from Tuesday to Sunday.However, an orange warning has been issued for thunderstorm, lightning, hail and gusty winds at isolated places in plains and low and high hills till Thursday, MeT Centre Director Manmohan Singh said.A yellow warning has been issued for thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places in high hills, he added.The Met office issues colour-coded warnings to alert people ahead of severe or hazardous weather that has the potential to cause damage, widespread disruption or danger to life.Orange is for weather conditions that have the capacity to impact significantly, while yellow indicates the possibility of severe weather. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/thunderstorm-alert-issued-for-himachal-pradesh-250801
10-05-2021||The Bhambla-Jahu bridge has become a hub of stray cattle. One can see stray cattle here any time during the day||Mandi bridge full of stray cattle||Poor vaccination facility for elderlyIn Dharamsala, the Covid vaccination drive is being held at the community hall that has steep stairs and no ramps. The elderly are not able to take the stairs. The administration should make arrangement for vaccination in cars or in the parking lot. The government can also consider vaccinating them at their doorsteps. — Inder Mohan, DharamsalaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandi-bridge-full-of-stray-cattle-250709
10-05-2021||Lawrence School Headmaster Himmat Singh Dhillon has offered the school ambulance to the district administration. Solan DC KC Chaman welcomed the gesture and accepted the offer that will strengthen the effort of the administration to provide better healthcare services to people. The school ambulance will continue to serve Covid patients in the state until the crisis is over. Ever since the pandemic broke out||School offers ambulance service||Decision on Ayush doctors hailedThe ABVP has welcomed the government's decision to include around 8 lakh Ayush physicians in the fight against Covid-19. A few days back, the ABVP had sent some suggestions to the Prime Minister on combating the pandemic, and roping in Ayush physicians was on the of those suggestions. The ABVP said the doctors, who had been already fighting the virus for over a year, were overburdened and the inclusion of Ayush physicians in the fight was a positive move.Seminar at Shoolini varsityBelletristic, the literary society of the department of English, Shoolini University, organised an undergraduate seminar on 'Neo-Classical Sensibilities'. Dr Harneet Kaur, Associate Professor at Guru Gobind Singh College for Women, Chandigarh, was the chairperson for the session, which was moderated by Dr Purnima Bali of Shoolini University. The paper presenters were Sukriti Pahwa from Chandigarh, Rutvi Shah, Aanay Bhatt and Priyanka Kumari Zala from Christ College, Gujarat, Ajay Kumar from NRS Govt College, Rohtak, Shramana Mukherjee from Benares Hindu University, Najamus Saqib and Vaishali from Shoolini University, Yotasha and Avi from Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/school-offers-ambulance-service-250708
10-05-2021||---||Oxygen plants commissioned at Hamirpur, Chamba||Shimla, May 9The state has got two more Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants, which were made functional at Dr Radhakrishnan Government Medical College, Hamirpur and Pt Jawaharlal Nehru Government Medical College, Chamba. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur virtually inaugurated these plants from here today. The plant at Chamba has a capacity of 400 PLM and Hamirpur plant has a capacity of 300 PLM.The plants would ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply to the patients in these colleges. “The government has taken up the matter of increasing the oxygen quota for the state from the existing 15 MT to 30 MT with the Union Government to meet the demand,” he said.The Central government has sanctioned 13 oxygen plants for the state. Out of the seven plants sanctioned earlier, six have been established at Dharamsala, Mandi, Shimla, Chamba, Nahan and Hamirpur and the one at Tanda would be completed shortly.Thakur said that six oxygen plants sanctioned for the state recently by the Centre would be set up at civil hospital at Palampur in Kangra district, zonal hospital at Mandi, civil hospital at Rohru and civil hospital at Khaneri in Shimla district, Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar Government Medical College and Hospital at Nahan in Sirmaur district and Regional Hospital at Solan.The Chief Minister said the state government had also taken up the matter of providing 5000 D-Type and 3000 B-Type oxygen cylinders to the state so as to meet the ever-increasing demand of oxygen.Thakur said the PSA plant at Hamirpur would ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply to 30-bed fully dedicated Covid ward established in Dr RKGMC, Hamirpur. He said this ward had been set up in a record time of three months and was supported by 300 LPM PSA plant to provide uninterrupted oxygen supply to the patient care area. Oxygen facility has been provided to all the 30 Covid beds and twenty ventilators have been set up for the sick patients.The Chief Minister said the plant at Chamba would go a long way in facilitating the people of the Chamba district as it takes two days to lift oxygen cylinders from Mandi.Centre sanctioned 13 plants||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/oxygen-plants-commissioned-at-hamirpur-chamba-250685
10-05-2021||---||Stop biometric screening at PDS depots, demands Kisan Sabha||Shimla, May 9The Himachal Kisan Sabha has urged Food and Civil Supplies Minister Rajinder Garg to suspend biometric authentication at Public Distribution System (PDS) outlets in view of the raging pandemic.The Kisan Sabha said if the situation did not improve soon and the curfew is imposed for a long time, daily wagers and labourers would start bearing the brunt. “If the situation continues to deteriorate, labourers and daily wagers will need to be provided foodgrains. At such a time, the biometric authentication at PDS depots needs to be suspended,” the Kisan Sabha said. “The use of biometric could further spread the virus and also it creates long queues outside depots, which will put everyone at risk.”Keeping in view these problems, the Kisan Sabha urged the minister to immediately issue orders to suspend biometric authentication.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stop-biometric-screening-at-pds-depots-demands-kisan-sabha-250686
10-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||6 FIRs lodged for violation of norms at marriages in Una||UNA, MAY 9 While the number of Covid cases in Una district is swelling each day and the district administration is making efforts to check the spread of the virus, the recent marriages too played a part in contributing towards the spread of the pandemic.  The police and the district administration initiated penal action against six persons who blatantly flouted Covid restrictions and provisions of the Disaster Management Act by organizing public gatherings and feasts during marriages of their sons and daughters.  Additional Superintendent of Police Vinod Dhiman said six FIRs have been registered at Una Sadar police station under Section 118 IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act against the parents of the bride or groom where the public gatherings had been witnessed.  The ASP said cases had been registered against persons belonging to Kotla Khurd, Mehatpur, Santoshgarh and Sanoli villages of the district. He informed that investigations had been initiated and action as per the law would be taken so as to deter other people from organizing such gatherings during the pandemic period.  It is learnt that after marriage ceremony at Kotla Khurd village, new Covid positive cases had emerged from among those who attended the marriage.  Dhiman said in some cases the persons concerned had not even taken permission for organizing the event, but had invited guests more than the permitted number.  A criminal case under Section 118 IPC and Section 51 of Disaster Management Act has also been registered against the management of a liquor vend located near the railway flyover on the Una- Chandigarh road in Una city. The salesman was selling liquor despite a ban imposed during the corona curfew, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/6-firs-lodged-for-violation-of-norms-at-marriages-in-una-250687
10-05-2021||Chamba||Pension sought for small traders||The Chamba Jan Hit Sangathan has urged the government to make a provision for social security pension to all small traders in the state who have attained the age of 60 years so that they could live a stress-free life. In a statement issued here today, sangathan convener Shadi Lal Sharma and president Kishore Baroo said a large segment of small traders were poor and remain haunted by the apprehension of downturn in the market. Therefore, pension was imperative, enabling them to meet the expenses of their livelihood in the old age, they added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pension-sought-for-small-traders-250688
10-05-2021||Hamirpur||45 challaned in Hamirpur||As many as 45 persons were challaned for curfew violations in the district on Saturday. The police collected Rs 22,000 as fine from these people. Notably, there are 527 containment  zones in the district.  Out of these people, 14 were without masks while 31 were penalised for the violation of norms for marriage functions. The police had visited 56 marriage functions organised in the distrcit yesterday. The police also installed check posts at various locations to check traffic violations. Kartikeyan Gokulchandran, Superintendent of Police, said police teams were pressed into action to check curfew violations in the district. He said those violating the curfew and corona SoPs would be dealt with strictly. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/45-challaned-in-hamirpur-250689
10-05-2021||Nurpur||6 months on, PWD division for Bhatiyat not notified||Announced by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur at a public meeting on November 11 last year, the divisional office of the Public Works Department (PWD) at Bhatiyat subdivision in Chamba district is yet to be notified even after six months.   Residents were expecting its approval in the Cabinet meeting held on Wednesday but were disappointed when the government approved the creation of a new circle office of the Jal Shakti Department (JSD) at Dharampur in Mandi district and the division of the department at Thanakalan in the Kutlehar Assembly constituency in Una district but ignored Bhatiyat subdivision.  At present, the divisional office of the PWD and the JSD are functioning from Dalhousie subdivision, causing hardships to the locals. Bhatiyat subdivision was created in 1998 as local people had to travel around 100 km to visit Dalhousie for PWD works. Ram Singh Chambiyal, president of the Bhatiyat Block Congress Committee, alleged that the government had befooled the people of Bhatiyat. Vikram Jaryal, local MLA, was not available for comments. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/6-months-on-pwd-division-for-bhatiyat-not-notified-250690
10-05-2021||Lalit Mohan||Confusion in industry over changing Covid guidelines||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 9The Covid regulations, coming into force for a week starting tomorrow in Himachal, have been flayed by industrial associations. These have criticised the government for frequently changing the regulations, creating problems for industrialists.CS Kapoor, president of an industrial association of Mehatpur in Una district, talking to The Tribune, said the regulations were being changed almost daily. Yesterday, the government announced to suspend public and private transport. Officials had not taken into consideration how workers would reach industrial units. Many workers come by public transport. Now, the industry, instead of concentrating on its production, would have to take rounds of the offices to lobby for passes for their staff, he said.Kapoor also said the industry was under financial stress due to the pandemic. Additional problems should not be created for the industry.Rakesh Kaushal, president of a Tahliwal association, which is the second biggest industrial area of Himachal, said many employees come from Punjab. How would they reach? There was confusion regarding the new measures among employees and managements. The industries had their commitments in terms of export and domestic orders. In such a scenario, the government should not change the regulations, he said.Pramod Sharma, president of the industries association of Amb in Una district, said it was understandable that the government had to put in measures to control Covid. However, it should be sensitive to the problems being faced by the industry. Last year, the government forced to close the industry. However, banks did not even waive interests on loans for the lockdown period.Despite the fact all units were shut, the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEB) did not even waive the load demand charges imposed on industries. They were forced to pay the charges despite the fact that they did not consume even a single unit of power. While ordering lockdown, the government should give financial incentive to the industry, he said.Una DC Raghav Sharma today exempted vehicles carrying industrial employees from new restrictions.Kangra DC Rakesh Prajapati said a general manager of a unit had been authorised to issue passes to ferry labour. However, there is confusion regarding labourers coming in their vehicles.There is confusion regarding construction activities. Though the new orders have stated that the activity would be allowed, these are silent about the movement of labour for construction activity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/confusion-in-industry-over-changing-covid-guidelines-250691
10-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal logs 3,093 new cases, 55 deaths||The state today registered 3,093 new cases, besides 55 deaths, in the past 24 hours.The state continues to witness more fatalities as 55 people succumbed to the virus which included 15 in Kangra, nine each in Solan and Shimla, seven in Mandi, three each in Kullu, Sirmaur, Una and Hamirpur, two in Chamba and one in Kinnaur.Kangra continues to remain the worst hit with 650 new cases, followed by 530 in Shimla, 425 in Mandi, 304 in Bilaspur, 287 in Hamirpur, 281 in Sirmaur, 245 in Una, 172 in Solan, 116 in Chamba and 46 in Kullu.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-logs-3-093-new-cases-55-deaths-250692
10-05-2021||Lalit Mohan
||Strict curbs in place in Kangra||Tribune News Service Dharamsala, May 9 Kangra district will have the strict lockdown in the state for seven days starting tomorrow as per the order issued by District Magistrate Rakesh Prajapati today. As per the order, from 6 am, people will be barred from leaving their houses except for medical emergency or vaccination. The order states: “No person will move around in any street, road or public place during curfew hours.” The order has evoked reactions from many who have questioned the logic of even barring people from standing outside their houses in streets. They are alleging that the officials are going overboard in their orders. The order also bars plying of private vehicles. Government and private offices will be closed but employees have been directed not to leave their stations. Banks and post offices will remain open till 2 pm but people can use the services only during curfew relaxation hours from 8 am to 11 am. In Kangra, the construction activity has been allowed but hardware stores have been closed. The labourers can just move on foot for private construction work. For government constructions, executive engineers have authorised to issue permits to labourers. There is relaxation for tea garden owners as they have been allowed to carry out tea plucking, observing social-distancing norms. However, the movement of labour remains an unaddressed issue. There is no mention if the Railways will continue its operations. Prajapati said though farmers and horticulturists have been allowed to work in their fields, they will have to obtain passes from SDMs for movement from one place to another. These days farmers are carrying their harvested wheat to FCI procurement centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/strict-curbs-in-place-in-kangra-250680
10-05-2021||Ambika Sharma 
||86 Oxygen beds added in Solan, another facility surveyed||Tribune News Service Solan, May 9 As many as 86 oxygen beds have been   acquired  from three private hospitals by the district administration  in view of the increasing Covid cases in Solan. These include 12 beds from Aakash Hospital, 20 from Gagan Hospital and 29 from Malhotra Super Specialty Hospital in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial belt and 25 from MM Medical College and Hospital, Kumarhatti. Solan Deputy Commissioner KC Chaman said after acquiring additional oxygen-supported  beds, the total bed strength had gone up to 130 at MM Medical College and Hospital, Kumarhatti. Besides, there are 30 such beds at  ESIC, Katha, and  22 at the makeshift hospital of Nalagarh, while  23 more will be made functional soon, he said. Seven ventilator-supported beds will also be made functional soon at the regional hospital in Solan, as required spares have been arranged, he said.  “In view of the surging demand for oxygen and emergence of several  cases in the district, 200 beds having oxygen support will also be facilitated in Radha Soami Bhawan at Anji village in Solan. A committee, comprising Superintending Engineer of the PWD, Chief Medical Officer (CMO), three executive engineers and Additional Chief Secretary (Finance),   has  been constituted,” said Chaman. DC KC Chaman, Additional DC, Anurag Chander and the CMO  also visited the site  and surveyed it  for setting up  requisite facilities. About   50 beds have already been arranged to meet any immediate  eventuality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/86-oxygen-beds-added-in-solan-another-facility-surveyed-250681
10-05-2021||---||Industry to operate during lockdown||Solan, May 9The industry in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) zone and other clusters like Parwanoo and Chambaghat will remain functional during a weeklong lockdown beginning tomorrow.The foot movement of workers, including those who commute from various bordering areas, will, however, be restricted. They will move half an hour prior to their shift timings. They will have to carry their identity cards showing shift timings. Industrial vehicles will be permitted to ferry them though all other private vehicles, except for medical and other emergencies, have been prohibited by the District Magistrate (DM).Some curbs on staffKC Chaman, DM, said industries had been permitted to operate by adhering to all SOPs. Besides, the essential commodity shops would remain open from 8 am to 11 am till May 17 while work on key road projects like national highway projects, where labourers reside at the site, had been permitted. Eateries along the highways would also be open.The office of the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Nalagarh, was flooded with request for e-passes for the BBN area. “As many as 712 requests for e-passes have been received for Nalagarh and 400 for Baddi since morning. This is in addition to the industrial workforce visiting the area on a daily basis,” said SDM Mahinder Pal.Additional arrangements have been made by the administration for the movement of 50,000 workers on a daily basis. “In a bid to facilitate the staff, 50 home guards have been provided to the police department to ensure the adherence of SOPs.A call centre has also been set up under the supervision of the Principal of Industrial Training Centre, Nalagarh, to help and guide residents for information pertaining to e-pass, home delivery and marriage permission. A public address system is also being used to create awareness in the residents.There are about 2,000 industrial units in BBN and about 50,000 workforce commute on a daily basis from nearby states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/industry-to-operate-during-lockdown-250682
10-05-2021||Shimla||Zero vaccine wastage in Himachal: Director||The state is doing extremely well in ensuring that there is no vaccine wastage. National Health Mission Director Dr Nipun Jindal has said that the vaccine wastage was minus 1.4 in the state.  “The stats has so far received 21,19,710 doses of the vaccine, out of which 19,86,812 doses have been administered till May 7. At the moment, 1,60,730 were still available in the cold chain stores,” he said.  Dr Jindal said the vial generally contains more doses than mentioned and the state was ensuring every dose was utilized.  He said all healthcare workers were trained as per the guidelines by the Health Department to ensure minimal wastage of the vaccine. All aspects like transport, storage, etc, of the vaccine was kept in mind ahead of  vaccination drive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/zero-vaccine-wastage-in-himachal-director-250683
10-05-2021||---||Relaxation in Sirmaur district from 8 am to 11 am||Solan, May 9 Shops selling essential items will be allowed to open from 8 am to 11 am in Sirmaur district tomorrow. Dr RK Pruthi, Deputy Commissioner, said lockdown restrictions will remain in force till May 17. There will be no movement of HRTC buses and private vehicles except emergency purposes. The eateries operating along national highways will have to abide by the protocols notified by the Tourism Department while those in other urban and rural areas will only provide home deliveries.  Vehicle repair shops along the highway will also be operational.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/relaxation-in-sirmaur-district-from-8-am-to-11-am-250684
10-05-2021||Subhash Rajta
||Cauliflower for just Rs3/kg, growers rue losses||Tribune News Service Shimla, May 9 Cauliflower growers are suffering huge losses, especially those growing the vegetable at low altitudes, for the second consecutive year. “We have been receiving Rs 3-5 per kg for our produce this season, depending on the quality,” said Rakesh Verma from Sainj in Theog subdivision, the hub of the vegetable. “Cauliflower is the main source of our income, but we have lost money for the second consecutive year. Many in our area are contemplating to switch over to some other crop from next year,” said Verma. Putting their losses into perspective, Manish Chaudhary, an arthiya at the Dhalli sabji mandi, said the famers need the rate of at least Rs 10 per kg to cover their cost of production. “The situation is grim not just for the farmers, but for traders as well. I had sent a truckload of cauliflower to Delhi. It took three days for the produce to sell, and I suffered a loss of Rs 59,000,” he added. Naresh Thakur, Director, Agriculture, admitted that the cauliflower growers were not getting remunerative prices. “Farmers are getting just Rs 5 to 10 per kg in Kullu, Mandi, Solan and Shimla. The rate has not picked up because the demand has been hit because of curfews and lockdowns in the country,” he said. “Hotels and restaurants are the biggest consumption points for cauliflower. But with all these closed or functioning partially, the demand has fallen,” he added. Besides, the other reason for lethargic demand is that the cauliflower season is still not over in the plains. “The season of the vegetable in the plains has prolonged, thanks to good quality seeds and rains. Our cauliflower gets good rate when the season in the plains is over,” said Chaudhary. “Whatever may the reason behind the slump in demand, the fact remains farmers are losing a lot of money. We use to get Rs 5 per kg before 2000 and even then it was not a remunerative price. The input cost has increased manifold since then. So, Rs 5 per kg today is nothing but a cruel joke on the farmers,” said Surender Thakur, a farmer. Accusing the government of indifference towards cauliflower growers, Verma said, “The government is quick to respond when apple growers suffer losses, but it is not bothered about those growing vegetables. Our losses too should be considered and compensated in some way.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cauliflower-for-just-rs3-kg-growers-rue-losses-250673
10-05-2021||Shimla||Three-hour relaxation allowed||All public and private transport in the district will remain suspended except for essential services while the shops selling essential daily need commodities will remain open from 10 am to 1 pm from tomorrow onwards.  The order in this regard was issued by Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi today. As per the order till May 16 all private and public transport will remain suspended except those who have been permitted for providing essential services. Movement of private vehicles will be permitted only for medical exigencies, vaccination, Covid testing and delivery of essential medical and emergency services. Only shops selling ration and daily need items like groceries, dairy products, vegetables, fruits, meat, fish, fodder, seeds, optical; shops, fertilizers, pesticides and mechanic shops will be allowed to remain open for three hours, from 10 am to 1 pm. The shopkeepers have been directed to adhere to SOPs strictly and display opening and closing timings of the shop for the convenience of the general public. The pharmacies and medical shops can, however, remain open as per their usual timings. The shops dealing in construction material shall remain closed even though government and private construction work can be undertaken during the curfew period.  The concerned Sub Divisional Magistrates (SDM) and local police has been directed to ensure strict adherence of the order to ensure that there is no crowding or violation of the Covid guidelines.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-hour-relaxation-allowed-250674
10-05-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Govt nod sought for Covid centre at Nurpur hospital||NURPUR, MAY 9After an article titled ‘No dedicated Covid care centre for lower Kangra’ was published in these columns on Sunday, the authorities swung into action today. Forest Minister and local MLA Rakesh Pathania, along with Kangra Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Gurdarshan Gupta, visited the hospital today to explore the possibility of setting up the centre. Finally, the hospital’s second floor was found to be fit to be set up as a centre which could accommodate at least 50 Covid patients from Nurpur, Jawali, Fatehpur and Indora subdivisions in lower Kangra district.After inspecting the premises, CMO Gupta told The Tribune that the top floor of the hospital had been recommended for the state government’s approval for setting up a Covid care centre and all efforts would be made to make it operational at the earliest after procuring the nod. He said as per guidelines of the the Union Government, this Covid ward would be segregated from the rest of the hospital so that routine hospital functioning does not suffer. He said initially, Covid beds would be equipped with oxygen cylinders, for which 10 oxygen flow meters were provided to the hospital by the Health Department today. He said to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply to Covid patients, an Oxygen Manifold System (OMS) would be installed here within the next few days.Meanwhile, MLA Pathania, who also provided 10 additional oxygen flow meters to the hospital, said the Covid patient ward would be well-equipped with medical equipment.The Tribune had highlighted the plight of the rising number of Covid patients in lower Kangra area who have to rush to Dharamsala, Tanda and Palampur where dedicated Covid centres have been set up in government institutions and private hospitals. However, indoor wards of the Nurpur’s 100-bed Civil Hospital have been lying idle due to few admissions of patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-nod-sought-for-covid-centre-at-nurpur-hospital-250675
10-05-2021||Dharamsala||MLA opposes Covid testing at civil hospital||Congress MLA from Palampur Ashish Butail has objected to creation of vaccination and testing facility for Covid patients at civil hospital Palampur. Butial said patients coming to hospital for testing have to pass through the main market that is a busy area.  Butail said that he has offered that the vaccination drive and testing could be carried out in his marriage palace located just outside the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mla-opposes-covid-testing-at-civil-hospital-250676
10-05-2021||llu||Allow handloom weavers to sell produce, govt urged||Chairman of the Kullu Zila Sahkari Sangh Satya Prakash Thakur has appealed to the government to allow weavers, cooperative societies and businessmen associated with the handloom industry to sell their produce during the curfew.  In a communiqué, he said many businesses and industries were operational during the curfew but no special grant had been given to handloom weavers and traders. Thakur said the handloom industry was facing a threat of closure and the livelihoods of lakhs of weavers would be lost if they were not able to sell their produce. He added that due to closure of the outlets, it was uncertain how the producers would sell their handloom produce.  He said due to the Covid crisis last year the weavers faced economic hardships and now the curfew had added to their problems. He said if the government does not take some steps to provide marketing facilities to the handloom weavers, this industry would cease to exist. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/allow-handloom-weavers-to-sell-produce-govt-urged-250677
10-05-2021||---||Transport ban from today, people make beeline for home||Shimla, May 9There was a virtual scramble among people to reach their native places ahead of complete ban on private and public transport from tomorrow onwards as over 22,000 persons applied to seek an e-pass to enter Himachal from outside.On May 8, a total of 9,506 persons sought e-pass by registering on the Covid portal. Of this, 6,486 were granted the e-pass through the respective SDMs. Today, a total of 6,796 registrations (12,537 persons) were made on the Covid portal to enter Himachal and 3,492 were given approval by the respective SDMs. A large number of 2,336 registrations were rejected for not furnishing complete information, while 968 are pending.The highest number of 1,772 registrations for e-pass was obtained for Kangra, followed by 1,244 for Solan, 1,008 for Una, 509 for Shimla, 478 for Hamirpur, 454 for Mandi, 452 for Sirmaur, 326 for Bilaspur, 315 for Kullu, 176 for Chamba, 49 for Kinnaur and 13 for Lahaul and Spiti.Earlier, the state government had only made registration mandatory for entering Himachal, but after fake names of Donald Trump and Amitabh Bachchan were used two days ago to seek entry, now an e-pass from the SDM concerned has been made mandatory.With all public and private transport across the state to remain suspended from tomorrow, the bus stands across the state were overflowing with people who wanted to reach their native place. With all private and government offices to remain closed and most works being banned, a large number of migrant labourers could be seen heading homewards, both within and outside the state.In Kangra, there are 8,500 active cases and almost one death taking place every hour. Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Parajapati said there were more than 8,000 people under home quarantine and 550 in institutional quarantine in the district. He added that the relaxation period would be from 8 am to 11 am and only one family member could venture out to make purchases.Banks in Kangra will remain open from 10 am to 2 pm and post offices from 9 am to 1 pm. Construction can be undertaken only with the onsite material and the labour too has to be kept on site. Dhabas can remain open only on national highways, while vehicle repair workshops can operate only on state and national highways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/transport-ban-from-today-people-make-beeline-for-home-250678
10-05-2021||Shimla||Efforts on to build makeshift hospitals: Himachal CM||Keeping in view the sharp surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, the government is making efforts to construct makeshift hospitals in different parts of the state. Stating this here today, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said one such hospital for corona patients was coming up at Bhangrotu in Mandi district, which was almost ready and testing process of oxygen supply was in the final stage.  Thakur said the hospital would have 90 oxygenated beds with an effective system of central oxygen supply and an ICU facility for critically ill patients. “The commissioning of this hospital will considerably reduce the pressure on the SLBS Government Medical College and Hospital, Nerchowk,” he said. He said the work had also been expedited on the construction of makeshift hospital at Khaliyar, near Mandi.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/efforts-on-to-build-makeshift-hospitals-himachal-cm-250679
10-05-2021||---||17,000 register in 2 days for e-passes to enter Himachal||Shimla, May 9With all private and public transport to remain suspended in Himachal Pradesh from tomorrow, around 17,000 persons have registered on the Covid portal to obtain e-passes to enter the state.On May 8, 9,506 persons sought e-pass by registering on the portal. Of them, 6,486 were granted e-passes through respective SDMs. Today, 6,796 persons registered on the portal and 3,492 were given approval by the respective SDMs. In all, 2336 registration were rejected for not furnishing complete information.Covid PortalAlthough movement of the people from outside the state is being regulated through e-passes, thousands of people travelled from one district to another to reach their native places, apprehending a complete ban on public transport from tomorrow. Consequently, various bus stands witnessed a huge rush today.The state recorded 5,200 new Covid cases yesterday, besides average 45 deaths daily. There will be complete ban on the private and public transport, except those engaged in essential commodities and medical exigencies. Shops dealing in essential items will remain open for three hours daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/17-000-register-in-2-days-for-e-passes-to-enter-himachal-250635
10-05-2021||---||Himachal groom sets an example, keeps it simple||Solan/Hamirpur, May 9No baraat, groom Mukesh, his father Balwant Singh and their driver Gautam drove from Navada village in Uttarakhand to the bride’s home at Khodri Majri village in Paonta Sahib to solemnise the marriage without fanfare amid the pandemic.Likewise, groom Nirmal Sharma and his parents drove to the bride’s village, about 15 km away, from Dhamrol village in Bhoranj subdivision of Hamirpur district amid the ‘corona curfew,’ earning praise from former Bhoranj MLA Dr Anil Dhiman. Talking to The Tribune, Sharma said: “People must shun social gatherings. This is the only way we can curb the spread of Covid-19.”Under the new government guidelines, a maximum of 20 persons are allowed at marriage functions. Penalty has been levied on seven marriage organisers at various villages, including Khodowala, Surajpur, Singhpura, Shyampur, Salwala and Satuan, in the past few days for violating Covid curbs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-groom-sets-an-example-keeps-it-simple-250634
