11-05-2021||Shimla||COVID-positive CPWD employee found dead on roadside in Shimla||A coronavirus positive Central Public Works Department employee was found dead on roadside in Himachal Pradesh’s Shimla on Tuesday, police said.Sarjeet Singh (56) was found lying near the Green Park area falling under the Shimla East police station, they added.He was taken to the Shimla’s IGMC hospital where he was declared brought dead by doctors and was also found coronavirus positive, police said. His parents were informed and the body has been kept in the hospital mortuary, they added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-positive-cpwd-employee-found-dead-on-roadside-in-shimla-251368
11-05-2021||Shimla||COVID: Himachal Pradesh records 40 more deaths, 1,984 new cases||The COVID-19 death toll in Himachal Pradesh rose to 1,965 on Tuesday with 40 more fatalities, while 1,984 new cases pushed the infection tally to 1,37,766, a senior official said.According to data updated till 2 pm, the number of active cases in the state stands at 33,477.The total recoveries in the state have risen to 1,02,285 with 2,884 more people getting cured, the official said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-himachal-pradesh-records-40-more-deaths-1-984-new-cases-251320
11-05-2021||Shimla||Where Himachal tribals stand guard against the pandemic||With Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur continuing to motivate the panchayat heads to play a crucial role to trace and quarantine all those who returned from other states, authorities of the remote Kaza subdivision have gone one step ahead to ensure the community protection from the pandemic.It has framed its own Covid-19 health protocols that include mandatory rapid test for all those who are coming to the area, even from within the state, as there is a shortage of health infrastructure.Most of the visitors, comprising a large of construction workers, are now voluntarily prefer quarantine for minimum 14 days to contain the spread of the virus, a government official, who is daily monitoring the arrival of people,  told IANS.The picturesque Spiti Valley in Kaza subdivision, a cold desert dotted by tiny hamlet spread over the Himalayan peaks, adjoining Tibet, takes you to a land of Buddhism and virgin nature.Currently, the footfall of the tourists is almost negligible. The arrival is mainly of the construction workers from Bihar and Jharkhand and Himalayan nation Nepal.As per the local health bulletin, a total of 651 tested positive till date and 611 of them recovered. The active cases are 37. Three deaths have been reported.Kaza subdivision was the first in Himachal Pradesh last year to sanitise the entire block to prevent the spread of the pandemic."A special testing post was set up at the entry point in Hurling on Monday where every visitor is tested for Covid-19. Those who tested positive are either advised home isolation or sent to government quarantine centres," Additional  District Magistrate Gyan Sagar Negi told IANS over phone from Kaza.He said 13 people were tested on the first day at the special testing post and all of them tested negative.Block Medical Officer Tenzin Norbu said seven people recovered from the virus on Monday, while two new cases reported in Kaza, some 320 km from the state capital.Amid the surge in the coronavirus cases, the state last month made it mandatory that the visitors entering the state must produce Covid negative report of 72 hours.Also, they will have to remain under home isolation for 14 days and give information regarding their arrival in the local authorities as well as elected representatives of Panchayati Raj institutions and urban local bodies.The hill state is currently under curfew till May 16 with a daily relaxation of three hours.Additional District Magistrate Negi said the double testing—one at the state's entry point and another while entering the subdivision—ensures tracing of each and every visitor, comprising government employees and locals  who are returning to their native places.He said people above the age of 65 and below 10 years are not allowed to participate in a marriage.Kaza subdivision in Lahaul-Spiti district reported 46 positive cases in the past two weeks.Last year local women dared state Cabinet minister Ram Lal Markanda, a local legislator too, to go back as he was violating the 'local' health protocol of mandatory quarantine for all those who were coming to Kaza.Sensing trouble, the minister preferred to leave the place and headed straight to the state capital.Notably, Kaza is a Schedule V area and the constitution empowers the local communities for self-governance.The locals—largely Buddhist residing at an altitude between 3,000 metre and 4,000 metre—cultivate the green peas, potatoes, barley and wheat on soil that is dry and lacks organic matter.These traditional cash crops are grown in summer and cultivated in August-September.The farming is based on snow-fed 'kul' irrigation system—channels to carry water from the glacier to the fields.The picturesque Spiti Valley, the paradise that straddles both India and Tibet, comprising over two dozen small, scattered villages, remains cut off owing to heavy snow accumulation for at least six months in the year.It reopens once snow starts thawing after mid-April. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/where-himachal-tribals-stand-guard-against-the-pandemic-251293
11-05-2021||KULLU||Cops recover 3.6 L poppy plants||Six teams of the Sainj police station recovered 3,60,500 poppy plants cultivated in around 23 bighas.They registered six cases in the Sainj valley on Sunday. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said police teams conducted raids at Khadangcha, Gouhar, Daran, Majharna and adjoining villages and found illicit cultivation. Revenue officials had been told to identify the owners of the land. — OCMan found deadSolan: A 35-year-old migrant from Bihar was found dead here on Monday. The deceased Suresh Manjhi had come to Himachal in search of job. He had gone to Shimla from where he was returning and had halted at Solan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cops-recover-3-6-l-poppy-plants-251228
11-05-2021||Our Correspondent||2 killed as van falls into  gorge near Manali||Kullu, May 10Two persons were killed and one was injured as a pickup van rolled down a gorge between the Solang nullah and south portal of Atal Tunnel near Manali yesterday.Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said Monu Kaushik (31) of Sarehdi village in Hamirpur and Leeladhar (31) of Paudakothi village in Mandi died on the spot. He added that Rakesh Kumar (23) of Sidhyani village in Mandi was injured.He said Monu, who was driving the vehicle, lost control over it, following which it fell into a gorge. The district administration has provided interim relief of Rs 20,000 to the family members of the deceased.The SP said bodies of the victims were handed over to the relatives after the post-mortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-killed-as-van-falls-into-gorge-near-manali-251227
11-05-2021||---||Provide wages to  workers: Sukhu||Shimla, May 10Former state Congress president and sitting MLA Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu has demanded that the government should suspend all works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and provide daily wages to all workers as chances of transmission of virus was high.In a statement issued here yesterday, Sukhu said as workers sit and work together, it would be advisable to suspend all works till the Covid situation improves. “Since the main objective is to prevent the transmission of the virus, I appeal that all labourers whose name has been entered in the record must be provided wages so that they can take care of their families,” he said.Sukhu also expressed concern over the delay in reports of RT-PCR tests being undertaken at various testing centres.“At many places, reports are being received after almost four or five days, increasing the chances of spread of virus to others,” he said.He demanded that the report should be conveyed on the same day so that people can isolate themselves and snap the transmission chain.Sukhu also sought details of ventilators that were lying unused in the stores of the Health Department and if technical staff had been engaged to operate them.“When the need for ventilators is so dire, then why is the government not engaging manpower who can operate the ventilators and save lives,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/provide-wages-to-workers-sukhu-251226
11-05-2021||Ambika Sharma||10 trains cancelled on Kalka-Shimla track||Tribune News ServiceSolan, May 10Reeling under low occupancy due to Covid, only one train will be plying on the UNESCO’s World Heritage Kalka-Shimla rail track now, while 10 others have been cancelled since yesterday.Rail officials said initially two trains were cancelled, but seeing the low occupancy, operations of all trains except Kalka-Shimla Express, which takes off from Kalka at 6.20 am and reaches Shimla at 11.35 am, have been suspended since May 9.Among the trains that have been cancelled include Kalka-Shimla rail motor special, which covers a distance of 96 km in approximately 4.25 hours.Train journey is specially preferred by tourists who are enchanted by the picturesque panoramic view of the hills.Kalka-Shimla Express to continue serviceTourists from Gujarat, West Bengal and those from South India as well as foreigners often travel on this track.Rail traffic was suspended last year too in March during the first wave of the Covid pandemic. It had resumed gradually from October with online bookings having been introduced initially.Trains had started registering usual occupancy later, but when the second wave of the pandemic struck the country, the occupancy dipped again and the Railways started incurring losses in keeping all trains operational, said an official.The Vistadome coach, which provides a picturesque view to the commuters through its see-through glass roof, had resumed last year in December after nine months. Though the trip to Shimla had witnessed less than 10 passengers in its maiden trip, business had picked up later.The 2 ft, 6-inch narrow-gauge rail track was opened in 1903 during the British era. It has 103 tunnels and 969 bridges and the train traverses through a panoramic view of the hills during its journey to Shimla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/10-trains-cancelled-on-kalka-shimla-track-251142
11-05-2021||PALAMPUR||Services stopped on Jogindernagar section too||The Railways today suspended its services on the 120-km Kangra valley narrow gauge rail line following restrictions by the state government on the movement of passenger vehicles.Before Covid crisis, seven trains were plying on the route daily covering 33 stations like Nurpur, Jwali, Jwalamukhi Road, Kangra, Nagrota Bagwan, Chamunda, Palampur, Baijnath and Jogindernagar, which are the major tourist attraction centres.A spokesman for the Northern Railway told The Tribune that due to the rising number of Covid cases, the Railways had suspended all trains on the section till further orders. He said the Railway would review the situation after a fortnight.Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, Rakesh Prajapati said the situation in Kangra was alarming following the rising number of cases. He did not want to take any risk, therefore, stringent measures were being adopted. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/services-stopped-on-jogindernagar-section-too-251143
11-05-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Post discharge from hospital, 80-year-old ‘dumped’ on roadside||Nurpur, May 10Batan Singh (80), a poor resident of Jassur gram panchayat in Nurpur, was abandoned on the roadside near his house by an ambulance of the Health Department yesterday after his discharge from a dedicated Covid care centre at Dharamsala in Kangra district. Even his family members were reluctant to take him inside the house.Batan Singh was found infected with the virus on May 1 and locals shifted him to the district Covid care centre the same day.It could be a communication gap in contacting his family before discharging the octogenarian from the Covid care centre or negligence on the part of the ambulance driver, who left him on the roadside instead of leaving him with his family.On seeing Batan Singh’s predicament, the gram panchayat contacted the Kangra DC, who asked the SDM to take necessary steps.Nurpur SDM Surinder Thakur told The Tribune that he first coordinated with the SDM and Zonal Hospital authorities, Dharamsala, to get information on Batan Singh. “As per the new guidelines of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, he was kept at the Covid care centre for 10 days and was to undergo home quarantine for seven more days. The local gram panchayat was given directions to shift him into home isolation,” he said.Dr Gurdarshan Gupta, Chief Medical Officer, Kangra, denied any lapse on the part of the Health Department but said it might be an error on the part of ambulance driver.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/post-discharge-from-hospital-80-year-old-dumped-on-roadside-251144
11-05-2021||Lalit Mohan||Teachers working at border want jab on priority||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 10The school teachers who are serving at state borders for registration of people coming inside the state and verification of Covid e-passes are feeling helpless. They are alleging that despite serving at state borders and facing risk of infection, the government has not provided them Corona vaccine which was putting their life at risk.Besides the teachers, revenue and police officials, have also demanded that they should be provided Corona vaccine on priority basis for risking their life at state borders.On the condition of anonymity, a teacher posted at Mehatpur barrier in Una district said that at a time, five teachers were serving there. “Teachers are serving at the barrier round the clock and are at a risk as many people from Delhi and the NCR area were coming back. We have to get in close contact with these people for verification or registration of Covid e-passes. We fear for our life. The government should consider us as Corona warriors and at least vaccinate us on priority basis,” he said.Another teacher said that most of them, who are working on state borders at barriers, are covered under the new pension scheme. There was no security cover for their families in case any unfortunate incident. The government should provide some kind of insurance scheme for all such employees serving at the state borders. District president of DPE teacher’s union, Jagjit Singh said that all the employees serving at the state borders should be considered as Corona warriors and vaccine should be provided them on priority.He said besides the state borders the school teachers have also been posted in call centres set up in government hospitals. At these places also they were at risk of getting Corona infection. So the government should consider all these teachers as corona warriors and provide them vaccine on priority basis.Sources in the Health Department said the teachers serving at state borders had not been provided Corona vaccine as most of them are under 45. They are likely to get vaccine only when the state government starts providing vaccine to 18 and above age group.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/teachers-working-at-border-want-jab-on-priority-251145
11-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Youths volunteer to cremate  Covid victim||Palampur, May 10As the number of Covid deaths are rising day by day in Kangra district, Rakesh Prajapati, Deputy Commissioner, today appealed to panchayat pradhans to come forward and assist officials to cremate Covid victims whose relatives had abandoned the bodies. He said the administration would provide them PPE kits, sanitisers and the required material.He appreciated the initiative of Nagri panchayat. He disclosed that Shakuntla Devi of the panchayat near here died of Covid last night. She was in home isolation. Villagers were not ready to cremate the body.On his appeal up-pradhan of the panchyat Sanjiv Kumar came forward along with village youths and performed her last rites as per Covid protocols. The administration extended them assistance. He asked other panchayats to follow it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/youths-volunteer-to-cremate-covid-victim-251146
11-05-2021||Our Correspondent||NPS assn wants govt staff vaccinated||Nurpur, May 10The New Pension Scheme (NPS) Employees Association, Himachal Pradesh, has urged the state government to administer vaccination doses to the government employees aging between 18 and 44 years before deploying them on Covid-19 duties.Rajinder Minhas, president of the Kangra district unit, in a statement issued here today said a large number of government employees of this age group were discharging Covid duties without being vaccinated and were on the high risk of Covid infection.He said so far 15 such employees across the state, including two in Kangra district, had lost their lives while discharging Covid duties.The employees association president has also demanded that the state government should implement notification of the Central government issued in 2009.“Under this notification, the Central government has provided the benefits of old pension scheme (OPS) to an NPA employee on his disability and if an NPA employee dies during his service period his family is entitled to all benefits,” he asserted.Manhas said around one lakh NPS employees serving in the state were discharging their duty efficiently and following every government order amid the pandemic, but due to non-implementation of the Central government notification in the state, the NPS employees were feeling insecure about the future of themselves as well as of their families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nps-assn-wants-govt-staff-vaccinated-251147
11-05-2021||Our Correspondent||To ensure distancing, Palampur vax centre shifted to open area||Palampur, May 10Following rising number of Covid 19 cases in Palampur, the Kangra administration today shifted the biggest vaccination centre of Palampur from the civil hospital to Rotary Bhavan, opposite Pragati Maidan.SDM Palampur said the present vaccination centre was situated in the congested building of the civil hospital with limited space for the people to sit. Therefore, there was no possibilities of maintaining social distancing. In the past one week, Covid cases had almost doubled in Palampur. Therefore, the Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, ordered the sifting of the centre immediately to Rotary Bhavan which was in open place with a parking for 100 vehicles.He said the centre would start functioning at the new venue from today and appealed the public to reach Rotary Bhavan for vaccination and not the civil hospital.Palampur MLA Ashish Butail said he had offered his banquet hall for converting it into a vaccination centre since huge rush was witnessed in the civil hospital daily which was risky. Besides, it was causing inconvenience to the public. However, he welcomed the decision of the administration to shift it to Rotary Bhavan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-ensure-distancing-palampur-vax-centre-shifted-to-open-area-251148
11-05-2021||Our Correspondent||DIG takes stock of Chamba entry points||Dalhousie, May 10The Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Himachal Pradesh Police (Northern Range), Sumedha Dwivedi, on Monday inspected border entry points of Chamba district adjoining neighbouring states and took stock of the situation with regard to the Covid-19 norms.While conducting the inspection of the main entry point of Tunnuhatti on the Pathankot-Chamba National Highway, the DIG ordered police officers and employees to discharge their duty strictly, while keeping in mind their safety so that the lives of people could also be protected.Sumedha Dwivedi also directed police officials to follow Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government in letter and spirit while working as frontline warriors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dig-takes-stock-of-chamba-entry-points-251149
11-05-2021||Subash Rajta||Covid spurt in Chopal, Theog, Kumbh returnees to blame||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 10Covid-19 has spread to rural areas in upper Shimla. “The virus has spread beyond urban places to villages. Our predominantly rural areas such as Chopal and Nerwa had a few cases last time. This time, these areas are reporting a high number of Covid cases,” said Aditya Negi, Deputy Commissioner, Shimla, today.In several areas of Chopal and Theog subdivision, the district administration has found that the virus has spread mainly due to Kumbh returnees. “Many people were found Covid positive after they returned from the Kumbh,” said Negi.Dr Rajender Tegta, BMO, Matiana, said the spike in cases was triggered by Kumbh returnees in Theog subdivision. “To begin with, we found eight Covid cases in Balag and an equal number in Dharech. From them, the virus spread to their primary contacts and then to the community,” he added. “We hardly had any cases in our block that could be traced to weddings. Most of the cases have the Kumbh connection,” he added.Negi said that the movement of people from other high-load states and also from some districts of Himachal led to the Covid spread in the rural areas of Rohru and Rampur. “Covid not only spread from people coming from hotspots in other states but also from those returning from Una and Kangra districts and urban centres like Shimla,” he added.Incidentally, many people have returned to their villages just before the imposition of the curfew in Himachal. To check the further spread of the virus in rural areas, the Deputy Commissioner has asked the local administration to get these people tested. “The BDO, BMO and Panchayati Raj Institute representatives will see to it that people returning home are tested for Covid, and are told not to mix with local people until their testing is done,” he said.The virus spread can be gauged from the fact that many far-flung villages have been made containment and micro containment zones in the past couple of weeks. “Not everyone is keen on getting tested for Covid in villages. Many people keep hiding in their houses even if they have sure symptoms of the disease. It’s not going to be easy to control the spread of the virus in villages,” said a health care worker. “Maybe, the lockdown will help,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-spurt-in-chopal-theog-kumbh-returnees-to-blame-251150
11-05-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||58 villagers test +ve in Mandi post wedding||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 10There can’t be a bigger proof of marriages proving to be Covid super spreader than the case of Kass Gehra village in Sarkaghat subdivision of Mandi district where 58 residents from one ward have tested positive, post-wedding celebrations.The administration, led by the Sarkaghat SDM, today visited the village to distribute Covid medical kits to the postive villagers. There was a wedding in the village on April 27-28, which possibly resulted in the virus being transmitted. The Deputy Commissioner, Mandi, has sought a report.Men, women and children of all age groups in the village have been infected with the virus and not even one house in the ward is without an infected person. All of them have been isolated and medical teams will monitor their condition round the clock.Despite the best efforts and strict curbs being imposed by the government, people are still behaving in the most irresponsible manner and attending marriages as seems to be the case in Sarkaghat. Though only 20 people are allowed to attend a marriage, people are flouting norms with impunity.“Though there are videos of the police challaning people in marriages, there is no dearth of people happily violating the norms,” lamented an officer in Kangra, the worst-hit district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/58-villagers-test-ve-in-mandi-post-wedding-251151
11-05-2021||---||4,359 new cases, 53 deaths in Himachal||Shimla, May 10As many as 4,359 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 135,782. Besides, 53 persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours. Eighteen deaths were recorded in Kangra, eight in Solan, seven in Shimla, five each in Mandi and Sirmaur, four in Chamba, three in Una, two in Hamirpur and one in Kinnaur.Kangra reported the highest 1,543 cases, followed by 438 in Sirmaur, 424 in Una, 402 in Solan, 381 in Hamirpur, 317 in Bilaspur, 269 in Chamba, 241 in Shimla, 147 in Kullu, 96 in Mandi, 74 in Kinnaur and 27 in Lahaul and Spiti. The number of active cases rose to 34,417.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-359-new-cases-53-deaths-in-himachal-251152
11-05-2021||Dharamsala||Cong launches helpline for Kangra residents||Congress leader GS Bali said the party launched a helpline 01892-260038 in Kangra district today, which would be operational 24X7.Congress workers would help people, provide them foodgrains and counselling from doctors regarding the medicines to be taken during infection. The party was preparing safety kits. However, some delay was being caused due to the lockdown. As soon as the kits were available, these would be distributed free of cost among the people, he said.Addressing a press conference, Bali questioned the preparations made by the state government to tackle the second wave of Covid.He alleged that the state should have created more facilities in hospitals since last year when the first wave of the pandemic had struck. However, the government did nothing. He said the government should check black marketing of oxymeters and medicines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-launches-helpline-for-kangra-residents-251153
11-05-2021||Shimla||New OPD block at IGMC to have 500 beds, says CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said that the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) will have 500 beds for corona patients at the new OPD building. Currently, the institute has laid out a little over 300 beds, out of which around 250 are occupied. The Chief Minister visited the hospital today to check the progress of work at the multi-storeyed new OPD block, which would be used for the treatment corona patients.“The new OPD block is almost ready and it would be used for the treatment of corona patients. The new OPD could accommodate 500 patients,” he said. “Besides, the trauma centre is also coming up on the premises. This too could be used for corona patient if needed,” he said.When asked about staff and oxygen for the proper care of patients as both Covid and non-Covid services are running in tandem at the hospital, an IGMC doctor said, “Let’s hope the caseload decreases after the lockdown. It will reduce the pressure on the hospital.”Thakur also visited the adjacent site of an upcoming parking lot, which is being constructed at a cost of Rs 32 crore under Smart City Project. “This parking would have a capacity to park about 500 vehicles, which could be further extended up to 800 vehicles,” he said. The smart car parking provision would not only facilitate the patients and their attendants visiting the hospitals but would also provide adequate parking facility to the doctors and para-medical staff. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/new-opd-block-at-igmc-to-have-500-beds-says-cm-251154
11-05-2021||---||Taxi driver, kin refused entry into house||Shimla, May 10A taxi driver hailing from Karsog in Mandi district was forced to spend two days in his Tata Sumo vehicle after his landlord refused to let him in as his wife was Covid positive.The taxi driver informed his landlord about his wife having testing positive, following which he refused to allow him enter his rented house. Left with no option, the taxi driver spent two nights in the vehicle along with his two-year-old son and wife. Later he sought help from the local DSP Geetanjali Thakur, who came to his rescue. She convinced the landlord to let the family in and also provided them with ration and other help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/taxi-driver-kin-refused-entry-into-house-251155
11-05-2021||---||Positivity rate up, deaths decline||Shimla, May 10The hill state has seen a sharp increase in the positivity rate, which has jumped to 26.3 per cent, a quantum leap of six per cent in a week.Himachal has witnessed over 5,000 new cases in a day and the positivity rate has risen to 26.3 per cent from 20.04 per cent between April 26 and May 2. Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Sirmour and Solan districts have been the worst-hit.However, amidst this gloomy picture there has been a slight decline in fatality figure during the past fortnight from 1.38 per cent to 1.17 per cent last week.“Weekly tests conducted in the last week has crossed one lakh and 1,02,455 tests were conducted in the past seven days,” said Nipun Jindal, Director of National Health Mission. He added that 84,351 tests were conducted in a week a fortnight ago, indicating that testing has been drastically ramped up .Jindal said amidst the pandemic, the endeavour of the Health Department was to ensure that health facilities were not denied to non-Covid medical services like maternal, newborn and child care, dialysis, tuberculosis, HIV and maintenance of voluntary blood donation.He said that directions had been given to all chief medical officers and medical superintendents that any case of denial of services to patients reaching the hospital would invite serious action. Directions had also been issued to all hospitals not to delay essential health services to any patient for the want of Covid negative report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/positivity-rate-up-deaths-decline-251156
11-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Aid for Covid victim’s kin sought||NURPUR, MAY 10The Kangra district Non-Gazetted Officers (NGO) Federation has appealed to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to declare government employees, who had lost their lives while discharging their duties, as Covid warriors.Ashwani Kumar, Kangra district president of the federation, in a statement here today, said Mohinder Singh, a panchayat secretary of Dharamsala development block, and Raman Kumar, a PWD employee posted at Kangra, had recently died of Covid while discharging their duties.He urged the state government to immediately give financial assistance to the bereaved families and a job to a member.He also demanded the deployment of security personnel at the vaccination centres, which are witnessing a huge rush.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/aid-for-covid-victims-kin-sought-251157
11-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Baralacha cleared for light vehicles||KULLU MAY 10The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) allowed light vehicles to cross the Baralacha Pass (16,043 feet) today.Lahaul and Spiti SP Manav Verma said 127 passengers in 23 vehicles were sent towards Leh while 11 commuters in five vehicles reached Darcha from Leh.He said the vehicles would be allowed to move from Darcha till 12 pm. Many trucks were waiting to cross over to Leh and these would be allowed after clearance from the BRO. He added that an RT-PCR report had been mandated by the Leh administration and commuters should get in touch with the authorities of Leh and Lahaul & Spiti.The BRO had been engaged to evacuate 32 trucks and six other vehicles which were stuck near Baralacha on April 20 due to sudden snowfall. As many as 234 commuters were rescued by the BRO, the police and administration officials till April 22 amid one of the heaviest snowfall spell of the season from Darcha to Baralacha Pass.The BRO had restored the Manali-Leh highway in a record time on March 28 this year but it was again blocked as Baralacha experienced heavy snow on April 4. Some vehicles were allowed through Baralacha on April 16 while some trucks were evacuated on April 20. However, 32 vehicles were stuck as the weather again turned adverse. Now, the BRO has cleared the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baralacha-cleared-for-light-vehicles-251158
11-05-2021||Residents of Mai-Ka-Bagh||Overhaul water supply system||Difference in prices of cauliflowerWhile farmers are getting only Rs 3 to 5 per kg for cauliflower, retailers who are just a km away from the mandi, are selling it to customers for Rs 25-30. When they are told the mandi price, they say there is difference in quality. The administration should check why customers are getting it for Rs 25-30 when farmers are getting just Rs 3-5 per kg. — Vikram Kumar, DhalliWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/overhaul-water-supply-system-251159
11-05-2021||Kullu||Social activist offers free oxygen refill||While the state government, social service organisations, NGOs and political parties are engaged in public service amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Kullu district BJP spokesperson Aditya Gautam is rendering various services for the masses on his own.Gautam has offered to provide free-of-cost refills of oxygen cylinders to the needy.Saying that he had collected seven cylinders and sent them for refilling, he added that any needy patient could ask for refilling an oxygen cylinder by calling 9857022669. Recently, he had also offered to help Covid patients by all possible means.Earlier, Gautam had delivered oximeters, medicines, ration, masks, sanitisers and other necessary items to the patients and needy. Gautam is Assistant Captain in the Merchant Navy and he participates actively in social work during his holidays. He is setting an example for the youth by doing service to humanity. Gautam said it was a privilege to assist the countrymen in this hour of need. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/social-activist-offers-free-oxygen-refill-251163
11-05-2021||Kullu-based Shanaya Khullar has won the first position in a national-level painting competition organised by Phulkari Company to mark Mother's Day. A student of Class X at Lawrence School||Kullu girl wins painting competition||SFI seeks free universal vaccinationThe SFI has approached the Supreme Court of India to direct the Union Government to provide free universal vaccination to all its citizens and waive the GST that is being levied on the import of oxygen concentrators for personal use. Mayukh Biswas, general secretary, SFI, filed an intervention application in suo motu writ petition by the Supreme Court on the matter regarding the distribution of essential supplies and services during the pandemic. The SFI pointed out that the Union Government imposed 12 per cent GST on the import of oxygen concentrators. The petition also seeks Supreme Court's intervention to direct the Centre to lay down a universal mass vaccination policy and provide it free of cost.Prof Bhardwaj to be nat’l trainerProf Vinay Kumar Bhardwaj, Head of the Department of Public Health Dentistry, Government Dental College, Shimla, will be the national trainer of the staff working in the peripheral centres (Medical Officers, Staff Nurses, AHSA workers, MPWs). He is among the 38-member team who will be imparting training in a phased manner to trainees at the state level, district level and then PHC level across India. This training throughout India will be to strengthen the concept of comprehensive health care provision to the people of India in the "well-being centres".||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-girl-wins-painting-competition-251165
11-05-2021||Ambika Sharma||In Himachal, Covid -ve report must for industrial labour rejoining work||Tribune News ServiceSolan, May 10The Nalagarh SDM today directed the managements of industrial houses in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) belt to strictly ensure that migrants have negative RT-PCR test reports before they rejoin duty after leave of five days or more.Though the district administration had directed the industrial managements in December last year to enforce this norm, it was observed that workers were being let in merely after a self-declaration note.SDM Mahinder Pal said, “It has also been made mandatory to upload these reports while seeking e-passes for the employees.”“In case the employees do not furnish these reports, they will have to undergo 14-day mandatory quarantine before rejoining. The industrial associations have been directed to strictly adhere to these norms or face action.”Sources said it was observed that industrial workers entered the BBN belt without the RT-PCR test reports and then queued up at testing centres. The rush at the testing centres delayed the testing of locals, triggering the spread of the virus.The data of those entering the BBN belt is now being analysed on the basis of e-passes, said the SDM. Nearly 1,500 people applied for e-passes yesterday to enter the BBN belt, and this number rose to 2,500 today.The BBN belt was one of the worst hit in the state during the first wave, and this time too there appears to be no let-up in the surge. As many as 55 deaths have been reported in the fresh wave in the subdivision while there are 1,230 active cases. With the movement of truckers from several states, including high caseload ones like Punjab, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi, and 50,000 industrial workers commuting on a daily basis, the area is highly vulnerable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-himachal-covid-ve-report-must-for-industrial-labour-rejoining-work-250973
