12-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal sees record 66 COVID deaths in single day, 4,977 new cases||The COVID-19 death toll in Himachal Pradesh rose to 2,055 on Wednesday with record 66 more fatalities in a single day, while 4,977 new cases pushed the tally to 1,45,736, a senior official said.  According to data updated till 7 pm, the number of active cases in the state stands at 38,954.A total of 2,187 people recovered, pushing the total recoveries to 1,04,686, the official said. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-sees-record-66-covid-deaths-in-single-day-4-977-new-cases-251893
12-05-2021||---||Baralacha Pass shut again after snow||Our CorrespondentKULLU, MAY 11The Baralacha Pass (16,043 feet) on the Manali-Sarchu-Leh highway today experienced a fresh snowfall, obstructing the traffic movement. The road was thrown open to light vehicles yesterday after about 20 days. Many trucks had been waiting between Manali and Darcha to cross over to Leh since April 20.The movement of vehicles through Baralacha amid snowflakes remained smooth till noon. The police were monitoring the smooth movement of vehicles at Baralacha and were sending the vehicles in shifts. Later, the snowfall intensified and the police closed the Baralacha for vehicles.SP Manav Verma said the vehicles were being sent after clearance from the authorities. He said the RT-PCR tests of commuters were mandatory to enter Ladakh and police stations in Himachal were also being informed about the trucks coming from Leh. Efforts were being made to keep the movement of vehicles smooth.The weather has changed again and higher regions experienced light snowfall while lower regions were lashed by rain.Peaks of Dhundi, Makarve, Shikarve, Seven Sister Peak, Manali Peak, Ladakhi Peak, Hanuman Tibba, Deu Tibba, Mangan Kot, Friendship Peak and the Rohtang Pass experienced a fresh snowfall.Baralacha Pass, Shinkula Jot, Kunjam Jot, small and large Shighari glacier, Lady of Keylong and Neelkanth hills in the Lahaul valley also experienced snow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baralacha-pass-shut-again-after-snow-251758
12-05-2021||Dipender manta||Work began in Feb, Covid hospital not yet ready||Tribune News ServiceMandi, May 11The work on a prefabricated Covid hospital at Bhangrotu in Mandi district is getting delayed. The construction work started in February but is yet to be completed.As Covid-19 cases are rising in Mandi district, the early completion of the hospital is necessary to reduce the burden on the medical college at Nerchowk. This prefabricated hospital will be equipped with modern facilities to provide better medical treatment to the patients.Over 190 patients were admitted to Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College and Hospital at Nerchowk and new cases are coming every day. All beds equipped with the central oxygen supply system in the medical college have been occupied and now the hospital authorities are providing oxygen supply to the patients with cylinders.Deputy Commissioner Rugved Thakur has increased the number of beds with oxygen supply at the medical college from 120 to 220. Now, the district administration is planning to increase the number of oxygen beds to 300.According to Rugved Thakur, besides the medical college, the administration has equipped 135 beds with oxygen supply in other parts of the district — 40 beds in the BBMB Hospital, Sundernagar; 50 in the Mother and Child Hospital, Sundernagar; and 45 in the Civil Hospital, Ratti. There are 88 patients in these hospitals.The district health authorities are waiting desperately for the early completion of the hospital project so as to accommodate Covid patients. Dr RC Thakur, principal of Nerchowk medical college and hospital, said, “We are waiting for the completion of the project so that we can accommodate patients there. The construction work is in the final phase and the construction company is expected to hand over the hospital to the government soon”.The Deputy Commissioner said that the situation in the distirct was under control. He urged people to follow the Covid guidelines, as May was a crucial month because Covid was spreading to rural areas rapidly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-began-in-feb-covid-hospital-not-yet-ready-251759
12-05-2021||The news of a minister’s daughter||Same yardstick required||Politicians will be politicians!It is heartening to see that many politicians across the state have stepped forward to extend a helping hand in fight against Covid. However, while a majority of them are genuinely extending the help but there seem some black sheep who offer to help with much fanfare. However, when it comes to fulfilling their commitment, they chicken out or haggle which has become the talking point in the Health Department and in Kangra district. Someone said aptly: Politicians will, after all, remain politicians!Health officials evasiveDodging media queries has become the latest mantra of health officials. In Solan it seems the Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Rajiv Saizal is leading by example. At least this is what one assessed during a media briefing organised by the minister ahead of a Covid review meeting. The manner in which even key issues like lack of functional ventilators were dodged left one wonder how serious the government was in tackling the pandemic. While the state government has constituted media committee to provide information to the media, in Solan it seems there are awards for parrying media queries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/same-yardstick-required-251760
12-05-2021||---||Oxygen supply ‘exhausts’ in ambulance, patient dies||Solan, May 11 A Covid  patient, Babu Ram — who was on oxygen support and was being shifted from a Baddi hospital to Shimla — died allegedly after the oxygen supply exhausted on the way  near Parwanoo in an ambulance on Monday evening.   Family members of the deceased told mediapersons at Solan that doctors at the hospital had enquired about the oxygen availability from the ambulance staff before sending the patient.  They were assured that there were two cylinders in the ambulance which would be sufficient.   Nalagarh Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM)  Mahinder Pal said Babu Ram was admitted at the hospital on May 8.  He had an   oxygen level of 60 per cent and his  attendants wanted to shift him to the IGMC, Shimla. They finally arranged a ventilator bed for him at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Shimla, and called  a ‘108 ambulance’ to shift him on Monday.  The deceased’s family alleged that the ambulance had two oxygen cylinders, but before discharging him, doctors had asked ambulance staff  to take more oxygen cylinders in view of the high utility of the patient.  The ambulance staff, however, said they had adequate oxygen cylinders. One empty cylinder was also replaced with a filled one by the hospital. Though the paramedic was explained about the need to ensure oxygen support, the patient’s kin alleged no one sat with the patient in the ambulance and he collapsed near Parwanoo due to the lack of oxygen.    The deceased hailed from Hamirpur district and ran a stationary shop at Baddi.  The patient’s family members lamented that they had lost their family member due to the “callous” attitude of the  ambulance workers.  Deputy Commissioner, Solan, KC Chaman, said the Nalagarh Sub Divisional Magistrate had been directed to probe the matter and submit a report, following which further action would be decided.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/oxygen-supply-exhausts-in-ambulance-patient-dies-251467
12-05-2021||---||Class X students to be promoted by May 31||Shimla, May 11 About 1.26 lakh students of Class X of the schools affiliated to the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education, Dharamsala, will be promoted without appearing in the exams and admitted to Class XI by May 31.  The state Cabinet had on May 5 decided to promote the Class X students without holding the board examinations in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases.  The Education Department issued a notification in this regard today. The declaration of the results is the mandate of the board, which will prepare a criterion to tabulate the marks of the Class X students, as per the CBSE formula and guidelines, and declare the results and intimate the schools and the students later on, the notification stated. “All Deputy Directors and principals/headmasters have been directed to ensure admission of their Class X students as well as the students of nearby high schools and send a consolidated report to the directorate at the earliest,” said Amarjeet Sharma, Director Higher Education.  “The pre-board examinations were held from February 8 to 22 so that we have a score of performance in case the situation goes worst. The pre-board exam results will help in ascertaining the merit,” he said. Students, who could not pass the Class X exams as per the formula, including marks of internal examinations and internal assessment or could not appear in the examinations, would be given another chance to reappear, he added. Meanwhile, the officers concerned have been directed to start the registration process for new students, form Whatsapp groups, make available study material to students not connected through Whatsapp and ensure the participation of students in the Har Ghar Pathshala programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/class-x-students-to-be-promoted-by-may-31-251468
12-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Corona warrior tag sought for depot holders||NURPUR MAY 11 The State Depot Sanchalak Samiti today urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to declare all depot holders as corona warriors and provide insurance cover to them as they had been running fair price shops amid Covid for the past over one year.  Ashok Kavi, state president of the samiti, submitted a memorandum to the Chief Minister in support of their demands. He said the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Rajinder Garg,  presiding over a state-level sammelan of the samiti on October 10 last year in Hamirpur, had made these announcements but the government had failed to issue any notification. Kavi said during the pandemic, four depot holders had lost their lives after Covid infection in Nurpur, Gagret, Bilaspur and Rampur but the government had extended no financial relief to their families despite several reminders.  Criticising the statement of the Food and Civil Supplies Department that there was no risk of spreading infection while using biometric machines in the distribution of food items to ration card holders, Kavi said  the government should stop the use of these machines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/corona-warrior-tag-sought-for-depot-holders-251469
12-05-2021||Rajiv Mahajan 
||Physically challenged, but serving patients with zeal||NURPUR, MAY 11  A physically challenged multipurpose health worker, posted in the Primary Health Centre (PHC), Rinna, in Nagni gram panchayat, Nurpur, has become a source of inspiration for others.  The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has exempted physically challenged and pregnant women employees from performing pandemic-related  duties.  However, Rajesh Sahotra, a disabled health worker, has been discharging his field duty for the past over one year.  He turned down the option of staying at home and continued to serve Covid patients.  Sahotra claimed that he had not availed even a single leave during this period on Covid duty.    The Health Department is taking his services in vaccination and testing camps being organised in the Rinna PHC. He is also distributing medicine kits among the patients undergoing home quarantine.  After declaring two micro-containment zones by the local administration after a spurt in Covid cases, Sahotra visited patients on their doorsteps, counselled them and handed over kits. Despite being a regular blood donor and social activist, he was appointed president of the Nurpur unit of the Non-Gazetted Officer (NGO) Federation.    He said it was my duty to serve human beings. “My conscious doesn’t allow me to take the benefit of the MHA guideline and stay at home without doing any work. I am enjoying serving patients in the crisis,” he said. He claimed that he was getting a regular support of senior officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/physically-challenged-but-serving-patients-with-zeal-251470
12-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||MCs, PRIs to create quarantine facilities||Chamba, May 11 If people — who need to get isolated or quarantined — do not have the arrangement of a separate room and a bathroom in their house, the municipal councils (MCs) will have to arrange such a facility for them.  A similar system will have to be set up at the village level by the panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) in rural areas  so that the chain of infection could be broken effectively, thereby containing its spread in the community. These instructions were issued by Deputy Commissioner DC Rana after taking a virtual meeting with the officials of municipal councils, block development officers and gram panchayat pradhans with regard to Covid-19 here today.  Rana said the municipal councils, nagar panchayats, panchayati raj institutions could play an important role in arranging and monitoring essential food items for people in home quarantine or isolation. He said the process of vaccination should be expedited in the wards of municipal councils and gram panchayats by listing the left-out people above the age of 45 years so that all should be vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mcs-pris-to-create-quarantine-facilities-251471
12-05-2021||Hamirpur||Mediapersons get vaccinated at Hamirpur||Mediapersons in the age group of 18 to 44 got their first dosage of vaccine as the  district administration organised a special vaccination camp at Bachat Bhawan here today. As many as 50 mediapersons from various organisations, including print, electronic and social media organisations, were vaccinated at the camp. Debashweta Banik, Deputy Commissioner, and Dr RK Agnihotri Chief Medical Officer remained present during the camp.  The DC said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had decided to declare mediapersons as frontline workers in the state. She said those who could not attend that camp today could go to their nearest health facility and get vaccinated. She said media had played an important role in making people aware of programmes of the government and standard operating procedures during the pandemic. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mediapersons-get-vaccinated-at-hamirpur-251472
12-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Jab advisory for Covid positive persons||UNA, MAY 11 The Una district health department has cautioned Covid positive persons to take the vaccination jabs at least three months after they become negative for infection. In a press release issued here today by Chief Medical officer Dr Raman Kumar Sharma, if a person gets infected after taking the first dose of the vaccine, the second dose should have a gap of three months after getting negative, adding that this was a per the guidelines of the health department. The CMO informed that the vaccination for 18 to 44 year old persons in Una district was likely to begin after May 15 when the vaccines for this age group were most likely to be received.  Dr Raman Kumar Sharma informed that by May 10, as many as 1,32,541 persons had received the first jab, while 34,976 have been given both doses of the vaccine in the district. He appealed to the people to take vaccine and be safe. With three Covid-related deaths reported on Monday, the number of casualties due to the virus in Una district has reached 137.  A 75-year-old woman from Gagret, a 66-year-old man from Una city and an 89-year-old woman from Satothar village succumbed to the virus on Monday. Of these, two victims were not vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jab-advisory-for-covid-positive-persons-251473
12-05-2021||Shimla||Highest 64 deaths, 4,977 new cases in Himachal Pradesh||The highest 64 Covid deaths in a day in the state were witnessed today. Besides, 4,977 cases were reported, taking the tally to 140,759.  Twentyone persons died of the virus in Kangra, 12 in Solan, 10 in Mandi, seven in Shimla, four each in Una and Sirmaur, three in Chamba, two in Hamirpur and one in Kullu. The highest number of 1,504 cases was recorded in Kangra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/highest-64-deaths-4-977-new-cases-in-himachal-pradesh-251474
12-05-2021||---||No oxygen shortage, supply to be raised: CM Jai Ram Thakur||Shimla, May 11Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said there was adequate supply of oxygen in the health institutions of the state and constant efforts were on to enhance the supply by setting up more oxygen plants, besides increasing the bed capacity for Covid patients.He said that presently oxygen plants were functional at zonal hospital Dharamsala, DDU, Shimla, medical colleges at Chamba, Shimla, Tanda, Ner Chowk, Hamirpur and MMU, Kumharhatti. He said oxygen plants sanctioned by the Centre for the state would be established soon by the DRDO at civil hospital, Palampur, zonal hospital, Mandi, civil hospitals, Khaneri and Rohru in district Shimla, regional hospital Solan and medical college, Nahan.Thakur said recently, the Government of India had sanctioned 13 more PSA oxygen plants for Himachal which were being set up at Palampur, Mandi, Ghumarwin, Hamirpur, Reckong Peo, Ratti, Rampur, Sarahan, Kullu, DDU Shimla, IGMC Shimla, Dharamshala and Ner Chowk.The Chief Minister said the state was producing 75.81 metric tonnes per day while the consumption was 27.83 metric tonnes per day. The state presently has 4,728 D-type oxygen cylinders and 1,535 B-type cylinders. He said eight industrial units were also working for manufacturing oxygen in the private sector in the state and the production was 57.03 metric tonne per day.He said the government had urged the Union Government to provide 5,000 D-Type and 3,000 B-Type cylinders to the state. He said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has provided 75,000 PPE kits and 75,000 N-95 masks.He said the state government was making efforts to enhance the bed capacity keeping in view rise in the number of Covid patients in the hospitals. At present, around 3,700 beds were available in various health institutes of the state and almost half of them were unoccupied. The state also has a facility of 244 ICU and 1804 oxygenated beds. The bed capacity would be enhanced by 1,100 in makeshift hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-oxygen-shortage-supply-to-be-raised-cm-jai-ram-thakur-251475
12-05-2021||---||Quantum of sentence in Gudiya case on May 18||Shimla, May 11 The CBI special court today deferred announcement of quantum of sentence in the Gudiya rape and murder case to May 18. The court had held lone accused Anil Kumar, alias Nilu, a chirani (wood cutter), guilty of rape and murder on April 28. The verdict was announced by Special judge Rajiv Bharadwaj after hearing both the defence and prosecution through video conference.  The special judge said that out of the 14 crucial points of evidence produced by the CBI, 12 were found to be against Nilu, the most important evidence being matching of his DNA with samples found on the crime spot.  The accused, Nilu, was held guilty under various sections of the IPC and the POCSO Act. The case dates back to July 4, 2017 when a minor girl was reported missing on her way back from her school in Kotkhai (Shimla) and her body was found in the nearby forest in Haliailla two days later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/quantum-of-sentence-in-gudiya-case-on-may-18-251476
12-05-2021||Ambika Sharma
||Panel to monitor O2 supply in Sirmaur||Tribune News Service Solan, May 11 The Sirmaur district administration has constituted a committee headed by the ADC to monitor and regulate the supply of medical oxygen. The Tribune had highlighted the issue of manufacturing operations underway at eight steel and iron manufacturing units in the district using gaseous oxygen. The Union Home Ministry had restricted the industrial use of oxygen to ensure its uninterrupted supply to Covid patients.  The eight steel manufacturers consumed around 9.6 lakh to 12.6 lakh units of power last week. Himalaya Oxygen at Paonta Sahib and Mata Bala Sundari Gases, Kala Amb, in the district produce 4,200 cubic metre of oxygen per day.  “As many as 318 oxygen cylinders were distributed in government hospitals and 23 in private hospitals in the district today while 248 have been sent to other states. Besides, 30 cylinders were kept in reserve for the Nahan medical college,” said Deputy Commissioner RK Pruthi. He said the steel manufacturers had made a representation to supply them oxygen and the matter had been taken up with the government. The Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner had been directed to check their operations tomorrow.  Pruthi said the committee would assess and regulate the supply of oxygen in all hospitals of the district. It would also ensure that medical oxygen was not sold for non-medical use by the two plants at Paonta Sahib and Kala Amb. Other members of the committee include the SDMs of Nahan and Paonta Sahib, and the GM of District Industries Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/panel-to-monitor-o2-supply-in-sirmaur-251477
12-05-2021||Subhash Rajta 
||Una man’s mortal remains arrive from Saudi Arabia||Tribune News Service Shimla, May 11 Finally, the mortal remains of Sanjeev Kumar will reach Una, his hometown, tomorrow morning, almost four months after he died in Saudi Arabia on January 24. His family, wife and three daughters, made tireless efforts to get the body back for cremation, as per their religious beliefs. “Finally, my father’s mortal remains are being brought home. I am going to Delhi today to receive it. We will have the funeral tomorrow,” said Nancy Sharma, the eldest daughter.  Sanjeev Kumar died in Saudi Arabia on January 24 and was buried there by the local authorities without taking the consent from the family or the Indian Consulate in Jeddah. Thereafter began the struggle of the distraught family to get back the mortal remains. When assurances and efforts of the administration and the government did not yield the desired results, the family approached the Delhi High Court, which issued prompt directions to the Union Ministry of External Affairs to get the body back as early as possible. “It’s been nearly four months since my father passed away. I can’t even describe what our family went through during this time. The entire family is stuck, no one has been able to move on,” said Nancy. She hopes once they are through with the cremation, some sort of normalcy will return to their lives. “Maybe, we will be able to focus on our lives after the funeral. All we had been thinking all this while was how to get the body back,” she said. Having endured the trauma for four months, Nancy wants the government to ensure that no one else goes through the same pain as they have. “It’s not easy for a family, which is already struggling to cope with the death of a loved one, to run around to get the body back,” she said.  While the body is being sent back, Sanjeev Kumar’s belongings in Saudi Arabia are missing. “Our priority was to get the mortal remains. Once we are done with the funeral, we will think about how to get back his belongings,” said Nancy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-mans-mortal-remains-arrive-from-saudi-arabia-251478
12-05-2021||Shimla||Additional 30-bed facility at IGMC||The IGMC Hospital has created an additional 30-bed facility for Covid-19 patients. “Following the directions of the Central Government and the Chief Minister, we have started the facility with immediate effect. Here, critical patients will be put on oxygen,” said Dr Rahul Gupta. “Under the current arrangement, it was not easy to provide oxygen to such patients,” he said. “At the new facility, patients will be promptly given first aid and oxygen. Once their test reports confirm infection, they will be shifted to critical or non-critical ward depending on their condition,” he added. This ward will have piped oxygen, 10 oxygen concentrators and D-type cylinders. With this facility, the number of beds at the IGMC has gone up to 335. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/additional-30-bed-facility-at-igmc-251479
12-05-2021||---||Heavy rain warning for 2 days||Shimla, May 11 Two Nepalese labourers were killed as lightning struck them at Mahasu gram panchayat in Sarahan of Shimla district late last evening.  Resham and Vishal, working for Shishupal and residing in Rampur, were returning to their houses after finishing the orchard work when the tragedy struck. As it was raining heavily, both took shelter under a tree and died due to lightning. Meanwhile, the MeT office issued an orange warning of heavy rainfall, thunderstorm, hails and gusty winds in eight districts Una, Bilaspur, Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Solan for May 12 and Hamirpur, Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur for May 13. It predicted a wet weather in the region till May 15. Intermittent rain lashed parts of the state and Pandoh was the wettest with 31 mm of rain followed by Chamba 16 mm, Keylong 15 mm, Seobagh 12 mm, Mandi 11 mm, Bajaura, Baghi and Kheri 10 mm each, Rampur 9 mm, Rohru, Narkanda, Bijahi and Ghamroor 8 mm each, Bilaspur, Una and Jogindernagar 7 mm each, Banjar, Kothi, Sainj and Bhuntar 5 mm each, Manikaran and Berthin 4 mm each and Sarkaghat, Dalhousie, Mehre and Gohar 3 mm each. There was no significant change in the minimum temperature and Kalpa was the coldest at 6.7 degree C. The maximum temperature dropped by 2 to 3 degrees and Bilaspur was the hottest with a high of 32 degree C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heavy-rain-warning-for-2-days-251482
12-05-2021||vinder Sood       
||NGO ambulances come to Covid patients’ aid||Palampur May 11 Seeing the impact of the second wave of  Covid-19 in Kangra district, a local NGO — Blood Bank Society —   has pressed all its five ambulances for the transportation of Covid patients, which has proved to be helpful for many. The NGO aims to share the load with the government and other organisations working on the field and offer help to those in need. The NGO’s ambulances have been shifting  20 to 25 Covid  patients daily to different  hospitals and Covid care centres in  and outside the state. On Monday, an Austrian citizen was   shifted to the Amritsar airport from Dharmsala, where an air ambulance was waiting ti shift him to Vienna.  Gopal Sood, a member of the NGO, said with the rising number of Covid cases in Palampur and its adjoining areas, his team realised that there was an acute shortage of medical transportation facilities and many patients who were suspected of being Covid positive could not get access to Covid care hospitals or isolation centres. In order to address this issue, the NGO started a 24-hour helpline and a Facebook page to help Covid patients.   The NGO receives over 200 calls daily for help from various locations.   The NGO meets it expenditure from  funds collected through  public donations. Recently, Dr Ram Kumar Sood  donated  an ambulance worth Rs 28 lakh that has a ventilator. Likewise, an NRI settled in  the UK  donated Rs 10 lakh to the society   last week.  Under this initiative, transportation is provided to underprivileged Covid-19 patients on per-km rate fixed by the Palampur SDM. This involves transferring people to treatment centres, hospitals, quarantine centres and back to their homes.  Besides, the ambulances are also used for shifting the Covid deceased to their homes.  The vehicles are equipped with all necessary medical supplies and staff who have undergone training to handle the situation. “Though the government has  set up Covid care hospitals and isolation centres, many patients cannot afford to hire a private vehicle to reach these centres. The use of public transport for this purpose is also forbidden. In such a scenario, it is heartwarming to be able to come to their aid,”  said Sood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngo-ambulances-come-to-covid-patients-aid-251483
12-05-2021||ibune News Service||IGP inspects Covid readiness in Sirmaur||Solan, May 11Inspector General of Police (IGP), south range, Himanshu Mishra, today inspected the Covid preparedness on the border check-posts in Sirmaur district.He also visited various police stations and police posts at Jong, Killod, Khodri Majri, Yamuna Barrier and Behral and took stock of the facilities at the check posts for the staff.Mishra said, “I am assessing the preparedness of the force at the inter-state barriers in the district.”Selfie sticks, masks, face shield and medicinal kits were disbursed to the staff. Mishra also took stock of the problems being faced by the force in the effective implemention of Covid guidelines.Mishra also gave away commendation certificates to officials. The police assistance booth, Rampurghat, was awarded for the best work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/igp-inspects-covid-readiness-in-sirmaur-251484
12-05-2021||Kullu||Man killed as house catches fire in Mandi||One person was burnt alive in a fire incident at a two-storeyed house at Kamand village in Karsog subdivision of Mandi district today. Owner Jhansi Lal (52) lived alone in the house having four rooms while his family resides elsewhere. He died in the incident and the house was completely destroyed. The house caught fire around noon. Villagers saw smoke coming out of the house and they tried to extinguish the fire. They also informed the Fire Department and soon a fire engine also arrived there and started efforts to control the fire. However, by then the entire house was reduced to ashes. The Karsog tehsildar reached the village and provided Rs 15,000 to the victim’s family. Mandi SP Shalini Agnihotri said that villagers stated to have heard a blast in the house and the fire may have been caused due to the explosion of an LPG cylinder.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-killed-as-house-catches-fire-in-mandi-251485
12-05-2021||Palampur||Tech Day at CSIR-IHBT||The CSIR-Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology, Palampur celebrated National Technology Day today in virtual mode. The day commemorates  successful nuclear missile tests at the Army’s Pokhran test range, Rajasthan in 1998.  It highlights the  advancements made by scientists, technicians and engineers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tech-day-at-csir-ihbt-251486
12-05-2021||Hamirpur||Minister visits patients in quarantine||Rajiv Saizal, Health and Family Welfare Minister, visited Covid patients in isolation here today and asked about their well-being. The Health Minister was here to review the measures being taken by the authorities and the district administration to check the spread of coronavirus in the district.  There were 2,742 active cases in the district till yesterday. Of these, 74 were on oxygen support. The Health Department had so far administered 1,80,827 doses of corona vaccine in the district, including 28,240 persons, who have received both doses.  While talking to the patients, the Health Minister said that the government was providing the best facilities to them. The Chief Minister was deeply concerned about the patients. He said every help and support would be provided to them on their doorsteps.  While addressing officers of the administration and health department, the health minister said that they should be proactive while taking care of Covid-19 patients.  He said that there was enough stock of oxygen in the state and no dearth of cylinders. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/minister-visits-patients-in-quarantine-251487
12-05-2021||Quote||Issue toll plaza monthly passes: Farmers||"All types of vehicles of residents within 20 km radius should be provided monthly passes. Local orchardists cross the barrier several times a day during the fruit season. The government should waive toll charges for the locals and exempt farmers’ vehicles, even if they are registered somewhere else or registered as commercial vehicles." — Prem Sharma, Kullu Fruit Growers’ Association presidentAbhinav VashishtKullu, May 11Farmers and agriculturists resented that monthly passes were not being made for their commercial vehicles to cross the toll plaza at Dohlunala on the Kullu-Manali national highway. They said residents in the radius of 20 km from the plaza were provided monthly passes at Rs 285 for each vehicle to cross the area any number of times. However, passes were not being made for commercial vehicles of residents or if the vehicle was registered at some other place, they said.The people rued that they had to pay Rs 50 (Rs 35 for onward journey and Rs 15 for return) for each round trip through the plaza. The vehicles not having Fastag had to pay Rs 70 per one-way trip, they said.Farmers, who have to transport their produce to the nearest sabzi mandi at Bandrol and have to cross the plaza many times a day, dole out hefty amounts. Kullu Fruit Growers’ Association president Prem Sharma said all types of vehicles of residents within 20 km radius should be provided monthly passes. He said local orchardists had to cross the toll barrier several times a day during the fruit season. He said the government should waive toll charges for the local people and provide exemption to the vehicles of farmers, even if they were registered somewhere else or registered as commercial vehicles.Earlier also, representatives of various organisations and associations of Kullu and Manali had submitted objections against the toll plaza. The residents had stated it was not justified and logical to set up the toll plaza at the end of the national highway, just 24 km before Manali. They added that either the toll plaza should be removed permanently or local residents should be exempted from paying the fare. The residents of Manali said green tax and the Gulaba barrier were already existent and imposing one more levy on tourists would deter them to visit again. Tourism in the valley would be affected, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/issue-toll-plaza-monthly-passes-farmers-251489
12-05-2021||---||Himachal Pradesh issues advisory on judicious steroid use||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 11Worried over the use of steroids without prescription by some Covid patients, the State Clinical Committee has issued a treatment protocol for the judicious use of steroids in Covid cases to prevent the incidence of mucormycosis (black fungal infection).A health official said steroids played a major role in preventing and mitigating the deleterious effect of Covid-19 among patients. “However there are several reports of fungal infection, particularly mucormycosis in Covid-19 patients. Himachal has, however, not reported any case of mucormycosis so far,” he said.He said such infections were seen when steroids were used as self-medication by home isolated patients or when these were administered in higher doses for a long time. Keeping this fact in view, the state clinical committee has issued a treatment protocol for the judicious use of steroids by Covid patients.“The state clinical committee has recommended that for those in home isolation, inhalable steroids like Budesonide may be taken via metered doses inhaler/dry powder inhalers at a dose of 800 mcg twice a day for five days,” he said.He, however, cautioned that these should be taken only if fever or cough persists after five days of disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-issues-advisory-on-judicious-steroid-use-251641
