13-05-2021||---||Pics: 15 lakh illegal poppy plants found by cops at a hilltop in Mandi||Mandi, May 13An area measuring a little over 66 bighas has been found to be under illegal poppy cultivation in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh.Following intelligence inputs, four teams from the Padhar police station in Drang area of Mandi district trekked around 6 hours on Wednesday to reach the area on a hilltop in Tikken sub-tehsil of the district.The teams discovered that around 15 lakh poppy plants (opium) had been cultivated on 66.14 bighas of private as well as government land.Four cases under the NDPS Act have been registered at Padhar police station.A team led by the Padher SDPO would be taking up the exercise to destroy the plants as per legal provisions.The police have started an investigation to ascertain who all were behind the illegal poppy cultivation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pics-15-lakh-illegal-poppy-plants-found-by-cops-at-a-hilltop-in-mandi-252320
13-05-2021||Dharamsala||Amid curfew curbs, miscreants level hill slopes in upper Dharamsala||Taking advantage of the Covid restrictions, miscreants have started levelling hill slopes in upper Dharamsala to pave the way for commercial properties.On the McLeodganj-Dharamkot road, several green deodar trees as well as public and private properties in the area are facing threat due to the levelling of a hill slop with the help of JCB machines.Action assuredMohan Lal, a local resident, said due to unscientific excavation in the area, many deodar trees were likely to fall and perish in the monsoon. Besides, the threat of landslides had also increased.Locals say miscreants often indulge in earth excavation on the McLeodganj-Dharamkot road just before the monsoon so that green trees fall during landslides. Otherwise, there is a ban on the felling of green deodar trees in the state. Recently, the Himachal High court had also banned the cutting of trees in the state.Environmentalists said they had brought the issue of extensive damage to hills along the McLeodganj-Dharamkot road to the notice of the Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, Forest Department and the Dharamsala Municipal Corporation authorities, but no action had been taken so far.When contacted, Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said action would be taken if anyone was found levelling hill slopes in violation of rules and regulations.Upper Dharamsala region that comprises Dharamkot, McLeodganj and Bhagunag has been infamous for the levelling of hills and illegal felling of deodar trees. Following the orders of the Himachal High court, 150 hotels had lost their power connections due to the violation of building laws in 2019.Amid the Covid surge, tourist activities have come to a halt in the area. Most hoteliers have shut their establishments and laid off staff. However, the lockdown has provided an opportunity to some miscreants to carry out the nefarious activity as the authorities seem to have turned a blind eye to the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/amid-curfew-curbs-miscreants-level-hill-slopes-in-upper-dharamsala-252131
13-05-2021||Shimla||Withdrawal of isolation period for healthcare workers opposed||The government’s decision to end quarantine period after Covid duties for healthcare workers has not gone down well with the medical fraternity.Expressing displeasure over the decision, the Himachal Medical Officers Association (HMOA) has asked the government to withdraw the decision within three days or the healthcare workers will report to work sporting black ribbons to register their protest.Until now, the healthcare workers were quarantined for 10 days after their Covid duties. “Keeping in view that the vaccination for healthcare workers started in January and most of the healthcare workers have been adequately vaccinated, the protocol of quarantining them has been done away with,” said a government spokesperson here today.Calling it an insensitive decision towards healthcare workers who have been fighting the pandemic tirelessly for over a year now, HMOA secretary Pushpender Verma said the facility must continue as healthcare workers work in high viral load during their Covid duties.Also, he said that while the healthcare workers have been vaccinated, their families haven’t been. “Won’t their lives be endangered if the healthcare workers go straight home after their Covid duties? Have their lives of no value? Can the government guarantee that healthcare workers will not contract the infection after being vaccinated,” asked Verma.He also asked the government not to follow what’s happening at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, without factoring in the ground realities in the state. “There are so many other things AIIMS do for its staff. Are we doing any of it?” asked Verma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/withdrawal-of-isolation-period-for-healthcare-workers-opposed-252135
13-05-2021||Hamirpur||Rs 11.6 cr paid as pension in Hamirpur||The Social Welfare Department has disbursed over Rs 11.60 crore as pension in the district to 37,981 people in the first quarter of the current financial year.Sanjeev Sharma, District Welfare Officer, said that following the coronavirus outbreak, the department had paid pension in advance up to June this year. He added that the department had started a public finance management system to ensure speedy delivery of funds to the beneficiaries of social security pensions.He said that the database of the pensioners was being uploaded on the software. In some cases, verification and bank KYC were required, delaying the payment of pension to some people. He added that once data were compiled and uploaded, there would be speedy remittance of funds to the beneficiaries. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-11-6-cr-paid-as-pension-in-hamirpur-252138
13-05-2021||Shimla||Himcare, Ayushman beneficiaries to get free treatment: CM Himachal||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said that in the wake of increase in the number of Covid patients, the state government has decided to provide free treatment to the beneficiaries of Himcare and Ayushman Bharat Scheme in registered private hospitals designated as Covid hospitals.The Chief Minister was presiding over a meeting with the senior officers and members of Covid Management Committees here today. He said that as many as 4.16 lakh families had been registered under Ayushman Bharat and 5.13 lakh families under State sponsored Himcare scheme. He said that all these families would now be eligible for the free treatment of Covid-19.Priority groups for jabsThakur said the state government had decided to prioritise sections of society for getting vaccinated keeping in view their nature of duty.He said that drivers and conductors of HRTC buses, drivers and conductors of private trucks and buses, fuel pump operators, PDS depot holders, teachers on Covid duty, banks and finances service staff, staff of Food and Civil Supplies, chemists and Lok Mitra kendras operators would be provided Covid vaccine on priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himcare-ayushman-beneficiaries-to-get-free-treatment-cm-himachal-252143
13-05-2021||Our CorrespondentHamirpur||Free ambulance service for Covid patients in Hamirpur||Dr Pushvinder Verma Fans Club has started a free 24x7 ambulance service for coronavirus patients in the district. Dr Sanjay Jagota, District Medical Officer, inaugurated the service at Gandhi Chowk. A Covid-19 patient was taken in an ambulance to Chandigarh on the first day yesterday.He said that though the Health and Family Welfare Department was providing every possible help to Covid patients, public support to the department and the government would be of great help.Dr Jagota appreciated the efforts of the club and Dr Pushpinder Verma and said that people should contribute to the cause the society in such trying times.Dr Verma said as it was a four-hour journey to Chandigarh, volunteers fixed two oxygen cylinders in the ambulance carrying the patient. The first-aid and oxygen was also provided free of cost to the patient in the ambulance.Anybody in need of the ambulance service could contact mobile phone numbers 9418399458 and 9857046220.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/free-ambulance-service-for-covid-patients-in-hamirpur-252144
13-05-2021||Our CorrespondentHamirpur||Fearing infection, families avoid cremation of kin||Amid the spike in the Covid cases, people are becoming more and more apprehensive about attending cremation of their close family members. As per reports, about seven families preferred to skip the cremation of their family members who had succumbed to Covid in government facilities in the district.Significantly, three or four Covid persons died everyday last week. This also sent a wave of fear among people. Even the health and government authorities are facing a tough time in handling such cases.Notably, a Covid-19 deceased can only be cremated as per the standard operative procedure and the increase in the number of deaths and absence of such volunteers had aggravated this problem.SDM CL Thakur said the administration had cremated six or seven bodies of patients whose relatives did not turn up at the crematorium. He said people should not fear as the administration was following the protocol for cremation. People should, in fact, come forward to help the society and the administration to contain and handle the situation raised due to the pandemic, he added.Debashweta Banik, Deputy Commissioner, said the administration was looking for volunteers who could assist people in isolation and containment zones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fearing-infection-families-avoid-cremation-of-kin-252146
13-05-2021||Shimla||No anaesthetist at Rampur hospital catering to 4 districts||Non-Covid health services in Shimla hospitals are being affected due to the rapid spread of the pandemic. The Civil Hospital at Rampur, which caters to the people of four districts, is without an anaesthetist. The lone anaesthetist has been sent on deputation to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital (DDUH), which is packed to capacity with Covid patients.No surgeries can be performed“Three doctors have been sent to the DDU Hospital on deputation — one each from the medicine, surgery and anaesthesia departments. We have enough doctors of medicine and surgeons but no anaesthesist at present,” said Dr Suneel Sharma, Medical Superintendent of the Civil Hospital.In the absence of an anaesthetist, the hospital will not be able to perform surgeries, neither emergency nor elective.Sources said the hospital had started referring expectant mothers to the Kamla Nehru Hospital (KNH), Shimla. It takes more than four hours to reach Shimla and it’s also dangerous to travel at a time when the pandemic is surging. Besides, referrals will put additional burden on the already burdened KNH, which deals with all gynaecology and delivery cases of the city and from peripheral areas. “There has been an increase in the number of pregnancy cases of late. We are burdened and short of staff as well but we are somehow managing,” said Dr Ambika Chauhan, Medical Superintendent, KNH.“A hospital without an anaesthetist is merely a dispensary. All that doctors can do is to attend OPDs and refer patients needing surgeries to another hospital with an anaesthetist,” said a doctor.Local residents have also expressed resentment over the deputation of three doctors, especially the anaesthetist. They are demanding that at least the anaesthetist be repatriated immediately. “What will happen if an emergency cesarean delivery or trauma-related surgery needs to be done? How is the hospital going to handle it?” asked LR Thakur, a Rampur resident.He said that the Rampur hospital caters to a vast population of four districts. “People come here from Karsog in Mandi, Anni-Nirmand areas of Kullu, besides Kinnaur and Shimla,” he added.Meanwhile, the Rogi Kalyan Samiti of the Rampur hospital, too, feels that the hospital services will be adversely affected in the absence of an anaesthetist. “Imagine if an ulcer in someone’s stomach bursts. He will have to travel for five hours for treatment at a hospital in Shimla,” it said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-anaesthetist-at-rampur-hospital-catering-to-4-districts-252149
13-05-2021||On the occasion of International Nurses Day||Governor honours nurse||Jaypee university holds virtual festThe Youth Club of Jaypee University of Information Technology (JUIT), Waknaghat, virtually held a fest, 'Athkheliyan', for the personality development of students and to provide them a break from their academic routine. Activities like Feet of Fire, Walk it off, and Slay off were a part of this cultural extravaganza. More than 60 students showcased their skills in innovative ways. Cultural faculty in-charge Dr Ruchi Verma and student coordinators Astha and Hiteshwar announced and congratulated the winners. More than 150 participants connected virtually for the closing ceremony to celebrate fashion, music and dance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/governor-honours-nurse-252153
13-05-2021||Covid patients in Chuwari subdivision of Chamba district are facing a lot of hardships as they have no facility of any Dedicated Covid Care Centre in their subdivision. They have to rush to Chamba for treatment by travelling around 100 km. The steep surge in Covid infection in this subdivision has necessitated the setting up of a Covid centre at Chuwari. The 50-bedded Civil Hospital can be utilised for this purpose. The authorities should consider setting up this facility at this hospital||Covid centre a necessity in Chuwari||Leaking pipes a nuisanceWater pipes in the Mool Koti panchayat in Shimla have been leaking for some time. The pipes are old, rusted and have developed cracks. Instead of changing these, Jal Shakti Vibhag officials try to fix it with rubber and plastic joints which does not work. As a result, a lot of water is wasted. The department should replace these pipes at the earliest. — Residents, Mool Koti, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-centre-a-necessity-in-chuwari-252165
13-05-2021||Dharamsala||73 L doses ordered, Himachal to get only 1 lakh in May||The state is unlikely to get Covid-19 vaccine doses in near future for the mass vaccination of the 18 years and above age group. Sources said that the state government had placed an order for 73 lakh doses but was likely to get just one lakh doses this month.Minister for Health Rajiv Saizal, who was here today, also admitted that the state would get just one lakh doses of the vaccine in the first phase this month. He said that the government had placed an order for 73 lakh doses but since there was a huge demand for the vaccine from all over the country, the manufacturing companies had rationalised supply. “Himachal is getting one lakh doses in the first phase and I hope that the supply will pick up in the coming months,” he added.The sources said that the vaccination drive for 45 years and above going on in government hospitals for the past couple of months has slowed down. At some places in Kangra, people were complaining about not getting the second dose in time. Earlier, the district was getting 11,000 doses every day for the 45 years and above age group. However, the supply dropped to 6,000 doses per day due to which the second dose schedule of many people was getting delayed.The minister said that for the 45 years and above age group, the state has enough quota of vaccine. “There is no shortage of vaccine for people who are to get the second dose,” he added.CMO, Kangra, Dr GD Gupta said that there was some shortage of doses at the weekend. However, the supply had been streamlined and people shall get the second dose in time. He added that the change in the schedule of vaccine by health experts was creating confusion among people. Earlier, the second dose was given after 45 days while as per the new guidelines, it was now being given after eight to 12 weeks.Meanwhile, the state government has allowed private hospitals to hold the vaccination drive. Some private hospitals have placed orders for the vaccine but none of them is likely to get it soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/73-l-doses-ordered-himachal-to-get-only-1-lakh-in-may-252172
13-05-2021||Solan||Escape routes dug up to thwart unauthorised entry to BBN area||The local police today dug up 11 escape routes at the borders with Haryana and Punjab to prevent the unauthorised entry of industrial workers and construction labourers to the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial area.“Since a large number of migrant industrial workers and labourers have unauthorisedly in the BBN area, 11 escape routes were dug up today,” said Rohit Malpani, SP, Baddi.The police used eight earth movers along various riverbeds, which serve as escape routes, to dig deep trenches to deter movement.The problem is more pronounced along the Baddi-Barotiwala area as industrial workers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Punjab, etc. use this route to enter. The escape routes lalong Nalagarh borders are less used.As the administration has introduced e-passes for entry to the belt and RT-PCR testing for those returning to work after five days or more, escape routes were facilitating convenient entry. As many as 4,000 people had applied for e-passes in the first two days for entry to work in the BBN area. This was in addition to buses carrying industrial workers and those coming in their own vehicles.Adding to the problem of the Baddi police is the foot movement of about 40,000 industrial workers. Besides, 50,000 vehicles carrying industrial cargo adds to the dilemma of the police as additional force has been deployed to avert traffic jams.“Four reserves, 400 men from the district besides 50 home guard sleuths have been deputed to man traffic in the BBN,” said the SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/escape-routes-dug-up-to-thwart-unauthorised-entry-to-bbn-area-252173
13-05-2021||Shimla||BJP fighting Cong, not Covid: Rathore||State Congress president Kuldeep Rathore today accused the BJP of fighting the Congress and not coronavirus, merely to fulfil its political objectives even if at the cost of precious lives.In a letter addressed to national BJP chief JP Nadda, Rathore brought to his notice the worsening Covid situation in Himachal and the shortage of oxygen and other health facilities. “During the first Covid wave, you and the Prime Minister were busy in electioneering and holding big election rallies.“I want to bring to your attention the worsening Covid situation of Himachal, your home state. So far, more than 2,000 lives have been lost and more than one million people have been infected with Covid,” he said. He added it was unfortunate that Nadda did not bother to inquire about the wellbeing of the people of the state even once.“In our state, hundreds of people have lost their lives due to the shortage of ventilators, ambulances, medicines, doctors and other health staff and also oxygen,” said Rathore.The Congress chief said being the opposition party in a healthy democracy, the Congress has every right to ask questions related to the country’s grave problems.Rathore said there was public outrage against the Central Government and instead of convincing people, the BJP was busy fighting the Congress. “The priority of the Centre should be to save the lives of the people,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjp-fighting-cong-not-covid-rathore-252175
13-05-2021||Shimla||4,977 new cases, 66 deaths in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 4,977 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 145,736. Besides, 66 persons died of the virus.Fifteen deaths were recorded in Kangra, 12 in Hamirpur, 10 in Mandi, nine in Solan, seven in Shimla, five each in Una and Sirmaur and one each in Kullu, Chamba and Bilaspur. Kangra was the worst hit with 1,419 cases, followed by Mandi 1,167, and Solan 408. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-977-new-cases-66-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-252179
13-05-2021||Palampur||Focus on non-Covid patients too: Congress||President of the District Congress Committee, Kangra, Ajay Mahajan today urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to ensure timely treatment to non-Covid patients in the state.He said because of the pandemic, patients suffering from other diseases were facing delay in getting proper treatment. They were not being attended at most hospitals, including the Tanda medical college.Addressing mediapersons, he said that Tanda medical college is one of the biggest medical institutes in the lower hills of the state, which catered to one third population of the state.He alleged that amid the surge in the cases, the medical college had stopped seeing critical patients suffering from other serious ailments such as cancer. The hospital had discontinued radiotherapy and chemotherapy in its oncology department, adversely affecting the health of patients.Mahajan urged the state government to immediately restore other medical services. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/focus-on-non-covid-patients-too-congress-252181
13-05-2021||Our CorrespondentKULLU||Landslip blocks Kullu NH||The Mandi-Kullu national highway was blocked for traffic due to a landslide close to 7 Mile near Mandi on Tuesday night. While the road was restored by the NH wing in the morning but due to intermittent landslides, it was blocked again by the afternoon. Mandi ASP Ashish Sharma said the road was restored later by 4 pm.Trafic diverted via alternate routeThe movement of vehicles was diverted via an alternate route through Katola-Kandi-Bajaura. There is not much movement on the highway due to Covid curfew, but still some vehicles were stuck. The ASP said police personnel had been deployed on both sides of the obstructed route.Hills were cut for four-laning work at the spot where the landslide occured. Construction work on the Mandi-Kullu highway has been in progress for some years now, which is a cause of frequent landslides between Mandi and Kullu. Environmentalists said tampering with the fragile ecology of the hills would lead to such disasters.The highway is a major connection between Mandi and Manali and it is strategically important as it further connects to border areas of Ladakh through the Manali-Leh highway. The alternate road through Kandi is a narrow single-lane road which often witnesses jams when the traffic is diverted through this road. Residents here said the government should prioritise the construction of road through Bhubu tunnel and the road through Kandi-Katola to Mandi should also be widened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslip-blocks-kullu-nh-252183
13-05-2021||Shimla||Rain lashes Dharamsala, Mandi||Stormy weather conditions prevailed in most parts of Himachal while moderate to heavy rain occurred at several places on Wednesday.The Met department has issued an orange warning of heavy rainfall, thunderstorm, hail and gusty winds in mid and low hills of Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur districts tomorrow and a wet weather in the region till May 16.Dip in Minimum temperaturesMeanwhile, Dharamsala was the wettest with 65 mm of rain, followed by Malan 55 mm; Mandi 26 mm; Palampur, Kangra and Rohru 20 mm each; Narkanda, Baghi and Baldwara 19 mm each; Kumarsein 18 mm; Sainj 15 mm; Sundernagar 10 mm; Janjehli 9 mm; Jatton Barrage, Paonta Sahib, Kotkhai and Tissa 8 mm each; Rampur 7 mm; Sarahan and Bhuntar 6 mm each; Manali, Dalhousie and Karsog 5 mm each; Bharmaur and Bilaspur 4 mm each.Minimum temperatures decreased by one to two degrees and Keylong was the coldest at night with a low of 4.4°C.There was no appreciable change in the maximum temperatures and Bilaspur was the hottest during the day at 33.4°C. Farmers are worried as stormy conditions and rain are very harmful for wheat, vegetable and other rabi crops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-lashes-dharamsala-mandi-252184
13-05-2021||Our CorrespondentPalampur||Vegetable crop damaged in Palampur||Palampur and its adjoining areas received heavy rain this evening while the upper reaches of Dhauladhar hills and high-altitude areas of the region experienced heavy snowfall. Some parts of the valley were also hit by a hailstorm that damaged standing crops. The entire valley is in the grip of a cold wave.Meanwhile, normal life in the region was paralysed following heavy snowfall and rain. Power supply and transport services were also affected. Vegetable growers in the valley suffered heavy losses because of the rain and hailstorm. The snowfall in the higher reaches has forced the area residents to wear woollens.According to the Met Department, heavy snowfall and rain are expected in the next 24 days. The local administration has made elaborate arrangements for any exigency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vegetable-crop-damaged-in-palampur-252185
13-05-2021||Solan||Private hospitals flag issues of govt takeover for Covid care||At a time when the district administration is trying to enhance the capacity of oxygen and ventilator-supported beds in private hospitals, the latter have expressed concern over the recurring expenditure on staff and accessories.These issues were brought to the notice of the Solan Deputy Commissioner (DC), who held a review meeting at Nalagarh today with health, police officials and managements of private hospitals.The hospitals informed that an anesthetist charged a whopping Rs 13,000 per hour while their oxygen usage bill amounted to Rs 2.5 lakh per month among other charges in the BBN. They also asked the administration if other expenditure would be shared by the government for admitting Covid patients. Since their oxygen and ventilator-supported beds had been acquired by the administration, they would fail to meet the recurring expenditure.Deputy Commissioner KC Chaman said need-based acquisition of beds was being done from private hospitals for Covid-19 patients and their managements should come forward and help. “Covid patients should be treated on priority by private hospitals and in case laxities come to light, due action will be taken.”He said, “The government has fixed charges ranging from Rs 3,000 to Rs 8,000 per day per bed in a private hospital for providing oxygen and ventilator support which was a reasonable amount. The hospital managements have been directed to provide requisite treatment to Covid patients and show munificence at this hour when a health calamity has gripped the nation.”The Solan Chief Medical Officer has been directed to ponder over other issues as per the government norms.He said Gagan Hospital and Malhotra Superspecality Hospitals in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) were being notified as district Covid Health Care Centres while Aakash Hospital had already been acquired. This has made available 61 beds having oxygen and ventilator support in these hospitals.Since the charges in private hospitals are not regulated by the government, patients in the BBN are being charged at least Rs 50,000 in advance before admitting a Covid patient. The kin of a patient who died while being shifted to Shimla two days ago has been handed over a bill of Rs 1.6 lakh for his three-day stay in the hospital, informed officials.It was surprising to note that no such issue has been flagged by two private hospitals acquired by the district administration of Sirmaur in the private sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/private-hospitals-flag-issues-of-govt-takeover-for-covid-care-252186
13-05-2021||Shimla||PRIs must provide all help to patients: CM Himachal||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today exhorted elected representatives of Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) to come forward to help in timely shifting of Covid patients under home isolation to hospital.While interacting with the elected representatives of the PRIs virtually from here today, the Chief Minister said timely shifting of Covid patients was essential to ensure proper treatment in hospital before their condition deteriorated.The Chief Minister urged the elected representatives to keep a strict vigil during the current marriage season as it has been found that at many times, the people flout the SoPs issued by the government in this regard. He urged them to motivate people to conduct marriages at homes without people from outside as this would go a long way in helping to check the spread of this pandemic.Thakur said that the PRIs must also keep a strict check of people coming to the villages from outside so that they could be motivated to remain under home quarantine. He said the representatives must also keep track of the people in home quarantine and effectively coordinate with them for any medical help.“You all must come forward to provide helping hand for cremation of the Covid patients,” he urged. He said the panchayats must identify people in distress in villages so that they could be provided shelter, food and any other requirements during this hour of crisis. The Chief Minister said that second wave of this pandemic was far more lethal and was a matter for concern for all.Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Minister Virender Kanwar said the newly elected representatives of the PRIs must come forward to help the state government to check spread of this pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pris-must-provide-all-help-to-patients-cm-himachal-252188
13-05-2021||Our CorrespondentHamirpur||Public places disinfected||Members of the Youth Congress and the National Students’ Union of India sanitised various public places here on Wednesday.Teams were led by Youth Congress president Mohinder Sandhu and general secretary Nishant Sharma.President, NSUI, Abhirikshit Sharma and general secretary Toni Thakur also participate in the drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/public-places-disinfected-252189
13-05-2021||Our CorrespondentChamba||DC: Need for Covid sampling of shepherds||Deputy Commissioner DC Rana today directed the SDMs of Bharmour, Tissa and Salooni subdivisions of Chamba district to ensure that shepherds and other livestock rearers coming from outside to these areas should be asked to move their alpine pastures directly after completing the process of their sampling.The Deputy Commissioner said such effective prevention measures were necessary to contain the increasing infection of Covid-19 in the district.He stressed that a 14-day home quarantine should be ensured to employees and labourers coming from outside areas in various power projects of the district for which the project management would be responsible for the violation of Covid norms.The Deputy Commissioner said it was generally seen that these people were also getting mingling with local people, due to which the risk of spreading the infection was increasing.In case of violation, strict action would be taken under the Disaster Management Act and the responsibility of the project management would be fixed individually, the DC further stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dc-need-for-covid-sampling-of-shepherds-252190
13-05-2021||Palampur||Hospitals in Kangra subdivisions soon||Rajiv Saizal Health Minister today said that 250-bed Covid care makeshift hospital at Paror, 10 km from here, would be functional from May 15, while 100-bed Covid facility in Rajiv Gandhi Ayurveda College at Paprola was already operational. Besides, the administration had also hired the services of eight private hospitals in Kangra to admit Covid patients.The health minister was talking to mediapersons at Paror this afternoon after visiting Radha Swami Satsang Complex where a makeshift hospital was coming up. He said to reduce the burden on the TMC and Covid Care Hospital, Dharamsala, the administration had planned to open Covid hospitals in subdivisions of the district also.He said there was no shortage of beds in the hospitals at present, though shortage of ICU beds in the district was a matter of concern. In the next few days more ICU beds would be added to the hospital network in the district. “Rural areas of the district being hit badly by the pandemic, the administration needs commitment from the people to follow Covid protocols like social distancing, wearing mask and avoiding crowded gatherings and not to feel stigmatised if they tested positive or have symptoms,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hospitals-in-kangra-subdivisions-soon-252191
13-05-2021||Shimla||Get BSNL SIM on doorstep||Amid the surge in Covid cases, BSNL has started the home delivery of SIM cards.CGM, BSNL, Himachal circle, JS Sahota said immediately after receiving the message, BSNL would ensure the delivery of a SIM card on the customer’s doorstep. A message or WhatsApp can be sent to get the home delivery of a SIM card on 9418012345. The message has to be sent on 9418012345. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/get-bsnl-sim-on-doorstep-252192
13-05-2021||Rajiv MahajanNURPUR||Black marketing of health devices on the rise in Kangra||Rampant black marketing and scarcity of health devices like digital thermometers, pulse-oximeters and steamers is on the rise in lower Kangra areas. The demand of these devices has increased manifold after the outbreak of the second wave of Covid pandemic. In the absence of any checking by the drug control authorities or local administration these devices have become scarce and selling at higher rates in this region in Nurpur, Jawali, Fatehpur and Indora sub divisions.Inquiries made by The Tribune revealed that the prices of these devices have shot up in the wholesale markets at Jassur in Nurpur and Pathankot in the neigbhouring Punjab. The wholesalers are selling these devices without billing to the retail chemists.The digital thermometer available in the wholesale market one month ago for Rs 70 now is being sold for Rs 130 and steamer used for inhaling steam being sold earlier for Rs 150 is now available for Rs 225. The wholesale price of pulse oximeters has increased over three times within one month. It was priced only Rs 400 one month back but now being sold at for 1,300 by the wholesalers.Intriguingly, neither drug control authorities nor administration has paid any heed and rampant black marketing of these health devices was continuing. Even though overpriced, these devices are not always available with the retailer chemists in the region.“Since these health checkup devices are overpriced and available without billing, I have left selling these for the past over one fortnight,” says one chemist of Nurpur.Wholesale chemists said the demand of immunity boosting supplements like zinc, vitamin c and vitamin d tablets along with antibiotics like ezithromycin, doxycycline and paracetamol salts had increased two to three times during the past one month.Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Kangra Dr Gurdarshan Gupta has appealed to the people not to resort to self-medication and consult a doctor and undergo Covid testing for avoiding any untoward situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/black-marketing-of-health-devices-on-the-rise-in-kangra-252194
13-05-2021||Shimla||Cybercrooks target Covid patients’ kin||Taking advantage of the worsening Covid-19 situation, cyber criminals are defrauding people of their hard-earned money by promising them help in securing hospital beds, oxygen, plasma, anti-viral injections and medicines.Keeping fraudsters at bayMany criminals have circulated fake numbers on social media pretending to be employees of hospitals and are taking advance payment for providing various facilities. They have also come up with fake websites, e-commerce platforms, social media accounts and emails, claiming to be medical equipment dealers/health workers. ASP (Cyber Crime) Narvir Singh Rathore said the “thugs” sought payment through UPI. The cyber crime branch has asked people not to make any donations without proper verification, do not open camera in case of video call from an unknown number and take police help in case of threat or blackmail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cybercrooks-target-covid-patients-kin-252064
