15-05-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: Curfew extended in Himachal till May 26||The Himachal Pradesh government has decided to extend the coronavirus-induced curfew in the state till May 26.The decision to extend the curfew was taken in a state cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday.Informing about the cabinet decisions, state Parliamentary Minister Suresh Bhardwaj told the media that the three-hour daily relaxation in the curfew would be provided for opening essential commodity shops.The minister said hardware shops would also open on Tuesday and Friday.Bhardwaj urged the public to either postpone the weddings or hold them in a simple way at their homes with not more than 20 people. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-curfew-extended-in-himachal-till-may-26-253276
15-05-2021||Shimla||Over 100 ICU ventilators in Himachal not functional||The state has not been able to make functional all ventilators received from the Central Government through the PM CARES Fund last year. Of the 322 ICU ventilators received, only 196 are functional at present. Besides, 178 portable ventilators were also received.According to information received from the Directorate of Health Services (DHS), over 100 ICU ventilators from the lot received last year are non-functional because of the “non-availability of the medical gas pipeline system and other accessories needed to operate them. “Making a ventilator functional is not a simple process. It requires technical staff and a lot of accessories. It’s an ongoing process to make them functional,” says an Health Department official.Even as the department claims that efforts are being made to make the equipment functional, many high-load facilities such as medical colleges at Tanda and Mandi are facing a shortage of ventilators, and have demanded more. “We have 60 ventilators and all of them are occupied at present. We have demanded 19 more ventilators,” says Dr Bhanu Awasthi, Principal of Tanda medical college.Dr RS Thakur, Principal of Nerchowk medical college, says that their 30-bed ICU facility is full of patients. “We have asked the Directorate of Health Services for 20 more ventilators for a makeshift hospital about a week ago,” he adds.The state had received 250 more ventilators from the Central Government a couple of months ago but returned these later. “These were portable ventilators and were not meant for the state. So, the ventilators were recalled with an assurance that they would be replaced,” said the health official.Health care professionals say that the state doesn’t have enough anaesthetists to run so many ventilators. However, the Health Department claims that the “state has trained health care workers to operate the ventilators”. “We are managing our ICU well but we will need additional manpower once we start the second ICU at the makeshift hospital,” says Dr Thakur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/over-100-icu-ventilators-in-himachal-not-functional-253026
15-05-2021||Hamirpur||Barsar MLA lends a hand to cremate Covid victim||Barsar MLA Inder Dutt Lakhanpal helped cremate the body of a Covid victim at Kohava vlllage near Bhakreri in Barsar subdivision yesterday.According to reports, the victim’s family was left in the lurch after their relatives and neighbourers refused to help them. Even the help from the administration was delayed.When the MLA came to know about the incident, he along with his personal secretary reached the house of the victim. They tied the body and took it to the cremation ground near the village. He said there was nothing to fear and people should follow the SOPs while handling Covid patients. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/barsar-mla-lends-a-hand-to-cremate-covid-victim-253028
15-05-2021||Dharamsala||Anurag Thakur to send 250 cylinder regulators||Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur has come forward to address the shortage of oxygen cylinder regulators in Kangra district.The minister told The Tribune on phone that he came know about the problem of oxygen cylinder regulators in the district from a news item published in these columns.“I have arranged 250 oxygen cylinder regulators from India and abroad and these would reach the Kangra within the next 24 hours. There is a shortage of oxygen cylinder regulators in the country due to the sudden surge in its demand and we are trying to solve the problem,” he said.Anurag said he had also received calls from Dehra regarding the shortage of medical equipment of various kind. “I am sending oxygen cylinders, pulse oxymeters, PPE kits, face shields and N-95 masks to the Dehra hospital,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anurag-thakur-to-send-250-cylinder-regulators-253029
15-05-2021||Shimla||FIR against senior cop||A woman head constable has accused a senior police official of sexually harassing her at the workplace. On the basis of the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the accused under Section 354 of the IPC. The victim approached the women police station here and alleged that the police official had been using inappropriate language. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fir-against-senior-cop-252955
15-05-2021||Dharamsala||Tsering elected president of Tibetan govt in-exile||Penpa Tsering was elected president (Sikyong) of the Tibetan government in-exile in the elections, the results of which were declared by the Election Commission today. Election Commissioner Wangdu Tsering said that Penpa Tsering polled 34,324 votes and was elected Sikyong while his rival Kalsang Dorjee Aukatsang got 28,307 votes.The final round of the elections for Sikyong and members of the 17th parliament-in-exile conducted worldwide in 23 countries on April 11 garnered the highest voter turnout in the history of the exiled Tibetan democracy. As many as 63,991 Tibetans voted, out of the 83,080 registered voters, hitting a voter turnout of 77.02 per cent, the highest ever, said Wangdu in a press briefing here.Likewise, the results of the 45 members elected to the parliament comprising 10 members each from the three traditional provinces of Tibet; two each from five religious constituencies, two each from Tibetan communities in North America and Europe and one from the Tibetan community in Australasia (excluding India, Nepal and Bhutan) were announced.Penpa Tsering had served as Executive Director at the Tibetan Parliamentary and Research Centre (TPPRC) in New Delhi from 2001-2008. He was elected to the 12th and 13th Tibetan parliament-in-exile and became the Speaker of the House of the 14th Tibetan parliament-in-exile in 2008. He was re-elected the following term.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tsering-elected-president-of-tibetan-govt-in-exile-252956
15-05-2021||Shimla||3,044 Covid cases, 67 deaths in Himachal||As many as 3,044 Covid cases were reported in the state today, raising the tally to 153,717. Besides, 67 persons, highest till now, died of the virus in the past 24 hours. However, the number of tests were also down from 17,000 yesterday to 11,388.Thirtytwo deaths were recorded in Kangra, 10 in Hamirpur, seven in Mandi, six in Una, four each in Shimla and Solan, three in Kullu and one in Chamba,Kangra was again the worst-hit district with 724 cases, followed by 343 in Bilaspur, 313 in Solan, 299 each in Mandi and Sirmaur, 265 in Una, 264 in Hamirpur, 249 in Chamba, 180 in Shimla, 62 in Kullu, 27 in Kinnaur and 19 in Lahaul and Spiti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-044-covid-cases-67-deaths-in-himachal-252957
15-05-2021||Solan||Regulatory approval to Sputnik V||Russian-made Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V received regulatory clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL), Kasauli, yesterday for its first consignment of imported doses that had arrived in India on May 1. This would pave the way for its roll-out. The Union Health Ministry had announced yesterday that Sputnik V may be rolled out by next week.“The lab tested Sputnik V samples received on May 3 on various parameters and sent its report to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) Thursday evening,” said a source in the CDL.As per the protocol laid down by the DCGI, every batch of the vaccine has to be tested before release for use, as per the guidelines issued under the National Covid-19 Vaccination Programme. After the CDL approval, the vaccine can now be used, as per the protocol.The DCGI had granted the emergency use authorisation to Sputnik V on April 12 on the basis of the clinical trails. The vaccine demonstrated an efficacy rate of 91.6 per cent in the interim analysis of the phase-III trial.Drug-maker Dr Reddy’s Laboratories (DRL) had sought the emergency use authorisation for Sputnik V||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/regulatory-approval-to-sputnik-v-252958
15-05-2021||New Delhi||Naval officer, who was part of  Karachi attack, dies||Captain Kailash Nath Zadu, who was part of the attack at Karachi harbour during the 1971 war with Pakistan, has died at his home in Bhuntar, Kullu district.He was 87 years of age and died following a cardiac arrest. He was awarded with a Vir Chakra, the third highest battle honour. During the 1971 war, Captain Zadu was Commanding INS Katchall which was part of flotilla of five warships tasked to bomb Karachi. Named ‘Operation Trident’, it saw the Indian Navy launch an audacious attack from sea to bomb the Pakistani port city. The harbour and Keamari oil terminal were set ablaze and damaged, the Pakistani fleet never again ventured out to sea. Thereafter, the Indian Navy was in total control of the seas during the 1971 war. Naval historian Commodore Srikant Kesnur tweeted INS Katchall and INS Kiltan accompanied the main action force of ‘Op Trident’ INS Nipat, INS Nirghat & INS Veer. “That spectacular attack on Karachi on Dec 4 is etched in history,” he said.Captain Zadu was cremated on May 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/naval-officer-who-was-part-of-karachi-attack-dies-252959
15-05-2021||Rajiv MahajanNurpur||No admin help, youths help family in cremation||Running helter-skelter for oxygen and beds and still losing their loved ones to Covid-19 is not where the trauma ends for families. They are also facing difficulties in ensuring a descent cremation of the lost one in the absence of support from the authorities.In one such incident, the family of a 50-year-old woman from Guler in Nagrota Surian development block, who was found Covid positive a few days ago, had to face a tough time yesterday first to rush her to a government dedicated private hospital in Kangra and after her death performing the last rites in the absence of support from the local administrative authorities.As per information, the woman had been in home isolation for the past few days. Her saturation level suddenly dropped yesterday. The family contacted the health department and she was taken to a private Covid care centre at Kangra. Since no ambulance was available, she had to be taken in a private car, which lacked an oxygen cylinder. The woman was declared brought dead at the centre. Not only this, her son made unsuccessful efforts to arrange an ambulance to bring the body back to the native place for cremation.Ankush Vashit, a local youth, said they called local administrative officials several times seeking their assistance in the cremation of the woman, but to no avail. Later, they called Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati, who immediately directed the administrative authorities to take requisite steps in performing the last rites of the victim.Another youth, Sukrit Sagar, along with two others also came forward to assist the family. He said after the failure of the administration in providing PPE kits, he collected the same from the Community Health Centre at Haripur and one of the four kits was found unfit to wear. He said the SHO and the Tehsildar, Haripur, reached the spot when the cremation had already been done.Sagar said in the time of crisis, it should be their responsibility to extend help to the bereaved families and not depend totally on the administration, which was already under pressure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-admin-help-youths-help-family-in-cremation-252960
15-05-2021||Abhinav VashishtKULLU||Baralacha Pass reopens to traffic||The traffic movement resumed across the 16,043 feet high Baralacha Pass today. The traffic was halted by the police yesterday at Darcha and Sarchu on either side of the pass after the region witnessed snowfall.Lahaul and Spiti SP Manav Verma said all the vehicles that were stuck and could not cross the Pass yesterday were allowed to move in batches today. Mostly vehicles carrying essential supplies to Leh were commuting amid the Corona curfew.The BRO is about to restore the 13,058 feet high Rohtang Pass also for vehicular movement. The 38 Border Road Task Force (BRTF) Commander Colonel Uma Shankar said that the snow-clearing operation was under way from both ends of the pass from Marhi and Koksar.About 15-km road was yet to be cleared of snow and it was expected to be restored by May 30. Intermittent snowfall and avalanches delayed the road clearance this year.The Rohtang Pass is a major attraction among tourists visiting Kullu-Manali. The area generally remains covered with snow till June-end.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baralacha-pass-reopens-to-traffic-252961
15-05-2021||Shimla||Doctors’ assn slams govt decision to end quarantine||The Resident Doctors Association, IGMC, Shimla, has opposed the government’s decision to end quarantine period after Covid duties, saying it was unacceptable.“We were anyway getting a quarantine period of just three days, not seven or 10 days as is being said. We agreed to three-day quarantine period as the patient load has increased significantly, but not giving even three days quarantine is not acceptable to us,” said RDA secretary Dr Akshit Puri.“The Residents work for around 36 hours on end to take care of the Covid patients. So not giving us even three day quarantine is not justified at all,” he said.He said if the doctors went straight from the Covid duties to their departmental OPDs, they can infect the patients too. “It’s not that doctors are not testing positive after being vaccinated. In the absence of quarantine, they could infect other doctors too,” said Dr Puri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/doctors-assn-slams-govt-decision-to-end-quarantine-252962
15-05-2021||Kullu||15 lakh poppy plants found grown in Mandi||The police recovered 15 lakh poppy plants cultivated in over 66 bighas of private and government land in Tikken subdivision in Mandi district in an operation that lasted for 17 hours.Mandi SP Shalini Agnihotri said field intelligence informed that a large area was under illegal cultivation of poppy plants after which a team was sent from Mandi to verify the same. Upon verification and confirmation, four teams from the Padhar police station were sent to the spot for further action.The SP said teams started at 8.30 am on Wednesday and reached the spot at 2 pm. It was found that a huge area was under illicit cultivation of poppy plants. Teams also recovered samples. She said the local gram panchayat president and officials from the Revenue Department were present during this entire operation. A team led by the SDPO, Padhar, will take up the exercise to destroy the plants as per legal provisions. The SP said four cases under Section 18 of the NDPS Act had been registered so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/15-lakh-poppy-plants-found-grown-in-mandi-252964
15-05-2021||Shimla||Employee’s transfer right of employer: High Court||Transfer or repatriation of an employee is right of the employer/authority and transfer or repatriation in itself is not a punishment but incidence of service. This was held by the HP High Court yesterday, while dealing with a petition wherein the petitioner has challenged his repatriation and transfer order whereby he has been repatriated to his parent department, Higher Education and has been ordered to be posed at Government Senior Secondary School, Dhamwari, Shimla district, against vacancy as lecturer (mathematics).Disposing of the petition, Justice Vivek Singh Thakur further observed that “no employee has a vested right for his posting at a particular place or portfolio.” The petitioner has challenged his repatriation and transfer order issued on March, 26, 2021 on the ground that he has been transferred on the basis of political recommendation, but not for administrative exigency. He further contended that for the last 18 years he has been performing his duties to the best of his abilities in District Institute of Education and Training (DIET), Nahan and his repatriation and posting as well as transfer is in violation of norms notified by Education Department.Rejecting the contention of the petitioner, the court observed that “the transfer of the petitioner has been effected in an administrative exigency and in the larger interest of the public after due verification of facts. Otherwise also, the petitioner was serving at one place for last 18 years and he has no vested right to continue as such. For the facts and circumstances, it cannot be inferred that power by competent authority has been exercised discriminately, mala fide, unreasonably or irrationally, rather it appears to have been exercised in public interest in right manner.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/employees-transfer-right-of-employer-high-court-252965
15-05-2021||Solan||Covid vaccination drive for 18+ from May 17 in Himachal||The Covid vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group will begin in the state from May 17. At least 1,07,620 doses have been received from sources other than the Government of India channel.The Director, National Health Mission, has asked all chief medical officers to organise bi-monthly sessions for this age group on Mondays and Thursdays beginning May 17. The sessions will be subsequently conducted on May 20, 24, 27 and 31.Only 100 beneficiaries will be inoculated at a time. The beneficiaries will have to book slots online and there will be no walk-in appointment.Book slots onlineThe vaccine distribution is being done as per the 2011 Census and 1,070 sessions have been planned in all districts. The maximum 228 sessions will be held in worst-hit Kangra district, followed by Mandi (154), Shimla (136) Solan (98) Sirmaur (82), Una (79), Chamba (78), Kullu (71), Hamirpur (66), Bilaspur (59), Kinnaur (14) and Lahaul and Spiti (5).Kangra district has 21.26 per cent of the state’s population, followed by Mandi district (14.39 per cent), Shimla (12.7 per cent) and Solan (9.13 per cent). These are among the worst hit districts.To cope with staff scarcity, the CMOs have been directed not to hold vaccination sessions for other age groups on these days. The sites having large catchment areas such as urban clusters will be consistent in vaccination while those in the rural areas can be rotated to ensure equity.The vaccination drive in the state has completed 118 days during which 20,79,328 doses have been administered with zero wastage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-vaccination-drive-for-18-from-may-17-in-himachal-252973
15-05-2021||Dharamsala||Notice to people levelling hill in Upper Dharamsala||The Forest Department has issued notice to the persons who are engaged in levelling a hill using JCB machine on the McLeodganj-Dharamkot road.The DFO Dharamsala, Sanjeev Kumar, while talking to The Tribune, said that the people who were levelling hill illegally were threatening deodar trees on the upper areas. After going through the news published in The Tribune recently a team was sent to the spot and see threat to green deodar trees. A notice has been issued to owners of the land where hills are being levelled.No action following complaintSome environmentalists had complained to the Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, the Forest Department and the Dharamsala MC about extensive damage being done to hill along the McLeodganj-Dharamkot road. Sources said no action was taken as the authorities were busy managing the pandemic.The DFO said that since the area that was being levelled was not the forest land a letter has also been written to Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Dharamsala, for action in the matter.At the time of corona lockdown when most of government authorities are busy controlling the pandemic, some unscrupulous elements are using the opportunity to level hills for creating land for commercial properties in the name of construction activities in upper Dharamsala.On the McLeodganj-Dharamkot road, an entire hillside was being brought down using JCB machines. The leveling of hill is threatening many green deodar trees on the hills and also public and private properties in the area.In monsoons the due to unscientific excavation in the area many deodar trees are likely to fall and perish. Besides the road, many private buildings are threated in the event of a landslide in the area due to excavation.Some environmentalists had complained about extensive damage being done to hill along the McLeodganj-Dharamkot to the DC, Kangra, the Forest Department and Dharamsala Municipal Corporation authorities. Sources, here, however, said that no action was taken against the culprits as the authorities told complainants that they were busy managing the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/notice-to-people-levelling-hill-in-upper-dharamsala-252974
15-05-2021||Shimla||IGMC docs under stress as most dialysis centres shut||Covid patients, who need dialysis, are having a tough time at the moment. Most dialysis facilities in the state are refusing admission to them, fearing the spread of infection to other patients and healthcare workers giving the treatment. As a result, such patients are rushing to the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital from even faraway places in Mandi, Hamirpur and Kangra.While the situation is difficult for the patients, it’s equally stressful for healthcare workers managing the increased number of patients at the IGMC. “We are doing the dialysis of up to six Covid patients in a day these days, apart from the routine dialysis patients,” said Dr Ashish from the nephrology department.IGMC principal Rajnish Pathania said the nephrology department was hard-pressed at the moment. “They are handling both Covid and routine patients, which is putting a lot of pressure on them. It’s difficult to get additional staff, too, at the moment. They had tried to rope in dialysis technicians who had done their training from here, but they all refused the offer out of fear,” said Pathania.Besides, he said most dialysis centres running on PPP mode in district hospitals were not providing dialysis service to the Covid patients. “While many of these centres have shut down since the corona outbreak, many others are not providing service,” said Pathania.“The risk is there but it’s not that it can’t be managed. These centres should keep a separate slot for Covid patients,” he said.The other problem the hospital faces with Covid patients needing dialysis is that they can’t be discharged before they turn negative. Hence, they end up occupying the bed in the Covid ward for a longer duration. “Until they have a negative Covid report, no other dialysis centre will entertain them. So, we have to wait for them to turn negative before discharging them,” said Pathania.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/igmc-docs-under-stress-as-most-dialysis-centres-shut-252975
15-05-2021||Shimla||Online yoga sessions for home-isolated||Health and Family Welfare and Ayush Minister Rajiv Saizal today inaugurated a state-level ‘Ayush Ghar-Dwar’ programme in Solan for home-isolated patients.The programme has been started by the Department of Ayush in collaboration with the Art of Living organisation. Yoga Bharti’s instructors will provide their services in the programme.Nearly 80 home-isolated patients from the state were also connected virtually.Saizal said ayurveda was not only a medical system, but also a healthy lifestyle. He said yoga provided mental support to the patients and motivated them to live a healthier life.Director, Ayush Department, DK Rattan said this programme would benefit 30,000 patients in home- isolation and those hospitalised.The programme aimed at reducing the disease burden of the pandemic by enhancing the recovery rate, improved quality of life, equitable healthcare facility and to ensure better rehabilitation post infection. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/online-yoga-sessions-for-home-isolated-252976
15-05-2021||Chamba||Chamba farmers get subsidy of Rs 40/kg on maize seeds, says DC||Wheat harvesting is going on smoothly in low-lying areas of Chamba district while the sowing of maize is in full swing in upper areas. Maize farmers are being provided a subsidy of Rs 40 per kg of two varieties of maize seeds, said Deputy Commissioner DC Rana here today.He said that during the curfew, it was being ensured that the farmers of the district do not face difficulties in agricultural works. Hence, private and government centres, which provide seeds, fertilisers, pesticides or agricultural implements, had been allowed to open from 10 am to 1 pm every day.This year, keeping in view the consumption of seeds in the district, the Agriculture Department had provided 1,900 quintals of maize and 160 quintals of paddy seeds to the farmers through the departmental sales centres and agriculture cooperative societies, he said. The farmers of upper areas in Tissa development block were about to finish maize sowing, he added.“This year, the cost of single cross maize seed variety is Rs 104 per kilogram while that of double cross maize seed variety is Rs 87 per kilogram. All farmers are being given a subsidy of Rs 40 per kg on both varieties of seeds in the wake of the present crisis,” said Rana. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chamba-farmers-get-subsidy-of-rs-40-kg-on-maize-seeds-says-dc-252977
15-05-2021||Legal CorrespondentShimla||Prisons in Himachal to be decongested||With the objective of reducing overcrowding in jails, a meeting of high-powered committee was held under the chairpersonship of Justice Ravi Malimath, who is also the executive chairman, HP State Legal Services Authority (HPSLSA), through video conferencing. Under the current situation/risk of virus spreading in the prisons was also discussed.The meeting was also attended by Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Judge, High Court of Himachal Pradesh as Special Invitee; Manoj Kumar, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) and N Venu Gopal, Director General (Prisons), as members and Prem Pal Ranta, Member Secretary, HPSLSA, as the Presenting Officer.Inmates entitled to medical facilitiesInmates as well as jail staff are entitled to proper medical facilities and Covid-19 safety equipment such as masks, sanitizers, PPE kits, as per the existing protocol issued by the Health Department.The high-powered committee ordered to decongest the prisons by releasing the inmates on interim bail/parole. This was stated by Prem Pal Ranta, Member Secretary, HPSLSA.He further informed that from January, 1 to April, 30, as many as 245 eligible convicts were granted parole, whereas 71 convicts are out of the jails on parole. A total of 33 life convicts were prematurely released from the jails on the recommendations of the HP State Sentence Review Board.He further informed that in its meeting the committee resolved that those convicts, who are at present on parole, will be granted parole/special parole as per earlier decision of the high-powered committee taken on March, 27, 2020 and who have surrendered on time will be entitled for an additional period of 90 days.The committee, in its virtual meeting, further directed that the inmates as well as jail staff are entitled to proper medical facilities and Covid-19 safety equipment such as masks, sanitizers, PPE kits as per the existing protocol issued by the Health Department.It further directed that the jail superintendents will maintain appropriate levels of hygiene and sanitation in the jails and suitable precautions be taken to prevent the transmission of diseases among the inmates of the prison.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/prisons-in-himachal-to-be-decongested-252979
15-05-2021||Shimla||Now, consumers can generate power bills in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited has come up with an innovative trust-based billing system for its domestic and commercial consumers with a load up to 20kw. As per this system, the customers will themselves take the reading from their meter and generate their bill by entering the reading on HPSEBL’s official website www.hpseb.in.“HPSEBL is encouraging contactless facilities from bill generation to bill payment to its consumers during this difficult time of Covid-19,” said Additional Chief Secretary (Power) Ram Subhag Singh here today.He said the bills could be paid online through various online options. “The consumer whose bill has been already generated for the month will not be able use this facility this month, but can avail it from the next month,” he said.HPSEBL employees have been demanding the status of frontline workers as they are out in the field to ensure uninterrupted power supply. The government, however, has not acceded to their demand yet. The employees also regretted the fact that they have not been given priority for vaccination like bus drivers, conductors and depot holders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/now-consumers-can-generate-power-bills-in-himachal-252980
15-05-2021||Ravinder SoodPalampur||Shortage of medical devices in Kangra district||There is an acute shortage of medical equipment such as pulse oximeters, steam inhailers and branded antibiotics in Kangra district. As the supply is less, the prices of these goods have touched a new high. Most of the companies have increased the MRP.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that a month back, branded pulse oximeters were available at Rs 1,200 per unit, but manufacturing companies have increased its MRP to Rs 2,200 to Rs 2,500. An oxygen concentrator that normally costs about Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000 is now being sold for a whopping price of Rs 75,000 to Rs 85,000. It is a life-saving instrument meant for home use by those Covid-19 patients, whose oxygen saturation dips below 80 mm of Hg.A chemist while talking to The Tribune said the demand for oxygen concentrators had gone through the roof. Those who had stock were selling it at skyrocketing prices.With Covid-19 cases rising every day in the state, black marketing and overcharging of essential medical devices have become the new norm.Oxygen cylinders are also being sold at exorbitant prices, as beds in hospitals are full. A new cylinder that contains about 6.8 kg of gas normally costs Rs 8,000, but now it is priced above Rs 30,000.Many retailers alleged wholesalers had hoarded the essential medical devices to create an artificial shortage in the market. Now, when the demand had increased, they were selling these through unauthorised agents or online at a hefty price to make some quick money, they said.Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati on Friday took a serious note and issued directions to the health authorities |to ensure supply of medical devices and conduct raids to check search hoarding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shortage-of-medical-devices-in-kangra-district-252981
15-05-2021||An open manhole on the Boileauganj-Chakkar road can result in an accident any time. Right in the middle of the road||Gaping manhole on road||Water treatment tank neededJanoth, Guwar and Bhujneli villages of Garola area in Bharmour tribal subdivision are getting water directly from the source and there are chances it could be contaminated. The government must construct water treatment tanks to ensure clean water supply to these areas at the earliest. — Residents, BharmourIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gaping-manhole-on-road-252993
15-05-2021||The Sunil Upadhyay Education Trust has been providing food to Covid patients under home isolation since April 28. As many as 83 families have benefited from the initiative. The Trust said everyone involved in this initiative had got Covid test done||Education Trust helps covid patients||Varsity selected for scholarship eventShoolini University has become eligible to host foreign students under the Study-in-India (SII) scholarship, a flagship programme by the Ministry of Education, Government of India. Vice-Chancellor Prof Atul Khosla said the selected institutions had to meet certain standards to ensure eligible foreign students get quality education. Under this, the host institution is eligible to organise and participate in educational fairs in targeted countries and seek assistance from Indian missions there. Only 133 universities and colleges are listed under it.SFI lodges protest through postersThe SFI activists expressed anger against the government over the rising cases of Covid-19, using posters from their homes. Anil Thakur, district president, Shimla, said the loopholes in the public health system had made the crisis even worse, with people facing problems in the absence of proper medical facilities. He said the failure of the state and the Union Government to make vaccination available had worsened the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/education-trust-helps-covid-patients-253006
15-05-2021||Lalit Mohan||Left alone, man carries mum’s body for last rites||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 14Bir Singh of Bhangwar village, near Ranital, in Kangra had to carry his mother’s body on his shoulders for about 1 km yesterday after none of his relatives, district officials or villagers came forward to help him out in performing the last rites.Some photographs of Bir Singh carrying the body had gone viral on the social media, inviting criticism for the government authorities.Edit: HP emerges as hotspotTaking a serious note of the incident, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today directed all deputy commissioners to ensure the body disposal protocol for Covid patients dying in home isolation was strictly adhered to across the state. He said the DCs must ensure that the bereaved family of every Covid victim gets full support from the district authorities in performing the last rites of the deceased.Talking to The Tribune, Bir Singh said his mother developed fever and breathing trouble on May 12. On a local doctor’s advice, he took her to Tanda medical college in his car. Due to the non-availability of any bed there, he brought her back home and administered the prescribed medication. She, however, died yesterday morning, he said.“I informed the village pradhan and my relatives. Two PPE kits were arranged, but no one came forward to help me out in performing the last rites. I then lifted the body of my mother on my shoulders and walked down to the cremation ground, about 1 km away. There also, I alone had to do everything to cremate my mother,” he said.The CM said the block development officers (BDO’s) had been designated as nodal officers in rural areas to ensure that government help was provided to the affected families in all such cases.“In urban areas, the municipal commissioners, executive officers/secretaries concerned of the urban local bodies should work in close coordination with hospitals and provide resources such as PPE kits, body bags, disinfectants, sanitiser, waste disposable bags etc. for the proper disposal of Covid victims’ bodies,” the CM added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/left-alone-man-carries-mums-body-for-last-rites-253017
15-05-2021||Dharamsala||Picture of son carrying body of Covid positive mother to cremation ground creates furore in Himachal||Pictures of a son carrying the body of his Covid positive mother to the cremation ground has brought netizens across the state to tears.He was identified as Bir Singh, a resident of the Ranital area of Kangra district.Bir Singh on Thursday had to carry his mother on his shoulders for about 1 km, as none of his relatives, district administration officials or villages, came forward to help.Photos of Bir Singh wearing a PPE kit, carrying the body of his mother wrapped in PPE kits, surfaced on social media.This incident has left people in shock. They have flayed the government for its failure to provide honest last rites to Covid deaths. This has also brought attention to the problems faced by people in cremating deceased corona positive people in the state.The people have alleged that lower rung officials of district administration were shirking away from their duty to perform the last rites of corona patients.While talking to The Tribune, Bir Singh said that on May 12, his mother developed a high fever, and had issues in breathing. After we met the local doctors, they advised me to take her to Tanda Medical College. As they couldn't find an ambulance, and he took his mother in his car. The doctors informed us that there was no bed available. We requested the doctors to at least prescribe her the required medicine."I brought my mother home, and kept taking care of her, but she passed away yesterday morning," Bir Singh said.He added that he had informed the village head and his relatives. Our relatives came with two PPE kits. We requested the Pradhan to arrange for a tractor-trolley to take my mother's dead body to the cremation ground.However, none including the relatives, villages or district administration officials came forward to give a shoulder to my mother, to take her to the cremation ground."On waiting till 11:30 am, I asked my wife to make preparations. I lifted the dead body of my mother on my shoulders, and walked for about 1 km to the cremation ground. At the cremation ground, I put my mother down at the pyre, and performed the last rites," he said."In the name of help, the administration has only brought a bottle of sanitiser this afternoon. I am shocked at this fact, that even our close relatives and villagers shirked from even extending a helping hand for the last rites of my mother," added Bir Singh.In another incident, a 50-year-old lady died of Corona in Guler village of Dehra subdivision of Kangra district. The locals alleged, that the local tehsildar had not reached the spot, despite innumerable calls to him.The villagers claimed, that they did not even have PPE kits to perform the cremation. Only and only after the intervention of DC Kangra, two PPE kits were provided for the cremation.When asked the Deputy Commissioner Kangra, Rakesh Prajapati, said that as per the orders of CM Jai Ram Thakur, it has been made mandatory, that a magistrate rank officer should be present on cremation of each Covid positive patient.The sources here, however, said that though the administration was taking care of Covid positive patients, who die in Covid hospitals, the patients dying in home isolation were facing problems as local people are trying to stay away from cremations, and families are left to make arrangements on their own.In some cases, the villagers are even denied permission to cremate deceased Covid positive patients in cremation grounds in their vicinity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/picture-of-son-carrying-body-of-covid-positive-mother-to-cremation-ground-creates-furore-in-himachal-252826
