18-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal sees record 78 Covid deaths in single day, 2,892 fresh cases||Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday saw a record 78 deaths due to COVID-19 in a single day, while 2,892 fresh cases pushed the state’s tally to 1,66,678, a senior official said.So far, the infection has claimed 2,447 lives in the state, according to data updated till 7 pm on Tuesday.The highest 701 Covid-19 patients succumbed to the virus in Kangra district, while the lowest 14 in Lahaul-Spiti district.The number of active cases in the state stands at 34,888.Worst-hit Kangra district has the maximum of 11,122 active cases.The lowest number is in Lahaul-Spiti district, where currently 235 people are under treatment.Till now, 1,29,315 people have recovered from COVID-19.On Tuesday, 4,559 people recovered from the infection, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-sees-record-78-covid-deaths-in-single-day-2-892-fresh-cases-254712
18-05-2021||---||Himachal CM launches vax drive for 18+||Shimla, May 17   Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur launched a Covid vaccination drive for the people of 18-44 age group from Government Senior Secondary School, Chhota Shimla, today.  The Chief Minister said 213 centres had been set up. Urging the people to come to the vaccination centres as per schedule, he said 21,090 persons had booked their slots.  “The next date of vaccination is May 20 and sessions will appear on the CoWin portal on May 18. Other sessions will be held on May 24, 27 and 31,” said the Chief Minister. The state had emerged as the frontrunner by providing vaccine to 31 per cent of its population. “A total of 21,50,353 doses have been administered. People are coming in large numbers to vaccinate themselves against Covid-19,” he said. He said 386 cold chain points had been established through which these vaccines were being distributed. He said these points were being monitored on the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-launches-vax-drive-for-18-254288
18-05-2021||Tribune Reporters
||Curfew leaves people without work, food||Mandi/Kullu, May 17 Due to the ongoing Covid curfew, a majority of labourers have lost their source of livelihood. They are now crying for food and need immediate help from the government. In Kullu district, the Kar Seva Dal, an NGO, led by Mandeep Singh, is providing help to the needy but it is not possible for the NGO to cover the district. The government and the district administration should identify such people, he said.  The Kar Seva Dal is receiving distress calls from the poor, who are demanding food to satiate their hunger.  A woman from Gandhi Nagar in Kullu called up the NGO. She said she had left with no ration and now survival is getting tough for her. She has a son, who is ill.  Another woman called from Nagwain in a hope that the NGO would provide them ration or cooked food. The woman said her husband was sitting idle at home because there was no one to engage him on work. Mandeep Singh, president of the Kar Seva Dal, said: “We are receiving distress calls from poor families, who are demanding food. We visited at least 13 such families in Kullu district, who were running out of ration stock. The lockdown has left the poor in distress.” He said: “We provided ration to these families but the state government should come forward to help such families. There were tears in their eyes, when NGO members reached their houses.” Even last year during the lockdown, the members of the association had provided ration, medical equipment and financial aid to the needy. They visited the local hospital daily and took care of patients. They attended the lonely patients and also performed cremation of unidentified bodies. Another association Annapurna provides two meals daily to patients and their attendants at the Kullu Regional Hospital. Kullu SDM Amit Guleria said so far, they had not received any request from anyone regarding lack of ration or any other requirement. The administration would provide assistance to the needy. Individuals and associations could inform the administration and every effort would be made to resolve their problems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/curfew-leaves-people-without-work-food-254289
18-05-2021||Palampur||Vaccination: Pre-registration mandatory, says Himachal Speaker||The Covid-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people in 18-44 age group began in Palampur, Baijnath, Dheera and Jaisinghpur subdivisions today.Over a dozen vaccination booth have been set up in the region at different places to accommodate a large number of beneficiaries. Till now, vaccines were being administered to those aged above 45.While inaugurating the vaccination drive at Dheera, 20 kilometers from here, Vipan Singh Parmar, Speaker of Assembly, said pre-registration was mandatory for vaccination in the 18-44 age group and there was no provision for walk-in vaccination for now.The state had recently received 1,07,620 doses of Covishield vaccine from the Serum Institute of India, Pune for this category. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vaccination-pre-registration-mandatory-says-himachal-speaker-254290
18-05-2021||Una||1,538 inoculated in Una district||As many as 1,538 persons were inoculated on the first day of the vaccination drive for the 18 to 44 years age group in the district  today.  As per a press note of the district Health Department, 16 vaccination centres were set up in the five subdivisions of the district and 100 vaccines were allotted to each of them.  Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma said that people could get their vaccination scheduled on the portal https://www.cowin.gov.in 5 pm onwards on May 18, 22, 25 and 29 for the four sessions.  Sharma said that each vaccination centre would be allotted 100 vaccines a day and only those, who get an SMS on their registered mobile phones, should reach the designated centres during the allotted time slot to avoid crowding. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-538-inoculated-in-una-district-254291
18-05-2021||---||Overwhelming rush witnessed at vaccination centres||Solan, May 17The desperation to get vaccinated was witnessed in people of the 18-44 age group at several centres where a large number of people turned up without registration. People from outside the state, too, made a beeline for these centres.Vaccination centres in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial area saw some people from other parts of the district like Solan. After failing to get registered at vaccination centres in Solan, some people managed to secure a slot in the BBN area. At some centres, people from Chandigarh were also seen getting the jab as they had secured registration.Nalagarh Sub Divisional Magistrate Mahinder Pal said, “Some village pradhans raised an objection to people from other villages in the BBN or other parts of the district getting vaccinated at local centres.They were explained about the centralised registration system and the need to vaccinate as many people as possible, following which they accepted the outsiders with reluctance.”Health officials said people who were not tech-savvy failed to schedule a session for vaccination and hence could not be vaccinated. Several others from far-flung areas could not turn up due to the large distance between the vaccination centres.As many as 1,685 people were vaccinated against the registered 1,900 at 19 centres in the district today. Chief Medical Officer, Solan, Rajan Uppal said the next phase of vaccination for the 18-44 age group would be held on Thursday and people should register themselves on Cowin or the Aarogya Setu app. Registration will be open from May 18 from 5 pm onwards. He appealed to the people to turn up for vaccination only after securing a slot by registering themselves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/overwhelming-rush-witnessed-at-vaccination-centres-254292
18-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||BDC vice-chief misbehaves with naib tehsildar, booked||Nurpur, May 17 A case has been registered against Dharmender, aka Chhunna,  vice-chairman of the Fatehpur Block Development Committee (BDC), for reportedly misbehaving with a naib tehsildar on Covid duty. Earlier a Block Medical Officer (BMO) was targeted by a political leader. Dharmender, a BJP-supported BDC member, allegedly misbehaved with naib tehsildar Sushil Kumar, who along with a patwari and a Revenue Department employee, was on Covid duty to perform cremations at Chhatar Jogian village. It was when Sushil reportedly asked Dharmender, a resident of Bhamolli village,  to follow the Covid protocol during a cremation that the later targeted him.  The second such incident in Fatehpur in a couple of days has led to resentment among frontline Corona warriors. Meanwhile, the local unit of the Patwari and Kanungo Association has threatened to boycott their Covid duties if strict action was not taken against the accused.  The naib tehsildar lodged a complaint at Nurpur police station against Dharmender yesterday. SDPO, Nurpur, Ashok Ratan said a case had been registered against the accused and investigation was on.   Meanwhile, the Kangra District Revenue Officers’  Association has also condemned the incident. Association president Pawan Thakur said such incidents demoralised frontline Corona warriors. He appealed to the state government to check the recurrence of such unsavory happenings.  Association press secretary Surbhi Negi said in a press statement here today that a delegation met the District Magistrate last evening and sought strict action against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bdc-vice-chief-misbehaves-with-naib-tehsildar-booked-254293
18-05-2021||---||Recovery rate in Himachal improves to 75 per cent||Shimla, May 17 The recovery rate in the state has improved to 75.5 per cent even though the health department has insisted on post recovery precautions.  According to the Health department, 1,61,072 persons have been tested for Covid in state out of which 1,24,434 persons have recovered and the recovery rate has increased to 75.5 per cent. “There were only 200 active cases in state during the month of February but after the beginning of the second wave the number has increased to 34,258 today,” said an official.  As per information, in Bilaspur district 10,006 persons were tested for Covid out of which 2,055 samples were found positive. “Though a large number of people are recovering it is important that during post recovery period proper care is taken as many people are reporting wide variety of signs and symptoms like fatigue, bodyache, cough, sore throat and difficulty in breathing,” he said. He said though as of now there is limited evidence of post-Covid complications, a holistic approach is required for follow-up care and well-being of all post-Covid recovering patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/recovery-rate-in-himachal-improves-to-75-per-cent-254294
18-05-2021||---||Covid fatalities rise, Himachal CM for effective patient care system||Shimla, May 17  Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today expressed concern over the rise in Covid-related deaths in the state. He directed the Health Department to evolve a more effective mechanism to provide the best possible treatment and life-support equipment to patients. He presided over a meeting with the senior government officers and Principals of the IGMC, Shimla, Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda, and Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Ner Chowk in Mandi through video-conferencing from here. Thakur said that a better patient management mechanism must be evolved in the Covid wards to ensure that there was regular monitoring of all other conditions of the patients. He added that doctors and other para-medical staff must regularly visit patients and ward sisters and ward boys should constantly examine the health parameters of the patients. He said if the condition of patients deteriorates, it should be immediately brought to the notice of the doctors so that timely treatment could be provided to them. Thakur said that in order to ensure adequate supply of oxygen to the medical colleges, 20 MT each additional storage capacity would be created at the medical colleges in Shimla, Tanda and Mandi. He said that similar efforts should be made to establish PSA plants at various health institutions. He said that at present there were 49 functional ventilators in Tanda Medical College and 19 more ventilators would be provided. He said that 35 more ventilators would be provided to Ner Chowk Medical College. He said that the state government had urged the Government of India to provide 200 additional ventilators to the state from PM CARES Fund. Thakur said that the department must also ensure that delay in testing report should be minimised and reports made available within 36 hours. He said that private labs must also be roped in for testing, which would result in reducing the time period.  The Chief Minister said that work must be expedited for completion of makeshift hospitals besides procurement of D-Type oxygen cylinders to ensure smooth supply of oxygen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-fatalities-rise-himachal-cm-for-effective-patient-care-system-254295
18-05-2021||---||Traders threaten to open shops from tomorrow||Dharamsala, May 17 Traders in the state have threatened to open their shops from 9 am to 1 pm from May 19 if the state government does not find a viable solution to their problems. State president of the Himachal Beopar Mandal SK Sharma said that it seemed that the lockdown had been imposed only for traders and shopkeepers. He added that the government should understand the practical problems of the traders and shopkeepers and address them. Otherwise, they would would open their shops from 9 am to 1 pm from Wednesday.  If any shopkeeper is booked for the violation of the prohibitory orders, the traders from all over the state would take to roads, he said. Sharma said the government was not understanding their practical problems. He added that the traders and shopkeepers had stocked summer material as fans, ACs and coolers just before the start of summer season. Now, their shops had been closed. If the summer season passes and traders could not sell their stocks, they would not be able to sell these the entire year and suffer huge losses. He said while the shopkeepers were not being allowed to sell their stocks, people were ordering material online that is being delivered on their doorsteps. Besides, the factories have been allowed to operate. Due to it, the traders, who have agencies of various products, are getting regular supplies of products from factories. As per the general practice the traders give advance cheques to factory owners with the expectation that they would be able to sell the stocks and pay back to factory owners. However, now the factories are sending them material and shopkeepers are able to sell. If it continues it would result in a debt trap, Sharma said. He said they were in talks with Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and expect that their problems would be redressed by tomorrow. The Chief Minister, he said, had assured of taking a sympathetic view of their problems. However, if no solution was found, the shopkeepers would open their shops from Wednesday, irrespective of the prohibition orders. The traders have also urged the elected representatives to support their cause or else they would issue a call for their boycott in the next elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traders-threaten-to-open-shops-from-tomorrow-254297
18-05-2021||Hamirpur||PWD worker ends life||A Covid positive PWD worker in Bilaspur committed suicide yesterday. He had tested positive on May 13 and was in home isolation. He was from Changar Plasi village in Bilaspur. Around 8.30 am, he was found hanging in the room. He was taken to a Bilaspur hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Diwaker Sharma, SP, said a case had been registered and no foul play was suspected. The body was cremated after a post-mortem. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pwd-worker-ends-life-254298
18-05-2021||Shimla||3,546 new cases, 58 deaths in Himachal Pradesh||The wife of Governor Bandaru Dattatreya has tested positive for Covid and has been admitted to a special ward in the IGMC here. “She doesn’t need oxygen support or an ICU bed at present. If required, she will be shifted to the Covid ward,” said IGMC Principal Dr Rajnish Pathania. Meanwhile, 3,546 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 163,786. Besides, 58 persons died of the virus, including highest 24 in Kangra. The highest 1,210 cases were reported in Kangra, followed by 429 in Mandi, 389 in Sirmaur, 344 in Hamirpur, 300 in Shimla, 242 in Bilaspur, 200 in Chamba, 99 in Kullu, and 79 in Solan. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-546-new-cases-58-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-254299
18-05-2021||Mandi||Doctors at Nerchowk Medical College wear black badges||Members of the Resident Doctors Association (RDA) of Nerchowk Medical College today wore black badges to protest the government’s decision to end the quarantine period for health workers after Covid duties. They said the government should withdraw the decision. RDA president Dr Vishal Jamwal and general secretary Dr Roshan Thakur said even after two doses of vaccination, many doctors were getting infected. They said if doctors were not quarantined after Covid duty, the safety of their families would be endangered.  They said if doctors go straight from the Covid duties to OPDs, they could infect patients.  The resident doctor associations of medical colleges in the state are united on this matter. The Medical Officers Association and other associations of doctors, too, are protesting against the government over the matter. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/doctors-at-nerchowk-medical-college-wear-black-badges-254300
18-05-2021||Tribune reporters||CM urged to allow sale of non-essential items during relaxation time||Nurpur/Una, May 17Members of the Beopar Mandal at Jawali in Kangra district today submitted a memorandum to the Chief Minister seeking permission to open shops dealing in non-essential commodities during the relaxation period of the curfew that had been extended till May 26.Led by Sulkshan Sharma, Mandal president, a delegation of shopkeepers submitted a memorandum to the Jawali SDM. They stated in the memorandum that a large number of shopkeepers selling non-essential commodities were in a financial crisis due to the curfew. It lamented that small shopkeepers were passing through a difficult time due to the closure of their shops during the curfew.They said the Beopar Mandal had always stood with the state government in fighting the pandemic but the government should also be sympathetic towards the sustenance of thousands of the families who had no other source of livelihood after the closure of their shops.Meanwhile, the Himachal Pradesh Beopar Mandal has opposed the decision of the state government to extend the curfew without providing any relief to a major section of businessmen.Sumesh Sharma, president of the Baopar Mandal, had a virtual meeting of the Executive Committee comprising members from all districts.Sharma said in a press note issued in Una today that businessmen had not been taken into confidence by the government while imposing the curfew and extending it later.He added that the unilateral decision to keep almost all shops and business establishments closed was harsh since their families live on the daily income earned from their businesses.Sharma said the Beopar Mandal had decided that if the government failed to take a decision in the interest of the businessmen by May 19, they would violate Section 144, IPC, and open their establishments from 9 am to 1 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-urged-to-allow-sale-of-non-essential-items-during-relaxation-time-254301
18-05-2021||---||Ambuja to set up O2 plants at Arki, Barmana||Solan, May 17 The management of Ambuja Cements Limited (ACL) and ACC Cements is setting up two oxygen manufacturing plants in Solan and Bilaspur districts.  While one plant will be set up in Arki subdivision where the ACL plant is located another will be set up at Barmana in Bilaspur where the ACC has a plant. Each plant will manufacture 40 to 45 cylinders of oxygen on a daily basis, said CEO, Ambuja ACC-India, Neeraj Akhoury.  Meanwhile, a 125-bed hospital was re-started at Devnagar in Arki subdivision. There are 60 oxygen beds and the new oxygen plant will a boost to the facility. The area lacks a Covid hospital and hence the need to equip the hospital with more medical facilities was urgently felt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ambuja-to-set-up-o2-plants-at-arki-barmana-254302
18-05-2021||---||Dharamsala hotelier held for b’day party, released on bail||Dharamsala, May 17 The local police yesterday arrested hotelier Ravi Arora for organising a birthday party at a resort in the Lungta area near Dharamsala.  Besides, a case was registered against a number of people, who attended the party. However, Arora was released on bail today. Sources said over 100 people attended the party organised by Arora. The organisers also streamed live the event on social media. SP, Kangra, Vimukt Ranjan said that after a video of the party went viral on social media, a case for the violation of Section 144 of the CrPC and the Disaster Management Act was registered against the organisers of the party and the unidentified people, who attended it. Arora was arrested yesterday evening and kept in the lockup the whole night. He was released on bail this morning, he added. The SP said that it was a matter of shame that when the entire country was battling the pandemic and the state government had imposed a lockdown and Section 144 of the CrPC, some influential people were violating the law with impunity.  He added that the police were trying to identify all people, who attended the party, to bring them to book.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dharamsala-hotelier-held-for-bday-party-released-on-bail-254303
18-05-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||FCI buys 30 pc more wheat in Himachal this year||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 17The wheat procurement in the state has surpassed the last year’s level by 30 per cent. Four new centres have been opened to purchase wheat from farmers after strict restrictions were announced by Punjab and Haryana in the wake of the Covid pandemic.Around 4,500 MT of wheat has been procured against the total of 3,100 MT last year. The procurement will continue for one month.The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has procured wheat for Rs 1,975 per quintal, benefiting 1,124 farmers.As the total production of wheat during 2021-22 is expected around 6.72 lakh MT, eight procurement centres have been opened.The centres are opened in Paonta Sahib and Kala Amb (Sirmaur), Kanger and Takrala (Una), Fatehpur and Thakurdwara (Kangra) Nalagarh (Solan) and Patta (Bilaspur) from farmers, who were unable to sell their produce in the neighbouring states.Wheat produced in the Paonta valley is known for its quality but the farmers were either dependent on middlemen or travelled to the markets in Punjab and Haryana to sell their produce at throwaway prices.“Earlier, I had to hire a tractor trolley to carry produce to Hoshiarpur in Punjab but the opening of Takarala mandi has saved our time and money and crop fetched good price,” said Ajay Kumar (41), a farmer of Nangal Salangadi village in Amb tehsil of Una district.“We had to leave early to Khijrabad in Haryana with no guarantee on the assured prices for their produce, but the initiative is proving to be a boon for the farmers,” said another farmer Avinash Saini (31) from Bhungarni village in PaontaThe infrastructure in mandis will be strengthened for the upcoming paddy season, Managing Director of the HPSAMB Naresh Thakur said, adding that keeping in view the Covid protocols, the token system had been introduced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fci-buys-30-pc-more-wheat-in-himachal-this-year-254304
18-05-2021||---||Monitor those in home isolation, Asha workers told||Shimla, May 17 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has asked ASHA workers to ensure better coordination with the Covid-19 patients in home isolation so that proper vigil could be kept on their health parameters.  Thakur said since about 90 per cent of the total Covid-19 patients in the state were in home isolation, ASHA workers have a key role to play by acting as a bridge between the patients and health department.  “Delay in shifting the Covid patients from home isolation to hospitals was one of the major cause of fatality in the state. ASHA workers must regularly monitor their parameters and in case the condition of the patients requires hospitalization, they should immediately be shifted to the hospitals,” he said. Thakur said ASHA workers played a pivotal role in making the Active Case Finding Campaign a major success during the first phase of Covid-19. He said it was due to this campaign that the state government could identify people with co-morbidities and protect them from the corona virus by taking preventive measures.  ASHA workers must also come forward to educate the general masses regarding do’s and don’ts against the pandemic, he said. Thakur said ASHA workers should also advise patients regarding the use of medicines and maintaining hygiene. “They should also motivate the patients to keep their morale high to ensure speedy recovery. I talked to over 200 Covid-19 patients in home isolation and everyone appreciated the work done by the ASHA workers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/monitor-those-in-home-isolation-asha-workers-told-254305
18-05-2021||Our Correspondent||No Covid fear, people throng Palampur markets||Palampur, May 17People in large numbers thronged Palampur markets today when the curfew was relaxed for three hours from 8 am to 11 am. In many markets, a huge rush was witnessed and people ignored Covid protocols like social distancing.Most of the grocery, chemist and vegetable shops were jam-packed. The rising number of Covid cases and deaths in Palampur and its adjoining areas proved no deterrent.Many people were seen shopping without wearing masks. Traffic jams were witnessed in many parts of the town. In the past two days over 15 persons have lost their lives because of corona virus in Palampur, Baijnath and Jaisinghpur.Over 1,000 persons are in home isolation in four medical blocks of Palampur mostly in rural areas where death rate is high. Most of the victims were below 60.A senior medical officer said that the main reason behind high number of deaths was that people were not following Covid protocols. Besides, most of the victims reported in Covid care hospitals like the TMC at the last stage.He disclosed that over 80 per cent of Covid positive cases were in rural areas where people were not coming forward for testing despite the best efforts of health department and district administration.The Tribune team visited several villages around Palampur. A chemist said that in his village over 30 persons were Covid positive. “The people having Covid symptoms are moving openly after taking medicine from unqualified doctors, infecting their family members also,” he added||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-covid-fear-people-throng-palampur-markets-254306
18-05-2021||Palampur||Govt should ensure last rites of Covid victims: Congress||Former MLA from Sulah and senior Congress leader Jagjivan Pal said the state government had failed to ensure proper arrangements for conducting the last rites of Covid victims.  Talking to newsmen here, the Congress leader said the government should make arrangements all over the district to conduct the last rites of those succumbing to the pandemic in a dignified manners and also stop mass cremations at Tanda.  Pal said the BJP government should consider this on a priority so that the incident like Ranital was not repeated which defamed the Dev Bhumi. Though Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur claimed that his government had already issued directions to the administration in this regard but nothing was seen on the ground. He quoted incident at Khaira where no government officer was seen at the time of cremation of a Covid victim. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-should-ensure-last-rites-of-covid-victims-congress-254307
18-05-2021||---||Aid sent by Anurag Thakur reaches Chamba, Solan||Tribune News ServiceSolan, May 17Medical items such as N95 masks, gloves, PPE kits, face shields, pulse oxymeters, and oxygen masks sent by Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur were received in Solan and Sirmaur districts today.They were dispatched in Asptal Mobile Medical units from Delhi to various districts yesterday, as part of the Sansad Swasthya Seva campaign being initiated by the Hamirpur MP.DC, Solan, KC Chaman received the supply. He said these articles would be distributed among the frontline health workers on various Covid duties. He added that Anurag had provided separate medical aid to the district administration, health and police departments.DC, Sirmaur, RK Pruthi also received the medical aid sent by the Hamirpur MP at Nahan. Nahan MLA Rajeev Bindal and Solan district BJP president Ashutosh Vaidya along with other party leaders presented the medical aid to the DCs. The material sent comprised 5,000 masks, 100 gloves, 400 PPE kits,100 face shields, 50 pulse oxymeters, 150 oxygen masks and 300 N95 masks for each district.MLAs Vikram Jaryal, Jia Lal Kapoor and Pawan Nayar received the medical supplies sent by Anurag Thakur at Chamba on Monday.The supplies were assigned to Deputy Commissioner DC Rana and SSP Arul Kumar for further distribution to people.Kangra MP Kishan Kapoor also received medical supplies meant for the district at Dharamsala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/aid-sent-by-anurag-thakur-reaches-chamba-solan-254308
18-05-2021||Shimla||In Himachal, over 30% positivity rate in 6 districts||The Covid situation in Himachal Pradesh seems to be getting from bad to worse as the positivity rate in six of the state’s 12 districts has crossed the alarming level of 30 per cent.The overall positivity rate has risen to 28.9 per cent from 26.3 per cent a fortnight ago while the fatality rate has gone up from 1.42 per cent to 1.52 per cent in a week. As many as 439 deaths were reported between May 10 and May 16, the highest in a week during the pandemic.Kangra, Solan, Sirmaur, Shimla, Mandi and Hamirpur districts have registered a transmission rate higher than 30 per cent. The fatality rate in Shimla was at an all-time high of 2.61 per cent, followed by 2.10 per cent in Una.In Kangra, the positivity rate has shot up by 10 per cent to 38.1 per cent within a week. Of the 2,369 deaths since the outbreak of the pandemic, the highest 686 have been reported in Kangra.“Active cases, which were a little over 200 in February, have mounted to 36,633,” said Nipun Jindal, National Health Mission Director.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-himachal-over-30-positivity-rate-in-6-districts-254296
