19-05-2021||Manali||'Kung Fu Nuns' help 2,000 Covid-hit poor families in Himachal and Ladakh||The maroon-robed Buddhist nuns of the 1,000-year-old Drukpa lineage are back in action—this time amid the Covid-19 pandemic with help from their family and friends back to their hometowns.The nuns—known worldwide as the 'Kung Fu Nuns' trained with swords, machetes and numchucks for self-defence and more for occupying leadership roles in their nunneries—are now fighting the odds to provide oxygen and medical care to about 2,000 Covid-hit poor families in the Himalayan terrains of Himachal Pradesh and its neighbouring Ladakh.They are part of the Indian Buddhist tradition that began in the Himalayas. Over the years, they have taken on several impactful humanitarian projects, from cleaning trash to empowering women through sport and education, besides sensitising locals on environmentally-friendly ways of living.The nuns, staying and trained at Druk Amitabha Mountain Nunnery in Nepal, are now partnering with local volunteers from their hometowns in Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh—many of them are family members who belong to the volunteer corps, the Young Drukpa Association, and an international NGO, Live to Love International—to deliver critical supplies by trekking for hours in the thin air.Live to Love, founded by the Drukpa lineage head, His Holiness the Gyalwang Drukpa, has launched a COVID-19 response to serve vulnerable populations, suffering from  rapid rates of infection with a little medical infrastructure.The people of Himachal's Lahaul-Spiti district have requested emergency "oxygen banks", in addition to preventative equipment and medical kits, Live to Love supervisor Simran Thapliyal told IANS over the phone."In coordination with the local administration, we strategically placed oxygen banks in a cluster of villages that served as a resource of emergency oxygen supply for patients waiting to be transported to a larger nearby facility in Kullu," she said."To explain to the locals about how dangerous the virus is, we have created culturally appropriate pamphlets and banners on its prevention," she explained.Responding to the impact of the aid on the locals, who are largely farmers known for growing prized seed potatoes whose history goes back to 1854, Thapliyal said atleast 2,000 families in the district were provided critical medical supplies like oximeter, medicine kit, vitamins, steamers and other essential supplies.Also, all 171 villages in Lahaul-Spiti have been sanitized to contain the virus.Live to Love is now planning to supply items of daily necessity to 3,500-4,000 people, including migrant workers, old-age homes and orphanages in the district and its  neighbouring regions."We are also setting up oxygen banks throughout Lahaul that will cater to a population of 18,000," she said.The charity's on-ground partners like the Young Drukpa Association, for whom the community work is an extension of training, are helping to identify underserved populations  as well as delivering the critical aid.Reports say during the first wave of COVID-19 several villages in Lahaul-Spiti, a cold desert dotted by tiny helmets spread adjoining Tibet, suffered near 100 per cent  infection rates, including some of the relatives of the nuns.This is mainly due to multigenerational families living together under the same roof. Many of the Covid deaths in this region often go unreported due to lack of resources.Doctors say the rugged mountainous region has a long history of health challenges for its 32,000 plus inhabitants.Owing to the lack of medical infrastructure, 70 per cent of the deaths prior to the pandemic resulted from chronic diseases.In 2018, 24 per cent of the population suffered from hepatitis-B and a vast majority of the population suffers from co-morbidities.The health services in the region are plagued by shortage of doctors, lack of blood banks, no ultrasound facility and lack of disease-prevention activities."Volunteers of Live to Love have provided us pulse oximeters, besides multivitamin tablets and hand sanitizers. Also they are providing sanitary napkins and toiletries  for personal hygiene," Dolma Negi, a vegetable grower in Sissu village, told IANS."Besides distributing rice and lentils to the needy, they are sanitizing our nearby habitations and pathways," she added.According to villagers, every day the maroon-robed nuns trek to villages to help remove the single-use plastic-based medical waste such as disposable face masks and  gloves, a new looming threat in the mountains. Besides health advice, they are also educating on menstrual hygiene.They also distribute rice and lentils during the day and help pitch tents for night shelters.In Ladakh, with the support of Live to Love France more than 18,000 face masks were produced and distributed there.Efforts are underway to provide 4,000 safety kits, 500 disposable oxygen masks, food distribution to 1,000 families and medical equipment to three primary hospitals that will cater to the entire population of Ladakh, said Live to Love supervisor Portia Conrad.Firm believer that their aims are towering like the Himalayas, a tweet by Kung Fu Nuns says, "These volunteers are our friends and family. They are courageous, resilient  and unstoppable. These road conditions will not stop them from delivering much needed kindness and supplies to villages during the pandemic." — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kung-fu-nuns-help-2-000-covid-hit-poor-families-in-himachal-and-ladakh-255229
19-05-2021||Gujjars have left behind a dozen cows and calves near a bridge on the Sutlej river in Duttnagar. Two cows seem badly injured and are unable to move. Unfortunately||Cows abandoned in in Duttnagar||— Visheshwar Negi, DuttnagarStray dogs a menaceStray dogs have become a cause for concern for the residents of Baag panchayat under the Sarkaghat Assembly segment in Mandi district. On Monday, a group of stray dogs attacked a herd of goats and killed one of them. In late evening hours, it is difficult for people, especially children and senior citizens, to move out of their houses, who are easy targets for these stray dogs. The authorities should do something about the problem at the earliest.— Jagdish Chand, baag panchayat, MandiIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cows-abandoned-in-in-duttnagar-255205
19-05-2021||To encourage and promote sustainability-led initiatives amongst students||Jaypee University promotes green education||Shimla girl makes it to IIMMuskan Chauhan, a student of Jesus and Mary and DAV Public School, Lakkar Bazaar, has made it to the MBA programme of the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad. She did her Bachelor of Science from Shiv Nadar University. She secured 99.45 percentile in CAT-2020 and was picked by the IIM, Ahmedabad.ABVP slams TMC workersThe ABVP has slammed TMC workers for allegedly assaulting the central security forces outside the CBI offices when they were taking away two TMC Ministers and an MLA for questioning. It blamed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for the “deteriorating” law and order situation in Bengal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jaypee-university-promotes-green-education-255204
19-05-2021||---||Protective kits for health workers||Solan, May 18The District Red Cross Society distributed protective kits to 487 Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) and health workers in Sirmaur district today.Society chairman and Deputy Commissioner RK Pruthi said the health workers were the most vulnerable as they remained in contact with the Covid patients.To ensure their protection, kits comprising pulse oximeters, two N-95 masks, face shield, Chawanprash, sanitisers and biscuits had been given to all health workers in 79 ayurvedic dispensaries and 144 health sub-centres in the district.An additional stock had also been provided to the SDMs along with oxygen masks, regulators, surgical masks, PPE kits, sanitiser stand, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/protective-kits-for-health-workers-255203
19-05-2021||---||Blood donation camps get nod||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 18The Heath Department has asked all DCs and chief medical officers to allow organisations to hold blood donation camps following all Covid guidelines.Given the shortage of blood in many hospitals, the Shimla-based NGO Umang Foundation had asked the government to issue guidelines in this regard. Besides, the Centre has also reduced the duration for blood donation after getting a jab from 28 days to 14 days.“It will be easier for voluntary organisations to take permission for holding blood donation camps,” said Ajai Srivastava. He said it was becoming difficult to hold a camp under current circumstances and it had created a shortage of blood in hospitals. The foundation will hold blood donation camps in Mashobra and Gumma on May 22 and 23.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/blood-donation-camps-get-nod-255202
19-05-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi
||1.25 lakh enter Himachal on e-passes since May 1||Tribune News Service 	 Shimla, May 18  Despite a curfew in place due to a surge in coronavirus cases in the state, 1.25 lakh persons have entered Himachal on 74,171 e-Covid passes since May 1. The maximum number of people has come to the industrial belt in the border areas of Baddi, Nalagarh, Poanta Sahib and Una. As per the data procured by the Information Technology Department, the highest number of 18,410 passes was issued in Solan district followed by 15,406 in Una and 13,285 in Kangra district. The maximum number of 14,387 persons entered Baddi followed by Haroli 5,230, Nalagarh 4,676, Sri Naina Deviji 4,498, Una 4204, Poanta Sahib 3,863 and Shimla 3,036.   As many as 11,846 persons have applied for e-pass to enter the state in the next eight days. The maximum applications are for Kangra followed by Solan and Una districts. “Our teams are working round the clock and e-passes are issued on hourly basis,” said Director, Information Technology (IT), Ashutosh Garg. Applicants should upload important documents, besides Covid report, if positive in the past six months, and vaccination report to avoid inconvenience. There is a dip in social events like marriages due to limit of 20 persons and the IT Department has received 2,156 requests for the permission of events from May 18 to May 31 of which 1,169 have been approved, 346 are rejected while 641 are pending. With 542 requests for permission to hold events, Kangra tops the chart followed by 295 in Mandi and 208 in Solan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-25-lakh-enter-himachal-on-e-passes-since-may-1-255134
19-05-2021||Ravinder Sood||Bootleggers calling shots in Palampur||Palampur, May 18Since the lockdown was imposed in the state, Palampur and its adjoining areas have seen a sudden spurt in the illegal sale of liquor.While small traders are feeling the Covid heat due to losses in business, liquor suppliers are calling the shots because of its high demand.Lockdown a boon for mafiaInformation gathered by The Tribune reveals that since liquor vends have remained closed for the past 10 days, liquor is being smuggled into the state from Punjab, Chandigarh and Haryana. Villagers seized a large quantity of liquor from Khera village, 20 km from here, yesterday.The government decision to ban liquor sale till May 26 has turned out to be a blessing in disguise for the mafia. A liquor bottle that was usually sold for Rs 90 before the lockdown is being sold for Rs 200 now. In many areas, liquor is also being provided on the doorsteps. A consumer admitted that he got a bottle paying double the price.Many consumers said the government should open liquor shops for an hour to save people from being fleeced. It would protect the state’s revenue.Onkar Rana, a wine contractor, said the government should open liquor shops for a few hours, maintaining social distancing, so that the smuggling of liquor could be checked.He said that they had been passing through a crisis and most of the contractors had already exhausted their capital in the past one year. Therefore, the government should consider opening shops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bootleggers-calling-shots-in-palampur-255135
19-05-2021||ibune News Service
||Himachal CM inaugurates 200-bed Covid facility at Khaliyar||Mandi, May 18 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today inaugurated a makeshift dedicated Covid healthcare centre at the Radha Soami Satsang building at Beas, Khaliyar, in Mandi district. The facility has 200 fully oxygenated beds, 20-bed ward for critical patients, and a central oxygen supply system.  It also has separate washrooms with a provision for hot and cold water, relaxation lounge for patients, healing music, fire safety arrangements and a RO drinking water facility. It has 16 CCTV cameras, an automatic switchover power backup generator set and an on-the-spot laboratory to be manned by 140 health workers.  Thakur presided over a meeting with senior district officers at the DRDA Conference Hall here. He said that the 200-bed makeshift hospital would go a long way in providing better health care facilities to Covid patients. Another pre-fabricated hospital with 100 beds was coming up at Bhangrotu, he added. He said that the sharp rise in the number of Covid cases was a matter of concern. To cope up with the rising demand for beds for Covid patients, the government had constructed pre-fabricated hospitals at Shimla, Kangra, and Nalagarh. He added that a similar hospital was coming up at Nerchowk. The Chief Minister said that the Radha Soami sect has provided their complexes at Talyar in Mandi district, Paraur in Kangra district and at Solan for creating makeshift hospitals. He added that the makeshift hospital at Paraur was also nearing completion. It would initially have 250 beds but the capacity would be extended up to 1,000 beds, as per the requirement.  The Chief Minister asked the MLAs and other elected representatives to work proactively in providing assistance to the patients in home isolation. He added that the MLAs should personally provide health kits to the patients in home solation. They should also motivate people to strictly follow the SoPs and the guidelines of the government issued from time to time. He said that the government would bear the cost of hearse vans to carry the bodies of Covid victims to their native places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-inaugurates-200-bed-covid-facility-at-khaliyar-255136
19-05-2021||---||Ensure hassle-free treatment of patients, pvt hospitals told||Shimla, May 18The Himachal Government has requisitioned private hospitals, including those outside the state, to ensure that Covid patients do not face inconvenience in getting their treatment.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said today that the state government had approved charges that the private hospitals could take for the facilities provided to Covid patients.“These hospitals can charge Rs 800 per day for an ordinary bed, and Rs 4,000 per day for an oxygenated bed,” he added.Thakur said that the private hospitals could charge Rs 9,000 per day for an ICU bed from a Covid patient.He added that in view of the sharp surge in cases, the state government had decided to increase the bed capacity in the existing institutions and also construct makeshift hospitals. He said every effort was being made to tackle exigencies related to the pandemic.The Chief Minister said the government would provide hearse vans to carry Covid victims to their native places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ensure-hassle-free-treatment-of-patients-pvt-hospitals-told-255137
19-05-2021||Shimla||Expect heavy rain for 2 days||The Met office has issued an orange warning of a thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds at isolated places in low hills and heavy to very heavy rainfall, thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds on May 19 and 20.Cyclonic storm Tauktae is likely to move towards the Northeast due to which light to moderate rain/thundershower can occur in the Northwest and Central India. The weather remained mainly dry today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/expect-heavy-rain-for-2-days-255138
19-05-2021||---||Army hands over 60-bed Covid unit to Shimla admn||Shimla, May 18The Indian Army today handed over a 60-bed furnished Covid facility at the Walker Hospital, located between the IGMC Hospital and Sanjauli, to the district administration. The Chief Minister had requested the Army to allow the military hospital to be converted into a Covid facility.The civil authorities would run the facility and provide staff to manage it. The Military Station Commander at Shimla handed over the facility to the administration. He reiterated the Indian Army’s Commitment to providing support to the civil administration in controlling the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/army-hands-over-60-bed-covid-unit-to-shimla-admn-255139
19-05-2021||Shimla||CBI court defers sentence in Gudiya rape and murder case||A CBI special court today deferred the announcement of quantum of sentence in the Gudiya rape and murder case to May 28. The court had held the lone accused Anil Kumar alias Nilu, a chirani (wood-cutter), guilty of rape and murder on April 28. The convict could not be produced in the court due to corona restrictions and the announcement of sentence was postponed. Earlier, the special judge had said of the 14 crucial points of evidence produced by the CBI, 12 were found against Nilu, the most important evidence being matching of his DNA with samples found on the spot. Nilu was held guilty under Sections 376 (2)(i), 376 (A) and 302 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the POCSO Act. The case dates back to July 4, 2017, when a minor was reported missing on her way back from school in Kotkhai (Shimla) and her body was found in a forest later. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cbi-court-defers-sentence-in-gudiya-rape-and-murder-case-255140
19-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Power board staff to wear black badges||Nurpur, May 18 Himachal State Electricity Board Ltd. (HPSEBL) employees have decided to wear black badges on May 20 in protest against the state government for not declaring them Corona warriors and also not giving them preference in vaccination.  Kuldeep Kharwara, state president of the HPSEBL Employees Association, in a statement issued here today, said that the Punjab Government had declared its electricity employees as Corona warriors. He added the Himachal government should follow Punjab, or else all board employees would lodge their protest against its apathy coming Thursday.   Kharwara said that electricity supply was one of the essential government services without which health services, industry production and online classes were not possible. “A large number of board employees and outsourced workers have lost their lives due to Covid while discharging their duties. The board employees were not given gloves, masks and sanitisers, as announced by the HPSEBL management. This shows the apathy of the state government towards the board employees, who have been discharging their duties in the pandemic times to ensure uninterrupted power supply to people,” he lamented.    He appealed to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to declare all board employees as Corona warriors and ensure their vaccination at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-board-staff-to-wear-black-badges-255141
19-05-2021||---||Vaccination drive tardy, alleges Cong||Shimla, May 18The Congress staged a dharna on The Ridge here today, accusing the BJP regime of not taking timely steps to prevent the spread of the virus.The Congress members, led by Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Rathore, today sat in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue on The Ridge to register their protest against the government. He was accompanied by party’s Shimla district’s urban president Jitendra Chaudhary, rural president Yashwant Singh Chhajta and Congress Secretary Harikrishna Himral.Rathore said the vaccination in the state was going on at a very slow pace as there was insufficient quantity of vaccine doses available for youth above 18 years of age. He said people in the rural areas were also facing difficulties due to online vaccination registration.Rathore questioned the decision of the government to increase the gap between the first and second doses of Covid vaccination. “The government should reveal the names of medical experts or scientists who have recommended this. The truth is that this is being done just to hide the shortage of vaccination in the country,” he alleged.“The government did not take timely steps which resulted in the spread of Covid in rural areas of the state,” he alleged.Rathore said there was an urgent need for a door-to-door vaccination drive. He said that there was a huge deficiency of health services in rural areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vaccination-drive-tardy-alleges-cong-255142
19-05-2021||Una||Health infra not utilised properly, says Mukesh Agnihotri||Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri today said that many Covid deaths in Himachal Pradesh could have been avoided had the government properly utilised the available health infrastructure. In a press note issued here, Agnihotri said that the government should be held accountable whenever a Covid patient referred to a higher medical institution fails to get proper treatment or a bed even there.He added that responsibility should be fixed in cases of death due to non-availability of beds or other health facilities. Agnihotri said that the helplessness of the health workers in saving lives due to a lack of health infrastructure was creating fear in society. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/health-infra-not-utilised-properly-says-mukesh-agnihotri-255143
19-05-2021||Subhash Rajta||Active Covid cases dipping since May 13 in Himachal||tribune news serviceShimla, May 18Even as the positivity and fatality rates are dangerously high, the active case load has shown a consistent decline over the past five days in the state. From 40,008 active cases on May 13, the number has reduced to 34,888 by Tuesday evening.“I would wait for a few more days before drawing any conclusion. Nevertheless, the decline in active cases over the past few days could be seen as the very initial sign of us getting some control over the rampaging virus,” said Dr Malay Sarkar, state’s clinical in-charge for Covid.“The decrease, though marginal, is in sync with the nationwide trend. My guess is, we will continue to see the high active case load until the month-end and then the number could start falling significantly,” said Dr Sarkar. He added that the curfew and lockdown may have started kicking in. Alarmed by the galloping numbers, the state imposed a curfew on May 7 till May 16, and then extended it further till May 26.The active case load moved upwards the last time on May 12 when the number jumped from 38,954 to 40,008 the next day. Ever since the case load has been on the decline. The active case load was just over 200 on February 23. After that, the number had gone out of control.Besides a high positivity rate, another reason for the high case load this time is the slower recovery of patients compared to last time. “We don’t have the exact data but everyone has observed that patients are taking longer to recover,” said Dr Sarkar.“The new strain is far more infectious and causing much more severe disease. Since the patients are getting severely ill, they are taking longer to recover,” said Dr Sarkar.Active Cases||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/active-covid-cases-dipping-since-may-13-in-himachal-255144
19-05-2021||Solan||Tata’s Paonta Sahib unit sealed after 65 workers test Covid positive||Tata Consumer Products factory  based at Dhaulan Kuan village in Paonta Sahib subdivision of Sirmaur district was sealed today after 65 workers tested Covid positive there.   SDM Vivek Mahajan said that 65 workers of the factory had tested Covid positive but instead of sending them to an institutional quarantine centre, they were sent to home isolation, spreading the virus among their family members. “As it was a callous behaviour and violation of Covid norms, the Tata Consumers unit has been sealed till May 20. The plant management has been issued a show-cause notice and further action will be initiated according to their reply,” he added. This was second such incident in the area. Earlier, a mineral water manufacturing unit had also indulged in such a callous behaviour. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tatas-paonta-sahib-unit-sealed-after-65-workers-test-covid-positive-255145
19-05-2021||Our Correspondent||50-bed Covid facility functional in Nurpur, 10 admitted on Day 1||Nurpur, May 18A 50-bed dedicated Covid care centre became functional at the local Civil Hospital today. On the first day, 10 patients were admitted to the facility.The plight of Covid patients in lower Kangra areas was highlighted in these columns on May 9. Infected people in lower Kangra areas have to rush to Dharamsala, Tanda medical college, Kangra and Palampur where dedicated Covid care centres have been set up in government institutions and private hospitals.Local MLA and Forest Minister Rakesh Pathania along with the district authorities had visited the hospital and recommended its second floor for setting up a Covid care centre with 50 oxygen beds.Pathania visited the facility today and reviewed the arrangements there. He thanked the Chief Minister and the Health Minister for establishing the indoor Covid facility in a week. He said that critical patients from Nurpur, Indora, Jawali and Fatehpur subdivisions of Kangra district would now get treatment for Covid at this facility. He also provided two high pressure washer machines purchased from his MLA discretionary fund to the local Municipal Council for sanitisation.According to sources, initially 18 oxygen beds at the facility have been put in use and the capacity will be increased to 35 beds tomorrow and to 50 beds by the weekend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/50-bed-covid-facility-functional-in-nurpur-10-admitted-on-day-1-255146
19-05-2021||---||Covid: 78 succumb in 24 hrs in Himachal||Shimla, May 18Though there has been some decline in the number of new Covid cases, the fatalities continue to surge with an all-time high of 78 persons succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours.The Covid situation seems to be improving with a decline in the number of positive cases at 2,892 and recovery of 4,559 in a day. The number of active cases fell to 34,888 and the total cases surged to 1,66,678.The state witnessed 23 deaths in Hamirpur, 15 in Kangra, 10 in Solan, eight in Mandi, seven in Sirmaur, six in Shimla, three each in Kullu and Una, two in Chamba and one in Kinnaur.Kangra continues to remain the worst hit, with 942 new cases, followed by 351 in Shimla, 314 in Mandi, 259 in Solan, 222 in Bilaspur, 174 in Una, 172 in Chamba, 143 in Sirmaur, 123 in Hamirpur, 106 in Kullu, 67 in Kinnaur and 19 in Lahaul-Spiti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-78-succumb-in-24-hrs-in-himachal-255147
19-05-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||7 Himachal kids orphaned due to Covid, kin offer foster care||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 18Their world came crashing down within a week as two siblings in this quaint Fatehpur village of Kangra district lost both their parents to Covid within a gap of six days.Overcome with grief, the teenaged boy (a student of Class X) and his seven-year-old sister are clueless how the life will treat them in future. Their paternal uncle and aunt are taking good care of them, but the tragedy of having been orphaned haunts them. While their mother died on April 29, their father succumbed to the virus on May 5. In all, seven children have been orphaned in the state due to Covid. Three of them are from Una (two from Haroli, one from Amb), two from Fatehpur in Kangra and one each from Solan and Hamirpur.Rs 2,500 monthly assistance from govtHimachal Government is providing Rs2,500 per child per month as financial assistance under the Foster Care Scheme to the relatives taking care of such children, till they turn 18.“The government has already made preparations to accommodate such children at its child care institutions (CCI), but all of them have chosen to stay with their foster families,” said Kritika Kulhari, Director, Women and Child Development.“The state government is providing Rs 2,500 per child per month as financial assistance under the Foster Care Scheme to the relatives taking care of such children, till they turn 18,” she added.“Haroli siblings lost their mother three years ago and now their father died of Covid. The mother of child from Amb also died some time ago, while the father passed away recently,” said Satnam Singh, District Project Officer of the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/7-himachal-kids-orphaned-due-to-covid-kin-offer-foster-care-255076
19-05-2021||New Delhi||Himachal Pradesh may see a peak in the cases by May 24, Punjab by May 22: SUTRA model||States like Tamil Nadu, Assam and Punjab may see the peak of the second wave of coronavirus cases in the next two weeks, the SUTRA model that charts the trajectory of Covid-19 suggests.However, the relief is that Delhi and states like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh have well passed their peak, the model further suggests.It also says that the country reached its peak by May 4 and then the daily cases have seen downward trend. However, on May 7, the country recorded 4,14,188 cases, the single highest in any day. "Big states like Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Assam are yet to see their peak," said Prof. M Vidyasagar of IIT-Hyderabad, one of the three scientists working on the modelling. The models suggest Tamil Nadu may see a peak by May 29-31 while Puducherry may witness a peak on May 19-20. States in east and northeast India are yet to see their peak. Assam may see a peak by May 20-21, the model suggests. On Monday, the state detected 6,394 new cases, which is also the highest on a single day. Chief minister Himanta Biswas Sarma said the state also recorded 92 more Covid-19 deaths on Monday, its highest single-day fatality. Models predicted a dip in infection in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and the cases in these states did record a decline, but they have started increasing marginally. Meghalaya could see a peak on May 30-31, while Tripura could see a peak on May 26-27, the model suggests.In the north, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab are witnessing a surge in the cases. Himachal Pradesh may see a peak in the cases by May 24 and Punjab by May 22. Odisha was to peak by May 16-17.States like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Kerala, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Haryana besides Delhi and Goa have already seen their peak. The health ministry in its press briefing on Tuesday said Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have shown a decline in Covid-19 cases and a decline in positivity. It added that Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have shown a decline in cases and a decline in positivity, it added.Mathematical models help predict the intensity of coronavirus cases and policy decisions can be taken on its basis.  The SUTRA model came into existence last year after the Department of Science and Technology formed a group of scientists to work on mathematical models to forecast the surge of coronavirus.The modelling faced intense criticism after it could not predict the exact nature of the second wave.A statement issued by the DST and signed by Vidyasagar, IIT Kanpur Professor Manindra Agrawal and deputy chief of Integrated Defence Staff Madhuri Kanitkar, said mathematical models had predicted a second wave of coronavirus and its peak in the third week of April with daily cases of 1 lakh. But the numbers were much higher than the model predicted. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-may-see-a-peak-in-the-cases-by-may-24-punjab-by-may-22-sutra-model-254746
