20-05-2021||Dinesh KanwarHamirpur||First case of black fungus infection in Himachal as 52-year-old woman diagnosed at IGMC Shimla||A 52-year-old woman from Hamirpur has been diagnosed with mucormycosis (black fungus) at IGMC Shimla becoming the first case of the infection in Himachal Pradesh.According to IGMC Medical Superintendent Dr Janak Raj, she had tested positive on May 4 and was referred to Nerchowk on May 8 when she complained of breathlessness. “The condition of the patient is stable at the moment,” said Dr Janak Raj. The woman was referred to IGMC yesterday.The news has sent shockwaves in the district. Dr Anil Verma, the Covid nodal officer, said the treatment for the disease was available and hence people need not panic.NHM Director Nipun Jindal said as per the evidence-based advisory issued by ICMR, uncontrolled diabetes, immune suppression by steroids, prolonged ICU stay, comorbidities-post transplant/malignancy are the predisposing factors for this disease. “The state has already issued advisory regarding the prevention and management of black fungus disease in the hospitals. The DHS and DME have been asked to take stock of adequate antifungal drugs like amphotericin B in their respective institutions,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/first-case-of-black-fungus-infection-in-himachal-as-52-year-old-woman-diagnosed-at-igmc-shimla-255825
20-05-2021||Villagers of Aarthi village under Jogindernagar segment in Mandi helped a Covid-19 infected family by harvesting their wheat crop.||Jogindernagar: Villagers help infected family in harvesting crop||The family’s wheat crop was ready to be harvested but the family got infected with Covid-19 and is undergoing treatment.Sensing the problem of the family, Tej Singh, a former Zila Parishad member of Ner Gharvasra ward, came forward to convince villagers to help the family.Villagers, especially women, came forward to harvest the crop and carried it from the farm to the farmer’s house. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jogindernagar-villagers-help-infected-family-in-harvesting-crop-255580
20-05-2021||ibune News Service
||Scattered rain in Himachal, wet spell predicted till May 23||Shimla, May 19  Stormy conditions prevailed and sky remained heavily forecast as scattered rain occurred at isolated places in the state. The local Met office has issued yellow warning of thunderstorm, lightening and gusty winds in six districts of Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur tomorrow (May 20) and predicted wet spell in the region till May 23.  Foggy conditions prevailed in Shimla and its surrounding areas, reducing the visibility. Dalhousie with 28 mm rain was the wettest in the state followed by Bakloh 16 mm, Gohar 15 mm, Nahan 12 mm, Kheri 10 mm, Palampur 9 mm, Baijnath and Bijahi 8 mm each, Gaggal 7 mm, Dharamsala and Paonta Sahib 6 mm each, Bharmaur and Narkanda 5 mm each, Chhatrari 4 mm, Kumarsain, Sangla and Mandi 3 mm each and Kufri and Kalpa 2 mm each and Shimla 1 mm. The maximum temperature plummeted by 5 to 6 degrees to stay 7 to 11 degrees below normal. Una was the hottest in day with a high of 30 degree C. There was no appreciable change in the minimum temperatures and Keylong in tribal Lahaul and Spiti was coldest at 3 degree C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/scattered-rain-in-himachal-wet-spell-predicted-till-may-23-255533
20-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Private hospitals ‘fleecing’ Covid patients in Kangra||Palampur, May 19 Private hospitals in Kangra district are allegedly overcharging Covid patients for various facilities. People are seeking treatment at private hospitals, as there is a shortage of beds in government hospitals in the district. Kangra has been the worst-hit district for the past few weeks and the biggest one-day surge of 1,600 Covid cases was recorded last week.  The state government has requisitioned 50 per cent beds in private hospitals for Covid patients  in Palampur, Kangra, Gaggal, Mattor and Fatehpur and also fixed the rates of beds and medical care. However, there are no guidelines pertaining to the rates to be charged for the remaining 50 per cent beds that are being allotted to patients, who  reach private   hospitals  directly on not getting beds in government hospitals. Despite a hue and cry, the government is yet to regulate the rate plan.    A number of videos   of patients being overcharged has gone viral on social media.  Dr Gurdarshan Gupta, Chief Medical Officer,  Kangra, says  that the government  has fixed the  rates only for 50 per cent beds requisitioned by the administration in the private hospitals. However, for the remaining 50 per cent beds, the private hospitals are at liberty to charge any amount from patients for various services rendered.    Information gathered by The Tribune reveals that  the charges for a bed with a ventilator can go up to Rs 20,000 to  Rs 25,000  per day. Many hospitals insist on advance payment before admitting patients. The room rent and the rates of PPE kits are quite high. The room rent varies between Rs 5,000 and Rs 18,000 per day while the cost of a PPE kit is Rs 4,000.   Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati says that he has received reports of patients being overcharged and necessary action will be taken against the defaulters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/private-hospitals-fleecing-covid-patients-in-kangra-255534
20-05-2021||Shimla||Red Cross Society distributes face masks, oximeters||Dr  Sadhna Thakur, chairperson, State Red Cross Society, Hospital Welfare Section, gave 250 pulse oximeters and 6,000 face masks to Kangra district and 250 pulse oximeters and 4,000 face masks to Mandi district. Dr Sadhna said the society was providing medicines, instruments, face masks and sanitisers through District Red Cross branches. The society had started counselling by empanelled doctors to persons in home isolation. A list of helpline numbers had also been disseminated through the State Red Cross Helpline. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/red-cross-society-distributes-face-masks-oximeters-255536
20-05-2021||Abhinav Vashisht
||No tourist footfall, lease for Manali hotels cancelled||KULLU, MAY 19 The tourist footfall has reduced to a trickle in Kullu-Manali due to the Covid second wave and curfew, resulting in the termination of hotel lease agreements.  There are around 1,200 hotels in Manali besides about 800 cottages, home stays, guest houses and other hospitality units.  Most of them are normally taken on lease by businessmen from Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra and Gujarat. Many contractors renew the lease from April 1.  However, in view of the current scenario, most leaseholders have terminated their agreements and surrendered advance. Even last year, many contractors had not taken the units on lease amid the pandemic. The tourism business gained pace in December and some contractors had taken hospitality units on lease for this year but the tourist footfall reduced to zero by April due to which the contractors have surrendered the properties.    Manali Hoteliers’ Association president Anup Ram Thakur said it had become difficult to meet the expenses. The government had deferred demand charges of electricity, which was no relief at all. The charges are taken to maintain power requirement during peak hours. It was unjustified to take the charges when there was no such requirement amid the Covid crisis.  He said the government should waive unjustified charges for the Covid period until the things normalcy was restored. The domestic rate of electricity should be charged from hospitality units as there was no commercial activity. Other charges like pollution, licence fee, liquor licence and registration should be waived for the period.  They demanded that they should be given relief as their source of income had dried up. House tax on hotels charged by the Municipal Committee and the interest on bank loans should also be waived. Even those associated with the tourism industry have suffered major losses due to the Covid outbreak. Many persons employed in hotels have lost their jobs.  They have demanded that the government should make a concrete plan so that they could survive through this phase. Tourism is the only source of livelihood for a large number of people and it is the backbone of the economy of the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-tourist-footfall-lease-for-manali-hotels-cancelled-255537
20-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Kangra DC inspects 1,000-bed hospital at Paror||Palampur May 19Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati yesterday said despite a high number of Covid-19 cases in the district, all efforts were being made to control the pandemic and reduce the number of deaths.Prajapati, along with a team of officers, inspected the 1,000-bed Covid care makeshift hospital coming up Radha Soami Satsang Complex at Paror, 10 km from here. He said in the first phase, 256 beds would be made operational. He said though the number of per day Covid positive cases had come down slightly, higher positivity rate in the district was a matter of concern. Therefore, extra efforts were needed by both public and the administration to check the spread of virus.The DC said 25 beds for critical Covid-19 patients had been made functional at the Civil Hospital in Palampur with all medical equipment on a par with the Tanda medical college. This will further reduce the burden on the college, which is overcrowded since the pandemic outbreak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-dc-inspects-1-000-bed-hospital-at-paror-255538
20-05-2021||Ambika Sharma||To check hoarding, DCGI seeks info on API stock, use||Tribune News ServiceSolan, May 19The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has sought information about the stocks, sources and usage of raw material active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) in various formulations from the State Drugs Controller (SDC) following an unprecedented rise in their prices.The DCGI has asked the SDC for information pertaining to the sources and stocks of the APIs, both domestic and imported, installed capacities of pharmaceutical units as well as their utilised capacities and the average monthly production during the current year.The Indian Drug Manufacturers Association, and the Himachal Drug Manufacturers Association have been vociferously raising the issue of the unprecedented rise in the prices of the APIs, including paracetamol; its prices have doubled in the past one year.The drug manufacturers have urged the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) to allow a 20 per cent upward price revision of all non-scheduled drugs and also a hike in the prices of scheduled formulations, as rising costs have made business unviable.Dinesh Dua, CEO and Executive Director at Nectar Lifesciences Ltd, says that it is an exercise in futility as only coordination between the officials of the Health and Family Welfare, Finance, Chemical and Fertilisers and Customs departments can help check the hoarding of APIs by traders.“The export data can be extracted to crack down on API traders, who hoarded the raw material after its import from China was affected last year. Unless all departments coordinate, the problem of an exponential price hike will persist. The worst sufferers will be micro, small and medium sector manufacturers, which produce 40 per cent of the value and 60 per cent of the volume of drugs in the nation,” adds Dua.“Indiscriminate overstocking can be easily checked by comparing the export data. If the Union Government wants to give relief to the industry, it should crack down on traders in a coordinated manner,” says Dua.SL Singla, adviser to the Himachal Drug Manufacturers Association, says, “The exercise to seek the details of APIs from drug manufacturers will yield little, as this information is regularly communicated to various authorities, including the DCGI, and the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority”.“This exercise will not only take weeks to complete but also will not address the problem of hoarding of APIs and the subsequent rise in their prices in the domestic market. If corrective measures are not taken soon, a shortage of several Covid drugs will be visible as their production has reduced drastically,”adds Singla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-check-hoarding-dcgi-seeks-info-on-api-stock-use-255539
20-05-2021||---||Rising deaths matter of concern: Himachal CM||Dharamsala, May 19 Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today expressed concern over the increase in number of Covid-related deaths in Kangra district. He directed officials to ensure that serious patients are shifted from home isolation to health institutions immediately so that proper treatment could be made available to them. He reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the district at Dharamsala. Thakur said that the government had increased the bed capacity from 1,500 to about 5,000. On the request of the state government, the Central Government had also increased the quota of oxygen from 15 MT to 30 MT. He added that the state government had also urged the Union Government to further enhance the oxygen quota by 10 MT. He said that the government was also increasing ICU beds in the health institutions. He said 20 additional ventilators had been provided to Tanda Medical Colleg and 25 ventilators to the IGMC, Shimla. He said that arrangements had been made to ensure adequate supply of oxygen in the Civil Hospital, Nurpur. The Chief Minister said that in order to ensure adequate staff in the health institutions, the state government has recruited about 3000 employees on outsource basis. He said the government had also issued SOPs for management of dead bodies Covid patients. The government has also decided to provide financial assistance to the next of kin of the corona deceased to carry the dead body to their native places if they wish to do so. Thakur said that efforts must be made to strengthen the home isolation mechanism as about 90 per cent of the Covid patients were in home isolation. He said that elected representatives such as MLAs, pradhans, BDC members, Zila Parishad members and ward members must actively participate in strengthening the home isolation mechanism by keeping in touch with the family members of the corona patients. Paramedical staff must also regularly monitor the health parameters of the home isolation patients. The Chief Minister also launched home isolation kit Sanjeevni for the patients under home isolation in Kangra district. The kit to be provided to every patient in home isolation will help the patients in speedy recovery. Thakur interacted through video-conferencing with Covid patients at the Zonal Hospital, Dharamsala, and Tanda Medical College. He took stock of the progress of a makeshift Covid hospitala t Paraur, and directed the executing agency to complete the work at the earliest. The makeshift hospital would be completed within two-three days, the CM was told. Thakur said a Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) ward had been started at Ayurvedic Hospital, Dehra, to cater to the health problem of the people of the area. He said that a similar ward at Palampur became functional a few days ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rising-deaths-matter-of-concern-himachal-cm-255540
20-05-2021||Shimla||3,369 new cases, 69 deaths in Himachal||As many as 3,369 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 170,074. Besides, 69 persons died of the virus — 17 in Kangra, 11 in Shimla, seven each in Solan, Sirmaur and Hamirpur, six each in Mandi and Una, three each in Kullu and Hamirpur, and one each in Chamba and Hamirpur.Kangra reported 887 cases, Shimla 442, Mandi 389, Solan 354, Hamirpur 298, Sirmaur 253, Bilaspur 229, Una 187, Chamba 176, Kullu 109, Kinanur 48, and Lahaul and Spiti 24. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-369-new-cases-69-deaths-in-himachal-255541
20-05-2021||Solan||Mata Padmavati College of Nursing made a Covid hospital||Mata Padmavati College of Nursing (MPCN) at Nahan in the district has been modified into a field Covid hospital by Sixth Sigma Healthcare. Nahan MLA Rajeev Bindal today inaugurated the hospital.A 50-bed facility having staff, 20 oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, lab testing have been created at the college. Symptomatic patients would be treated here, said hospital’s CEO Dr Pradeep Bhardwaj.He added that doctors would also be available for telephonic consultancy for patients isolated at home round the clock. The move has been initiated following the efforts of chairman, HP Private Educational Institutes Regulatory Council, Major Gen (retd) Atul Kaushik. Kaushik, who donated 200 PPE kits and an oxygen concentrator to the hospital, said doctors of Six Sigma Hospital were doing a great service to the people during the pandemic.Sachin Jain, CEO, MPNC, said the staff would be provided lodging and boarding facility along with meals on the campus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mata-padmavati-college-of-nursing-made-a-covid-hospital-255542
20-05-2021||---||Doctors using clout to avoid Covid duties: Rakesh Singha||Shimla, May 19CPM legislator Rakesh Singha has alleged that several doctors are evading Covid duties by using their political clout. “I do not want to talk about it at a time when we are locked in a fierce battle with Covid,” said Singha. “However, such people are putting pressure on those who are doing their jobs sincerely. A staff nurse died a few days ago while doing her duty. So, I am warning all such people to join the fight against Covid or I will make their names public,” he added.Singha warned ministers and health officials, too, who were saving their “favourites” from Covid duties. “I urge ministers and health officials not to encourage this practice. If they don’t stop, I will make it all public,” said the CPM leader.Another complaint that often comes to the fore is that senior doctors do not visit the Covid ward. Even Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has urged senior doctors to visit Covid wards regularly. The Himachal Medical Officers Association (HMOA), too, feels that senior doctors are avoiding Covid duties in medical colleges. “At every Covid facility, a pool of available doctors should be formed and all of them should be rotated in a transparent manner,” said HMOA secretary Dr Pushpender Verma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/doctors-using-clout-to-avoid-covid-duties-rakesh-singha-255543
20-05-2021||---||Nahan MLA Rajeev Bindal’s efforts for hospital lauded||Solan, May 19In a rare display of goodwill, a Congress leader today credited Nahan MLA Rajeev Bindal with opening MM Medical College at Sultanpur in the district during his tenure as the Health and Family Welfare Minister.Congress spokesman Ramesh Chauhan, who donated some medicines to the Block Medical Officer at Dharampur today, said the state government had not been able to control the pandemic. “Bindal may have been embroiled in controversies such as a recruitment scam or for taking his car on The Mall Road during restricted hours but nonetheless his efforts for MM Medical College are laudable. Had this medical hospital not been there at Dharampur, patients of Solan would have been the worst sufferers. I am also one of the beneficiaries of this hospital”.Chauhan said that it was lamentable that present Health Minister Rajiv Saizal had not been able to provide necessary facilities even in his home constituency. Facilities such as ventilators should be provided to save the lives of critical patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nahan-mla-rajeev-bindals-efforts-for-hospital-lauded-255545
20-05-2021||---||Shimla IGMC gets 30 ventilators, 100 nurses to join soon||Shimla, May 19The Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Hospital today received 30 additional ventilators; the total number of ventilators rose to around 70. Also, the IGMC will soon get 100 staff nurses. Besides, the city’s Sanatorium hospital has also been notified as a Covid facility to meet the rising demand for beds.“Ventilators and nurses, who should join us in five to seven days, will ease some pressure on us,” said IGMC Medical Superintendent Dr Janak Raj. The hospital already has over 300 beds but these are often occupied. “We are increasing facilities in a phased manner. If needed, we will arrange additional beds,” he said. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had announced that the bed capacity at the hospital would be enhanced to 500.Meanwhile, DSO Dr Rakesh Bhardwaj said that the department was in the process of preparing the Sanatorium hospital for Covid patients.“We are sending doctors working there for training to an Ayurveda Hospital. We hope to make the facility available as soon as possible,” he added.Dr Bhardwaj said that the Walker Hospital, which the Army had handed over to the district administration, would be used only as a Covid care centre.“The facility will be used for keeping patients who don’t have space at home for self-isolation. We will use it when required,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-igmc-gets-30-ventilators-100-nurses-to-join-soon-255546
20-05-2021||---||Kangra dist to get 34 more ventilator-equipped beds||Dharamsala, May 19Kangra district is all set to get 34 more ventilator-equipped beds. At present, there are just 60 such beds at the Tanda medical college that caters to patients from Kangra, Chamba, Una and Hamipur districts.The presence of low number of ventilator-equipped beds in Kangra district is said to be one of the reasons for the high death rate of Covid patients in the region. On an average, Kangra district has been accounting for over 20 per cent of the deaths in the state.Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati, when contacted, said in the near future, 34 beds equipped with ventilators would be added at the Tanda college. Out of these, 19 beds would be provided by the Union Government while 15 beds would be provided by the state government, he said.Sources here said the entire load of critical patients from Chamba district was also being shifted to the Tanda medical college. There are five ventilator beds in the Covid hospital of the Chamba medical college but there are not enough anesthetists to operate them. As per rules, only anesthetist doctors can operate ventilator-equipped beds.Sources said in case the state government deploys anesthetist doctors from the IGMC, Shimla, and other hospitals rationally in the Covid hospitals of the district, it can help reduce the burden on medical colleges.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur also expressed concern over a high death rate in Kangra district due to Covid today.Congress leaders alleged that the state government was not doing enough for Kangra in terms of providing health facilities like ventilator-equipped beds. Former minister and senior Congress leader GS Bali today alleged that the government should make special arrangements for Covid testing and providing treatment to special children and people with special needs.He said patients suffering from other medical emergencies like heart ailments or cancer had been suffering as super-specialty hospital in Tanda medical college had been converted into a Covid hospital. He said patients requiring super-specialty treatment from the state had nowhere to go now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-dist-to-get-34-more-ventilator-equipped-beds-255547
20-05-2021||---||Himachal Ganita Parishad to start drive to create interest in maths||Shimla, May 19In order to improve the basic understanding of mathematics from Class I to the master's level, a mathematical society, Himachal Ganita Parishad (HGP), will start a drive in the state with a focus on remote areas. It aims to create interest in mathematics and activate inbuilt instinct for mathematics in human mind.“We have planned different schemes for the awareness of Indian mathematics and Vedic mathematics among students. The idea is to improve the basic understanding of mathematics from Class I to the master's level and create an interest among students towards the subject,” said president of the parishad Prof PL Sharma, chairman, Department of Mathematics, HPU.Workshops, seminars, conferences and related activities would be organised at various places and virtual platform would be used to create awareness especially among school-going children as foundation is significant, he said. He said there would be four clusters of the the HGP -- private schools cluster, government schools cluster, degree colleges cluster and the universities cluster.All teachers of mathematics can join the parishad through its website hgp.org.in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-ganita-parishad-to-start-drive-to-create-interest-in-maths-255548
20-05-2021||Shimla||218 centres set up in Himachal for jabs for 18+||About 218 vaccination centres have been established across the state for the second vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group scheduled for tomorrow.An official of the Health Department said all those keen to get the jab must get themselves registered for booking appointment sessions. A total of 21,820 persons have booked slots.He appealed to all the persons who have booked their slots to come at the vaccination centres as per their schedule to avoid unnecessary crowd at these centres. He also urged them to observe Covid appropriate behaviour at the centres.He also informed that at present the state has 1,72,190 doses of Covishield, received from Centre and 88,100 doses had been procured by the state for 18-44 age group. He added that the Government of India has conveyed that 2,52,770 doses of Covishield will be available from Serum Institute of India for the first fortnight of June and 1,19,760 doses will be available for direct procurement for the month of June. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/218-centres-set-up-in-himachal-for-jabs-for-18-255549
20-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Move to enhance healthcare workers' insurance cover period hailed||NURPUR, MAY 19Kangra district Non Gazetted Officers (NGO) Federation has hailed the decision of the state government to enhance the period of insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh to healthcare workers by 180 days.Ashwani Kumar, the district president of the federation, said here today the government had earlier discontinued this insurance scheme on April 24 which had sparked off a lot of resentment among health workers who were in direct contact with Covid patients and were concerned about the security of their families if they lost their lives while serving Covid patients.The federation president has urged the Chief Minister to also restore the facility of isolation centres and quarantine period meant for frontline health workers serving in the Covid care centres. “This facility was withdrawn by the state government during the ongoing second Covid wave. The second wave is more serious and alarming and a number of doctors are getting infected despite vaccination,” he lamented. He said the safety of the families of these medicos would also be endangered in the absence of this facility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/move-to-enhance-healthcare-workers-insurance-cover-period-hailed-255550
20-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Won’t open shops during curfew, says Himachal Pradesh Beopar Mandal||Nurpur, May 19The Himachal Pradesh Beopar Mandal on Wednesday deferred its decision to open all shops, including those dealing in non-essential commodities, after getting an assurance from the Chief Minister to address the grievances of traders.Sumesh Sharma, mandal president, after convening a virtual meeting of the executive committee, comprising members from all districts, had given an ultimatum, three days ago, that shopkeepers would open their shops from 9 am to 1 pm from May 19, if the state did not redress the grievances of the trading community in the state.Talking to The Tribune, Sharma said a delegation of the mandal met the Chief Minister last evening, and keeping in view the surge in Covid cases across the state, and appeal by the Chief Minister, the mandal had withdrawn its decision. He said a meeting between mandal representatives and the Chief Minister was held in a cordial atmosphere and he was sympathetic towards the concerns of the traders. He said Jai Ram Thakur, while expressing solidarity with the traders, stated his government was also sacrifising generation of revenue to the tune of Rs 20 crore per day after closure of business establishments in the state, and he was aware of the ongoing financial losses being incurred by them after closure of shops.Sharma said the CM had assured the delegation that he would convene his Cabinet meeting within next three or four days and resolve the issue.“If the pandemic situation remains under control, the government will allow shops to open after May 26 in a phased and systemic manner, to avoid overcrowding. The CM has also assured of a financial package to small traders and vendors, who are facing difficulty in sustaining their families during curfew,” Sharma said.The delegation had also demanded to stop e-commerce companies from online delivery during this period in the state, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wont-open-shops-during-curfew-says-himachal-pradesh-beopar-mandal-255551
20-05-2021||Dipender Manta||Sumdho-Gramphu road to be thrown open by May 25||Tribune News ServiceMandi, May 19Bad weather has delayed the restoration of the Sumdho-Kaza-Gramphu road for traffic movement in tribal district of Lahaul Spiti. After restoration of Manali-Leh highway for traffic movement on March 29, the BRO was planning to restore Sumdho-Kaza-Gramphu road by the end of April.But bad weather and frequent heavy snowfall in the region during April badly affected the snow-clearing operation.The residents of Spiti region in Lahaul Spiti district are waiting desperately for the restoration of this road for traffic movement because it would provide them easier access to Lahaul valley and Manali directly from Spiti valley. Otherwise, they have to travel a very long distance via Shimla to gain access to Lahaul valley or Manali.The BRO has now intensified its snow-clearing operation on the road. It is expected that BRO will restore this road for traffic movement by May 25.The Sumdho-Kaza-Gramphu road is strategically important. It connects the Lahaul valley and Kinnaur district with Spiti region. Lahaul Spiti and Kinnaur districts of Himachal Pradesh share boundaries with the neighboring country China. Hence, this road is crucial for defence purpose as well.According to official sources, now BRO machinery and workforce is moving ahead from both Batal and Gramphu sides to connect the road for traffic movement.Additional District Magistrate Kaza, Gyan Sagar Negi, when contacted, told The Tribune that the BRO workforce was working hard to restore this road till May 25 provided the weather remained favourable and did not cause any disruption in work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sumdho-gramphu-road-to-be-thrown-open-by-may-25-255552
20-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Rehri union: Allow work during relaxation hours||Chamba, May 19Members of the Rehri-Farhi Workers’ Union have urged the state government to allow them to work during the relaxation hours of the curfew, so that they could earn bread and butter for their families.Rijhu Ram, president of the union, said today their union had also given a memorandum to the district administration recently to apprise the authorities of their crisis situation.Rijhu Ram said since the lockdown had been imposed, they had been facing financial problems and were under stress regarding affording basic necessities for their families. He said they had to incur Rs 500 each day for survival.They also requested the government to direct the officials of the local civic body to exempt the rent of ‘rehris’ and ‘farhis’ during the lockdown, as they were unable to earn any income.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rehri-union-allow-work-during-relaxation-hours-255553
20-05-2021||The Higher Education Department has asked the deputy directors of the department and public information officers/principals of the government colleges||Colleges told to compile RTI data||Workshop at Shoolini varsityA workshop under ‘V-Empower Coaching Programme’ on ‘Winning from within’ was held at Shoolini University. Key speakers for the session were senior facilitators Sushma Banthia and Sanyog Jain. Sushma Banthia, a certified leadership coach, opined coaching must have a holistic approach. She said right attitude, timeless habits and practice were vital for success. Sanyog Jain, a credentialed coach with ICF, discussed concepts such as power of the made-up mind, no learning in comfort zone or no comfort in learning zone, linking habit with purpose, etc.‘Prioritise jab for college students’The NSUI has written a letter to the Chief Minister, in which it demanded that college and university students should be vaccinated on priority. The NSUI also sought special assistance for the children, who lost their parents or the breadwinner to Covid, on the lines of the J&K administration. The students' body also demanded that Rs 5,000 each should be transferred to the account of BPL families, small-time shopkeepers and traders. The NSUI also urged the CM to fix the prices of N-95 masks and sanitisers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/colleges-told-to-compile-rti-data-255576
20-05-2021||The presence of a huge pit||Close pit on market road||Traders oppose closure of hardware storesThe government has allowed the hardware stores to open in the state for just two days in a week, that too for three hours. In border areas of the state, the Himachal Government has given a clear advantage to hardware store owners of Punjab. The people carrying out construction are now buying material from stores across the border in Punjab, while traders of Himachal are suffering. The government should be rational in its approach towards implementing lockdown in the state. There is no point in closing down hardware stores, as these do not attract mass customers. — Ramesh Malhotra, UnaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/close-pit-on-market-road-255577
20-05-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Rs 33 cr disbursed to nine fake Himachal institutions||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 19Scholarship funds worth Rs 33 crore were disbursed to nine fake institutions in Una, Chamba, Sirmaur and Kangra districts. These institutions functioned under the name “Nilet”.The key accused in the scam, the then Superintendent Grade-II, Arvind Rajta, allegedly disbursed funds without verification as his wife was one of the three directors in these institutions.The funds were allotted on the basis of lists submitted by the institutions without physical verification.Scholarship scamThe CBI filed a challan against the three directors and others in the special CBI court on May 12. The agency is also investigating into the assets amassed by Rajta.During the raids, the CBI found that these institutes were housed in 1-2 room accommodations. Some of these had no affiliation and the funds were claimed in the name of scholarship for non-existent students.The probe into the Rs 250-crore scam also revealed that funds meant for 32,000 students were not credited into their accounts and 272 private educational institutions are under scanner in that regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-33-cr-disbursed-to-nine-fake-himachal-institutions-255578
20-05-2021||Shimla||Blood-stained gloves, used condom found in medical supplies in CHC, Kumarsain||In a bizarre incident, the Community Health Centre, Kumarsain, has received some “blood-stained gloves and a used condom” in their supplies.“As per the information received from the Health Department, a Class IV employee opened the box and found used gloves and a used condom in the box,” confirmed Kumarsain SDM Gurjeet Singh Cheema.The CHC had lifted the supplies from the district store in Shimla, from where the material is sent to all blocks in the district.“We had lifted the supplies towards April end and had opened the boxes a few days back. In one of these boxes, we found this stuff,” said Block Medical Officer Tara Chand.“We have now directed all our PHCs not to open the boxes we have sent them from this lot. We will return it to the central store,” he said.The BMO expressed satisfaction over the fact that recycled gloves were detected in time and were not used.“There’s a possibility of contracting infections like hepatitis B, HIV in case someone used it,” he said.Stating that it was the first incident of its kind, he said he had reported the matter CMO, Shimla.“Further inquiry and action against the supplier will be taken at higher level now,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/blood-stained-gloves-used-condom-found-in-medical-supplies-in-chc-kumarsain-255288
