21-05-2021||Shimla||Covid: 57 more deaths, 2,662 new cases in Himachal Pradesh||The Covid-19 death toll in Himachal Pradesh rose to 2,638 on Friday with 57 more fatalities, while 2,662 new cases pushed the infection tally to 1,75,384.Of the new fatalities, ten people were between the age group of 22 to 48 years, according to data updated by the state health department till 7 pm.The state has currently 31,519 active cases, it said.A total of 4,533 more people have recovered from the infection, pushing the overall recoveries to 1,41,198, a senior official said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-57-more-deaths-2-662-new-cases-in-himachal-pradesh-256351
21-05-2021||Chandigarh||BBMB vaccinated over 15,000 persons against Covid-19||The Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) here has vaccinated over 15,000 persons, including its employees as well as other citizens, to protect them against Covid-19.This includes 9,097 employees and their dependents above 45 years of age, 1,139 employees between 18 to 45 years of age and 4,839 residents of areas adjoining various BBMB stations.In order to safeguard its workforce which has the responsibility to maintain essential services of supplying water and power to states in the region, BBMB is conducting massive vaccination drive at its project stations and sub-stations, a spokesperson said here.Besides several camps in Chandigarh, other stations where vaccines are being administered include Nangal, Sunder Nagar, Talwara, Dear, Slapar Panipat and Bhiwani.BBMB is also treating Covid patients at its hospitals in Nangal, Sundernagar and Talwara. All these hospitals have been equipped with sufficient supply of oxygen and other essential medicines. Employees of BBMB have also been providing food and other essential items to the needy during these difficult times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bbmb-vaccinated-over-15-000-persons-against-covid-19-256349
21-05-2021||Shimla||At least five trapped as under-construction tunnel collapses in Himachal's Kullu||At least five labourers were trapped after an under-construction tunnel collapsed in Himachal Pradesh's Kullu district on Friday, police said.  The incident took place at Pancha Nullah near Garsa Bhuntar after which rescue teams were rushed there, Kullu Superintendent of Police Gaurav Singh said.  Two ambulances have also been sent to the spot and further details are awaited, said the SP. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/at-least-five-trapped-as-under-construction-tunnel-collapses-in-himachals-kullu-256334
21-05-2021||Mumbai||'Saree duniya ke sukh ek taraf....': Kangana Ranaut gets hair oil massage from mother at Manali home; see photo||Actress Kangana Ranaut seems in a relaxed mood in a picture she shared on Friday. In the Instagram Story snapshot, she is seen getting a hair oil massage from her mother in their Manali home."Saree duniya ke sukh ek taraf, ma ke god ek taraf (no joy on earth compares to the comfort of being in mother's lap)," Kangana captioned the photo.On the occasion of Mother's Day earlier this month, Kangana penned an open letter to her mother on Instagram.Sharing a throwback black and white photograph of her mother, Kangana had written: "Dear Mother, When I left home did not expect the world to go dark suddenly, occasionally called home papa asked so many questions siblings had their own doubts but whenever you spoke, you anxiously asked only one thing, What did you eat beta? Who is cooking for you ? Where you get your food from ? Mom that always moved me to tears. In the moments of despair I reminded myself no matter what happens there is one person who will always love me and that gave me immense strength to fight and build my own destiny Mother. I love you so much. Happy Mother's Day Yours, Chotu." — IANSA post shared by Kangana Ranaut (@kanganaranaut)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/saree-duniya-ke-sukh-ek-taraf-kangana-ranaut-gets-hair-oil-massage-from-mother-at-manali-home-see-photo-256313
21-05-2021||Shimla||Five Himachal cops died of Covid; 2,874 test positive so far||Five Himachal Pradesh police personnel have died after contracting Covid so far, state Director General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu said on Friday.Four of them succumbed to the virus during the first wave, while one police personnel died during the ongoing second wave, he said.The DGP told the media that 2,874 police personnel in the state have so far tested positive for the virus.Of them, 2,378 people have recovered while the remaining 496 are still under active cases category. Two police personnel are being treated at hospitals.The DGP further stated that 90 per cent of police personnel in the state were administered both doses of vaccines.As many as 15,339 of the total 17,415 HP police personnel have got both the doses, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/five-himachal-cops-died-of-covid-2-874-test-positive-so-far-256294
21-05-2021||The humanities department of APG Goyal Shimla University conducted an online session on poetry||Poetry, debate contest at APG||Career guidance webinar heldThe civil and mechanical engineering department of Mahatma Gandhi Government Engineering College, Kotla (Jeori) camp, JNGEC Sundernagar, organised a webinar on 'Career opportunities after BTech'. Anand Kumar, senior faculty member at ACE Engineering Academy, was the keynote speaker. About 250 trainee engineers from the sixth and eighth semesters were present at the webinar. Prof Rakesh Kumar, Director-cum-principal of the college, welcomed the speaker, staff members and students.‘Help Covid +ve staff, students’In view of a surge in Covid cases, the Director, Higher Education, has directed all college principals to maintain a record of staff members and students who have been infected and maintain a constant communication with them and their families through telephone. Any help required from the department can be communicated to the Additional Director of Higher Education or the Director. The state has recently seen a spike in Covid cases even as the state continues to impose strict curbs to contain the spread. Educational institutes have remained largely closed during the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/poetry-debate-contest-at-apg-256198
21-05-2021||Stray cattle menace has become a cause for concern for residents of Mandi town. Stray cattle can be seen on roads of the town at any time of the day. The Municipal Corporation should accommodate stray animals in ‘gau sadans’. It will be a huge relief.||Stray cattle menace in Mandi town||— Yogesh Kumar, MandiPoor arrangements at vaccination centresVaccination centres set up in rural areas in panchayat buildings lack proper arrangements. Some do not even have separate vaccination space and people have to take the jab in the presence of others. With no waiting area and the lack of social distancing, such centres can lead to further spread of Covid.— Sonu, DharampurWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune  invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stray-cattle-menace-in-mandi-town-256207
21-05-2021||lit Mohan||Concretisation damages Chamba temple heritage||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 20Art lovers are upset at the destruction of the heritage in the Chamunda temple at Devi Kothi village in Churah of Chamba district.Built in mid-18th centurySources said about two century-old temple was being re-constructed by contractors without any advice from experts. The contractors were concretising the temple building that had damaged its frescos.Vijay Sharma, an expert in Kangra painting and Padma Shri awardee, said the temple was on the verge of destruction. The existence of the temple had been endangered by some ‘rookie’ contractor.Malvika Pathania, coordinator of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) for Himachal, said it was shocking that the frescos of the temple had been damaged. She said, “I had talked to Chamba DC and urged him to stop the work”The temple was built by then Chamba king Umed Singh in the mid-18th century. Constructed in the hill style with sloping roof terrace, the temple was embellished with frescos and carved wooden panels. The amazing architecture of the temple and the work of painting and carving was so exquisite that thousands of tourists visit the village every year.Dr Eberhard Fischer, director of the Swiss Museum, and Vijay Sharma jointly wrote a book on the temple which was available online and has attracted experts from across the world towards the art heritage of Chamba. The temple was preserved some years ago by the Department of Language and Culture. The government had also appointed a monument attendant to protect it.Malvika Pathania said the ancient form of the temple could not be changed at any cost. Archaeology Act rules have the provision of punishment for such act. The unplanned construction in the temple without any vision continues despite the lockdown, she said.Deputy Commissioner DC Rana said the committee of the temple had started the RCC work on the temple campus which had been stopped. The RCC pillar around the temple would now be removed and the temple be renovated using wood and local rock in a traditional manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/concretisation-damages-chamba-temple-heritage-255892
21-05-2021||Lalit Mohan||MGNREGA lifeline for thousands who lost jobs||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 20At a time when thousands have lost their jobs in the state due to the pandemic, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) is proving to be a boon for people of rural areas. Thousands of people who had lost their jobs in tourism and other allied sectors are now working under MGNREGA and earning livelihood.As per information collected by The Tribune, 1,00,099 workers have worked under MGNREGA in the state in the first two months of the 2021-22 financial year. All these workers have been paid Rs 198 per day as daily wages under the scheme. The total expenditure on the scheme to date has been Rs 31.12 crore and it has generated 81,316 hours of working in the state.Director, Rural Development and Panchayats, Lalit Jain said the MGNREGA had provided employment to thousands of rural youths who had lost their jobs due to the pandemic. He said the Union Government had not kept any bar on spending under the scheme. So, the state panchayats were urged to generate works under the Act to give as much employment as possible in rural areas. The scheme has become more popular in the state since pandemic started, he said.Jain said the Mukhya Mantri Ek Bigha scheme, which was envisioned in Himachal Pradesh, had also been very popular among the unemployed youth in rural areas. Under the scheme, any youth or self help group working in a rural area, who owns just one bigha of land, can till and grow vegetables on it. They are given daily wage under MGNREGA to work on their own land. Moreover, the vegetables that are grown under the scheme belong to the youth or the self help group that has grown them. They are free to use the vegetables for their own households or sell it in market. Last year, 25,000 youth in the state had taken benefit of the scheme. The government intends to extend the scheme this year too, in view of the second wave of the pandemic, he said.The second wave of Covid has created massive unemployment in Kangra. The tourism industry that used to provide direct employment to about 50,000 people in the district has laid off about 80 per cent of the staff. Thousands of youths, who were employed in retail sector too have lost their jobs. There are about 45,000 taxi owners and drivers who are out of job with no help coming from any quarter. In such a scenario, the job scheme has been a saviour for many.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mgnrega-lifeline-for-thousands-who-lost-jobs-255893
21-05-2021||---||Rs 2.45-cr incentive for 4,000  Himachal Pradesh sanitation workers||Rs2.45-cr incentive for 4,000  state sanitation workers  Tribune News Service  Shimla, May 20 The state government has sanctioned Rs 2.45 crore as incentive for 4,082 sanitation workers in all urban local bodies for their outstanding work. In a statement issued here today, Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj said the incentives would be given for April, May and June. In a video conference with representatives of urban local bodies a few days ago, Bhardwaj had sought incentives for sanitation workers, following which Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur made an announcement in this regard. In view of Covid, Bhardwaj said all urban local bodies would get Rs 1.55 crore for the cremation/burial and transportation of the deceased. “The government has already sanctioned this amount,” he said. The state government has allowed all five Municipal Corporations, including Shimla, Dharamsala, Mandi, Palampur and Solan, to hire mortuary vans for the next two months (June and July). Its expenditure will be borne from the state disaster relief fund.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rs-2-45-cr-incentive-for-4-000-himachal-pradesh-sanitation-workers-255895
21-05-2021||Subhash Rajta||Villagers upset as urbanites book slots in rural centres||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 20Villagers, who are not tech savvy, are not happy with the vaccination drive for the 18-44 years age group launched recently. They are at a disadvantage vis-à-vis more tech-friendly people in booking a slot on the portal. They allege that people from urban areas are booking slots at the vaccination centres in their areas, thereby denying them an opportunity of vaccination.“At the Junga community health centre today, hardly anyone from eight to 10 panchayats of the area got a jab. All slots were booked by residents of Shimla city and other places,” said Madan Mohan Thakur, former Zila Parishad member from Junga. “The CHC premises was full of vehicles, including several from Bilaspur and Rohru. Shouldn’t locals get preference at the Junga vaccination centre?” he asked.The first-come first-served vaccination campaign, which requires a prospective beneficiary to first register on the Cowin portal and then book a slot, has been cumbersome right from the beginning. A common complaint has been that only a few knew when the portal would open for booking an appointment and the slots were closed in a few minutes. The issue seems to have been sorted out.“Sessions will be updated on the portal two days before the vaccination day between 2.30 pm and 3 pm,” said a government spokesperson. Moreover, rural people don’t have correct information about the whole process. “Many villagers have registered on the portal but they do not know that they have to book a slot, too. In the above 45 age group, people thought they will receive a message about when they need to reach the centre for vaccination,” said Thakur. “Besides, Lok Mitra Kendras are also not helping people in registration and booking slots, at least in our area,” he added.Jan Swasthya Abhiyan state convener Satyawan Pundir said that the government should launch an IEC programme to create awareness about the entire process. “Besides, there are Internet connectivity issue in rural areas. So, even if someone in a rural area is tech savvy, he will have problems booking a slot. Also, the instructions are in English that not many understand,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/villagers-upset-as-urbanites-book-slots-in-rural-centres-255896
21-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Restrict delivery by e-com firms: Traders||Nurpur, May 20 The Jassur Beopar Mandal at Nurpur has urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to restrict delivery of goods by e-commerce companies during the curfew. Rajiv Raju, acting president of the mandal, and Chander Mahajan, chairman of the Market Welfare Committee, Jassur, said that while 80 per cent shops dealing with non-essential commodities were closed in the state since May 7, all e-commerce companies are delivering goods on the doorsteps of people.    They said that either the government should ban the delivery of goods by e-commerce companies or allow all shops to open under strict Covid norms so that traders could also earn their livelihood. “Consumers are not going to wait for shops to open to buy non-essential commodities and they are purchasing these articles from online e-commerce companies. The risk is that delivery boys can also spread Covid,” they claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/restrict-delivery-by-e-com-firms-traders-255897
21-05-2021||---||Vaccination for 18+ on May 24||Vax for 18+ on May 24 Shimla, May 20 The Covid vaccination sessions for the18-44 age group have now been fixed for May 24, 27 and 31. Two sessions have been held on May 17 and 21. An official of the Health Department said the vaccination would be provided only to those who have scheduled their appointment on the CoWin portal.  He said to bring uniformity for scheduling the sessions, districts would update these on the portal two days before the date from 2.30 pm to 3pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vaccination-for-18-on-may-24-255898
21-05-2021||---||Snow in Himachal's tribal areas, rain at Reckong Peo||Shimla, May 20 Tribal and high altitude areas experienced another mild spell of snow while intermittent rain lashed parts of Himachal. The local Met office has predicted a wet spell in the region till May 23. Hansa village in Spiti received 10 cm of snow. Light to moderate rains lashed parts of Kinnaur, Shimla, Sirmaur and Solan districts. Kalpa was the wettest with 64 mm of rain followed by Reckong Peo 63 mm, Pooh 44 mm, Rohru 28 mm, Wangtoo 27 mm, Kotkhai 25 mm, Sarahan and Moorang 23 mm each, Nahan 21 mm, Paonta Sahib-17, Sangrah-16, Rampur 13 mm, Narkanda and Khadrala 11mm each, Rajgarh 10 mm, Pachhad and Palampur 7 mm each, Kufri and Solan 6 mm each. The maximum temperature rose by 2 to 3 degree but was still 5 to 6 degrees below normal. Una was hottest in the day with a high of 34 degree C. There was no appreciable change in the minimum temperatures and Kalpa in tribal Kinnaur district was coldest at night with a low of 3 degree C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-in-himachals-tribal-areas-rain-at-reckong-peo-255899
21-05-2021||Shimla||2,648 new cases, 65 deaths in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 2,648 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 172,722. Besides, 65 persons died of the virus — 19 in Kangra, 13 in Shimla, seven in Mandi, five each in Hamirpur and Sirmaur, four each in Chamba and Solan, three each in Una and Bilaspur, and two in Kullu.The highest number of 828 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 314 in Mandi, 257 in Solan, 226 in Hamirpur, 200 in Shimla, 191 in Sirmaur, 180 in Chamba, 191 in Una, 175 in Bilaspur, 187 in Una, 65 in Kullu, 14 in Lahaul and Spiti and seven in Kinnaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-648-new-cases-65-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-255900
21-05-2021||Dinesh Kanwar||Hamirpur woman 1st black fungus case in Himachal Pradesh||Hamirpur, May 20Himachal registered its first case of mucormycosis (black fungus) today. A 52-year old woman from Hamirpur was diagnosed with the disease at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC), Shimla.SymptomsThe symptoms of black fungus include pain and redness around eyes or nose, fever, headache, coughing, shortness of breath, bloody vomitsPrecautions According to Medical Superintendent Dr Janak Raj, she had tested positive for Covid on May 4 and was referred to the Nerchowk hospital on May 8 with the complaint of breathlessness. The woman was referred to the IGMC yesterday. “Her condition is stable,” he said.While the news has sent shock waves across the district, Dr Anil Verma, Covid nodal officer, said the treatment for the disease was available and people need not panic.Meanwhile, a government spokesperson said the state had already issued advisory regarding the prevention and management of the black fungus disease in hospitals. “The Director, Health, has been asked to take stock of anti-fungal drugs like amphotericin B in their institutions,” he said.As per the evidence-based advisory issued by the ICMR, uncontrolled diabetes, immune suppression by steroids, a prolonged ICU stay, co-morbidities post transplant/malignancy are the predisposing factors for the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamirpur-woman-1st-black-fungus-case-in-himachal-pradesh-255901
21-05-2021||Shimla||Doctors to move court over quarantine||The Himachal Medical Officers’ Association has decided to take legal recourse against the state government’s decision to end the quarantine period granted to the medical staff after performing Covid duties. It has also decided to keep sporting black badges at work to register their protest against the decision. Pushpender Verma, association secretary, said the entire medical staff was shocked by the decision. “It’s sad and shocking that the government did not even bother to speak to us on the issue even after several requests and our symbolic protest,” said Verma. “We have decided to move the High Court,” he said. The association also mourned the death of a nurse due to Covid at the IGMC. “There can be more deaths of healthcare workers if the quarantine period is not restored,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/doctors-to-move-court-over-quarantine-255902
21-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Fix treatment charges in private hospitals: Congress||Nurpur, May 20 The state Congress has appealed to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to fix charges for Covid treatment in all private hospitals in the state so that hapless critical patients are not fleeced.  Rajinder Rana, vice-president of the Congress and in-charge of Nurpur subdivision, said here today that patients were forced to take costly treatment at non-requisitioned private  hospitals when they did not get oxygenated or ICU beds in government dedicated Covid care centres or private hospitals where the district administration had requisitioned 50 per cent beds. Rana said that the reports of Covid patients being overcharged by private hospitals, especially in Kangra district, was a serious matter during the pandemic. The government before requisitioning beds in the private hospitals should have fixed the charges for the remaining beds and Covid treatment. “Some private hospitals are taking advantage of the indecisiveness of the government to fix hospital charges before requisitioning 50 per cent beds. These hospitals are fleecing Covid patients, who reach there directly after they do not get beds in government dedicated Covid centres,” he added. He said that the list of hospital charges, including room rent, for the treatment of Covid patients should be displayed at these private hospitals on the pattern of the Tri-city. He suggested the government to depute some officials to keep tabs on the private hospitals so that Covid patients were not overcharged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fix-treatment-charges-in-private-hospitals-congress-255903
21-05-2021||---||CM Jai Ram Thakur: SHGs must help Covid-hit families||Shimla, May 20Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today urged self-help groups (SHGs) to help the families of Covid patients.While virtually addressing the SHGs from here today he said: “In case all the members of a family get infected, the SHG could help them by looking after their livestock and farm activities.” The SHGs must also come forward to help migrant labourers, who could face difficulties in getting jobs due to the curfew.He said the state government would provide all possible assistance to promote the products made by the SHGs so that they could get a better market.Thakur said the Mukhyamantri Ek Bigha Yojana had proved a boon to rural women in increasing their farm income. He added that under the scheme, any woman from a SHG could avail of the benefit of up to Rs 1 lakh provided she holds an MNREGA job card.He said the government in had made a provision of 50 per cent reservation for women in the panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies. “In the recently concluded elections to the PRIs and ULBs, 60 per cent seats were won by women,” he said.Thakur said the Central Government would provide 1,036 additional oxygen concentrators to the state.He presided over a meeting to review the Covid situation. “Proper supply of oxygen cylinders should be maintained in the state so that patients do not suffer for want of oxygen,” he said.Thakur said the government had urged the Centre to increase the oxygen quota by 10 MT. He added Himachal already has 6,200 D-type and 2,200 B-type cylinders while 250 cylinders had been procured under the CSR.The government was endeavouring to have 20 kilolitre of oxygen cryogenic tanks and two such tanks would be placed at the IGMC, Shimla, and Tanda Medical College. Efforts must also be made to get more oxygen cylinders under the CSR, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-jai-ram-thakur-shgs-must-help-covid-hit-families-255904
21-05-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Lobbying for CEC’s post intensifies||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 20More than a dozen retired and serving bureaucrats are vying for the post of State Election Commissioner as term of the present incumbent P Mitra getting over on May 31.Many in raceWith no age bar being there for the appointment, several bureaucrats, who retired several years ago, are also in the race for the post. P Mitra, former Chief Secretary, was appointed to the post on June 1, 2016 by the previous Congress regime headed by Virbhadra Singh immediately after he retired.Sources said that many sitting bureaucrats, including those nearing retirement are keen to get the post which has a term of four years without any age bar. Those who are keen to get the appointment include former Chief Secretary Vineet Chawdhary and retired IAS officer PC Kapoor, both perceived to be close to the ruling party.It is learnt that Jagdish Sharma, Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, who is due to retire early next year, too is keen to be posted against the vacancy being created with the term of Mitra getting over. Since the post of State Election Commissioner is filled without inviting applications, it is solely the prerogative of the government to appoint a person of their choice and suitability.Among some of the other names doing the rounds for being appointed to the post of CEC include RN Batta, a retired IAS officer who is presently serving as Private Secretary to the CM, and Sandeep Bhatnagar, Secretary, Panchayati Raj who too is nearing retirement. Even though the chances of appointment of a retired Indian Police Service (IPS) or Indian Forest Service (IFS) is bleak there are some contenders from these services who are seeking favour.Sources said the possibility of a person having good RSS-BJP links at the Centre being favoured could not be ruled out. As such there could be a surprise appointment, on the recommendation of the Central party high command.Efforts had been made to oust Mitra last year on the basis of a Vigilance case in which his name had cropped up. The case related to an alleged telephonic conversation Mitra had with a businessman, seeking permission in relaxation of Section 118 of the HP Tenancy and Land Reform Act to purchase land.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lobbying-for-cecs-post-intensifies-255905
21-05-2021||Mandi||Vehicle donated for Covid centre staff in Mandi||Bahl Motors, Mandi, has donated a vehicle to the district administration to ferry doctors and other staff serving at the makeshift Covid health centre at Khaliyar. Many organisations are coming forward to extend  help to overcome the crisis. Bahl Motors manager Somnath Bahl and Janak Bahl handed over the keys of the vehicle to Deputy Commissioner Rugved Thakur. Chief Medical Officer Dr Devender Sharma and Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Sadar, Nivedita Negi were also present. —  TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vehicle-donated-for-covid-centre-staff-in-mandi-255906
21-05-2021||Dharamsala||Shahpur man  missing after cyclone||Pawan Chand Katoch, a resident of Garoh village in Shahpur area of Kangra district, has gone missing after Tautkae cyclone. His father Jagroop Chand Katoch has written to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur seeking his help in tracing his son. In his letter to the Chief Minister, Jagroop Katoch has stated that his son was serving as a diver with UWSL, Under Water Services Company, since 2009.  “We came to know on May 15 that Pawan and his co-workers were on duty at Manglore in Karnataka in the sea and during their work tug (boat) plunged into waters. We tried a number of times to get information from Paramjeet Singh Jasal, senior diving manager, as well as Ravi Sexsena, assistant vice-president of the company. They were not responding even after repeated communications,” Katoch said.  He said the family was unable to get any information about Pawan and he was not sure if the company was putting any efforts to trace them. Kewal Singh Pathania, HPCC general secretary, in a letter to the Chief Minister  urged him to help the family know about the whereabouts of Pawan.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shahpur-man-missing-after-cyclone-255907
21-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Mahila Mandal harvests crop of infected family||Palampur, May 20 Coming to the rescue of a Covid-postive family under home isolation, a Mahila Mandal of Bhujal Mehanja village in Bhawarna block, harvested their entire wheat and potato crop.  Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that a family of Bhujal Mehanja village was under home isolation for the past 10 days after the members tested positive and were unable to harvest the standing crop, which had already been damaged.  No one was coming forward to help the family. However, a Mahila Mandal reached the house of the infected family and assured them that they would harvest the entire crop.  Later, the women reached the fields and started harvesting potatoes. In two days, 90 quintals of potatoes were taken out from the fields and also transported to their home, free of cost. The next day, the village women also harvested the standing wheat crop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mahila-mandal-harvests-crop-of-infected-family-255908
21-05-2021||---||Facility set up at Una to dispose of Covid waste||Shimla, May 20 The Covid-specific bio medical waste, including PPE kits, masks and gloves, being generated by hospitals is almost double the average waste generation by other medical needs.  It is in order to ensure proper disposal of this increased generation of hospital waste that the state government has enhanced its bio-medical waste disposal facility from 2.4 MT per day to 6.4 MT per day. Since May 2020, about 385 MT of Covid waste has been generated and disposed of through common as well as captive disposal facilities. The generation of 2.63 MT per day of Covid waste is being reported by the different institutions, besides an average generation of 1.46 MT per day of bio-medical waste, which is being disposed of through these common facilities. Sensing urgent need for augmenting capacity for disposal of medical waste, one new Common Bio-medical Waste Treatment and Disposal Facility (CBWTF) established by Enviro Engineer at Pandoga, Una district has been authorised for the task.  There were only two CBWTFs in the state at Sandli in Solan district and at Dugiari in Kangra district. Himachal has an inventory of 8,921 health care institutions, which falls under the ambit of the Biomedical Waste (Management & Handling) Rules, 2016. About 90 per cent of the waste is disposed through common facilities and approximately 10 per cent through captive treatment and disposal facility (deep burial). The pandemic has put-up additional burden on the bio-medical waste disposal infrastructure with a significant increase in Covid-specific waste, more so as this waste has to be disposed of as per the guidelines by the Central Pollution Control Board.  The State Pollution Control Board is monitoring the  waste management so as to ensure that it is strictly in accordance with the laid down guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/facility-set-up-at-una-to-dispose-of-covid-waste-255909
21-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||Kullu has lowest +ve patient count||KULLU, MAY 20 With the efforts of the district administration, Kullu has the lowest number of Covid-infected persons among the non-tribal districts of the state. There are 945 active cases in the district. About 800 people are undergoing home isolation while others have been hospitalised. DC Richa Verma said with the involvement of panchayati raj institutions, 1,300 village committees had been active in the district since December, even before the coming of the second wave.  She said these committees had been instructed to ensure special monitoring of Covid-positive people in home isolation. She added that the committees were also monitoring people living in quarantine.  She said immediate action was taken if any person in the home quarantine tried to get out of the house. These committees consist of a ward member and three or four residents, who guide people door to door and provide assistance.   The DC said 28 home isolation monitoring committees had also been formed in the district. She said these committees were continuously checking the health of patients in home isolation and were  ensuring the provision of ration and other items.  Verma said primary contacts are being tracked by contacting people on the telephone and this had proved instrumental in controlling the infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-has-lowest-ve-patient-count-255910
21-05-2021||Mandi||Distancing norm defied during CM’s visit: Kaul  Singh Thakur||Former Health Minister Kaul Singh Thakur alleged that poor response of the  government led to mass spread of coronavirus in rural areas. He said the Chief Minister inaugurated the 200-bed makeshift hospital at Khaliyar in Mandi for which the CM visited the venue. During his visit, the norm of social distancing was flouted.  The inauguration could have been done virtually from Shimla as he had inaugurated and laid foundation stones of various development projects virtually from Shimla in the past. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/distancing-norm-defied-during-cms-visit-kaul-singh-thakur-255911
21-05-2021||Mandi||Oxygen bank set up in Mandi||The district administration has set up an oxygen bank at Beas Sadan Bhuli to help corona patients.  “Oxygen cylinders, pulse oximeters, thermometers, masks and other healthcare devices for corona patients will be collected in this bank, which was formed in collaboration with the District Red Cross Society. These devices will be issued to corona patients with the condition that these would be returned after they recuperate,” DC Rugved Thakur said. The DC appealed to the residents to donate oxygen cylinders, pulse oximeters, thermometers, masks and other devices to the oxygen bank. People can contact on mobile number 94180-66900 of Secretary Red Cross Society, Mandi, or on 9882251805 of the Assistant Controller (Finance and Accounts) at DC Office, Mandi. He stated the parents or attendants of the corona-affected patients will be able to get the devices from the Oxygen Bank on the recommendation of the Chief Medical Officer, Mandi, and Block Medical Officers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/oxygen-bank-set-up-in-mandi-255912
21-05-2021||Ambika Sharma
||Covid cases in Sirmaur's rural areas a new task||Tribune News Service Solan, May 20 The fast-spreading coronavirus in rural areas has become a cause for concern for the district authorities of the bordering areas such as Sirmaur. More and more villages are becoming hypersensitive zones, and it is a Herculean task to contain the virus in far-flung areas, which are devoid of testing labs and healthcare facilities.  DC, Sirmaur, RK Pruthi said against 211 infection-free panchayats in April, the number  gradually declined to  188 a few weeks ago and to around 50 in the past one-and-a-half month.  “Of the 143 hypersensitive areas in Sirmaur district, most of them are rural hamlets where the number of Covid cases is fast increasing. There were eight hypersensitive areas in the district about a month and a half ago, but the number has increased speedily,” said Pruthi.   “This was a cause for concern and representatives of  the panchayati raj institutions have been directed to stop any undue movement of people. Healthcare workers are personally visiting people in isolation to monitor their health status,” added Pruthi. Kamlad,  Neharti Baghot, Bhatanwali, Kolar, Narag, Jaman Ki Ser, Sangra, Nohradhar, Habban, Tikker villages have reported 20 to 132 cases.  As the  RT-PCR testing is confined to urban areas and RAT tests are being done in rural areas, it appears that many positive cases are not getting traced. This could also lead to Covid spread. “As many as 924 tests per day were done in the district in the past one week and effort is being made to enhance testing, especially in the rural areas to detect more cases,” added Pruthi.   Late arrival of patients in hospitals, not using masks and ignoring social distancing norm, besides marriages where large crowds congregate lead to the spread of Covid and rising deaths in rural areas, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-cases-in-sirmaurs-rural-areas-a-new-task-255913
21-05-2021||Ravinder Sood||2 Baijnath villages Covid hotspots||Palampur, May 20Residents of Lohardi village of Chhota Bhanghal in Baijnath subdivision of Kangra district have been confined to their homes for the past 15 days. The village nestled amid Dhauladhar ranges has reported two Covid deaths and 35 positive cases so far.Nearby Shuru village is also badly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Every third person here is Covid positive. Today, 30 fresh cases were reported in the village.Virus tightens gripLohardi reported its first Covid-19 case in the first week of May. The patient had returned home from another state just before the lockdown. By May 12, the case count in the village had reached 30. The hamlet has been declared a containment zone and mass testing is being undertaken, said Palampur SDM Dharmesh Ramotra.In fact, hundreds of samples have already been collected and sent for testing. “It has been an extremely taxing month for the administration, but our team shall continue working tirelessly,” the SDM said.The Lohardi Sarpanch blamed the spurt in cases on people’s casual approach towards Covid protocol.According to health officials, the first person to be infected in Shuru village had a contact history. From him, the infection spread to his family members and then to other villagers. “Community transmission cannot be ruled out. We are undertaking mass testing in both villages and hope to check the spread of virus with the cooperation of villagers,” said the SDM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-baijnath-villages-covid-hotspots-256137
