22-05-2021||Ravinder Sood||Ambulance, health teams reach Covid-affected Baijnath villages||Palampur, May 21Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, Rakesh Prajapati today provided an ambulance to Luhardi village, a Covid hotspot, in Chhota Bhanghal. The ambulance will be stationed at the village and will be used if any emergency arose.The village is situated at a height of 7,000 feet above sea level in high hills of Dhauladhar ranges and 120 km from the district headquarters. The doctor posted in the local Primary Health Centre has also tested Covid positive.Health Department teams have already reached the village and sanitisation has been started. The Tribune had on Friday carried a news item in these columns highlighting the fast spreading virus in rural areas of Baijnath.'All Four medical blocks of Palampur worst hit'After affecting urban areas of Palampur, the pandemic is spreading fast in rural areas. Rural areas are now reporting a higher number of Covid cases than urban areas. All four medical blocks of Palampur have been worst affected where over 1,000 Covid patients are in home isolation. —Senior Health OfficerSDM, Palampur, Dharmesh Ramotra, who visited the village along with a team of health department yesterday, told reporters that because of difficult topography it was not possible to send an ambulance from Baijnath or Palampur to shift patients during an emergency. Therefore, an ambulance had been sent there which will be under the control of the local PHC for immediate shifting of Covid patients to Palampur or Tanda Medical College.The SDM also held meetings with the panchayat representatives of the area and requested them to follow the Covid protocols like social distancing, isolating patients and wearing face masks. He also provided medical kits to the affected families. Besides, Tehsildar he directed Multhan to be in touch with Covid-hit villagers.The SDM said that Covid testing in the village had been completed and results are awaited. Over 35 persons had tested Covid positive till yesterday in this village while two deaths were reported.Meanwhile, 30 persons, who had tested Covid positive in another worst-hit Shuru village of Baijnath subdivision, have been sent in home isolation. A team of the Health Department is camping in the village and providing medicines to the affected people. Every third person in the village is said to be Covid positive and the health authorities has not ruled out the possibility of community transmission.“After affecting urban areas of Palampur, the second wave of the pandemic is spreading fast in rural areas. Rural areas are now reporting a higher number of cases than urban areas. All four medical blocks of Palampur have been worst affected where over 1,000 Covid positive patients are in home isolation,” said a senior health officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ambulance-health-teams-reach-covid-affected-baijnath-villages-256418
22-05-2021||Dipender Manta||Malana residents finally agree to take the jab||Tribune News ServiceMandi, May 21Residents of Malana in Kullu district have finally agreed to take the jab. They were earlier reluctant to take the vaccine as not even one Covid has been reported from the village since the outbreak of the pandemic.It was after some amount of convincing that the villagers, who had barred entry of any outsider to the village when the covid pandemic broke out last year, agreed to take the vaccination tomorrow. Despite Malana attracting tourists, both foreign and Indian in large numbers, the vigilant residents completely barred entry of anyone into the village, the moment Covid cases started surfacing.ndemic broke out.Malana is considered to be one of the oldest democracies in the world.According to official sources, so far 73 people above 44 have registered themselves for vaccination. However, the target of district health authorities is to vaccinate 150 persons in the first phase. The village has a population of 2,350.Village Infamous for cannabis cultivationSince March last when corona first broke out, the villagers kept their movement restricted and they rarely moved out of the village barring for urgent work. The villagers have not still let their guard down and restriction is continuing as no outsiders are allowed into Malana, which is accessible through a four-km steep trek.Health team along with Chief Medical Officer Kullu Dr Sushil Chander will go to Malana village along with the health vaccination team district early tomorrow morning.Malana village, infamous for cannabis cultivation in Kullu district, is considered one of the oldest democracies of the world with a well-organized parliamentary system guided by the village deity Jamlu Rishi. The people of this village have deep faith in village deity Jamlu Rishi and they follow his orders blindly.Sources told The Tribune that due to ignorance, the people of this village are reluctant to get Covid jab. It is after thorough counselling by the district health authorities and Asha workers that the residents agreed to get the vaccination and started their online registration.Talking to The Tribune, local Asha worker Nirma said that “The village people are scared of getting the vaccine because a majority of them are ignorant about its importance. After counselling, so far 198 people of this village have agreed to get the Covid jab, while efforts are on to convince the others.”“We appreciate the decision of the district administration, Kullu, which decided to send health team to our village to provide Covid vaccine to the people. I have personally asked the village to get the vaccine,” Raju, Gram Panchayat Pradhan, Malana, said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/malana-residents-finally-agree-to-take-the-jab-256419
22-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Four workers killed in tunnel collapse in Bhuntar subdivision||KULLU, MAY 21Four workmen were killed and one was injured as debris fell on them as one under-construction tunnel of the NHPC collapsed in Pancha Nala near Garsa in Bhuntar subdivision of this district today. The workmen were reportedly engaged in drilling when the tunnel collapsed. They were trapped under the debris.The NHPC is carrying out construction of Parbati Hydro Electric Project – II and three diversion tunnels of about 600 metres were under construction in Garsa area. One of the tunnels caved in while drilling works during the evening causing the mishap in which five workmen were trapped under the debris. No other labourers were reportedly present in the tunnel when the incident occurred.Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said that rescue teams were rushed to the site. The DSP, SDM and BMO also visited the spot and monitored the rescue operation. He added that two ambulances were sent. The officials of the NHPC also assisted in the rescue operation. All four bodies were recovered. Two of them were from Sirmaur, one was from Kullu and one from Nepal. The injured workman was provided treatment in Kullu hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/four-workers-killed-in-tunnel-collapse-in-bhuntar-subdivision-256420
22-05-2021||Subhash Rajta||Crop loss pegged at Rs 280 crore, fruit growers seek quick relief||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 21The Horticulture Department has pegged the damage caused to apple and other fruits in April and May due to snowfall and hailstorm at Rs 280 crore. “In April, the growers suffered crop losses to the tune of Rs 254 crore. In May, our teams have estimated losses of around Rs 25 crore to Rs 26 crore,” said Horticulture Director JP Sharma. “We are still waiting for a few more reports from Kinnaur district. Otherwise, this is our final assessment of the damage caused,” he said.Apple, in particular, besides other fruits suffered massive damage due to heavy and untimely snowfall on April 23 in the higher reaches of Shimla and Kinnaur districts. Under the huge weight of 6 to 8 inches of snow, the anti-hail nets collapsed, and many trees were damaged or uprooted. Following the snowfall, many areas continued to receive hailstorm, causing more damage. “We have submitted the report to the state government. Now, the government will decide on the compensation and its modalities,” the Director said.30% production capacity lostThis time, the nature of losses is different. Trees were damaged, and several of them were uprooted. An apple tree in higher reaches takes 10 to 15 years to start bearing fruits. Many orchards have lost up to 30 per cent of their production capacity. —Lokender Bisht, President, Progressive growers associationHe added that the huge losses would impact the overall production this time. “Our normal capacity is around 10 lakh metric tonnes. Although we don’t have the exact estimate as of now, the production will certainly be hit this time,” he said.The growers, however, say that the losses suffered by them are much more than the government estimates. “If the government is assessing the damage close to Rs 300 crore through its conservative estimates, one can imagine the actual losses,” said Lokender Bisht, president of the Progressive Growers Association. “The state will need to seek a relief package from the Central Government to offer a substantial relief to the growers,” he added.Bisht said that the growers suffer crop damage due to hailstorms and other factors every year, and bear losses without complaining. “This time, the nature of losses is different. Trees were damaged, and several of them were uprooted. An apple tree in higher reaches takes 10 to 15 years to start bearing fruits. Many orchards have lost up to 30 per cent of their production capacity,” he said.With the damage report submitted to the government, the growers are now expecting a quick and substantial relief. “The relief, whether from the Centre or the state, should be quick and substantial so that the growers feel that the government is standing with them in this hour of crisis,” said Harish Chauhan, president of the Fruits, Vegetables and Flowers Growers Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/crop-loss-pegged-at-rs-280-crore-fruit-growers-seek-quick-relief-256421
22-05-2021||Shimla||NGOs ‘to be roped in to curb Covid’ in Himachal Pradesh||It has been decided to expand the scope of the services of NGOs and volunteers during Covid-19 by setting up help desks and other activities at various levels in the state, said a spokesperson for the Health Department here today.He said that the services of volunteers and NGOs could be utilised at various stages, starting right after sampling. The volunteers and the NGOs could help Covid patients and their contacts by facilitating their consultation with a doctor using the e-Sanjeevani OPD app, guiding them on home isolation protocols, post-Covid protocols and in following Covid appropriate behaviour. He added that they could also volunteer to facilitate the hospitalisation of infected persons.He said that if a Covid patient dies, the services of the NGOs and the volunteers could be taken for arranging vehicles, sensitising the bereaved family on the cremation protocols and arranging PPE kits, masks, sanitisers and bags for the disposal of biomedical waste generated thereafter. Body bags, PPE kits, masks and other required protective material would be available at the nearest primary health centres for the cremation of persons who die while in home isolation and directions to this effect had been issued to all Chief Medical Officers. The spokesperson said that if the family members were also Covid positive and staying in isolation, the volunteers and the NGOs could help in arranging day-to-day supplies for them and also facilitate the e-Sanjeevani consultation, if required. The e-Sanjeevani OPD on which any person of the state can seek tele-consultation directly from a doctor working at tele-hubs of the medical colleges is functioning from 8 am to 8 pm on all working days. It will also function on Sundays and holidays from 10 am to 4 pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngos-to-be-roped-in-to-curb-covid-in-himachal-pradesh-256422
22-05-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||CBSE decision on Class XII board exams awaited||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 21The state Education Department has done all preparations with regard to the two options of conducting the Class XII board examinations or promoting students on the basis of the results of the first, second and third term exams while the state government is awaiting the CBSE decision.All modalities such as the preparation of question papers, examination centres and assigning duties to the staff have been worked out in case the Class XII board examinations are held. Simultaneously, the arrangements for the evaluation of the results of the first, second and third (pre-board) term exams are also in place if students are promoted without examination, said Director Higher Education Amarjeet Sharma. He added that the government would take the final decision.There are about 1.10 lakh Class XII students in the state and the results are crucial as during the pandemic last year, several institutions and universities did not hold entrance tests and gave admissions on the basis of the merit of the Class XII results.Meanwhile, parents are divided on the issue. While the parents of meritorious students feel that the exams should be held, others say the students should be promoted.Last year, the Class XII results of the Himachal Board of School Education were declared on June 18. Ten days ago, over 1.16 lakh students of Class X of the HP Board were promoted, as per the CBSE formula and guidelines. On March 31, all students of government schools, barring the students of Class X and XII, were promoted to the next standard irrespective of their results in the annual exams.Meanwhile, the state research group is preparing lessons for geography, music and a few other subjects for online teaching under the Har Ghar Patshala programme. The link are sent to students through Whatsapp groups and the learning process is being monitored at the level of Joint Director, Deputy Director and Assistant Director Education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cbse-decision-on-class-xii-board-exams-awaited-256423
22-05-2021||---||Hold vaccination at primary health centres: Lahaul villagers||Mandi, May 21Residents of the Lahaul valley have urged the district administration to conduct Covid vaccination at nearby health centres.They say the administration has decided to conduct vaccination at the Keylong district hospital, which is far away from their native villages. Due to the ongoing curfew in the state, the public transport system is not functional. It is difficult for common people, especially senior citizens, to walk long distances to reach the district hospital, they say.Transport hurdlesDue to lack of transportation facilities in the Lahaul valley, it is difficult for people to reach the Keylong district hospital or the Udaipur centre for vaccination. Most of the villages in the valley are situated far away from both facilities. —Sachin Mirupa, Telling village residentSachin Mirupa, a resident of Telling village in Lahaul valley, says the district administration is conducting manual registration for vaccination due to poor Internet services in the region. “On Thursday, 26 persons failed to reach the district hospital because they are living in far-flung areas,” he says.“Due to lack of transportation facilities in the Lahaul valley, it is difficult for people to reach the district hospital or the Udaipur hospital for vaccination. Most of the villages in the valley are situated far away from both the hospitals. We urge the Lahaul and Spiti administration to make arrangements for vaccination in nearby primary health centres,” he said. Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai said, “As soon as we receive sufficient stock of Covid vaccine, we will start the vaccination process in primary health centres of the Lahaul valley, so that people get the facility at their doorsteps.”Waiting for vax stockAs soon as the district receives sufficient stock of Covid vaccine, it will start an inoculation drive in primary health centres of the Lahaul valley, so that people get the facility at their doorsteps, says Deputy Commissioner Pankaj Rai.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hold-vaccination-at-primary-health-centres-lahaul-villagers-256424
22-05-2021||Our Correspondent||17 shopkeepers challaned in Nurpur||Nurpur, May 21A team of the Food and Civil Supplies Department led by Vijay Hamlal, Kangra District Food and Supply Controller (DFSC), today visited 35 shops in Jawali town and challaned 17 shopkeepers for not displaying price lists.The DFSC said following complaints of overpricing of essential commodities like vegetables, fruits and groceries, an inspection was conducted. He said action was taken against defaulters under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, and 588 kg vegetables were seized.He said challans were submitted to the Jawali SDM for further action and show-cause notices would be served to the defaulters. “Since vegetables are a perishable commodity, the department, after taking disposal orders from the SDM, will auction the seized vegetables,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/17-shopkeepers-challaned-in-nurpur-256425
22-05-2021||---||Black fungus declared as notified disease||Shimla, May 21In view of the threat of the outbreak of black fungus, the Health and Family Welfare Department today notified the Himachal Pradesh Epidemic Diseases (Mucormycosis) Regulations, 2021.The notification was issued under Section 2 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 and would come into force immediately. The regulations would remain valid for one year. These had been issued in view of the threat of black fungus among immune-compromised patients, especially Covid infected being treated with steroids.All health care facilities, both government and private, have been ordered to follow the guidelines for screening, diagnosis and management of mucormycosis. Every confirmed or suspected case of mucormycosis would be reported to the Health Department through the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) concerned. A case of black fungus was reported at the IGMC yesterday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/black-fungus-declared-as-notified-disease-256426
22-05-2021||---||Hoarding, profiteering to invite stern action: Jai Ram Thakur||Shimla, May 21Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today directed the officers of the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department and the HP State Civil Supplies Corporation to be extra vigilant during the pandemic so that general public could be facilitated.The government would not hesitate from taking stern action against those involved in hoarding and profiteering of essential commodities during the pandemic, said Thakur while virtually interacting with the officers of the department and corporation from Shimla today.He said that the department should ensure the availability of essential commodities at reasonable prices and check unlawful trade practices by implementing the provisions of Essential Commodities Act effectively in the state. He added that the department must maintain smooth supply of essential commodities to the consumers at reasonable rates and take corrective measures to check the hoarding and profiteering by the traders.Thakur said that the state government had invoked HP Hoarding and Profiteering Prevention Order 1977, HP Commodities Price Marking and Display Order 1977 and HP Trade Articles (Licensing and Control) Order 1981 on April, 2021 to check any kind of trade malpractices. These orders would remain in force till October 31.He said that as many as 4,638 inspections have been conducted during last about one month to discourage the traders from overcharging and hoarding.The Chief Minister said that Targeted Public Distribution System in the state was functioning effectively through a network of 5,028 fair price shops catering to the needs of 19,17,302 ration card holders. Himachal was one of the first states in the country to implement One Nation - One Ration Card Scheme under National Food Security Act (NFSA).Food and Civil Supplies Minister Rajender Garg, while addressing the meeting virtually from Bilaspur, said the department was ensuring that the consumers get adequate and uninterrupted supply of essential commodities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hoarding-profiteering-to-invite-stern-action-jai-ram-thakur-256427
22-05-2021||Shimla||2,662 new cases, 57 deaths in Himachal||As many as 2,662 Covid cases were reported in the state today, raising the tally to 175,384. Besides, 57 persons died of the virus — 23 in Kangra, eight in Hamirpur, five each in Mandi, Shimla and Una, four in Bilaspur, three in Solan, two in Sirmaur and one each in Kinnaur and Kullu.Kangra was still the worst hit with 717 cases, followed by Shimla 434, Mandi 301, Solan 271, Una 173, Hamirpur 172, Solan 162, Una 143, Bilaspur 124, Kullu 74, Kinnaur 69 and Lahaul and Spiti 19. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-662-new-cases-57-deaths-in-himachal-256429
22-05-2021||Mandi||100% vaccination target for 45+ achieved in Kaza block||The health authorities achieved 100 per cent target of vaccinating above 45 persons against Covid at Kaza block in Lahaul Spiti today.According to official sources, both doses of vaccine have been administered to all citizens above 60, while the first dose of the vaccine has been administered to all citizens above 45 in 13 gram panchayats at Kaza block.Additional District Magistrate, Kaza, Gyan Sagar Negi said, “Today, we achieved the 100 per cent target of Covid vaccination for the above 45 year age group in Kaza block. The first and second doses of the vaccine have been administered to all citizens above 60 years and the first dose to all villagers above 45 years.”“Now, we are planning to vaccinate the villgers in the 18 to 44 age group in the coming days,” he said.“The Spiti valley remains cut off from the other parts of the state for several months due to heavy snowfall. It was not an easy task to reach remote villages of Kaza bock. When we started the campaign on January 18, we had no idea that we would be able to achieve our goal till mid-May,” the ADM said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/100-vaccination-target-for-45-achieved-in-kaza-block-256430
22-05-2021||---||Himachal Cong launches corona health kit||Dharamsala, May 21The Congress today launched a health kit that would be distributed in the state to help check the pandemic. In a joint online press conference, HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore and Congress leader GS Bali said that the first lot of 50 health kits had been sent to each block of the state.Rathore said that the health kits contain PPE kits, oxymeters, sanitisers, nebulization masks among other things. He said the distribution of kits started in Himachal today to mark the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi.Rathore said all Congress MLAs had been directed to purchase ambulances from their local area funds and provide it to the government for helping patients.“The Congress is trying to help out the state government in this hour of crisis. My Fortis hospital at Kangra has kept a few beds that serve oxygen langar. Anybody who has to wait for admission in Covid hospitals can avail of the facility free of cost. Besides, 40 beds equipped with oxygen supply have been provided to the district administration,” he said.Bali said that all former and sitting legislators of the Congress had been asked to provide the details of the amount they were spending for helping Covid patients in their constituencies. The record of the help extended by Congress leaders in the state would be sent to Congress president Sonia Gandhi.Bali said that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was consistently violating the norms set by his government to curb virus spread. He was touring the state and wherever he goes hundreds of BJP workers gather.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cong-launches-corona-health-kit-256431
22-05-2021||Palampur||Situation grim in Kangra, take strict steps: Shanta Kumar||Senior BJP leader Shanta Kumar today urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to launch an aggressive campaign to control Covid-19 in Kangra . He said the lockdown had not shown the desired results, therefore stringent measures were needed.In a letter written to the Chief Minister, Shanta Kumar termed the situation in the district as grim. He said that the district has the highest positivity rate of 38 per cent. Besides, 25 to 30 persons were dying of the virus every day in the district.He said that Covid was now spreading in rural areas. In some villages, every third person was infected with the virus.He appreciated the efforts of the district administration for working round the clock to control the pandemic. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/situation-grim-in-kangra-take-strict-steps-shanta-kumar-256432
22-05-2021||New Delhi||Weddings behind higher death rate in Himachal: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday reviewed Covid response and vaccine progress in nine states and UTs — Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Ladakh, Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu and Lakshadweep. He said that Himachal Pradesh had over 35,000 active cases and the case fatality rate of 1.44 pc, higher than the national average of 1.12 pc.“Complacency, marriages and super-spreader events are causing a steep Covid rise in Himachal,” he said, adding that India had 30,27,925 active cases now, and the recovery rate had improved to 87.25 pc. He said India had conducted the highest number of Covid tests — 20,61,683 in the past 24 hours and administered 19,18,89,503 vaccine doses.The minister said that 216 crore vaccine doses would be procured between August and December and by July 51 crore doses will be procured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/weddings-behind-higher-death-rate-in-himachal-harsh-vardhan-256433
22-05-2021||Our Correspondent||‘Kardars’ of three deities fined for amassing crowd in Kullu||Kullu, May 21The police have imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 each on the ‘kardars’ (caretakers) of three deities for accumulating a crowd during a religious function without permission at Naggar village in Manali subdivision of the district yesterday.Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said that challans were issued under Sections 111 and 115 of the HP Police Act and further legal proceedings were underway. He added that the ‘kardars’ were advised not to amass crowds during the curfew.A six-day Shadi Jaach is held on the premises of Goddess Tripura Sundari temple every year. This year, the rituals are being performed during the festival from May 18 to 24. The palanquins of Goddess Patanti and Naag Devta of the Naggar area reached the temple with their devotees to perform rituals yesterday.Were performing rituals for a religious functionHowever, the police also reached there and told them to disperse the crowd. The devotees told the police that the deities were upset with their action. A video of the episode has also gone viral on social media where people are saying that the police should return, as the deities were unhappy with their action.On May 3, the palanquin of deity Shela Bramha of Raison along with ‘kardars’ and ‘devalus’ (volunteers) had gathered at the Deputy Commissioner’s office to resent the closure of temples and the restrictions imposed on religious functions.The matter is serious as it involves the religious sentiments of people and the implementation of the guidelines of the government during the pandemic. While people at large have been restricted from visiting temples and organising religious events, the priests do perform daily rituals. There are a large number of temples in the Kullu valley.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kardars-of-three-deities-fined-for-amassing-crowd-in-kullu-256434
22-05-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Vaccine doses go waste as people skip appointments in Kangra||NURPUR, MAY 21The reported wastage of Covid jabs during the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group in lower Kangra areas during the sessions held on May 17 and 20 has become a matter of concern for the district health authorities.On Thursday, around 200 shots were wasted in Kangra just because people from far-off places who had booked their slots didn’t turn up at the vaccination centres. The department authorities were helpless in cutting this wastage as people had booked their online slots through Cowin portal.Staff helplessInquiries made by The Tribune reveal that on Thursday, at the vaccination centre of the Civil Hospital, Nurpur, 94 shots were administered and six were wasted and at the Primary Health Centre (PHC), Rinna (Nurpur), too, six shots went wasted whereas one vial stayed unused as only 84 out of 100 beneficiaries turned up at this centre.The district authorities set up 46 sessions on Thursday for administering vaccination shots to 4,600 beneficiaries who got themselves registered and booked their slots on the online Cowin portal. However, only 4,171 persons visited the vaccination centres across Kangra district. One vial of the vaccination comprises 10 shots. In the earlier vaccination drive for people above 45 years, when there was no online registration, health workers engaged in administering shots were able to avoid the wastage as they opened the vial only after 10 beneficiaries reached the vaccination centre. But now, they can’t decline even a single beneficiary who arrives at the centre and has an online booking. This results in the wastage of remaining shots of the vial.Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Kangra, Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said he was aware of this problem and he had taken up the issue with the higher state authorities of the Health Department. He admitted that due to online registration and booking of slots by beneficiaries hailing from far-off places from the area where sessions were being organised, health staff was facing this problem. He appealed to people to book their slots in their nearby centres and ensure their visit as per the slot opted by them.Meanwhile, a senior retired health officer of Kangra, RS Rana said the wastage of shots could be avoided if only people hailing from the jurisdiction of local health block were allowed to get themselves registered on the portal. “The eligible beneficiaries should go to the health institutions where sessions are planned two days before slots and get themselves registered and only 100 tokens should be released for one time session and rest be given for next immunisation day,” he suggested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vaccine-doses-go-waste-as-people-skip-appointments-in-kangra-256435
22-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Himachal Assembly Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar assists kin in performing Covid victim’s last rites||Palampur, May 21Assembly Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar today reached Dhoran village, 10 km from Palampur, to help a bereaved family cremate a Covid victim. Subedar Baboo Ram succumbed to Covid-19 yesterday.A message was reportedly circulated on social media seeking help for the family. While most of the villagers kept away from cremation, Parmar, on reading a message, reached the village to assist the family.Later, he visited the native place of the deceased and told villagers that there were no chances of infection if Covid protocol were followed while cremating the dead. He urged the villagers to support infected families. “It is a phase and all of us have to fight this battle together,” said the Speaker.“The state government headed by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur is committed to providing all possible help to patients and their family members. Pulse oximeters, health kits, and medicines are being made available at every health centre,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-assembly-speaker-vipin-singh-parmar-assists-kin-in-performing-covid-victims-last-rites-256436
22-05-2021||---||15,341 cops deployed for Covid duties: Himachal DGP||Shimla, May 21As many as 15,341 police personnel out of 17,415 have been deployed on Covid-19 duties and reserve police have been deputed at medical colleges to avoid any untoward incident, said Director General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu, who visited various police stations of the capital city to boost the morale of the force.The war against drugs continues and poppy cultivation in Mandi, Kullu and Shimla district were destroyed in large numbers. Two trucks of illegal liquor were also seized in the Baddi area, he said, adding that there had been a decrease in other crimes. He said the number of road accidents had also dropped. He was interacting with media at the Sadar police station.He said so far 2,874 police personnel had tested positive for Covid-19, out of which 2,378 had recovered and five had passed away. However, 90 per cent of the police force had been fully vaccinated.He said as far as the enforcement of the curfew was concerned, during the past two months, many cases of transport violation and violation of Covid-19 guidelines had been registered and a fine of Rs 56,55,400 had been deposited in the government treasury this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/15-341-cops-deployed-for-covid-duties-himachal-dgp-256437
22-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Work begins to extract silt from Dalhousie’s Khajjiar Lake||Chamba, May 21The work of extracting silt from the Khajjiar Lake has been started. The Wildlife Department has been tasked to monitor it effectively.According to the opinion of experts, the work is being done manually so that the original form of the lake is not spoiled.In order to save the shrinking lake, the work is being carried out in a scientific way.Local MLA Pawan Nayyar said a sum of Rs 40 lakh had been sanctioned for the work of removing silt in and around the lake.In addition to this, Rs 35 lakh had also been spent on the beautification of the PWD rest house at Khajjiar, street lights and other basic amenities, said Nayyar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-begins-to-extract-silt-from-dalhousies-khajjiar-lake-256438
22-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Strong winds uproot trees, disrupt power supply in Nurpur||NURPUR, MAY 21Strong winds and heavy showers last night brought down the day temperature in lower Kangra areas today but they also disrupted electricity and water supply here. Winds uprooted trees at several places, damaging High Tension (HT) and Low Tension (LT) power supply cables. The electricity supply remained suspended in the area last night. It was restored by field employees of the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Ltd (HPSEBL) this noon. The failure of electricity supply also affected the water supply in the town.HPSEBL Nurpur division Executive Engineer Zafar Iqbal said strong winds uprooted trees which snapped power cables in Nurpur, Suliali, Kotla and Damtal sections. He said tree felling damaged power supply lines at three locations in Damtal, one in Nurpur, two in Suliali and one in Bhadwar disrupted electricity supply in these power feeders.Meanwhile, the kutcha house of Suresh Kumar of Sutrahad village in Bhaleta gram panchayat in Nurpur was also damaged. The revenue department’s field staff has assessed the loss and submitted its report to the local revenue authorities. Meanwhile, the storm has caused extensive damage to mango and litchi crops in Nurpur area. Kamal Sheel Negi, Deputy Director, Horticulture, Kangra, said the fruit loss in Nurpur horticulture block has been reported to over Rs four lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/strong-winds-uproot-trees-disrupt-power-supply-in-nurpur-256439
22-05-2021||---||Complete tourism projects on time: Himachal CM||Shimla, May 21Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has directed officers of the Tourism and Civil Aviation Department to ensure the time-bound completion of the ongoing projects to avoid cost escalation.Presiding over a review meeting of department here yesterday, Thakur said the Cultural Centre at Janjehli in Mandi district had been completed at Rs 25.75 crore and would be operational on the PPP mode.A pre-bid meeting for the project was slated for June 3 and bids would be submitted on June 25. He said the heliport in Shimla would be completed by the end of July.He said Kangra Haat, Dal Lake and Art and Craft Project at Bhalei Mata Temple was nearing completion and a convention centre at Kiarighat in Solan district would be completed by September.He said Shivdham in Mandi was an ambitious project, the first phase of which had been awarded to Generic Engineering Construction and Projects. He directed PWD authorities to expedite the work on the construction of road leading to the project.Thakur said Bantony Castle, Shimla, would be completed by September. He said the ropeway ski lift, ski resort, helipad, camping and ski slopes would be developed at Chanshal in Shimla district on the PPP mode for which last date for receiving the expression of interest was June 19.Thakur said an Institute of Hotel Management would be constructed at Dharamsala by upgrading the existing Food Craft Institute.This would provide the trained manpower to the hospitality sector. He directed the officers to ensure the time-bound completion of heliports at Baddi, Rampur and Kangnidhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/complete-tourism-projects-on-time-himachal-cm-256440
22-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Man killed as truck rolls down gorge||Dalhousie, May 21One person was killed in an accident in Churah subdivision of the district on Friday.The incident happened when a truck was travelling in rolled down a gorge near the Tissa bridge in Churah.The deceased has been identified as Pawan Kumar, who belonged to Kialuan village of the Churah area, the police said. They said a case of rash and negligent driving had been registered under Sections 279 and 304A of the IPC at the Tissa police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-killed-as-truck-rolls-down-gorge-256441
22-05-2021||A rain shelter built along the Pathankot-Mandi national highway at Banoru||Rain shelter at Banoru in bad shape||Book vax slots for non-tech savvy citizensThe online registration for the inoculation of the 18-44 age group is an appreciable step by the government to avoid crowding at vaccination centres. However, some arrangement should be made for those who do not use smart phones or Internet, so that they can register themselves for vaccination. About 50 per cent of the slots should be allocated to residents of local panchayats near vaccination centres to facilitate the rural masses. — Gaurav Bhardwaj, KulluWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-shelter-at-banoru-in-bad-shape-256446
22-05-2021||Government Polytechnic Institution in Hamirpur||Hamirpur: Webinar for polytechnic students||Hold entrance exams without fee: SFIThe SFI on Frdiay said that even though HPU had released the forms for entrance tests, the university and the Education Department had no plan so far to conduct the exams of BA final year students. The SFI said the BA final year students were wondering how to apply for entrance tests when they have not even taken their final year exam. It said no fee should be charged from students for entrance exams this year.Send study material to students: ABVPThe ABVP has urged the government to take some measures to help students in far-flung areas like Dodra Kwar and Pangi in Chamba district who can't attend online classes due to poor cellular connectivity or no Internet access. It suggested that study material should be sent to such students through mail.VC stresses need to conserve beesWorld Honeybee Day was celebrated through virtual mode at CSK HP Agriculture University here on Thursday. Addressing over 200 scientists, experts, officials, beekeepers and students, Prof HK Chaudhary, Vice Chancellor, said this year's theme was ‘Bee Engaged — Build Back Better for Bees’. He said efforts should be made to conserve honey bees to keep people and the planet healthy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hamirpur-webinar-for-polytechnic-students-256453
22-05-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||In Lahaul-Spiti, tourists snap up 50% vaccine slots||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 21Eighty per cent of the Covid vaccines will now be administered to residents of the tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti through draw of lots as on the first day, 50 per cent of the shots were taken by tourists from Delhi, Punjab and Rajasthan, visiting Manali.Owing to poor connectivity, the locals are facing problem in logging onto the CoWin portal for getting their names registered for vaccination in the 18-44 age group. Taking advantage, tourists took slots for almost 50 per cent of the vaccines that were administered on May 17.Pankaj Rai, Deputy Commissioner, said the matter came to light when tourists arrived at vaccination centres and their details were noted down by the health staff. Following the development, the locals were agitated and demanded walk-in inoculations. Rai said walk-in vaccination drive was not possible and it would lead to overcrowding at centres.The administration has now allowed only 20% vaccines through registration on the CoWin portal and the remaining 80% through draw of lots.Rai said, “We have made an app where locals can either book vaccine online or fill their particulars, which will be processed manually. Then, some residents will be made to pick names through draw.”Poor connectivity bugs residents||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-lahaul-spiti-tourists-snap-up-50-vaccine-slots-256535
