23-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh records 59 more Covid-19 deaths, 1,309 fresh cases||Himachal Pradesh reported 1,309 new Covid-19 cases and 59 more fatalities on Sunday, pushing the state's infection tally to 1,79,034 and the death toll to 2,752, an official said.According to the state health department, there are 25,979 active cases in Himachal Pradesh.As many as 4,059 patients have recuperated from the disease in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,50,278, the official said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-records-59-more-covid-19-deaths-1-309-fresh-cases-257304
23-05-2021||Dharamsala||Himalayan black bear attacks Mcleodganj woman; panic among locals||A Himalayan black bear reportedly attacked a woman on Jogibara road, Mcleodganj, on early Sunday morning. She was seriously injured. Sources revealed that this was the second attack of a Himalayan black bear in Mcleodganj.DFO Dharamsala, Dr Sanjeev, Kumar said that he received information regarding the bear attack in Mcleodganj on Sunday. It was found, that the rag-picker had gone into tree plantations on the Jogibara area, and was attacked by the black bear.Initially, the woman was taken to Delek hospital of the Tibetan government in exile, and then to another hospital by her kin. The forest officials are looking for the woman since she had to be compensated for the injury by the Himalayan Black bear, he said.The DFO revealed that the attack of the Himalayan Black Bear in summers near habitations was a rare incident. Generally, the bears migrate to lower areas in winters when food gets scarce in higher hills. However, it seems that due to lockdown, and reduced movement of people is attracting black bears near habitations. The area, where the bear attacked the woman, was used by locals to dump food waste. The team of forest officials was trying to spot the bear which attacked the woman, the DFO said.The two bear attacks in the Mcleodganj areas has caused panic among the residents.Rakesh Kumar—a resident of the area—said, that it was "scary that Himalayan Black bears were attacking people so near to habitation".||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himalayan-black-bear-attacks-mcleodganj-woman-panic-among-locals-257283
23-05-2021||Shimla||Banners with Gandhi family photos torn, videos go viral||The one-upmanship in the Congress was at display as a poster war raged and some youths tore banners bearing the pictures of Rajiv Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and former minister GS Bali on the launch of Covid health kits.Videos of some people tearing posters bearing Bali’s picture late last night went viral on social media today.‘Insult to Raja Sahib’, youths heard sayingThe youths can be heard saying that the insult to “Raja Sahib” will not be tolerated while they tore banners placed atop Rajiv Bhawan, state Congress office, and near the local bus stand near the Panchayat Bhawan here. The youths probably were peeved at Virbhadra Singh’s picture missing from the banners.What is interesting that they tore huge banners bearing the photographs of Rajiv Gandhi, Sonia, Rahul Gandhi, AICC in-charge of Himachal Rajeev Shukla, state Congress president Kuldeep Rathore, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) Leader Mukesh Agnihotri and Bali.The videos caused major embarrassment to the Congress, as people commented on social media that the party was ridden with bickering and infighting. The Congress had launched its health kits for Covid patients with much fanfare at Dharamsala yesterday in the presence of Rathore while Shukla was present virtually from Delhi. “Notwithstanding the tearing of banners carrying the pictures of Rajiv Gandhi, Sonia and Rahul Gandhi, we will continue to extend help to Covid patients in this hour of crisis,” said Bali. He refrained from commenting on the poster war.There were others who commented that the photographs of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh and his son Vikramaditya alone were carried on posters put up in the Shimla (Rural) and Arki Assembly segments that they represent, so why they have a problem now when others put up posters with the pictures of central and state leaders.They pointed out that the posters did not even have the Congress symbol (hand) or the name of the party.Party sources said it appeared that a faction of the Congress seems to be perturbed at Bali being made the in-charge of the committee constituted to help Covid patients. “Can there be a better display of infighting in the party. Such bickering will only help the BJP,” wrote Congress supporters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/banners-with-gandhi-family-photos-torn-videos-go-viral-257162
23-05-2021||Our CorrespondentKullu||Tunnel collapse: FIR lodged, Kullu DC orders inquiry||The police have registered an FIR in the NHPC tunnel collapse case in which four workers died at Pancha Nala yesterday.SP Gaurav Singh said the police would investigate the negligence aspect. Officials of the tunnel manufacturing company would be questioned about the cause of the incident and safety arrangements for workers.Kullu Deputy Commissioner Richa Verma has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the matter. She has asked the ADM to submit an inquiry report within a week. The investigation team includes the ADM, the SDM and a DSP, besides technical experts.The bodies of three workers were handed over to their families after the post-mortem today. The body of the worker of Darjeeling has been kept in the mortuary and will reportedly be sent by air to his native place.Meanwhile, many worker unions have expressed grief over the calamity and demanded investigation and strict action against the erring officials. They demanded fair compensation to the families of the victims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tunnel-collapse-fir-lodged-kullu-dc-orders-inquiry-257163
23-05-2021||New Delhi||Pawan Chand Katoch: No info of man missing after Tauktae cyclone||Devastation in wake of the Tauktae cyclone continues to show up its ugly face. The family of Pawan Chand Katoch, a resident of Kangra, has been awaiting to hear about him for the past seven days.Katoch is a diver on board the ‘Alliance’, a tug-boat of a Gujarat-based company working near new Mangalore port. “He has been missing in the Arabian Sea since May 15. We have no information about him,” his cousin Divya Katoch said.The family has been calling up the company. They have been told that the tug-boat capsized near the new Mangalore port trust. Three of the crew members have been rescued. Katoch is among those missing.“The company has been irresponsible. It hasn’t contacted us even once. It had every information about the cyclone, but it did not ask the boat to come ashore”, Divya added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pawan-chand-katoch-no-info-of-man-missing-after-tauktae-cyclone-257164
23-05-2021||Shimla||Covid orphans to get compensation, says CM Himachal||The Himachal Government has decided to provide compensation to the most vulnerable families, including orphaned children and widows, belonging to the economically weaker sections of society, on the basis of an audit of Covid deaths.“We will undertake an audit of all people, who died of Covid, to provide compensation to the kith and kin of those belonging to economically weaker sections and are in need of help,” said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here yesterday. Uttarakhand and Delhi have already announced a financial help by way of compensation to the families which have lost their members to Covid.Thakur said that though the families of Covid victims had faced a lot of trauma, compensation would be given to the most vulnerable groups such as orphaned children, and widows.He admitted that several suggestions had been received regarding compensation to the families of Covid victims. “The country is passing through an economic crisis and the poorest of the poor and orphaned children need help. It is very difficult to define who has been more affected by Covid but once the situation improves, a mechanism will be devised to help the most needy,” he said.Thakur said that though it was difficult to forecast how severe the third wave of “Covid would be but a separate protocol was being prepared so that “we are prepared in case of such an eventuality”. “We have improved the infrastructure, including the number of ventilators, oxygen capacity and isolation beds to meet the growing demand,” he added.Thakur said that he had requested the Central Government to enhance Himachal’s quota of oxygen from 15 MT to 40 MT in view of the increased requirement. The number of D-type oxygen cylinders had increased from mere 2,500 to 6,000. He expressed concern that during the second wave the number of critical patients requiring ventilators have risen from average 15 to over 400.Thakur said that the state government would launch another active case finding campaign to detect people suffering from flu-like symptoms. The campaign would be launched with the active participation of panchayati raj representatives along with Health Department teams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-orphans-to-get-compensation-says-cm-himachal-257165
23-05-2021||Shimla||Chirag Bhanu Singh posted as OSD in Supreme Court||Chirag Bhanu Singh, Presiding Officer, Labour Court-cum-Industrial Tribunal, Shimla, has been posted as Officer on Special Duty (OSD) in the grade of Registrar in the Supreme Court on deputation.The Himachal High Court issued the order yesterday placing his services at the disposal of the Supreme Court. Chirag was appointed Additional District and Sessions Judge in 2007 and had served in Solan and Una. He had also worked as Registrar in the Supreme Court and Principal Secretary, Lokayukta. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chirag-bhanu-singh-posted-as-osd-in-supreme-court-257166
23-05-2021||Shimla||Mandal lends aid with 50 Oxygen concentrators||Sant Nirankari Mandal presented 50 oxygen concentrators to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today. Thakur thanked the mandal for the philanthropic act and said that the assistance would go a long way in providing better health care facilities to Covid-19 patients. “Organisations such as Sant Nirankari Mandal are providing commendable services by helping people and motivating others,” he said.Thakur also thanked the organisation for setting up a 25-bed Covid care facility at Sant Nirankari Satsang Bhawan at Nalagarh. He said that the mandal would create another 25-bed facility at their Satsang Bhawan in Kangra.Sukh Dev Singh, Chairman, Sant Nirankari Mandal, said that they would also provide 500 oxymeters and both 25-bed centres would be made functional by early next week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mandal-lends-aid-with-50-oxygen-concentrators-257167
23-05-2021||Shimla||Death rate rises to 2.3pc in Shimla district||The Covid death rate has increased to 2.30 per cent in Shimla district and people above 60 years of age are the most vulnerable.As per an analysis shared by the district police, a total of 18,359 persons have recovered while 501 persons have died due to the pandemic in the district. The recovery rate is 84.50 per cent while the rate of active cases is 13.20 per cent.People above 60 years most vulnerableAs per an analysis shared by the district police, 6.81 per cent of deaths occurred in the above 60 years age group, followed by 1.83 per cent in 46 to 60 years, 0.52 per cent in 31 to 45 years, 0.12 per cent in 16 to 30 years while no death due to Covid has been reported in the 0 to 15 years group.“Reserve parties have been deployed in medical colleges for the safety of doctors and paramedical staff. About 2,100 police personnel, including the strength sanctioned for Shimla, six reserves and Home Guard jawans, are deployed in the district to maintain law and order and manage the curfew,” said Mohit Chawla, SP, Shimla.Even DGP Sanjay Kundu, who inspected urban police station in Shimla city, has praised the multi-dimensional working of the force in helping people, creating awareness and distributing ration and other items, he added.Drones are being used for curfew surveillance. There are about 36 nakkas in the district — nine in urban areas and 27 in rural areas. As many as 93 patrolling parties (51 in urban and 42 in rural) are operating in the field. While 308 police personnel had been infected with the virus, 99 per cent of the police force has been vaccinated.A total of 308 FIRs (257 under Section 188 of the IPC, 46 under the Disaster Management Act and five under the Essential Commodities Act, have been registered in the district for violations of the curfew and the lockdown in the past 14 months since restrictions were imposed in March 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/death-rate-rises-to-2-3pc-in-shimla-district-257168
23-05-2021||KULLU||Plaint of missing injections false||The Kullu police have cracked a case of 36 Remdesivir injections that had gone missing from the Regional Hospital, Kullu.The Medical Superintendent (MS) had lodged a complaint on May 1 that 36 injections had gone missing on April 30. The police had arrested a ward boy on suspicion on May 3.SP Gaurav Singh said during investigation, it was revealed that no injections had gone missing but the records were not maintained properly. He added that the hospital authorities did not check the records and reported the theft to the police. The police sent a notice to the MS asking her how many injections were received and used. The MS stated that the theft report was made by mistake due to non-maintenance of records. The SP said now the police would take action against the hospital authorities under Section 182/211, IPC, for the false theft complaint. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/plaint-of-missing-injections-false-257169
23-05-2021||Mandi||45 get jab in remote Kullu village||Forty-five persons got Covid jabs in remote Malana village of Kullu today, on the first day of the vaccination drive led by the district health authorities.Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Kullu, Dr Sushil Chander said so far, 73 people had registered themselves on the Cowin portal for vaccination. “As many as 45 persons were vaccinated at Malana village today. The process will continue so that the entire population of the village above 18 years of age is vaccinated,” he added.The CMO said that before starting the vaccination drive, Block Medical Officer, Jari, Sapna Sharma counselled the villagers on its importance. Raju Ram, pradhan of Malana gram panchayat, took the first jab in the village to motivate fellow villagers to follow suit.Dr Sushil said that with the efforts of the district health authorities, people of Malana village were coming forward for vaccination. As it is a remote area, the medical team had to walk a long distance to reach the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/45-get-jab-in-remote-kullu-village-257170
23-05-2021||Our CorrespondentPalampur||MLA seeks isolation centres in rural areas||Ashish Butail, Congress MLA from Palampur, today expressed concern over the rising Covid-19 cases and deaths in Palampur. He said the death rate and infection rate was very high, particularly in rural areas.Addressing mediapersons here today, Butail said the infection was spreading fast in the village in the absence of proper space and facilities for isolation.He said in the past two days, he had visited a number of villages of his Assembly segment and it was found that infected persons and their family members were sharing the same room, same kitchen and same toilet, increasing the chances of transmitting infection to others members of the family since they had no separate rooms for the isolation.“Similar is the situation in many other villages of Kangra. This fact has been completely ignored by the state government. The government has virtually forgotten such people after delivering kit medicines. No one is attending their phone calls in emergency cases, due to which they are dying daily,” said Butail.He said many states like Haryana had opened isolation centres in villages to control the spread of virus.He said the state government, too, should set up isolation centres immediately to help the villagers.He said if the government fails to set up isolation centres in the next three days, he would himself set up an isolation centre at Palampur to accommodate 100 patients with proper facilities and medical equipment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mla-seeks-isolation-centres-in-rural-areas-257171
23-05-2021||Our CorrespondentPalampur||Officials inspect marriage venues in Palampur||Teams of sector officers, constituted by the Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, to check the crowd assembled in marriage functions, today visited 12 venues in different villages of Palampur.The SDM said in all marriages, the participants were less than 20 and they were found following Covid protocols.The sector officers, accompanied by local panchayat representatives, also educated people regarding the campaign to control the pandemic. They also visited the villages where marriages were due next week. The families were given the copies of guidelines to be followed.He said the teams would continued surprise checks. Over 50 persons had requested for the permission to perform marriages this week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/officials-inspect-marriage-venues-in-palampur-257172
23-05-2021||Mandi||Lahaul volunteers win hearts with Covid work||Volunteers of the Young Drukpa Association, Garsha, are sanitising the streets of villages in the Lahaul valley to check the spread of Covid-19 among people in Lahaul & Spiti district. They are giving sanitisers, masks, oximeters and other medical equipment free of cost to the needy.Residents are appreciating these volunteers for their noble work. Members of the association have set up a temporary camp outside a vaccination centre at the district hospital in Keylong to provide refreshments to people who arrive from far-flung areas of the district to get the jab.Navang, Amar Chand, Norbu, Vinod Kumar and a few other local residents of Lahaul valley said the association members were working tirelessly to help the needy.They said since the Covid-19 outbreak in the state in March, volunteers of the association had been sanitising streets of villages in the valley.Kunga Bodh, a member of the Young Drukpa Association, Garsha, said, “It is a matter of pride for us to serve public in this crisis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-volunteers-win-hearts-with-covid-work-257173
23-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal CM launches home isolation kit||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur launched a home isolation kit for Covid patients and the Himachal Covid Care Application here today. He also launched an e-Sanjeevani OPD through which people could connect with AIIMS, Bilaspur, for online consultation and treatment.Positivity rate touches 15.67%; 5.53% in phase1 Thakur also flagged off 11 vehicles carrying these kits to different parts of the state. He said that MLAs would provide these kits to patients in home isolation and urged the legislators to ensure that these were made available to the needy at the earliest.Thakur said the e-Sanjeevani OPD would ensure effective communication between patients and physicians and enable advice from specialists. The Covid care app would provide an effective mechanism for the monitoring of patients in home isolation.He said over 18 lakh tests had been conducted and about 1.75 lakh persons had tested positive. He said till now, 2,638 people had lost their lives due to the virus.The second wave of Covid was fatal and cases were also rising at a fast pace. He added that the positivity rate during the first phase was 5.53 per cent and during the second wave, it had increased to 15.67 per cent.He said to cope with the situation, the bed capacity had been enhanced from 1,200 to about 5,000 and the storage capacity of oxygen had been increased by 25 MT. As many as 3,100 fresh recruitments had been made in the Health Department to ensure adequate manpower in the health institutions.He said about 22.52 lakh vaccines had been administered to the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-launches-home-isolation-kit-257174
23-05-2021||Dharamsala||Home isolation kit distribution on in Kangra||The Kangra administration today started the distribution of kits to Covid patients in home isolation.ADM Rohit Thakur and Chief Medical Officer GD Gupta handed over the kits to SDMs and Block Medical Officers. The kits contain an oximeter, thermometer and necessary medicines recommended for Covid patients.The DC said along with the kit, a home isolation self-help handbook was also being distributed. It will also give guidance on the use of e-Sanjeevani OPD services through which Covid patients in home isolation can get free medical consultation while sitting at home. This booklet also compiles necessary information for those caring for the patient at home. A nutrition chart has also been provided. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/home-isolation-kit-distribution-on-in-kangra-257175
23-05-2021||KULLU||Allow opening of shops: Kullu traders to govt||Traders have appealed to the government to allow them to open shops for a limited period.They said they had suffered huge losses due to the lockdown last year and their survival had become difficult due to the closure of shops since May 6. They requested that the curfew relaxation hours be increased.Kullu Beopar Mandal president Rakesh Kohli said all shops should be allowed to open on alternate days for 4 or 5 hours. Many shopkeepers have no other source of income and they were now sitting idle. A plan should be chalked out to let the shopkeepers earn their livelihood amid the Covid crisis.A trader said all shops should be allowed to open from Monday to Thursday for a limited duration and these should be closed during weekends. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/allow-opening-of-shops-kullu-traders-to-govt-257176
23-05-2021||Shimla||Suspected black fungus case in IGMC||Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Hospital reported a suspected case of Covid-related black fungus here today, a day after the state declared mucormycosis as an epidemic. The first black fungus case related to Covid in the state was also reported in the IGMC on Thursday when a woman from Hamirpur district was diagnosed with the rare fungal disease.The 34-year-old woman from Arki in Solan complaining of vision loss visited the IGMC last evening. She had tested positive for Covid on May 3. “On examining her CT scan, we suspected Covid-related black fungus and operated her on priority,” said Dr Jagdeep Thakur, ENT specialist.“The confirmation of black fungus will come later, but her management and medicines have started,” he added.Dr Thakur said though rare, they had received black fungus cases at the IGMC even before the outbreak of Covid. “We have had sporadic black fungus cases before the Covid outbreak. Its number is rising now because its affects mainly immune-compromised and highly diabetic people, and many Covid patients have such conditions,” he added.“We have created a 10-bed hospital for such patients. Also, we have formed a special team comprising specialists from various departments to treat such patients,” said IGMC principal Dr Rajnish Pathania.Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, too, has appointed a nodal officer for the disease and placed an order for medicines required for the treatment of black fungus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/suspected-black-fungus-case-in-igmc-257177
23-05-2021||Dalhousie||Link road to Chamba village ready||SDM, Churah, Manish Chaudhary took the initiative of helping people in the area through MGNREGA scheme during the pandemic. A rural link road was constructed from Chalotu to Salgadi in remote Tepa gram panchayat. With the movement of other vehicles, the link road is a useful lifeline for ambulances serving Covid patients.“During the financial year till May, 80,622 man-days have been generated in 52 gram panchayats under Tissa. Under the scheme, 33,186 people are contributing to various works related to rural development,” said the SDM.He said 2,086 works were in progress in the development block during the ongoing financial year, while 27 had been completed. Apart from this, 5,549 families had been provided with employment opportunities. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/link-road-to-chamba-village-ready-257178
23-05-2021||Shimla||2,341 Covid cases, 55 deaths in Himachal||As many as 2,341 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 177,725. Besides, 55 persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours.Seventeen deaths were reported in Kangra, nine in Hamirpur, seven in Solan, six in Mandi, four each in Una and Shimla, three each in Chamba and Sirmaur and two in Kullu. The highest number of 698 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 318 in Mandi, 224 in Shimla, 192 in Bilaspur, 182 in Una, 174 in Solan, 139 in Hamirpur, 137 in Sirmaur and 136 in Chamba.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-341-covid-cases-55-deaths-in-himachal-257179
23-05-2021||New Delhi||Over 10 % positivity rate in 382 districts||Small gains notwithstanding, Covid-19 continues to pose a massive public health challenge with half of India’s districts reporting a positivity rate of over 10 per cent. The World Health Organisation (WHO) recommends continuous containment and ramping up tests till the rate falls below 5 per cent.Oxygen trains leave for PunjabTwo 'Oxygen Express' trains carrying 52 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen left from Hazira near Surat in Gujarat for Punjab and Delhi, a Western Railway official said.Government data shows that 382 of India’s 756 districts have a positivity rate of more than 10 per cent requiring local lockdowns and restrictions to break the chain of transmission. Among these districts are Punjab’s 14, Haryana’s 18, Himachal and JK’s 12 each and Chandigarh and Ladakh. Punjab is also among states reporting a high fatality rate.Family members can get jabs at workplaces: CentreThe Centre has clarified to states that family members and dependents of workers can also be covered in vax drives at workplaces.Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, UP and Tamil Nadu are reporting the bulk of the daily deaths in the country.“The pandemic is stabilising. Active cases have declined for 20 days and now constitute 11.12% of the total cases as against 17.13% on May 3. Recoveries are up (87.76%). We have seen nine straight days of recoveries exceeding new cases with 22 states now reporting more daily recoveries than cases. These are good signs but 382 districts still have above 10 per cent positivity rate. We have a long way to go to contain the pandemic,” said VK Paul, Member, Health, NITI Aayog.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/over-10-positivity-rate-in-382-districts-256940
23-05-2021||Dharamsala||Hit by Covid restrictions, 50 hotels in Dharamsala up for sale||With Covid-induced lockdown spelling doom for the tourism industry and no relief coming from the government, a number of hoteliers in Dharamsala have been resorting to distress sale of their properties.Of the over 1,000 hotels in Dharamsala, about 50 had been put on sale, said Ashwani Bamba, the local hotel association president. Even the property prices were 25 to 30 per cent down compared to five years ago, he said. “Hoteliers are being forced to sell their properties as they don’t have money to repay bank loans,” he said.Ruing the lack of support from the government, Bamba said no financial assistance had been offered despite the hotel industry contributing about 18 per cent to the state’s GDP.“The hotels are shut, but the government continues to charge taxes. Even the annual licence renewal fee of pollution and tourism departments has not been waived. A demand to set aside the electricity load charges, since the hotels lie closed and aren’t consuming power, has not been met,” he said. Also, a large number of legal disputes have arisen as a majority of the hotel lessees have been unable to pay lease money to the property owners. A leading hotelier told The Tribune that her lessee had been defaulting on payments for more than a year. “I couldn’t pay loan installments and the bank turned my account into NPA. The lessee isn’t even vacating the property. The matter is in court. I’m caught in a debt trap,” said the hotelier, not wishing to be identified.Sources said about 50,000 people had lost their jobs in Kangra alone, a district that has over 3,000 hotels, due to the Covid pandemic.Minister of Forests and Youth Affairs Rakesh Pathania, a legislator from Nurpur in Kangra, said he would talk to the Chief Minister and devise ways to provide relief to the hoteliers. “I will also meet the members of the hotel association of Dharamsala and discuss how the government can help them beat the recession,” he said.Dharamsala BJP MLA Vishal Nehria said the hotel industry’s grievances were genuine. “I will urge the government to at least waive the annual pollution licence and tourism registration fee,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hit-by-covid-restrictions-50-hotels-in-dharamsala-up-for-sale-256966
