24-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal extends curfew until May 31 despite drop in Covid cases||Himachal Pradesh government extended curfew restrictions in the state by a week on Monday, officials said—a development that comes despite a significant drop in Covid-19 cases in the state.Himachal Cabinet, which met on Monday, decided it was extending curfew restrictions until May 31.The cabinet will review its decision on June 1, officials said. The decision came after the health department recommended an extension to the restrictions despite a decline in cases.Himachal reported 1,309 new cases on Sunday. Despite a drip in cases, deaths remain a matter of worry—the state reported 59 deaths from Covid-19 on Sunday. The development comes despite a significant pushback to curfews from traders, who want the government to allow them open up shops. Traders have been demanding that they should be allowed to open their shops every other day.           Several state governments, including those of  Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Puducherry, have decided to continue with their lockdown restrictions until the end of May.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-extends-curfew-until-may-31-despite-drop-in-covid-cases-257744
24-05-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Gandhi’s personal secy dies at 98||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 23V Kalyanam, personal secretary to Mahatma Gandhi, who studied and lived in Shimla, passed away at the age of 98 in Chennai earlier this month.Kalyanam, who was born in Shimla on August 15, 1922, studied in the local Harcott Buttler School, the present Kendriya Vidyalaya, Jakhu.“With my grandfather being posted in Shimla with the British Government, my father V Kalyanam lived in Phagli and spent a major part of his life in Shimla, the then summer capital of the British Raj,” revealed Malini Kalyanam, his daughter. She says he was the only surviving member of the Mahatma Gandhi’s secretariat.After his journey with Gandhiji ended, Kalyanam joined the service of Lord Mountbatten and Edwina Mountbatten working for the refugee camps.In the mid-1950s when he came to Chennai, Kalyanam was appointed as Regional Commissioner for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Then he joined Jayaprakash Narayan and Vinoba Bhave in the Sarvodaya movement.Malini said his father led a disciplined life based on the principles Mahatma Gandhi had instilled in him. “Till he breathed his last, he did every work on his own, including sweeping.”Kalyanam did his B.Com (Hons) from Sri Ram College, Delhi, and got his degree in 1941. “My father joined Gandhi ashram in Sevagram at Wardha in 1943 when he was a young lad of 22 years. He did not enjoy his non-military job in the defence and chose to serve with Gandhi ji,” said Malini. She said he did not enjoy the government desk job of a Budget Assistant which gave him a salary of Rs 250 per month then, which in those was certainly a princely amount.She recalls her father telling her that when Gandhiji said he could not pay him more than Rs 60 a month, he told Bapu that he loved the ashram life so much that he would happily work for free.“Thus began his journey with the Mahatma which lasted till my father missed the bullets fired by a few inches on that fateful day when Gandhi passed away,” she says.After his wife Saraswathy’s demise in 1988, Kalyanam took on all the household chores and also catered to all visitors he had, including many foreigners single-handedly, reveal his family members. “He maintained that Godliness was next to cleanliness and would sweep the staircase of his apartment and the main roads until he was 97,” says Malini.Having led a frugal life at the ashram with Gandhiji, he would make an organic compost of every rubbish and dried leaves from the garden as well as kitchen waste right till his last days in Chennai.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gandhis-personal-secy-dies-at-98-257570
24-05-2021||---||Stray animals find saviour||Shimla, May 23 Reeling under the impact of the Covid curfew, stray dogs and monkeys in the town have found a saviour in a brother-sister duo. Sukrit and his sister Geetika feed over 100 animals every day. With the majority of commercial activities restricted in view of the lockdown, stray dogs and monkeys are not getting food. “It was seen in the last lockdown that stray dogs were becoming violent and attacking people in the absence of food. We observed this and started feeding stray dogs on Mall Road and the adjoining areas.  We later started making rotis for monkeys too,” Sukrit told The Tribune. “We saw a behavioural change in these animals…they became less violent and more friendly,” said Sukrit, who lives in Jodha Nivas and comes from a business family. “Earlier, we used to make ‘rotis’ at home but now we are coordinating with a food joint on The Ridge. We are now making over 300 rotis per day,” he said. He said they were not part of any NGO and manage the expenses on their own. “We request people to feed animals and birds in their neighbourhood. It will help them survive and they will not attack people for food,” said Sukrit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stray-animals-find-saviour-257571
24-05-2021||ibune News Service
||Woman critically injured in bear attack at McLeodganj||Dharamsala, May 23 A Himalayan black bear attacked a rag-picker on the Jogibara road in early morning hours today, leaving her critically injured. Sources said this was the second attack by a Himalayan black bear in McLeodganj area, in recent past. Sanjeev Kumar, DFO, Dharamsala, said he got information regarding the attack in McLeodganj today, in morning. A team of forest officials was sent to the area. It was found that the rag-picker had gone into tree plantations in Jogibara area in the morning, when she was attacked by the bear. The woman was initially taken to the Delek Hospital of the Tibetan government-in-exile, and then to some other hospital by her kin. The forest officials are looking for the woman and she would be compensated, he said. The DFO said the attack by a Himalayan black bear in summer, near habitations, was a rare incident. Generally, the bears migrate to lower areas in winter, when food gets scarce in higher hills. However, it seemed that due to the lockdown, the reduced movement of people is attracting black bears near habitations.  The area, where the bear attacked the woman, was used by locals to dump food waste. The team of forest officials was trying to spot the bear, which attacked the woman, the DFO said. The two bear attacks in McLeodganj has caused panic among the residents. Rakesh Kumar, a resident of the area, said it was scary that Himalayan black bears were attacking people in habitation areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/woman-critically-injured-in-bear-attack-at-mcleodganj-257573
24-05-2021||Shimla||CM: Properties worth Rs11.37 cr attached||The government is committed to making Himachal a drug-free state by adopting a multi-pronged strategy to tackle drug trafficking and the police has been directed to target big drug smugglers, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur.He said steps were being taken to destroy the illicit cultivation of poppy and cannabis and attach properties of drug traffickers. A total of 2,126 cases had been registered under the NDPS Act and 2,909 persons arrested from January 1, 2020, to April 30, 2021.The state had attached properties worth Rs 11.37 crore in 19 cases during the last one year, which included properties worth Rs 3.79 crore in 15 cases in Kullu district, properties worth Rs 7.29 crore in two cases in Kangra district, bank deposits worth Rs 18.31 lakh frozen in one case in Bilaspur district and bank deposits worth Rs 10.67 lakh frozen in another case in Shimla district.To reduce the supply of contrabands, the illicit poppy cultivation had been detected and destroyed. He said about 12.52 lakh cannabis plants in 7,917 bigha land and about 2.66 lakh poppy plants in 52 bighas had been destroyed. He said 161 cases had been registered against landowners.The police were contemplating to co-opt office of the ED for conducting money laundering investigation against the accused .— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-properties-worth-rs11-37-cr-attached-257575
24-05-2021||Our Correspondent||HPMOA for case against Ramdev||NURPUR, MAY 23The HP Medical Officers Association (HPMOA) has taken a strong exception of the alleged remarks of yoga guru Ramdev against the allopathy.Dr Pushpinder Verma, state general secretary of the HPMOA, has termed his remarks disgusting.He urged the government to register cases of sedition and under the Epidemic Disease Act against Baba Ramdev. It was an insult to 1,030 doctors who had sacrificed their lives while discharging their duties in treating Covid patients during the ongoing pandemic in the country.In a video that went viral in the social media yesterday, Baba Ramdev had stated that ‘Allopathy ek stupid aur diwaliya science hai’Verma said Ramdev’s statement at this juncture, when a large number of Covid patients were battling for their lives and doctors were treating them in the dedicated Covid centres, had demoralised the frontline warriors.He dared the Baba to treat critical Covid patients, who were battling for life in the hospitals, with his Patanjali’s Coronil tablets, if he had faith in his treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpmoa-for-case-against-ramdev-257576
24-05-2021||Shimla||Rain, hail lash Shimla||A severe storm, accompanied by sharp showers, hail and sleet, lashed Shimla and adjoining areas while moderate rain occurred at isolated places. The sky remained heavily overcast, reducing visibility to few metres, disrupting normal life. Shimla was the wettest in the region with 15 mm of rains, followed by Mandi with 14 mm, Hipa 11.5 mm, Sunni 10 mm, Chamba 10 mm, Kufri 6 mm, Palampur and Tattapani 5 mm each. There was not much change in the maximum temperatures and Bilaspur was the hottest in the day with 33.9 degrees C while Keylong in the tribal Lahaul and Spiti was the coldest at night, recording a low of 4.8 degrees C. The local MeT office has predicted rains and thundershowers at isolated places in middle hills and rains and snow in high hills tomorrow and dry weather afterwards. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-hail-lash-shimla-257577
24-05-2021||---||More cases filed by VB||Shimla, May 23 Investigation, regular monitoring and setting targets have yielded results for the State Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau as the number of FIRs registered and inquiries taken up by the department has increased by 97 and 85 per cent in 2019-20 as compared to 2015-16. The number of FIRs registered, trap cases, inquiries taken up, disposal of cases and disposal of inquiries increased from 35, 15, 227, 44, 117 in 2015-16 to 69, 21, 420, 60 and 331 in 2019-20. As many as 89 corrupt officers were also caught taking bribe in the past six years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/more-cases-filed-by-vb-257578
24-05-2021||---||59 fatalities, 1,309 new cases in Himachal||Shimla, May 23As many as 1,309 new Covid cases and 59 deaths were witnessed in the state in the last 24 hours.The Covid situation in the state seems to be improving with the decline in the number of positive cases and recovery of 4,059 persons in a single day. The number of active cases today was 25,979 with the total positive cases till now being 1,79,034.The state continues to witness high fatalities with 59 people succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours, which included 16 in Kangra, nine in Shimla, eight in Mandi, five each in Chamba and Sirmaur, four each in Hamirpur and Una, three each in Solan and Bilaspur and one each in Kullu and Kinnaur.As many as 245 cases were reported in Solan, 216 in Kangra, 204 in Shimla, 144 in Mandi, 133 in Sirmaur, 122 in Hamirpur, 80 in Bilaspur, 75 in Una, 26 in Kullu, seven in Lahaul and Spiti and six in Kinnaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/59-fatalities-1-309-new-cases-in-himachal-257580
24-05-2021||---||2 oxygen plants for IGMC soon||Shimla, May 23Efforts are on to enhance the oxygen supply at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC).While a 20 kilolitre liquid oxygen tank has been installed at the hospital, which will be commissioned soon, two PSA plants of the 1,000 LPM capacity will also be set up.The two plants are among the five PSA plants approved for the state by the Centre, which will be established in coordination with the DRDO. The hospital already has an air-separation unit facility, having a capacity of around 350 D-type cylinders.“The remaining three plants will be established at Regional Hospital, Una, Regional Hospital, Solan, and Military Hospital, Yol,” said a government spokesperson. The total oxygen production capacity in the state is around 85 MT per day. The consumption stands at 56 MT.Even as the oxygen capacity is being enhanced at the IGMC, allegations by patients not getting oxygen on time keep surfacing. A woman alleged today that she had lost her husband because he did not get oxygen cylinder in time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-oxygen-plants-for-igmc-soon-257581
24-05-2021||Lalit Mohan||Critical patients add up, infra same in Kangra||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 23The number of critical Covid patients is increasing in Kangra district, causing concern among the health authorities.Sources here said there were just 60 ventilator-equipped beds in Kangra district that also cater to patients from Chamba and Una. New patients, who requires oxygen-supported beds for survival, is piling up and there is not enough infrastructure to provide them treatment.Doctors say a high number of deaths in Kangra can also be attributed to the shortage of ventilator bed.CMO GD Gupta admits that the load of patients is increasing every day. The number of oxygen-equipped beds has been increased to 750. Another 250 oxygen-equipped beds will be added at the Radha Soami facility in Paror soon.When asked about the shortage of ventilator-equipped beds, the CMO says that there are 60 beds equipped with ventilators in the district.All were occupied. The government is making efforts to add ventilator-equipped beds.The CMO says the people are not reporting the infection to the health authorities in time. There is tendency among people to hide the infection. They only report to the health authorities when patients become critical. At this stage, patients require hospitalisation. If the patients report to the health authorities in time and take the medication, the number of patients may decrease.The CMO says that panchayati raj institutes and self-help groups have been asked to sensitise people. Those infected should report early to the health authorities so that there life can be saved.Patient load increasing||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/critical-patients-add-up-infra-same-in-kangra-257582
24-05-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Religious sect may get nod to sell land gifted by followers||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 23The Himachal Government could allow a religious sect to sell the land gifted by its followers in relaxation of the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972 as the matter will be considered by the Cabinet tomorrow.Sources confirmed that the issue of amendment to the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972 will be dwelt upon by the Cabinet as the agenda has been prepared by the Revenue Department for consideration. The followers of the sect have gifted land in mall chunks at various places which the management wants to dispose of even though the revenue laws do not permit it.The request by the sect to grant permission to sell the land gifted by its followers in relaxation of the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972 has been pending before the government for quite some time.Efforts to grant this relaxation to the said religious sect were made several times even during the term of the previous Congress regime but with the Law Department taking an adverse view on it had suggested that this would be in complete violations of the existing laws and only an amendments in the Act would pave the way for sale of “gifted” land. This amendment can only be made once the Vidhan Sabha passes the Bill which will finally have to receive the assent of the President of India.Even though a similar request to sell the land under tea cultivation had been made by owners of some tea estates as well it is not certain whether the plea of only the religious sect will be considered. The owners of tea gardens were allowed to retain the tea gardens over and above the land ceiling limit, as such they cannot sell this land.The said religious sect has done a commendable job in extending help in the fight against Covid. In fact, two of its centres in the state have been converted into big Covid care facilities and as such the government could grant them this relaxation even though it remains a very contentious issue.The Himachal Government, in relaxation of the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972 had in August 2012 brought in a legislation, allowing religious and charitable institutions to own more than 150 bighas land by inserting Section 5 h(i) provision. As such many of the sects possess excess land which has either been purchased or donated by people at various places in Kangra and Shimla.However, it is only one religious sect which has also been granted the status of agriculturist. Another sect has also made a similar plea to allow it to sell excess land but since they do not enjoy the status of agriculturist, they cannot be given exemption under Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972.Helped in fight against CovidThe said religious sect has done a commendable job in extending help in the fight against Covid. In fact, two of its centres in the state have been converted into big Covid care facilities and as such the government could grant them this relaxation even though it remains a very contentious issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/religious-sect-may-get-nod-to-sell-land-gifted-by-followers-257583
24-05-2021||Mandi||Volunteers help cremate body in Mandi||Three volunteers of the People’s Fitness and Sports Trust and the Gopi Yuvak Mandal Mangayal came forward to cremate the body of woman in Sandhol area, under Joginderngar Assembly segment of Mandi district, yesterday. After the death of woman, the local villagers refrained from cremating the body out of Covid scare. As soon as the volunteers got the information, they immediately rushed to the spot to carry the body of the woman to the cremation ground in the area. Gopal Singh, Vishal Sonkhla and Sumit Sokhla, volunteers of the People’s Fitness and Sports Trust and Gopi Yuvak Mandal Mangayal, carried the body to the cremation ground and handed it over to the family members of the deceased for the last rites. The volunteers were appreciated by the local administration as well as the residents of the area for their noble deed amid Covid crisis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/volunteers-help-cremate-body-in-mandi-257584
24-05-2021||Shimla||Cop succumbs to Covid-19||Sub-Inspector Dhani Ram, 54, posted at Pandoh, succumbed to Covid yesterday at Lal Bahadur Shastri Medical College and Hospital, Nerchowk, Mandi. DGP Sanjay Kundu and officers of all ranks mourned the death of the Sub-Inspector. Six policemen have died due to Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cop-succumbs-to-covid-19-257585
24-05-2021||NURPUR||Covid patient hangs himself from tree||A Covid patient, Madan Lal, reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree near his house at Chuharpur village in Indora subdivision of Kangra last evening. Madan Lal tested positive on May 20 and was in home isolation. His wife and their two children had gone to her parents’ house a few days before he got tested.Surjeev Katoch, pradhan, Chuharpur gram panchayat, said his family members present in the home rushed Madan to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead.The police took possession of the body and sent it to the mortuary of the Nurpur Civil Hospital late last evening. A case under Section 174 of the CrPc was reported by the police and the body, after a postmortem examination, was cremated as per Covid protocol. The deceased was an accountant who worked with private firms. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-patient-hangs-himself-from-tree-257586
24-05-2021||---||Call to defer village polls in Lahaul-Spiti||Mandi, May 23 Residents of Lahaul-Spiti have urged the state government to postpone the panchayati raj elections in the district, which is due next month. The increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Lahaul-Spiti is the reason.  They are apprehensive that the elections could prove Covid super-spreader. According to the residents, till yesterday, there were 209 Covid cases in the district. Rigzin Samphel Heyrappa, a resident of the Lahaul valley, said, “We do not want elections amid the crisis. There is every possibility that the infection will spread in villages. It was already observed in Uttar Pradesh where several teachers, who were engaged in panchayati raj elections, had lost their lives.” “The people have supported the decision and we urge the government and the State Election Commission to postpone the elections,” he added.  Ramesh Kumar Rulba, president of Zila Parishad, Lahaul Spiti, also supported the demand. It was not suitable time to conduct the elections, when positive cases were on the rise.    Anil Sehgal, a spokesperson of the Congress in Lahaul Spiti, told The Tribune, “The Election Commission should postpone the elections. The election campaigning will aggravate the situation. Lahaul Spiti is lacking adequate health infrastructure to deal with the Covid crisis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/call-to-defer-village-polls-in-lahaul-spiti-257587
24-05-2021||---||Ex-servicemen seek Covid centre in Jahu||Mandi, May 23The ex-servicemen (ESM) body at Baldwara, under the Sarkaghat Assembly segment of Mandi district, is urging the district health authorities to open a Covid care centre at Jahu, which is located in the centre of Mandi, Bilaspur and Hamirpur.Capt Jagdish Verma (retired), president of the ESM body, said, “More than 5,000 ex-servicemen and their dependents reside in Baldwara sub-division. In view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the region, patients are transferred to the hopital at Nerchowk in Mandi, which is more than 50 km away from here. It takes a lot of time for the ambulance to come from Nerchowk and travel back.”“We are urging the district health authorities to create a Covid centre in Jahu to cater to the medical needs of the area during the pandemic and save the time wasted in travel,” he said.He said it would be a boon for local residents of Baldwara, Sarkaghat, Dharampur, Ghumarwin and Bhoranj. Verma stated a government building with about 45 rooms meant for “vegetable market” was lying vacant in Jahu and it could be used for the Covid hospital on a temporary basis.“We have already sent a proposal through email to the Chief Medical Officers of Hamirpur, Bilaspur and Mandi for opening a Covid hospital in Jahu, keeping in view the surge in the second wave,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ex-servicemen-seek-covid-centre-in-jahu-257588
24-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||1,000-bed makeshift Covid care facility ready at Paror||Palampur, May 23 A 1,000-bed Covid care hospital has been created by the district administration at the complex of Radha Soami Satsang, at Paror, 10 km from here. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur will inaugurate the Covid care hospital tomorrow through a virtual mode. The hospital will be managed by a team of qualified doctors of the state Health Department. Speaking to mediapersons here today, a senior officer of the state government said in the first phase, there was a provision to admit 256 patients and later its capacity would be extended to 1,000 beds. All beds have been connected with piped oxygen supply system, so that immediate medical aid could be provided to Covid patients. This hospital has been constructed in a record time of 20 days, under the supervision of Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati. Kangra district is the worst-hit, with over 35,000 active Covid cases, and a high mortality rate.  Palampur SDM Dharmesh Ramotra said all arrangements had been completed for opening the Covid care centre, and from tomorrow, the Health Department would start admitting patients. “In the past fortnight, many cases have been reported in rural areas of Palampur, Baijnath, Jaisinghpur and Dheera sub-divisions. In the absence of beds at the hospitals, many patients are under home-isolation. Some of them are in a critical condition, therefore the administration has realised that more Covid care centres are needed to meet the emergencies,” said a senior officer of the Health Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-000-bed-makeshift-covid-care-facility-ready-at-paror-257589
24-05-2021||Subhash Rajta||Farmers switching over to natural farming||tribune news serviceShimla, May 23Around 10 per cent of farmers, including orchardists, have started practising Subhash Palekar Natural Farming (SPNF) on varying portions of their land in the state in a short span of two and a half years. “Out of 9.61 lakh agricultural families in the state, around 1.16 lakh families have adopted natural farming, including around 8,000 apple-growing families,” said Dr RS Chandel, executive director, Prakritik Kheti Khushhal Kisan Yojna.This alternative method of farming was introduced in June 2018. “The objective was to harmonise nature with farming and enhance farmers’ income, mainly by bringing down his cost of cultivation. We have been able to bring down the cost of cultivation by around 40 per cent and that too without adopting all principles of the SPNP,” said Dr Chandel.He said the rising cost of cultivation, in both chemical-based and organic farming, had led to a sharp decline in the margin of profit of farmers. “An apple grower spends Rs 20,000 to 25,000 per bigha on chemicals, with 10-12 sprays in a season. In the case of pomegranate, the sprays per season go up to even 18. In off-season vegetables, a farmer spends Rs 10,000-12,000 per bigha on chemicals,” said Dr Chandel, highlighting the ever-growing input cost. “No wonder, chemical-based agriculture is becoming unsustainable for many who have started looking at other options of livelihood,” said Dr Chandel.The SPNF aims to end the dependence of farmers on the market for seeds and chemicals. “While ending their dependence for seeds on market will take some time, they don’t need to buy insecticides, fungicides and fertilisers any more. They are making these at home from organic things,” said Dr Chandel.Some farmers are so impressed with natural farming that they brought their entire land under this method of agriculture. “I have brought my entire orchard under natural farming. Under chemical-based farming, my expenditure on insecticide, fungicide and fertilisers was around Rs 1.7 lakh. Now, I don’t have to spend on buying chemicals and fertilisers, that’s a big saving,” said Subhash Shadru from Rohru.“In the absence of chemicals, my trees don’t dry up and are much healthier. Also, my fruit is much better in terms of nutrition and shelf life compared to that produced through chemical farming,” he said.Happy with the response the SPNF is getting from the farmers, Dr Chandel says they suggest farmers to make a steady shift to natural farming.“We want farmers to experience the benefits on a small portion of land first and then make the switch,” he said.“Besides, we encourage farmers to get into multi-cropping. We suggest them to grow the main crop on 60 per cent land and keep the remaining portion for other crops. It saves the farmers from the uncertainties of the market,” said Dr Chandel.Cuts cost of cultivationThe concept of Subhash Palekar Natural Farming was introduced in June 2018. The objective was to harmonise nature with farming and enhance farmers' income, mainly by bringing down his cost of cultivation. It aims to end the dependence of farmers on the market for seeds and chemicals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/farmers-switching-over-to-natural-farming-257590
24-05-2021||Shimla||Now, avail ATM services in Chitkul||Extending financial services to India’s last inhabited village of Himachal Pradesh — Chitkul, Spice Money has converted one of the only two grocery shops in the village into a Spice Money ‘Digital Dukaan’ to offer cash-in cash-out services to residents and tourists.The picturesque village of Chitkul has a population of about 900 people along with 20-25 holiday resorts catering to international and Indian tourists. As the closest ATM is 25 km away in Sangla and there is no e-banking due to poor internet connectivity, the village had historically been facing a challenge of accessing cash or payment services, causing a lot of inconvenience to people. This Digital Dukaan now acts as an ATM centre providing basic cash withdrawal and deposit services. The Spice Money Mini ATM accepts debit and credit cards from all major banks, said CEO of Spice Money Sanjeev Kumar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/now-avail-atm-services-in-chitkul-257591
24-05-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi
||Hit hard by curbs, biz community seeks relaxation in corona curfew||Tribune News Service  Shimla, May 23 The business community in the state capital has demanded opening of markets for two-three hours by enforcing some regulatory provisions and pinning hopes on Cabinet meeting slated for tomorrow.  The state government had imposed corona curfew till May 26 in view of the grave Covid situation in the state. The government made some relaxations for opening of hotels, roadside dhabas and hardware shops but no decision has been taken to allow shopkeepers to run their business.  The Veopar Mandal, Shimla, had suggested imposing 8-10 days lockdown or curfew to contain the virus from further spreading but now the shopkeepers are getting jittery due to the recent extension of the corona curfew. They apprehend further extension of curfew as the situation is still worrying. The businessmen suggested that some arrangement should be put in place for opening of all shops for at least some hours every day as shopkeepers are suffering huge losses and summer stock is unsold for want of customer, said president, Shimla Veopar Mandal Inderjeet Singh. “We urged the government to give relief to the private employees who lost their jobs, waive electricity and other charges as there is no business and provide working capital loan but nothing has been done so far,” he rued. The worst affected are shopkeepers dealing in readymade garments as they used to have good business during summer and exhaust the stock which was no more in demand after monsoon but now the stocks have piled up and the season is running out. This stuff would not be sold even at heavy discount during winter, said a shopkeeper. Further, the businessmen are running short of working capital as they were depending on the sale of summer stock for carrying on their business during winters. They said they are uncertain about the future as people are only spending on items of necessary use. This has affected the flow of money.  The hoteliers are not at all keen on opening their units in spite of the nod by the government as there is no tourist inflow due to grim pandemic situation and restrictions like e-pass and negative Covid report imposed on tourists for entering into the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hit-hard-by-curbs-biz-community-seeks-relaxation-in-corona-curfew-257592
24-05-2021||The corona curfew||Between the devil and the deep sea||Chinks in Cong armourAt a time when the Congress should unitedly take on the ruling BJP, the party is plagued with infighting. It is social media which is abuzz with posts of Congress infighting, whether it is tearing of posters bearing pictures of GS Bali or Kangra leaders ganging up against a senior leader. “It is this infighting which will give advantage to the BJP. At least come back to power and then fight for the top post,” said a senior leader while commenting of the state of affairs in the Congress.CM, the lone rangerThe BJP organisational setup has failed to support and defend its government. It appears that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur is battling both on the government as well as party front. It is rare that one sees statement of any minister or senior office-bearer defending the government, especially when the Congress fires salvos at the Jai Ram regime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/between-the-devil-and-the-deep-sea-257595
24-05-2021||Students of MediVision carried out thermal screening of non-teaching staff of the Himachal Pradesh University||ANTI-Covid drive at HPU||DAV helps Covid patients’ attendantsDAV Centenary Public School, Jawahar Nagar, Mandi, has made lodging arrangements for people accompanying Covid patients in the nearby 200-bed care facility. The school authorities have sanitised the building and made boarding and food arrangements for attendants, as per the Covid guidelines. Principal Guleria thanked the administration and the government for the contribution in the time of crisis.Tarot card reader awardedAkanksha Marwah of Chamba, a professional tarot card reader, has been presented the ‘Cosmic River Occult Award’ in Chandigarh. The 25-year-old is a student of MSc (Chemistry), and a certified tarot card reader. She has also been awarded by the Astrological Awareness Association, Ambala, and Jyotish Punj Global Foundation, Kurukshetra, for her services and expertise. She also knows ‘vastu shahstra’, candle spells and angelic healing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/anti-covid-drive-at-hpu-257608
24-05-2021||Traffic bottlenecks are being removed and the roads in Shimla town are being widened under the Smart City project. Work is in progress at several places. However||Check parking on widened roads||— Anuj, ShimlaDeclare dead Covid warriors ‘martyrs’There is a demand that the Himachal Pradesh Government should issue a notification with regard to the category declared as 'Corona frontline warriors', for those, who have been at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic. In that case, any frontline warrior, who sacrifices his life while saving patients, should get the status of a martyr and be paid a compensation of Rs 1 crore as financial assistance. A provision of providing a government job to one member of the family of the deceased Covid warrior should also be made.— Mohd Salim, ChambaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/check-parking-on-widened-roads-257610
24-05-2021||Lalit Mohan||40% positivity in Kangra’s remote Chotta Bhangal belt||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 23Covid has been affecting the remotest of areas in Himachal Pradesh, with tribal Chotta Bhangal region in the higher reaches of Kangra district reporting an alarming 40 per cent positivity rate.Of the 90 samples collected from the area, 37 have tested positive, a development that has the local administration worried. Nestled near the Dhauladhar range in the Himalayas, Chotta Bhangal has poor road connectivity and people from various habitats have to walk a considerable distance to reach the main road.Locals blame power project staffClaiming they hardly moved out of the area, Chotta Bhangal residents alleged the “outsider” labourers employed at local power projects were responsible for the spread of Covid. The authorities, however, blamed the weddings.Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said though infections had been controlled in urban areas, instances like Chotta Bhangal were a cause for concern. “Efforts are being made to keep people in rural belts safe and encourage them to report infections early,” he said.Akshay Jasrotia, a social worker, said Chotta Bhangal had a population of about 12,000. A high infection rate was earlier reported in Chotta Bhangal’s Landag, having a population of 5,000. “The villagers initially didn’t report Covid cases to the authorities, but their outlook changed after three persons succumbed to the virus,” he said.Jasrotia said an issue of concern was that shepherds were nowadays moving with their flock of sheep to Bara Bhangal valley, an area at a higher altitude and inaccessible by road. “In case the virus reaches Bara Bhangal, healthcare will have to be provided only though a helicopter,” he said, demanding the shepherds be tested before they moved higher into the mountains.Kangra Chief Medical Officer Dr GD Gupta said initially the entire staff of the Chotta Bhangal Primary Health Centre had tested positive. “The affected employees have been shifted out. Two mobile teams have been deployed to control the situation,” he said.Dr Gupta said instructions had been issued that all shepherds be tested before they ventured into the mountains with their livestock.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/40-positivity-in-kangras-remote-chotta-bhangal-belt-257548
