25-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal may hold Class XII exams after June 15, if cases decline||The government seems receptive to the option of the CBSE to hold Class XII examinations in the same school, curtail time to 90 minutes with multiple choice questions and short questions being a part of the question paper.Education Minister Govind Thakur has conveyed to the CBSE at a meeting that the state government is ready to conduct board exams, if the situation improves. The Education Department says that if the number of Covid cases goes down, there is a possibility of holding examinations after June 15.Practicals were conducted in MarchThe practical examination was completed in March and the Himachal Board of School Education had conducted the English theory examination on April 13 before the government decided to postpone the examinations in view of the surge in the Covid cases.The CBSE, which takes examinations of 115 subjects in Class XII, has also suggested that only examinations of 19 major subjects of science, commerce and arts be held and rest of the papers be marked as per the performance in these subjects.The practical examination was completed in March and the Himachal Board of School Education had conducted the English theory examination on April 13 before the government decided to postpone the examinations in view of the surge in the Covid cases. However, insiders say that the final decision will be taken after the CBSE takes the call.There are about 1.10 lakh students in Class XII. The syllabus is complete, practical examinations are already over, question papers are published and sent to 1,795 examination centres, said Director, Education, Amarjeet Sharma, adding, “We are ready to hold examinations and will follow the directions of the state government.”Class XII is the career class after which students choose their fields. Last year also, several universities and colleges could not hold entrance tests due to Covid and admitted students on merit. The endeavour is to do justice with the students.Meanwhile, about 1.16 lakh students of Class X have been promoted to Class XI without annual examination as per the CBSE guidelines and online classes have started.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-may-hold-class-xii-exams-after-june-15-if-cases-decline-258061
25-05-2021||Ravinder SoodPalampur||Prices of pulses, mustard oil at fair price shops to be hiked||The state government has increased the prices of mustard oil and pulses being distributed to consumers through fair prices shops in the state. There are over 5,011 such shops which provide rice, wheat flour, mustard oil and pulses at subsidised rates to APL and BPL consumers in the state.Information gathered by The Tribune reveals that from June 1, all categories of consumers, including BPL families, will get mustard oil costlier by Rs 57 per litre. Earlier, a one-litre pack of mustard oil was being sold for Rs 98-Rs 117 per litre, now the same will be available between Rs 155-175 per litre.Likewise, the rates of different varieties of pulses being sold in fair price shops have also been increased by Rs 20 per kg. Earlier, most of the pulses were selling at Rs 55 per kg, now the same will be sold at Rs 75 per kg.A senior officer of the state Food and Civil Supply Department, when contacted by The Tribune, said since the prices of both commodities, including mustard oil and pulses, had gone up in the open market, the state government was also forced to increase the prices of these items in its fair price shops accordingly. He said the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India, the main supplier of food grains, to the state government had also revised its rates from June 1, which had directly affected the prices of food supply chain of the state government.Meanwhile, Congress leaders today attacked the state government over the rise in prices of essential commodities in fair price shops owned by the state government. They said the Union Government should act sternly against black marketeers and push sufficient stocks of food grains in the market to check rising prices.MLA Ashish Butail and former legislators Jagjivan Pal Yadvinder Gomma and Kishori Lal accused the government of being ignorant and alleged it was allowing stocks to rot and the people to suffer.“We demand that the government should immediately act against black marketeers, assess stock of essential items lying in cold storages and push sufficient stock in the markets to control the prices,” they told reporters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/prices-of-pulses-mustard-oil-at-fair-price-shops-to-be-hiked-258062
25-05-2021||Mandi||Farmers getting meagre price for their produce in Kullu||Farmers of Kullu district are getting poor prices for their vegetables these days in local markets. The cultivation of vegetables is the only source of livelihood for many of them.They lamented that due to the ongoing curfew in the state, they could not transport their produce to distant markets to fetch good prices. They said they are forced to sell vegetables at low prices in locals markets of the district.Cauliflower, cabbage being sold for peanutsThey said the vegetable produce of cauliflower and cabbage were sold for as low as Rs 5 per kg in local markets, which has hit their income badly. Large tracts of land were covered under cauliflower and cabbage cultivation in Kullu district by the farmers of Kullu district but they were forced to sell the produce on low prices due to less demand in the local market.Vijender Singh, a farmer of Balh village in Kullu district, told The Tribune, “The second wave of Covid-19 outbreak in the state as well as across the nation proved disastrous for those farmers of Kullu district who were engaged in the production of cauliflower and cabbage to earn their livelihood. Due to the ongoing curfew in the state, we failed to transport our vegetable produce in distant markets to fetch good prices.”“I fetch merely Rs 5 per kg for cauliflower and cabbage produce, which shattered my economy badly. Like me, there are a large number of farmers in Kullu district, who failed to fetch good prices for their vegetable produce. I failed to fetch even the amount that I had spent on the cultivation of vegetables,” he said.He said now, garlic crop was ready for harvesting and farmers of district were worried about its marketing if the situation does not improve.Like Vijender Singh, Mohar Singh, Ramesh Kumar and many other farmers of district lamented that the Covid-19 outbreak has brought a disaster for them once again this year like previous year. They said that the state government should provide financial assistance to the affected farmers in the district to cope with the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/farmers-getting-meagre-price-for-their-produce-in-kullu-258063
25-05-2021||Pangi (Bharmour)||Pangi people allowed offline vaccination||Bharmour MLA Jia Lal Kapoor said that till now all people above 45 years in three gram panchayats of Sural, Sechu and Hudan of Pangi tribal subdivision had been administered cent percent Covid vaccination.Kapoor stated this at Killar today after taking stock of the status of Covid-19 situation at Killar civil hospital of Pangi tribal subdivision. He said that the vaccination was being given to 18 to 44 age group. He admitted that there was internet connectivity issue in Pangi subdivision due to which the people were facing difficulty in registering online for Covid vaccination. Therefore, the people of the difficult Pangi subdivision would now be registered offline for vaccination. For this, instructions had been issued to the medical personnel concerned so that people of this age group did not have to face any kind of inconvenience, Kapoor said. Now, offline registration would be done in remote gram panchayats of the subdivision where there was no availability of internet signal. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pangi-people-allowed-offline-vaccination-258064
25-05-2021||Abhinav VashishtKullu||Allow us to earn livelihood, daily earners urge govt||Daily bread winners and small traders have appealed to the state government to formulate a strategy to allow them to earn their livelihood amid the curfew, which has been extended till May 31. Cobblers, hawkers, rehriwalas, farhiwalas and many other daily earners have been finding it difficult to feed their families due to the loss of business. Workers engaged in selling door-to-door goods have also requested the government to increase the curfew relaxation hours.The government has exempted construction and agricultural workers from the curfew, but many other daily earners and small traders have been badly affected by the restrictions. Mukesh, a rehriwala, says that the government had provided ration to needy persons during the lockdown last year. This year also, it should provide some relief, as many persons like him have been without work since May 6.Photographers, providers of dresses, coats and boots, ponywallas and others engaged in tourism-related activities have also been without work in the absence of tourists. Traders dealing in clothes, shoes, electrical equipment, mobile phone repair, computers and similar other businesses have also witnessed a few customers. They say that they should also be allowed to do business. They will ensure that customers wear masks and maintain social distance.The shopkeepers urge the government to let them earn their livelihood, as they apprehend that the Covid crisis will continue for some more time. They say that while their rent, electricity and other expenses are continuing, they are unable to earn any income because of the curfew.They add that the government should focus on earmarking micro-containment zones and impose curfew only in Covid hotspots. Relaxation should be provided in areas having moderate or a low number of cases. They also urge the government to provide a special relief package to small and marginal traders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/allow-us-to-earn-livelihood-daily-earners-urge-govt-258066
25-05-2021||Chamba||Tribal status sought for 21 Bharmour panchayats||The Gramin Welfare Society, Samra-Lihal of Bharmour, has reiterated its demand for granting tribal status to 21 panchayats which fall in Bharmour assembly constituency of Chamba district.These 21 non-tribal panchayats of Bharmour tribal constituency are a part of the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency.The society’s general secretary Tarsem Bhardwaj in a representation to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said that inhabitants of these non-tribal panchayats were being used merely as ‘vote bank’ in the name of tribal area but had been ignored for tribal development funds.“The people of these backward areas do not understand how and why their panchayats could not be given the tribal status so far and were overlooked for their legitimate right,” Bhardwaj contended. He asked the government to consider the long-pending demand of these remote tribal areas. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tribal-status-sought-for-21-bharmour-panchayats-258069
25-05-2021||Our CorrespondentUNA||Una village kids spread Covid awareness by making posters||A group of children in Amboa panchayat of Gagret in Una district is supplementing the awareness campaign of government agencies in its own way. During a visit to the village, one can see informative and educative hand-made posters on the walls, spreading awareness to contain the virus spread.Utilising the lockdown period creatively, 7-year-old Arya, 8-year-old Ishita and 11-year-old Divyansh, who live in ward number 2 of the panchayat, get together at one place and spread their stationery on the floor. They are guided by elder siblings Kajal (22) and Mansi Parmar (18) with themes and slogans on social practices to be adopted to stay safe from the virus.After the posters are complete with slogans and drawings, they put up the posters at prominent places where people can read these.Appreciating the efforts of the children in creating awareness, panchayat pradhan Reema Devi said people stopped and see the posters. The children had set an example for others.On learning the efforts of the children in creating awareness in Amboa, Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma said while the government and the media were creating awareness on the protocols to check the pandemic, voluntary efforts of the kids were unique and appreciable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/una-village-kids-spread-covid-awareness-by-making-posters-258073
25-05-2021||The cemented railing of Madanpur Nullah Bridge on the Hindoraghrat-Ladori link road in Nurpur is in a bad shape and needs immediate repair. The damaged railing at some points poses a safety risk for commuters and pedestrians who use this link road to reach their destinations in this rural belt. The Public Works Department should undertake necessary repairs of the damaged railing to avoid any road mishap. — Rajiv Pathania||Railing of bridge needs repairs||ZERO MARK NOT BEING SHOWN AT FILLING STATIONSThe staff at a few petrol pumps in Shimla have abandoned the practice of showing the zero mark to the customers before fuelling up the vehicle. Earlier, the staff at every pump would ask the customer to check the zero mark but now most don't bother to do so. This should not be done. — Vikram Kumar, SANJAULIIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/railing-of-bridge-needs-repairs-258074
25-05-2021||SP Guleria||College signs MoU with Texas varsity||Evaluation to be done onlineIn view of the ongoing pandemic, the Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission has decided that the "evaluation process" of 15 marks for Class-III posts would now be conducted online as against the earlier practice of calling the candidates to the Commission's office. A link for uploading of the documents shall be activated on the OTR (One Time Registration) portal. The selected candidates who have been screened to appear for the evaluation process will be informed in advance through a post as well as on their registered email/mobile number regarding the date when the portal for uploading of documents will be activated.Sanitisation drive conductedVishwas Educational Welfare Society has been sanitising different areas of Totu from many days. Society president Anil Goyal said people were calling them up for sanitisation drives in their areas. The society is also planning to provide ration to at least 20 poor families in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/college-signs-mou-with-texas-varsity-258076
25-05-2021||Shimla||Lacunae in Land Act plugged to prevent tea garden land sale||Sale of land under tea gardens may not be possible in Himachal now as the state government has decided to do away with certain provisions in the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972, which had left gaping holes in the legislation to facilitate sale of this land.Sect can’t sell surplus landThe Cabinet at its meeting here today settled a very contentious issue as attempts were being made time and again over the last few years by the powerful lobby of tea garden owners to allow them to sell land from their estate. Despite, bar on sale of land under tea as the estate owners had been allowed to retain land over and above the permissible limit in the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972, the lobby was keen to somehow get exemption even if it was in the name of tourism.Sources said that today’s Cabinet decision will put to rest all attempts to sell land under tea. Following the Cabinet decision, an amendment will have to be brought about in the Act and it is only once the Vidhan Sabha passes the Bill that the possibility to sell land under tea cultivation would be plugged.An amendment was made by inserting Section 6 (A) and 7 (A) in the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972 in 2010 by the then BJP regime to facilitate sale of land under tea. Prior to this there was no scope to change the use of land under tea. These provisions only resulted in diluting the very spirit of the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972.It was under Section 5 of the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1972 that exemption had been granted to tea estates, owned both by state and Central Government, registered Cooperative Framing Societies and HP Agriculture University to retain more than 150 bighas of land. An attempt was made during the previous BJP regime in 2011 and by the Congress Government in 2015 and later in 2017 to find a way out by which sale of land under tea could be made permissible.It was as per the Himachal Pradesh Ceiling of Land Holdings (Amendment) Act of 1999 that a complete ban was put on the sale of land under tea cultivation and gave the government the power to acquire it if put to any other use. Tea cultivation is primarily confined to Kangra district and very small area of Jogindernagar contiguous to Palampur, which has some of the biggest tea estates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lacunae-in-land-act-plugged-to-prevent-tea-garden-land-sale-258077
25-05-2021||Shimla||Treatment protocol for black fungus||The State Covid Clinical Committee has released a detailed treatment protocol for mucormycosis. A spokesperson for the Health Department said that the medical management of mucormycosis is known and the disease is completely curable, if detected early. “This disease can be treated by injectable antifungal amphotericin B and other medicines,” he said.Steroid useBlack fungus cases are rising because Covid-19 worsens diabetes, precipitates new diabetes in patients and sometimes develops deficiency of White Blood Cells. Also, immunosuppressive treatments such as steroids being used in Covid patients result in a fall in immunity. — Health Department spokesman“This therapy continues until there is a clinical resolution of signs and symptoms of the infection as well as radiographic resolution of signs of active disease. The treatment also includes surgical debridement of the involved tissue,” he added.He said a regular follow-up should be ensured in the initial three months after treatment. “This disease is preventable and controlling hyperglycaemia, monitoring blood glucose level in post-Covid phase, using steroid judiciously, using mask, wearing shoes, long trousers, long sleeves, gloves while handling soil, moss or manure can ensure prevention of this disease,” he said.He also urged patients, who are on oxygen therapy or are using humidifiers, to use clean sterile and boiled tap water for humidifiers. “The mineral water should not be used and the water should be changed in the humidifier on daily basis,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/treatment-protocol-for-black-fungus-258078
25-05-2021||Our CorrespondentNURPUR||Congress: Curbs intact, traders betrayed||The Kangra district Congress president Ajay Mahajan in a statement here today alleged that the state government had betrayed the trading community in the state by not giving relaxations for opening shops selling non-essential commodities. He said the Chief Minister had assured the delegation of the state Beopar Mandal that the government would allow shops to open after May 26 in a phased manner.Mahajan said the decision of the Cabinet today had dismayed thousands of small and marginal traders who had been waiting for some relaxation in the opening of their shops from May 27 onwards. He said backing out from the promise to the state Beopar Mandal indicated that the Jai Ram government was anti-trader who had been sitting idle without any source of earning for the past over 20 days.He demanded that the government should announce some relief package for the shopkeepers, including waiving of their electricity and water supply bills for at least six months. He lamented that small traders and vendors were facing difficulty in sustaining their families.Mahajan said the government should sympathetically consider the demand of the traders facing financial crisis and allow them to open their shops with pandemic SOPs. “The government should follow its counterparts in Punjab and Haryana where curbs had been eased for shops with odd-even basis, restricting working hours and days of the shops,” he suggested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-curbs-intact-traders-betrayed-258080
25-05-2021||Shimla||Cabinet approves new excise policy, 14% higher collections expected||The excise policy for 2021-22 envisaging the collection of Rs 1,829 crore, which is Rs 228 crore higher than the previous year, was approved at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today. The new policy will help in increasing collections by almost 14 per cent over the last year.Nod to use of flags on MLAs’ vehiclesThe Cabinet also approved the setting up of excise police in the Excise and Taxation Department to check inter-state and intra-state smuggling and illicit trade of liquor and bootlegging.The excise year 2020-21 has been extended by one month up to June 30 considering the situation arising out of Covid. As such, the new excise policy will be operational for nine months from July 1, 2021, to March 31, 2022. The Cabinet also approved the renewal of retail excise vends for 2021-22 at a fee of 3 per cent of the value of the unit/vend.According to the new policy, low-price IMFL brands will be cheaper, as the licence fee and the excise duty have been reduced. The facility of the transfer of quota within a district and inter-district has also been approved. The new policy also allows 15 per cent of the country liquor quota for the manufacturers and the bottlers to be supplied to retail licensees. The balance 85 per cent quota can be lifted by retail licensees from the suppliers of their choice. This was earlier 30 per cent.The policy envisages increase in the licence fee by 5 per cent and the quota by 3 per cent. The new licence for serving liquor in a tented accommodation has been approved and new licences for visitor centres in wine manufacturing units and wine tasting festivals has also been given the go-ahead.The Cabinet also decided to extend the current year toll leases by one month up to June 30, to be auctioned later. The leases for 2021-22 will be operational from July 1, 2021, to March 31, 2022.The Cabinet gave consent to provide approval to M/s RKV Spirit Private Ltd, Kala Amb, Nalagarh tehsil in Solan district for setting up a distillery, brewery and an ethanol plant based on extra neutral alcohol (liquor).It decided to open a new Government Pharmacy College in the Sulah Assembly segment of Kangra district. Consent was given for filling 34 vacant posts of associate and assistant professor in the medical colleges at Nahan, Chamba, IGMC, Shimla, Tanda in Kangra, Hamirpur and NerChowk, Mandi.The Cabinet gave permission to fill five posts of professor, assistant professor and associate professor in the Department of Nephrology in the IGMC, Shimla, and Tanda Medical College. It also accorded approval to procuring a CT Scan 128 slice machine at a cost of Rs 4.28 crore for Tanda Medical College in Kangra and increase the number of doctors in the Civil Hospital at Dehra in Kangra from existing nine to 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cabinet-approves-new-excise-policy-14-higher-collections-expected-258081
25-05-2021||Shimla||10 per vial but IGMC administers 11.5 doses||Going by the concept of zero wastage, the IGMC Shimla is administering average 11.5 doses against 10 doses per vial in the 18 – 44 age group and till now 345 persons have been vaccinated against 300.“Our motto is ‘one dose is equal to one life’ and as many as 106, 125 and 114 beneficiaries were vaccinated against 100 on May 17, 20 and 24 respectively, said IGMC nodal officer for vaccination, Dr Saad Rizvi.“As per the government guidelines one vial has 10 doses (0.5 ml of dose has been prescribed for one person) but the quantity is more than 10 doses which is utilized by our staff and health workers who have experience of working in immunization programmes for decades,” he said.“About 70 per cent of those registered for vaccination reach by 11:30 am. After that our teams start calling individuals. Later the district administration is informed about the number of slots (doses) available. Then slots are again opened for registered beneficiaries and additional people come for vaccination and there is no wastage. The session goes on till the last dose is utilized,” Dr Rizvi said.Initially, people were apprehensive about getting vaccinated due to the fear of side effects. “We urge people to come for vaccination as this is the only way to defeat Covid,” he added.“People generally ask which vaccine is better and I would like to make it clear that the government would not launch any vaccine unless it is totally safe. Therefore, take whatever vaccine is available,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/10-per-vial-but-igmc-administers-11-5-doses-258083
25-05-2021||Shimla||1,949 new cases, 61 deaths in Himachal||As many as 1,949 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 180,983. Besides, 61 persons died of the virus — 23 in Kangra, eight in Sirmaur, six in Solan, five in Shimla, four each in Mandi, Hamirpur and Chamba, three in Kullu, two each in Una and Bilaspur.Kangra was the worst affected with 545 cases, followed by Mandi 215, Shimla 194, Bilaspur 163, Una 162, Hamirpur 159, Chamba 132, Sirmaur 125, Kinnaur 116, Mandi 84, Solan 44, and Lahaul and Spiti 10. The number of active cases stood at 24,181. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-949-new-cases-61-deaths-in-himachal-258088
25-05-2021||UNA||Oxygen unit for Una hospital||An oxygen generation unit for the 200-bed district hospital here has been sanctioned from the PM CARES Fund. It will be functional by June end, stated DC Raghav Sharma in a press note today.He said four DRDO developed PSA oxygen concentrators had been sanctioned for the state — two at the IGMC, Shimla, and one each at the district hospitals in Solan and Una. He added a suitable location for the machinery, electrical infrastructure along with power backup are being prioritised at the district hospital. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/oxygen-unit-for-una-hospital-258090
25-05-2021||Shimla||Positivity rate falls, no decline in fatalities||The Covid positivity rate in the state has fallen drastically from 28.9 per cent (May 10 to 16) to 19.5 per cent last week. However, there has been no corresponding decline in the number of deaths; as against 439 deaths recorded from May 10 to 16, 441 deaths occurred last week, even though the active caseload has been declining since May 13.“People are reporting at hospitals when Covid symptoms get very severe or when their condition deteriorates. By that time, their organs have been extensively damaged, irreversible damage caused in many cases,” says a government spokesperson.61.2% males among deceasedThere have been 2,752 Covid deaths in the state till May 23 — 1,684 (61.2 per cent) males and 1,068 (38.8 per cent) females. The mean age of the deceased was 61.9 years. There were 1,401 (50.9 per cent) patients with comorbidities, and 1,351(49.1 per cent) with no comorbidity. As many as 668 (49.5 per cent) had diabetes mellitus, 608 (45 per cent) hypertension, 129 (9.5 per cent) chronic kidney disease and 95.7 per cent chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Most of the deaths have been in the 60-74 years age group and 87.5 per cent of the total deaths have occurred in individuals aged above 45 years.The positivity rate, however, showed a remarkable decline last week. A total of 18,794 cases were recorded last week against 28,817 cases from May 10 to 16. Also, every district has shown a downward trend in terms of the positivity rate. On May 16, six districts had a positivity rate of above 30 per cent, with Kangra the worst at 38.1 per cent, followed by Sirmaur 37.2 per cent. As per the latest information, the positivity rate has dipped below 30 per cent in all districts; Sirmaur has registered the highest 29 per cent.The average daily number of cases being reported (weekly average) has also seen a sharp decline. Last week, 2,685 cases were detected on an average every day while this number was 4,117 between May 10 and 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/positivity-rate-falls-no-decline-in-fatalities-258093
25-05-2021||Our CorrespondentPalampur||Makeshift Covid hospital opens at Paror||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today dedicated makeshift Covid care hospital at Paror near Palampur to public through virtual mode from Shimla. In the first phase, the hospital would have 250 beds and the number could be extended to 1,000, if needed.While speaking on the occasion, the Chief Minister thanked the Radha Soami Satsang, Beas, for providing this space to the government for constructing a makeshift arrangement for the benefit of Covid patients. He said volunteers of Radha Soami Satsang would provide food to the patients and their attendants free of cost. He said all beds in this makeshift hospital were equipped with piped oxygen supply to ensure better treatment to the Covid patients.Thakur said the state government had laid special emphasis on capacity building in health infrastructure to facilitate patients. He said that it was due to the efforts of the state government that the Central Government had enhanced the oxygen quota of the state from 15 MT to 30 MT. The bed capacity had also been increased from 1,200 to about 5,000.The Chief Minister said the main focus of the state government was to ensure early detection of Covid-19 patients so that they could be provided timely treatment. He said the recovery rate in the state had also gone up to 83 per cent a big relief.Speaker Vidhan Sabha Vipin Singh Parmar said the makeshift hospital at Paror would help the people, particularly of Kangra district, to get better Covid treatment. He also thanked the Radha Swami Satsang, Beas, for their philanthropic gesture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/makeshift-covid-hospital-opens-at-paror-258094
25-05-2021||Our CorrespondentPalampur||SpiceJet suspends D’sala-Delhi flights||SpiceJet has suspended its flights between Delhi and Dharamsala till June 5 and cancelled the reservations during the period. The airlines has conveyed its decision to the director, Gaggal airport, Kishore Sharma.The cancellation amount would be maintained in a credit shell and could be used to make fresh bookings. “We are cancelling the reservations till June 5. The amount will be maintained in a credit shell and may be used to make fresh bookings for the same passengers,” sources added.Before Covid, three flights of SpiceJet operated daily. Air-India was also operating two flights between Delhi-Dharamsala and one between Dharamsala-Chandigarh.Now, only one flight of Air-India is operational between Delhi-Dharamsala via Chandigarh. There were a total five flights between Delhi-Dharamsala, while one flight was connected with Jaipur. There were a number of heli-taxi services from Shimla and Hisar to the airport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/spicejet-suspends-dsala-delhi-flights-258095
25-05-2021||Dharamsala||4 arrested for Gaggal jewellery heist||The police have busted an inter-state gang of robbers and arrested four persons from Jammu.The accused had robbed jewellers near Banoi village in Gaggal on April 22 and decamped with about 3-kg gold and 15-20 kg silver. They had also fired at a jeweller but he escaped unhurt.Addressing a press conference here today, Kangra SP Vimukt Ranjan said gang members were professional robbers and many cases had been registered against them in Jammu and Punjab. They had fled from Jammu and were staying in Himachal. They robbed of two jewellers.“To crack the case, we constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) headed by Additional Superintendent of Police (City) Rajesh Kumar and DSPs Ashok Rattan, Sidharth, Baldev Dutt and Devraj and 33 others as its members,” said the SP.The team had found two motorcycles used by gang members from Kotla in the district.“On the basis of technical surveillance and ground intelligence, we first arrested the people, who sheltered the gang members,” he said.One of the gang members was arrested from his home and the second from Budgam in Srinagar. “On Sunday, we arrested the two main accused from Jammu. We recovered 3.5 kg silver and two pistols from the accused and the remaining items will be recovered soon. The accused are being interrogated,” he said.The SP said Lal Hussain of Dharkalan, Pathankot, and Jyoti Sharma, Varun Khajuria and Vijay Kumar from Kathua had been arrested for harbouring the accused. They had no direct involvement in the robbery.The accused, who committed the robbery, had been identified as Vishal Verma, Rakesh Kumar, Sunny Sharma and Prince Kapoor, they are from Samba and Kathua districts of Jammu.He said it was a professional gang which had several cases of dacoity and attempt to murder in Punjab and Jammu.The SP appreciated the SIT for their dedication and bravery in cracking the case. He also expressed gratitude to the Jammu and Kashmir Police for extending help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/4-arrested-for-gaggal-jewellery-heist-258096
25-05-2021||Mandi||Officer awarded for snow leopard conservation||Forest officer Shiv Kumar was conferred with the India Biodiversity Award 2021 on May 22 for the conservation of snow leopard in Lahaul & Spiti.The award was given by Union Minister Prakash Javadekar during a virtual event oganised by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change on the International Day of Biological Diversity.Shiv Kumar, Deputy Ranger in Lahaul & Spiti, said, “I have been working for the conservation of wildlife, especially snow leopards, in Lahaul & Spiti since 2010. From 2016, I started to make professional documentary of snow leopards. I captured a leopardess along with her two cubs on my camera.”“ I initiated a dialogue with local Mahila Mandals and residents to sensitise them against the practice of hunting wild animals. The results of the dialogue were surprising as a majority of the Mahila Mandals and many local residents came forward to work towards protecting the wildlife in the region. As a result, the count of rare species of snow leopard is increasing in the district considerably. The count of ibex and other species of wildlife animals is also increasing considerably,” he said.“I feel honoured to have received this prestigious award,” he said. Shiv Kumar got an appreciation letter from Governor Bandaru Dattareya for receiving this award. In 2019, the forest officer had received Sarvottam Vanya Jeev Mitra Award from Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/officer-awarded-for-snow-leopard-conservation-258098
25-05-2021||Our CorrespondentHamirpur||Vir Chakra awardee dies of Covid-19||Vir Chakra awardee Col Panjab Singh (Retd) died of Covid at Command Hospital, Chandimandir, today.The 80-year-old officer was admitted to the Army Hospital after he had tested positive two weeks ago. He was one of the frontline officers during the 1971 Indo-Pak war.He had lost his elder son to Covid three days ago in Delhi, while his younger son was discharged from the hospital yesterday.Former Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal, Brig Khushal Chand, chairman of the Ex-Servicemen Corporation, and many officers, soldiers and ex-servicemen had mourned the death of the Colonel.He was survived by his wife and a son. He was living here after retirement from the the Army.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vir-chakra-awardee-dies-of-covid-19-258099
25-05-2021||Mandi||Punjab man killed in Lahaul as truck rolls down gorge||One person was killed while another injured when a truck, they were travelling in, rolled down the road in Lahaul-Spiti last evening. The deceased was identified as Jaswant Singh (51), native of Randhawa Colony, Shotobhag, Gurdaspur.A truck (PB08CH 5701) met with an accident at Alubari, 7 km ahead of Darcha village. One person died on the spot, while another was injured. The body of the deceased was recovered and taken to the district hospital, Keylong, for post-mortem.The injured Karanpreet Singh (18) was rushed to the nearby hospital, said a police officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/punjab-man-killed-in-lahaul-as-truck-rolls-down-gorge-258100
25-05-2021||Dharamsala||Decks cleared for swearing-in of new Sikyong||Decks have been cleared for swearing in of new president of Tibetan Parliament-in-exile Penpa Tsering as Chief Justice Sonam Norbu Dagpo and two justice commissioners of the Tibetan Supreme Justice Commission resumed office today.Supreme Justice commission in placeChief Justice Sonam Norbu Dagpo and two justice commissioners of the Tibetan Supreme Justice Commission resumed office on MondayChief Justice Sonam Norbu Dagpo and the two Justice Commissioners Karma Damdul and Tenzin Lungtok of the Tibetan Supreme Justice Commission were removed from office on March 25. The Tibetan Parliament-in-exile, citing Article 58 of the exile Tibetan Charter had terminated them from their posts on charges of interfering in the business of the House.However, a constitutional crisis was created as only the Chief Justice of Tibetan Supreme Justice Commission of Tibetan government-in-exile could administer oath to new President of Tibetan parliament-in-exile also known as Sikyong. The term of present Sikyong Lobsang Sangay is ending on May 26 and the newly elected Sikyong Penpa Tsering had to take oath.Sources here said that the members of Tibetan Supreme Justice Commission resumed office on the plea that due process was not followed for removal.As per the Tibetan Charter for the termination of the justices, a parliamentary committee should have been formed and their report submitted to the Parliament for discussion. However, this process was not followed.The standing committee of the Tibetan Parliament-in-exile has, however, criticised the Justices for resuming their duties, saying the act would be in defiance of the Tibetan Charter. In reading the press statement issued today, Chief Justice Sonam Norbu Dagpo said the three Justices had temporarily halted their duties, recusing themselves because of conflict of interest and have now decided to resume their duties considering various factors.They had been urged to do so by thousands of people as well as the former Chief Justice and justices, former Kalon Tripas (post now known as Sikyong) and former ministers, former parliamentarians, former CTA staff, former NGO leaders and various organisations.A signed letter from 21 members of the Parliament was sent to the Justices, admitting violation of the charter in taking the March 25 decision terminating services of the Justices. All 21 members have expressed their support for withdrawal of the unlawful decision and assured the Justices of their support in rejoining their duties.“We resumed our duties in order to not cause anguish to the Tibetans in Tibet, and to support continuation of the exile administration, save the democratic system, uphold the exile Tibetan Charter, protect the three pillars of Tibetan democracy, maintain peace and harmony in the Tibetan community, and particularly to prevent causing distress to His Holiness the Dalai Lama,” Dagpo said in the statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/decks-cleared-for-swearing-in-of-new-sikyong-258101
