26-05-2021||Mandi||Inclement weather leaves Kullu orchardists in lurch||Hailstorm and strong winds caused considerable losses to stone fruit crops and apple orchards in different parts of Kullu district this year. After tourism industry, horticulture is the major sector in Kullu district that is a source of livelihood for hundreds of families in the district.This year, adverse weather conditions have left Kullu orchardists disappointed.Ani, Nirmand blocks worst-hitOrchardists said hailstorm and strong winds had caused maximum losses to stone fruits crops and apple trees in Kullu district during the months of March, April and May. The most-affected areas are Ani and Nirmand blocks in the district, besides a few parts of Banjar and Nagar blocks.They said the hailstorm and strong winds had caused maximum losses to stone fruits crops and apple trees in the district during months of March, April and May. The most-affected areas are Ani and Nirmand blocks in the district, besides a few parts of Banjar and Nagar blocks.In the Nirmand region, strong winds and hailstorm had brought disaster to apple orchardists in the region, where apple trees were uprooted from the base and leaves of plant were torn off.Jagdish Chand, a resident of Chayal panchayat under Nirmand block, told The Tribune that the hailstorm and strong winds had created havoc in the region recently. Apple and stone fruit orchards have seen 80 per cent losses in the region. The apple trees were uprooted from the base, while leaves of trees were torn. The damage to the apple plant and its leaves is likely to cause major diseases in orchards in the coming days. The damage caused by hailstorm to apple orchards would affect the yield for the next three years.”Like Jagdish Chand, several growers of Banjar, Ani and Nagar blocks said the inclement weather from March till May in different intervals had caused major losses to apple and stone fruit orchards in the region. The first spell of bad weather was observed in March, the second between April 19 to 23 and the third spell was witnessed from May 14 to 22, which caused losses worth crores. They said the state government should provide a financial assistance to the affected orchardists.Deputy Director, Horticulture Department, Kullu, Vidhya Prakash Bains said from March to May, the total loss to the horticulture produce was assessed to be Rs 24.96 crore. He said the damage was done due to the inclement weather in March, April and May months in different intervals.He said the department had sent a detailed report of losses to the horticulture produce in Kullu district to the state government for consideration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/inclement-weather-leaves-kullu-orchardists-in-lurch-258357
26-05-2021||Palampur||Jaisinghpur man killed  in cyclone||Ankush Kumar, a resident of Lahar village of Jaisinghpur subdivision, is reported to have been killed in the cyclonic storm Tauktae last week. He was serving in the merchant navy and was posted in Barge ‘Papaa-305’, the ship which was worst hit by the cyclone in high sea near Mumbai last week. Papaa-305 was attached with the ONGC for oil exploration.Official sources said the family members received a message from the head office of the company in Mumbai that Ankush had been missing since the mishap occurred. The company has requested the family members to come to Mumbai and identify the body of Ankush, among some bodies kept in a mortuary.Family sources said 28-year-old Ankush had joined merchant navy a few years ago. His parents are working in Sonepat, Haryana, while other family members reside in a village near Jaisinghpur. Parents of Ankush have already left for Mumbai. Ravinder Dhiman expressed shock over the tragedy and assured all possible help to the family. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jaisinghpur-man-killed-in-cyclone-258366
26-05-2021||The school of media and mass communication of APG Shimla University organised a webinar on 'Role of media in Covid-19||Webinar on role of media||Drive in school to collect medicinesThe students of Government Dental College, Shimla, who are associated with the Rotary Club, Shimla, launched an initiative #donateyourmeds, which focuses on collection of leftover or unused medicines that may be of no use to a patient, who has recovered from Covid. These medicines may include antibiotics, antiallergens, multivitamins and other medicines such as paracetamol and ibuprofen, as well as pulse oximeters.Relax age for HAS aspirants: ABVPThe ABVP has sought relaxation in age limit in the exams of the Himachal Administrative Services for those, who could not clear the exam due to the pandemic-induced problems. The ABVP said many students were dependent on the university library for preparing for the exam, but the HPU and other libraries were shut, and hence these students could not prepare for the exams and have crossed the higher age limit. The ABVP said they must be given relaxation in age, so that they can give another attempt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/webinar-on-role-of-media-258373
26-05-2021||Our CorrespondentHamirpur||Patients get Oxygen concentrators on doorstep||Sujanpur subdivision received 10 oxygen concentrators that were distributed to Covid-19 patients placed in home isolation in the Sujanpur constituency on Tuesday.Abhishek Rana, state in charge of the IT cell of the Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee, delivered these oxygen concentrators to the needy patients.Significantly, the concentrators and two new ambulances were procured by MLA Rajender Rana for the constituency. Rana said 10 oxygen concentrators were procured by the Sarv Kalyankari Sanstha, an NGO working in the constituency for the past over 15 years.He said that he wanted to ensure that people should get health facility on the doorsteps.He said four teams of four persons in each were sanitising villages of the constituency to contain the spread of corona virus.Rajinder Rana said it was also ensured that every house in the constituency had one oxymeter to check the oxygen level of every family member at least once in a day.He said people who need help could call at 81469-89983. In the time of Covid-19 crisis, no patient would be left unattended, added Rajinder Rana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/patients-get-oxygen-concentrators-on-doorstep-258374
26-05-2021||Shimla||Ensure 24-hr water supply by July end, says minister||Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj today directed officials of Shimla Jal Pradhikaran Nigam Ltd (SJPNL) to ensure the completion of the water supply scheme that would ensure a round-the-clock supply by the end of July.Bhardwaj, who is also the local MLA, today held a meeting with officials of the SJPNL and the Shimla Municipal Corporation to review water schemes, catering to the water needs of the state capital.Invariably, every summer the town faces an acute water shortage and it is being apprehended that deficient rains and snow during the winter season this time could result in grave water scarcity in the summer season. However, with the floating population of tourists missing this summer, the situation as of now is under control.The minister also directed officials to construct a tube settler at the lift water supply scheme at Giri by July end to end the silt problem while lifting water for Shimla town. He also reviewed other schemes and cautioned officials to meet the deadlines.He directed the Shimla MC Commissioner Ashish Kohli complete the Dhingudhar parking lot and park near Oakover within two months.The SJPNL is executing work for constructing a tube settler at Giri which will help in tackling silt during the monsoon season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ensure-24-hr-water-supply-by-july-end-says-minister-258378
26-05-2021||Our CorrespondentHamirpur May 25||Chicken seller dies  by suicide||A chicken seller reportedly died by suicide on the bank of the Maan Khud near Nadaun in the district today. The deceased has been identified as Amar Singh, a Nepalese, residing near the Maan bridge for the past many years. His wife had died a few years ago and his children were also not living with him. The body was found near his residence on the banks of the stream. The police had reportedly recovered a suicide note from the room he was staying in.SP Karthikeyan Gokulchandran said that the police had registered a case and the body had been sent for postmortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chicken-seller-dies-by-suicide-258382
26-05-2021||Kullu||NFSA beneficiaries get free ration through fair price shops||Kullu Deputy Commissioner Richa Verma said 394.159 metric tonnes of wheat and 263.463 metric tonnes of rice had been distributed free of cost, through fair price shops, among the beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act (NFSA), in May, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana during the Covid-19 crisis in the district.She said stocks of 473.374 metric tonnes of wheat and 383 metric tonnes of rice would be distributed for free among the beneficiaries in June. The stocks had also been lifted from the Food Corporation of India (FCI), she said.The DC said there were 46,303 ration card holders under the NFSA in the district. She said the allocated quantity of 558 metric tonnes of wheat and 392 metric tonnes of rice stocks had been taken out from the FCI stores and being distributed among the poor through fair price shops.She said 2-kg rice and 3-kg wheat per person per month would be provided free of cost under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana and Priority Households categories during May and June. Verma said the government of India had provided free ration to the selected beneficiaries in the district under the NFSA and the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, for the convenience to the poor during the pandemic. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nfsa-beneficiaries-get-free-ration-through-fair-price-shops-258383
26-05-2021||Shimla||80K consultations done through  e-Sanjeevani||Telemedicine has proven to be a boon for patients in the state during the pandemic, said a government spokesperson here today. “Himachal is among the top states to provide services through telemedicine. There has been an increase in the total consultations in e-Sanjeevani OPD this month,” he said.Urging the people to avail the service of e-Sanjeevani OPD from the safety of their homes, he said 80,062 consultations had been done till date. “The maximum consultations have been done through Health and Wellness Centres situated in Solan district,” he said. He added that 36,702 consultations had been done for non-specialist treatments, 16,001 for medical treatments, 7,914 for paediatrics, 7,586 for obstetrics and gynaecology, 4,907 for psychiatry etc.The services are being provided by specialist hubs at the IGMC in Shimla, Tanda hospital and the Nerchowk hospital in Mandi. “The state is in the process of establishing another specialist hub at Dr Radhakrishnan Government Medical College and Hospital, Hamirpur,” he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/80k-consultations-done-through-e-sanjeevani-258384
26-05-2021||Mandi||BRO restores Sumdho-Gramphu road after seven months||The Border Roads Organisation today restored the Sumdho-Kaza-Gramphu road via the 15,059-ft-high Kunzum pass in Lahaul and Spiti after a gap of seven months. However, traffic movement will be allowed on this road after a gap of three days.The restoration of this road would provide easy access to residents of the Spiti valley to Lahaul and Manali. Similarly, tourists can reach the Spiti valley from Manali and Leh side directly. Otherwise, they have to travel via Shimla and Kinnaur districts to enter the Spiti valley.This road was blocked for traffic movement in the region since November last year because of heavy snowfall at the Kunzum pass and its nearby places in the area. The BRO team worked relentlessly to restore this road earlier as compared to previous years. Generally every year, the BRO restores this road in June.This road is strategically important for military personnel and civilians in the region because Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts share their boundaries with China. This road connects Lahaul and Spiti with Kinnaur.Additional District Magistrate, Kaza, Gyan Sagar Negi said the BRO had restored the road but it needed proper widening at some stretches for a smooth traffic flow. As soon as the BRO gives the green signal, the Kaza administration will allow traffic on this road within three days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bro-restores-sumdho-gramphu-road-after-seven-months-258395
26-05-2021||Ravinder SoodPalampur||No buyers amid lockdown, potato growers hit hard||Potato growers in Palampur, Nagrota Bagwan and Kangra are finding no buyers this year. Upset at the drastic fall in the selling rates of their produce, marginal farmers with small landholdings are forced to sell the harvested potato crop at throwaway prices to wholesalers. Potato is a major cash crop of the Kangra valley.Sulaha, Mehanja, Bhawarna, Nagrota Bagwan, Dheera and Baijnath areas of Kangra district are known for quality potato production. Potatoes grown here are mostly used to make chips by various multinational companies. This year, because of Covid-19 crisis, lockdown has been imposed in most of the states in northern India, and there are hardly any buyers for potatoes in the district.The Tribune team today visited various potato growing areas around Palampur, where farmers are worried over poor demand for their produce in the market. Talking to The Tribune, farmers said the input cost of growing potatoes had increased manifold in the past few years. Prices of fertilisers had almost doubled in the past two years. They said this year they had purchased the potato seed at a high rate of Rs 51 per kg this year. However, the distressed sale of their produce, has become a matter of concern for them. Farmers have piled up tonnes potato stokes in their fields and homes, waiting for the customers to come once the lockdown is relaxed and markets in Punjab, Delhi Haryana Uttar Pradesh are opened.Romesh Kumar, Mehar Chand, Vijay Kumar, Subhash Chand and Neeraj Kumar said earlier, the traders used to come regularly to their villages during harvesting to settle the buying price and they were getting a higher rate than the MSP. However, this year, not even a single trader had turned up to buy their produce, the said. They are being offered Rs 90 per quintal by a few wholesalers, that is just half the amount of their production cost. In the present scenario, they would be forced to abandon the cultivation of potatoes, they said.Potato growers demanded that the state government should come for their rescue and fix a minimum price of Rs 20 per kg. They said if the lockdown in the country was not relaxed or the markets were not opened, their produce would rot.Experts of the HP Agriculture University said farmers should avoid cultivation of potato regularly. The farmers, who had been cultivating potato every year, should go for alternative crops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-buyers-amid-lockdown-potato-growers-hit-hard-258400
26-05-2021||With hardware shops being opened for only two days in a week||Traffic outside hardware shops||Vendors overchargingVegetable and fruit vendors at different places in the town are charging a lot more than the rate at which vegetables and fruits are being sold in the mandis. Also, most of them don't display a rate list. They come up with various excuses when told they are overcharging. The administration should act against such vendors. Vikrant Thakur, New ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-outside-hardware-shops-258417
26-05-2021||Solan||Drugs Controller issues notice to Nalagarh firm||The Drugs Controller, Baddi, today issued a show-cause notice to the management of Elfin Drugs Pvt. Ltd., Nalagarh, whose owner the Ambala police had arrested along with fake remdesivir injections last month.On Monday, a team inspected premises of Elfin Drugs Ltd A team of two Drugs Inspectors from the office of Drugs Controller, Baddi, and an inspector from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has been constituted to conduct a detailed investigation to find out the involvement of the manufacturer in the matter and its related aspects. The team will submit its report in 15 days, said State Drugs Controller Navneet Marwaha.A team of officials from the Haryana Food and Drug Administration, Ambala Zone; CIA-1, Ambala; CDSCO sub zone, Baddi; and Drugs Control Administration, Baddi, inspected the premises of Elfin Drugs Private Ltd. at Berson village in Nalagarh yesterday.The Ambala police had on April 21 registered an FIR following the recovery of covifor injections (remdesivir injections 100 mg/vial) Batch No. REM121006A manufactured by Hetero Labs Ltd at Aspiro Pharma Ltd. in Haryana and unlabelled vials with a red flip off seal. These unlabelled vials were recovered from Pardeep Kumar, who disclosed that he had procured these from Manoj Kumar, a resident of Naraingarh in Ambala district, through Mohammed Shahvar. Kumar is working as Plant Manager at Elfin Drugs Ltd.During joint investigation yesterday, 346 unlabelled vials filled with white powder and a red flip off seal were recovered from the rejected material store on the premises of Elfin Drugs Ltd, which purportedly contain meropenem. The Drugs Inspectors from Baddi drew samples for a lab analysis. A rejected material storeroom on the company’s premises was sealed and a probe was underway. However, the joint team found no evidence of labels, cartons or printing material related to the manufacturing of remdesivir injection on the premises of Elfin Drugs Ltd., said Marwaha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/drugs-controller-issues-notice-to-nalagarh-firm-258418
26-05-2021||NURPUR||Curbs not eased, traders upset||The Himachal Beopar Mandal today criticised the state government for not giving any relaxation in opening shops and vends selling non-essential commodities amid the curfew, despite an “assurance by the Chief Minister” in this regard last week.Sumesh Sharma, state mandal president, said the Cabinet’s decision to not ease curbs for shops was “disappointing”.He said the mandal this evening decided to send a delegation to the Chief Minister at his ‘Oakover’ residence at Shimla again on Wednesday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/curbs-not-eased-traders-upset-258419
26-05-2021||Shimla||Chalk out strategy to bring down Covid deaths: CM Himachal||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today directed officials concerned to chalk out an effective strategy to bring down deaths due to coronavirus. He presided over a meeting to review the situation here.He directed the officers to take proper and timely measures to curb the Covid spread. “Tangible results are coming out due to the curfew, as the number of cases is declining, but the number deaths is still a matter of concern,” he said.Thakur said that so far five cases of black fungus had been reported in Himachal and four of them had been operated upon. He added Asha workers should be provided sufficient masks, sanitisers and gloves so that they could perform their duties effectively and without fear.He said that a sufficient number of PPE kits should be provided at the primary health centre level, besides body bags and waste bags so that the cremation of Covid victims could be performed according to the protocol.Thakur said that thrust must be laid on shifting serious patients from home isolation to hospitals for timely treatment. He added that Asha workers and other health workers must keep a constant vigil on the condition of the patients.He emphasised the need to strengthen the supply chain of medicines, oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders and lifesaving drugs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/chalk-out-strategy-to-bring-down-covid-deaths-cm-himachal-258431
26-05-2021||Dharamsala||Corona ‘ghosts’ make violators fall in line||Corona “ghosts” are doing their bit in checking Covid in Kangra villages these days. The artistes of the public relations department of Kangra in the attire of corona ghosts are going around villages and trying to scare people roaming about without masks or not keeping social distancing. They run after people not wearing masks in villages, and try to sensitise them to follow the Covid protocols.Deputy Commissioner Kangra, Rakesh Prajapati, who has conceived the idea, said that the motive behind making corona ghost was to attract the attention of people in rural areas. “It was noticed that people in rural areas of Kangra were not strictly following the protocol of wearing masks in public places and keeping social distance. So, instead of enforcing harsh measures, we decided to use the artists of public relations department to sensitive them in a novel manner,” he said.He said that Covid cases had come down in the district but people should still follow the guidelines.The corona “ghost” was appealing to the people to wash hands frequently to avoid infection. They should not touch their face frequently and use a sanitizer. By taking such precautions, this infection can be avoided, argues the “ghost”.The “ghost” appeals to people not to leave their home without a reason during the curfew, and follow specified norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/corona-ghosts-make-violators-fall-in-line-258436
26-05-2021||Shimla||1,999 new cases, 60 deaths in Himachal||As many as 1,999 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 182,982. Besides, 60 persons died of the virus — 19 in Kangra, nine in Sirmaur, seven each in Solan, Shimla and Solan, five in Hamirpur, three each in Mandi, Bilaspur and Chamba and two in Kullu.The highest number of 576 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 295 in Mandi, 231 in Solan, 191 in Shimla, 159 in Sirmour, 134 in Hamirpur, 117 in Chamba, 113 in Bilaspur, 86 in Una, 49 in Kullu, 37 in Kinnaur and 11 in Lahaul and Spiti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-999-new-cases-60-deaths-in-himachal-258437
26-05-2021||Rajiv MahajanNurpur||Marriage industry struggles in Kangra, 500 bookings cancelled||The curfew enforced by the state government to check Covid spread has sounded the death knell for the wedding industry in lower Kangra areas. The current wedding season starting mid April has been very disappointing for marriage palaces, tent houses, photographers and the providers of lighting, flowers, DJ, band and catering in Kangra district, as 400 to 500 bookings have been cancelled after the imposition of the curfew.Weddings being solemnised at homeMost people have not rescheduled their functions this time and decided to solemnise weddings at home as per the Covid protocol. They have cancelled bookings thinking the pandemic is not ending any time in near future.The cap on the gathering (20 persons) in a wedding without band, community feast, tent and DJ system, besides no ceremonies at home and courtyards have caused huge financial losses to the wedding industry. Most people have not rescheduled their functions this time and decided to solemnise weddings at home as per the Covid protocol. They have cancelled bookings thinking the pandemic is not ending any time in near future. There are around 1,000 tent houses and an equal number of marriage palaces, banquet halls and community centres in Kangra district where various functions were organised regularly.Ashok Kumar, owner of Pammi Tent House, and Vijay Kumar, owner of Vijay Tent House, Nurpur, lament that they had suffered over Rs 7 lakh loss each in the current wedding season due to the cancellation of bookings. They add that in the absence of income, they are unable to repay bank loans, and pay salaries to workers engaged permanently to make wedding arrangements.Vivek Sareen, general secretary of the Himachal Tent Dealers Welfare Organisation, says that the wedding industry finds business only 100 to 120 days a year, depending upon the marriage season.“Entrepreneurs in the industry have to manage the entire year expenses from their limited resources. They have suffered huge financial losses due to the lockdown,” he adds.Sareen says that the organisation had submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on the precarious condition of the wedding industry and urged him to provide interest free loans with easy repay options to the entrepreneurs, who generate direct and indirect employment for around 10 lakh people in the state every year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/marriage-industry-struggles-in-kangra-500-bookings-cancelled-258438
26-05-2021||Vijay AroraShimla||Enlist steps taken to convert PHCs into hospitals with ICUs: High Court to Himachal govt||The HP High Court today directed the state government to inform it about the steps taken to convert primary health centres (PHCs) into hospitals having ICUs with oxygen facility.A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice L. Narayana Swami and Justice Anoop Chitkara passed the order on a public interest litigation (PIL) highlighting the issue of a lack of medical facilities in the state medical colleges and hospitals.During the course of hearing, an Assistant Solicitor General of India informed the court that the Central Government had directed the state governments to convert the PHCs into 30-bed hospitals having ICUs with oxygen facility.However, on the other hand, a Senior Additional Advocate General for the state government informed the court that on an average 14,000 RT-PCR tests were being conducted every day. The court said, “But as per yesterday’s report, it is only 11,000. If RT-PCR tests are not conducted on a war footing i.e. more than 20,000 to 30,000 per day, fatalities will proportionately go higher and by the time RTPCR tests are conducted, the incubation period will exceed and that may go out of the control of the government”.The court said, “In fact, on the basis of the submissions made by the Senior Additional Advocate General, what we feel is that the government has to accelerate its work to combat Covid-19 again.”The court was informed that though there are hospitals in Kullu and Lahul and Spiti, ICU beds are not available there. On this, the state government was directed to inform the court on the next date that whether ICU beds had been provided to Covid patients in both districrts.The court was informed that the state government had opened some makeshift hospitals having 1,000 beds with oxygen facility. The court appreciated the efforts of the state and said, “It is highly appreciable but decentralised opening of ICU beds by converting PHCs is of paramount importance”. The court listed the matter for further hearing on June 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/enlist-steps-taken-to-convert-phcs-into-hospitals-with-icus-high-court-to-himachal-govt-258440
26-05-2021||Hamirpur||1971 war hero cremated as per Covid protocol||The 1971 war hero, Col Panjab Singh (retired), was cremated as per the Covid protocol, at Chandimandir. The Veer Chakra awardee of the district succumbed to Covid-19 yesterday, at the Command Hospital, Chandimandir. The 80-year-old retired defence officer of the Sikh Regiment was admitted to the Army hospital after he tested positive, two weeks ago.Col Panjab Singh (retired) was awarded the Veer Chakra on December 24, 1972 for his gallantry service in the Army operation ‘Cactus Lily’ in the war against Pakistan.He had lost his elder son Anil Singh to Covid-19, three days ago, in Delhi, while his younger son Ajay was discharged from the hospital day before yesterday.He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. He was living here in ward number- 7, after retirement. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1971-war-hero-cremated-as-per-covid-protocol-258441
26-05-2021||Dharamsala||INTACH to take up Chamba temple conservation||INTACH, the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, will take up the restoration of the Devi Kothi temple, tehsil Churah in district Chamba in collaboration with the district administration of Chamba. This was disclosed today by the State Convenor of INTACH, Maalvika Pathania.For the restoration of the temple, expertise will be provided by INTACH free of charge. A sum of Rs 2 lakh has also been sanctioned by Chairman, INTACH for restoration. She said that an MoU regarding the preservation of heritage in Himachal has already been signed between the government of Himachal and INTACH.Deputy Commissioner Chamba, DC Rana said he was grateful to LK Gupta, chairman of INTACH, for granting funds and for sanctioning free expert consultancy for Devi Kothi temple for its conservation.As reported in The Tribune, art lovers were enraged at the destruction of heritage in Chamunda temple in Devi Kothi village in Churah sub division of Chamba district. About two-century-old temple was being re-constructed by petty contractors without any advice from experts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/intach-to-take-up-chamba-temple-conservation-258443
26-05-2021||Dharamsala||Temple trust rejects proposal to contribute to CM relief fund||Deprived of earning through pilgrims also coming from other states, once rich temples of Kangra both under the government and private control have failed to contribute to the district administration for Covid relief. The earnings of temples had almost dried up due to corona lockdown.The famous Brajeshwari Devi temple in Kangra, also under government control, is being forced to raise loans to meet their regular expenses as payments to its employees.Sources said that a proposal was mooted at the request of Deputy Commissioner Kangra, who is also chairman of temple trust of Jawalamukhi, to contribute Rs 51 lakh to the CM Relief Fund. However, the proposal was turned down by the trustees of the temple. Interestingly, the temple trust of Jawalamukhi temple is constituted by the government and is headed by the DC Kangra. The trustees turned down the proposal on the plea that they required the money for development of the temple and other purposes.The sources said that after the temple trust turned down the proposal the Deputy Commissioner wrote to the state government to give him permission to take the money for CM Relief Fund despite objection by the temple trust.When contacted, the Kangra DC Rakesh Prajapati admitted that proposal to donate Rs 51 lakh towards CM Relief Fund has been turned down by temple trust of Jawalamukhi.He said there have hardly been any offerings in temples since corona lockdown was imposed. Last year also the temples had no earnings due to corona lockdown.Kangra district has many famous shrines like Jawalamukhi temple, Brijeshwari Devi temple, Chamunda Devi under government control while Baglamukhi temple that was under private control that used to receive crores in offering every year from devotees coming from other states.In Una district, Chintpurni Mata temple in Una district is the richest temple of the state. Una DC Raghav Sharma, who heads the temple trust of Chintpurni temple in Una district, when contacted, said that Chintpurni temple trust was providing food to corona patients being kept in isolation facilities. It had also provided about 200 pulse meters to the corona patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/temple-trust-rejects-proposal-to-contribute-to-cm-relief-fund-258444
26-05-2021||Shimla||Equal no. of healthy people, those with comorbidities died||In Himachal, about an equal number of healthy people and those with comorbidities have died due to Covid-19. Of the total 2,752 deaths reported in the state till May 23, 1,401 (50.9 per cent) were of people with comorbidities, while 1,351 (49.1 per cent) were of healthy individuals — a difference of less than two per cent.When compared with Punjab, these numbers look surprising. In the neighboring state, around 85 per cent of deaths have been of people with comorbid conditions and the remaining 15 per cent of healthy individuals.In numbersOf the total 2,752 deaths reported in the state till May 23, 1,401 (50.9 per cent) were of people with comorbidities, while 1,351 (49.1 per cent) were of healthy individuals — a difference of less than two per cent.“I think it’s because of vaccination. We had started vaccination for people with comorbidities in the 45 plus age group a month before it was opened for general public. Our feeling is that the effect of the vaccination has started to demonstrate among people with comorbidities, and hence we are witnessing lesser deaths among them,” said Nipun Jindal, Director, National Health Mission.Incidentally, on April 30, people with comorbidities comprised 67.3 per cent of the total deaths, while healthy individuals were 32.7 per cent. In the subsequent three weeks, when the number of deaths rose consistently, the death count among healthy people increased significantly.Dr Malay Sarkar, a member of the state Covid clinical team, feels that increased deaths among healthy and younger people could be because of the new strain of the virus. “The new strain is causing severe disease and deaths even among the young and the healthy. So, that could be the reason for this data,” he said. “In the first wave, more deaths were witnessed among people having comorbidities,” he added.Dr Sarkar said though the data showed an equal number of healthy and people with comorbidities dying of Covid, the latter continues to be at a greater risk.“The disease progresses from mild to severe very quickly among comorbid patents. So, everyone has to be on alert and follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/equal-no-of-healthy-people-those-with-comorbidities-died-258446
26-05-2021||Shimla||Congress failed to play constructive role, alleges BJP||The Opposition Congress party has failed to play a constructive role during the ongoing Covid pandemic. The Opposition has the right to highlight the shortcomings and condemn the government but the allegations should be based on facts, backed with evidence, said BJP chief spokesperson Randheer Sharma.Interacting with the media persons here yesterday, Sharma said that false allegations impact the morale of the corona warriors and the political parties should rise above politics to motivate the people at large.Replying to a question on misbehavior by BJP vice president with corona warrior in Kangra district, he said that the leader was trying to raise the voice of the people in public interest. “However the usage of words was not right. I would urge the BJP leaders to respect and support the corona warriors,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-failed-to-play-constructive-role-alleges-bjp-258448
26-05-2021||Shimla||One killed, three hurt in group clash||One person was killed while three others were seriously injured in a murderous attack following a fight between two groups near the Khera petrol pump near Nalagarh yesterday.A case of murder, attempt to murder and rioting has been registered against the accused identified by the victims. Old enmity is stated to be the reason. According to the complaint lodged by Rajinder Singh, over 12 armed persons came in vehicles from the Nalagarh side and opened fire at them, injuring Simran, Najim and Akbar. They attacked Iqbal with sharp-edged weapons. The injured were taken to a hospital where Simran, aka Simu, was declared brought dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/one-killed-three-hurt-in-group-clash-258449
26-05-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||38% of Himachal Pradesh deaths within 24 hrs of hospitalisation||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 25About 38 per cent of the Covid deaths in Himachal Pradesh occurred within 24 hours of hospitalisation, indicating the delay in seeking medical assistance is a major reason behind the high mortality rate in the state.An analysis of the 2,752 deaths (till May 23) shows that about half of these took place either at home, on way to hospital or within 24 hours of being admitted to a health institution.In all, 2,843 persons, of the 1,81,256 tested positive, have succumbed to the virus after the outbreak of the pandemic. “The delay in shifting patients to hospital is to be blamed for the high case fatality rate (CFR),” said Chief MinisterJai Ram Thakur. Despite daily positive cases dropping from over 5,000 to below 2,000 currently, the 24-hour fatality count still stands around 55 to 60, which is quite high for a small state like Himachal.“The data reflects that 49.8 per cent patients died due to delay in seeking medical help,” said Nipun Jindal, Mission Director, National Health Mission. He appealed to the people to watch out for the warning signs in patients, the main being oxygen saturation falling below 94 per cent even after a six-minute walk test.The district-wise highest deaths at home have occurred in Kangra (64), Mandi (39) and Hamirpur (29) and the deaths within 24 hours of hospitalisation in Kangra (42), Mandi (23) and Solan and Shimla (12 each).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/38-of-himachal-pradesh-deaths-within-24-hrs-of-hospitalisation-258524
