27-05-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: Himachal Pradesh reports 1,472 new cases, 59 more deaths||Fifty-nine more people died due to Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh raising the toll to 2,976, while the infection count climbed to 1,85,819 with 1,472 fresh cases, an official said on Thursday.According to the state health department, there are 20,184 active coronavirus cases in the state.The recoveries rose to 1,62,636 with 3,409 patients recuperating from the disease in the last 24 hours, the official said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-himachal-pradesh-reports-1-472-new-cases-59-more-deaths-259334
27-05-2021||Dharamsala||Penpa Tsering takes over as new Sikyong of Tibetan government-in-exile||Penpa Tsering took oath as Sikyong—the president of the Tibetan government-in-exile—at the headquarters of the government in Dharamsala on Thursday.Penpa Tsering was elected as Sikyong in the recently concluded elections. He has succeeded Lobsang Sangay who remained as President of the Tibetan government in exile for two consecutive terms from 2011 to 2021.After his swearing-in, Penpa said that he was ready for negotiations with the Chinese government as per the guidelines of the Dalai Lama.He said the Tibetan struggle could continue for another 50 years and the younger Tibetans needed to be prepared to take up the responsibility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/penpa-tsering-takes-over-as-new-sikyong-of-tibetan-government-in-exile-259246
27-05-2021||Subhash Rajta||No Net in remote Himachal area, outsiders book 90% vaccine slots||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 26Over 90 per cent slots for vaccination (18-44 age group) in the remote Dodra-Kwar area of Shimla district, which has no Internet connectivity, have been booked by outsiders.To make amends, the Rohru SDM has requested all outsiders to cancel their slots so that the underprivileged local population is not deprived of a chance to get vaccinated.“Given the geographical condition and other factors like Internet connectivity, I have written to the government to exempt registration and slot booking for the area. We should be allowed on-the-spot booking as we have in the 45-plus category,” said BR Sharma, SDM, Rohru.As the area, with a population of around 8,000, lacks Internet connectivity, the administration has taken the responsibility of registering locals on CoWin portal. “As it is not possible for locals to get registered, we made village-wise teams to collect their documents and phones. The teams then come to Rohru and register the beneficiaries. We have already registered 200 persons for two sessions,” said Sharma.Following the registration, the administration had deputed teams to book slots for the registered individuals. However, when the teams tried to book slots on Tuesday, they found to their surprise that most slots had already been taken. “My teams could hardly book eight to 10 slots, the remaining were taken by outsiders, many from Shimla,” said Sharma.“People don’t realise that it’s a 10-hour drive from Shimla to Kwar. They book the slot without realising how far and inaccessible the place is. Eventually, many will not show up. So neither they will get the vaccine, nor the locals,” he said.Another reason why the administration wants the people here vaccinated at the earliest is that the area gets cut off for months when it snows on the higher reaches. “You can’t say when the area will be cut off. So, it’s best that we vaccinate them as early as possible,” said Sharma.Meanwhile, the area has already recorded around 90 per cent vaccination in the 45-plus age group. “We have gone from village to village to vaccinate people, often on foot for 3-4 hours,” said Dr Rahul Gangwar, posted at Civil Hospital in Kwar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-net-in-remote-himachal-area-outsiders-book-90-vaccine-slots-259128
27-05-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Roadside dhabas, stalls affected due to curfew in Himachal||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Roadside dhabas, stalls affected due to curfewSeveral roadside small dhabas and stalls on the way from Dhalli to Kufri have been affected adversely during the curfew. A few open their stalls in the hope of finding some customers, but there is no business. Also, even if the curfew is lifted, no one has a clue as to when the flow of tourists will start. — Babu Ram, DhalliFunds sought for hospital buildingThe work on Kihar civil hospital building in Chamba district should be finished on a priority. The government should provide the required funds for the completion of civil hospital building, so that it can be made functional at the earliest, and the locals can benefit from it. — DS Pathania, Chamba||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/roadside-dhabas-stalls-affected-due-to-curfew-in-himachal-259211
27-05-2021||Discussion on virtual studies||Discussion on virtual studies||Government Polytechnic College, Kullu, organised a webinar for its faculty and students. Doctor Anup Kumar, senior physiotherapist and clinical psychologist, from Aarogya Physio Care, Kullu, was the main speaker. The webinar was based on the concepts of virtual studies, focusing on enabling faculty and students to deal with the physical and psychological aspects related to it. Dr Kumar explained the importance of good posture in executing the activities without getting physically or mentally fatigued. He also gave tips on coping up with the situations arising from prolonged use of mobile phones and computers. Desh Raj Sharma, college principal, said the use of computers and mobiles could lead to unhealthy posture.Fill vacant posts in colleges: ABVPThe ABVP has urged the government to fill the vacant posts of teacher in colleges. The ABVP said many posts were vacant in colleges across the state, which was causing inconvenience to the students. The ABVP further said the results of State Eligibility Test held in November were also not released yet. This too was causing resentment among students.Webinar on Covid-19A webinar on Covid-19 (precautions, symptoms, transmission and treatment) was held for the students and the staff of the Government Millennium Polytechnic College. As many as 90 students and 10 faculty members benefited from this webinar. The webinar was conducted by Dr Vinod Kumar Bhardwaj, senior resident, Pt Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, Chamba.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/discussion-on-virtual-studies-259207
27-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Free ration given to migrant labourers in Kullu||KULLU, MAY 26Kullu Deputy Commissioner Richa Verma said that about 250 free ration kits were distributed to migrant labourers in Kullu subdivision in the past two days.She said that 1077 helpline number has been working round the clock to ensure that the migrant labourers living in the district do not face any problem during the corona crisis. She said that migrant labourers and other needy people are calling and telling about their needs through this number.The DC said that some migrant labourers had approached the district administration after which SDM Amit Guleria went to them and distributed ration to the needy persons at Bhuntar and other places. She added that this free ration has been provided by the Food and Civil Supplies Department.Verma said that the construction and agricultural activities are going on and most of the migrant labourers are getting daily wages. She added that, however, if there is any demand for ration, etc, at any place, it was being met immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/free-ration-given-to-migrant-labourers-in-kullu-259204
27-05-2021||Our Correspondent||11 posts sanctioned for Palampur MC: Trilok Kapoor||Palampur, May 26BJP general secretary Trilok Kapoor today said that the state government had sanctioned 11 posts for the local Municipal Corporation. He added that the decision was taken at the Cabinet meeting yesterday.Kapoor, while addressing mediapersons, said that the government was committed to the development of Palampur and thanked Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur for fulfilling the commitment made to people during a visit to the town last month.He said that the government had approved the posting of an Assistant Commissioner, a Town Planner, Health Officer, Assistant Engineer, Law Officer, two junior engineers, superintendent grade one, one Assistant, one PA to the Commissioner and a patwari in the office of the Municipal Commissioner. He added that the process to fill the posts had already started.Kapoor said that the Chief Minister had also approved depositing of Rs 4,000 each in the bank accounts of 156 sanitary workers of the Palampur MC, who had been declared corona warriors by the government. He added that an oxygen plant sanctioned under the PM CARES Fund would be commissioned in the 200-bed Civil Hospital here in the next 10 days. The DRDO had already started the installation process.He said that the party MLAs and workers, and ministers were assisting family members of Covid victims to cremate bodies and providing them materials such as PPE kits, and sanitisers. He appreciated the efforts of Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar in helping a poor family of Dhoran village to cremate a Covid victim.Aid to workersBJP general secretary Trilok Kapoor said the CM had approved depositing of Rs4,000 each in the bank accounts of 156 sanitary workers of the Palampur MC, who had been declared ‘corona warriors’ by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/11-posts-sanctioned-for-palampur-mc-trilok-kapoor-259202
27-05-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Delay in renovation work irks shopkeepers in Shimla||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 26Delay in completion of renovation of shops in the town under the Smart City project has irked the shopkeepers who are hesitant to handing over these to the Himachal Pradesh Housing and Urban Development Authority HIMUDA (agency executing the renovation work).Under the Smart City project, 467 shops located in Lower Bazaar, Sabzi Mandi and Ram Bazaar area would be renovated and given a modern symmetric look in a phased manner. These shops belonging to Shimla Municipal Corporation (SMC) had been let out on lease by the corporation.Shopkeepers say that substandard material is being used in the construction work which is being delayed by four months adding to their worries. “They are now hesitant to hand over the shops to HIMUDA,” said president, Veopar Mandal Shimla, Inderjeet Singh.“We were told that the shops will become more spacious and attractive. I vacated my shop in November last year on the assurance that it will be given back by January this year but now the height of the shop is being reduced,” said a footwear shop owner, Vaibhav. The three shops already handed over to lessees were 18 metres in height, so how symmetry would be maintained,he questioned.Till now three shops have been handed over to the shopkeepers after completion. The work is in progress in 11 shops in Sabzi Mandi while the work on five shops near the tunnel in Lower Bazaar has been halted as the constructor was ill. Height of 12 shops which are completed will be reduced from 16 to 12 feet as the private shop owners objected to the height, obstructing their sunlight.The old and debilitated shops would be beautified and given a new modern look and encroachments in congested market areas would be removed to enable entry of fire brigade. Alternate arrangements have been made near the Lift to accommodate the shopkeepers, whose shops would be renovated, said Commissioner SMC Ashish Kohli.The work of five shops near tunnel was delayed due to shortage of manpower as labour was not available during Covid-19 pandemic and afterwards the contractor caught infection and now the shops were re-tendered, said Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, adding that in Sabzi Mandi, the delay was due to litigation and now the height of shops would be reduced to 12 feet.Stating that most of the shopkeepers are willing to hand over the shops, Bhardwaj appealed to the residents to support the Smart City project aimed at beautification of Shimla and creation of modern facilities for the people. He also directed the HIMUDA to complete the work in stipulated period.Support Smart City project: BhardwajUrban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj has appealed to the residents to support the Smart City project aimed at beautification of Shimla and creation of modern facilities. He also directed HIMUDA to complete the work in the stipulated period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/delay-in-renovation-work-irks-shopkeepers-in-shimla-259198
27-05-2021||Palampur||Patients admitted to Paror's makeshift Covid Care Hospital||A 250-bed makeshift Covid Care Hospital set up at the Radha Soami Satsang complex at Paror today started to admit Covid patients.The hospital inaugurated by the Chief Minister two days ago is being managed by a team of doctors deputed from different hospitals of Palampur. The state government has provided necessary infrastructure like beds, piped supply of oxygen and other equipment.A spokesman for the Health Department said 10 Covid patients had been admitted on Wednesday morning. These patients were earlier in home isolation in the absence of beds in Covid hospitals. He said in the first phase, there was a provision to admit 250 patients and later, its capacity would be extended to 1,000 beds. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/patients-admitted-to-parors-makeshift-covid-care-hospital-259197
27-05-2021||---||Himachal  to seek flexibility in vaccine slot booking||Shimla, May 26The state government has decided to approach the Central Government for some flexibility in vaccine bookings, as rural people are struggling to book slots on the COWIN portal owing to poor Internet connectivity and lack of technology awareness.It has been reliably learnt that the government will write to the Union Health Ministry to allow some access to the COWIN portal so that a balance can be maintained between the urban and rural population in vaccination.Resentment is brewing among villagers as all vaccine slots are booked within minutes and in some places within seconds as soon as the schedule opens for the 18-44 age group; there are over 31 lakh people in this category in the state.There have been reports that people not only in Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur but also in rural parts of Shimla are unable to book vaccine slots, leading to resentment.“There is poor Internet connectivity and also people in rural areas, especially those who are not tech savvy and do not have an android phone, are unable to book vaccine slots ,” admits a senior health official.What has made the matter worse is that people from urban areas are booking slots in rural vaccination centres. There have been instances of people from Delhi, Rajasthan and Punjab taking vaccine in Manali and Lahaul and Spiti while holidaying their.The Lahaul-Spiti district administration has devised a mechanism whereby 80 per cent of the vaccine slots are reserved personally by putting a slip in a box, but in most parts of the state villagers are unable to book vaccine slots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-to-seek-flexibility-in-vaccine-slot-booking-259196
27-05-2021||Shimla||Covid-19: 1,365 new cases, 44 deaths in Himachal||As many as 1,365 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 184,347. Besides, 44 persons died of the virus — 13 in Kangra, six in Kullu, five in Shimla, four each in Hamirpur and Sirmaur, three each in Chamba and Mandi, two each in Una and Solan and one each in Kinnaur and Bilaspur.The highest 385 cases were reported in Kangra, 220 in Solan, 144 in Mandi, 129 in Una, and 107 in Chamba. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-1-365-new-cases-44-deaths-in-himachal-259194
27-05-2021||---||Blood shortage at IGMC, Shimla claims NGO||Shimla, May 26The Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Hospital is facing a shortage of blood. Though the hospital authorities say the shortage isn’t serious and the situation will improve in a couple of days, the Umang Foundation, an NGO, claims that the problem is acute.“There are around 50 units left in the hospital, which has the capacity to store 1,500 units. The every day consumption at the hospital is about 35 to 40 units,” says Umang Foundation president Ajai Srivastava. “It shows how grave the situation is. People are finding it difficult to arrange blood. We will file a PIL in the High Court on the matter,” he said.Dr Sandeep Malhotra, HoD, Immunohaematology and Blood Transfusion, said, “We had around 100 units at the blood bank this morning. In normal times, we don’t go below 150-200 units, so that way, there’s of course some shortage but there’s no crisis as such,” said Dr Malhotra. “We have a few camps over the next few days. Also, we will appeal to NGOs and donors to donate blood,” he said.Srivastava alleged that even when the shortage was imminent, blood bank officials did not appeal for blood donation. “My father-in-law, a cancer patient, needed two units of blood. He was provided one unit and the second was to be given the next day. However, the doctor refused to give the second unit, and asked me to donate blood,” said Hari Dutt Bhardwaj, a renowned flute player of the state. “However, we were given blood after we spoke to some people,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/blood-shortage-at-igmc-shimla-claims-ngo-259193
27-05-2021||---||Himachal CM: Curbs to be withdrawn gradually if cases decline||Shimla, May 26The state government will consider a gradual and phased withdrawal of restrictions (unlocking) after May 31 if Covid cases decline sharply, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while interacting with a 19-member delegation of the Himachal Beopar Mandal led by its president Sumesh Kumar Sharma here today.The Chief Minister said that the state government was aware of the hardships and difficulties that the business community was facing due to the curfew. He added that the decision to impose the curfew till May 31 was taken in the larger interest of the people of the state.The Beopar Mandal submitted a memorandum to the Chief Minister and urged him to put in place a mechanism to open all shops for five hours, three days a week so that the businessmen and traders could survive, especially those dealing in seasonal products.President of the Beopar Mandal Shimla Inderjeet Singh, who was instrumental in motivating the delegation to meet the Chief Minister, demanded an immediate ban on online sales. He said, “We have closed our shops and are sitting at home while online companies are doing a brisk business. The business community feels that online sales should be stopped till the curfew is in place or local shopkeepers also be allowed to sell their products online”.The delegation also urged the Chief Minster to give them priority in vaccination. Their other demands included reduction in electricity bills and a financial package to bail them out of the crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-curbs-to-be-withdrawn-gradually-if-cases-decline-259192
27-05-2021||Pratibha Chauhan||Covishield supply limited, Himachal govt mulls other options||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 26With a limited vaccine supply from the Serum Institute of India (SII), the Himachal Government is exploring alternatives, including purchasing Covaxin or Sputnik vaccines on its own, so as to be able to cover the maximum population.The Health and Family Welfare has worked out the cost of procuring the alternative vaccines but the biggest constraint is the huge funds required. It has been reliably learnt that the cost for acquiring 72 lakh Covaxin doses will be Rs 432 crore at the rate of Rs 600 per dose. On the other hand, the total cost of purchasing 72 lakh doses of Sputnik at the rate of Rs 948 per dose will cost the state another Rs 682 crore.The issue was taken up at the Cabinet meeting two days ago. As the supply of Covishield from the SII is likely to be slow and long drawn, the Health Department is contemplating to procure Sputnik and Covaxin from other manufacturers. However, the Council of Ministers will take the final call on acquiring the vaccines from sources other than the SII to vaccinate the 18 plus age group in the state.So far, 18.70 lakh people have been administered the first dose of Covishield in the state. “A total of 23,06,478 doses supplied by the Central Government have been administered to people, including 83,614 health care workers and 80,605 frontline workers, who have got the first jab,” said Nipun Jindal, Director of the National Health Mission.A total of 4,35,501 people have received the second dose of Covishield so far. In the above 45 years age group, 16.46 lakh people have been vaccinated, including 3.24 lakh persons who have been administered the second dose also.In the 18-44 years age group, 60,210 people have been administered the first dose of Covishield procured by the state from the SII directly from its own resources. Tomorrow, 21,235 persons will receive the jab at 214 vaccination centres in various districts. The next vaccination drive will take place on May 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covishield-supply-limited-himachal-govt-mulls-other-options-259191
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||SJVN to instal 4 oxygen plants in Himachal||In a meeting with Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today, Nand Lal Sharma, Chairman and Managing Director, SJVN Limited, said four oxygen plants would be installed in Shimla (Rampur), Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti and Hamirpur at Rs 4.5 crore.He said the SJVN had provided cold chain equipment costing around Rs 1 crore to the state government, to help vaccinate the entire population of Himachal. Sharma said they had tied up with Fortis Hospital to vaccinate its employees, persons working through contractors and the locals residing in the vicinity of the office.He said the SJVN had recently provided 50 semi-Fowler beds to the IGMC, in addition to financial support of more than Rs 2 crore to procure oximeters, masks etc for government hospitals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sjvn-to-instal-4-oxygen-plants-in-himachal-259190
27-05-2021||Our Correspondent||In home isolation, 44-yearr-old man dies by suicide in Nurpur||Nurpur, May 26Kulbhushan Singh (44), a resident of Jachh, near here, reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself form a railing on the first floor of his house last night. He was an Ph.D and had taught in various private colleges in Punjab. He had tested Covid positive a few days ago and his oxygen saturation had fallen during his home isolation. He was admitted to a private hospital at Kangra and he recovered from Covid in a few days. He came back last week and was in home quarantine. He is survived by his wife and three daughters.According to the police, Kulbhushan, in a signed suicide note, stated that he was taking the extreme step on his own and none was responsible for it. The police handed over the body to the bereaved family after a post-mortem today. A case under Section 174 of the CrPc had been registered. Locals believe it to be a case of depression due to Covid and staying in home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-home-isolation-44-yearr-old-man-dies-by-suicide-in-nurpur-259189
27-05-2021||---||Farmers observe black day in Himachal||Shimla, May 26With farmer’s agitation completing six months today, the Himachal Kisan Sabha and the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, along with other like-minded organisations, observed black day across the state.The protesters, sporting black ribbons and waving black flags, demonstrated against the Union Government, in 30 blocks and 1,000 villages.Kisan Sabha state president Kuldeep Tanwar said the government did not bother to speak to the farmers in the past four months.“Farmers worked tirelessly to make our country food-sufficient, but the government has forced them to fight for minimum support price,” said Tanwar.Satyawan Pundir, Kisan Sabha leader, slammed the Centre for its inability to control the pandemic, which had now taken even villages in its grip.He also blamed the state government for failing to curb the spread of the infection, mainly because it did not make required investment in the health sector, be it appointing healthcare workers or arranging adequate oxygen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/farmers-observe-black-day-in-himachal-259188
27-05-2021||---||Traffic disrupted near Bharmour after landslip||Our CorrespondentBharmour, May 26Traffic was disrupted at Pangira, between Garola and Holi, on the Chamba-Holi highway due to a blockade caused by a huge landslide in Bharmour tribal subdivision of Chamba district on Monday evening, the reports said.Reports revealed a landslide occured near Pangira on the tribal highway of Holi, due to which a portion of the road was damaged by rocks and debris. Owing to this, the movement of vehicles plying between Holi and Garola had come to a halt.Bharmour Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Maneesh Soni said the work to clear the debris was in progress, and at the same time, the restoration work to stabilise the fragile hillside had also been undertaken.The debris was expected to be removed by Sunday to resume the movement of vehicles, the SDM said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-disrupted-near-bharmour-after-landslip-259187
27-05-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||No water supply, Jawali villagers threaten to gherao XEN's office||NURPUR, MAY 26Up in arms against the Jal Shakti Department (JSD) for its failure to restore piped water supply even after two months, the residents of Gher village of Jarot gram panchayat in Jawali subdivision of Kangra district today served an ultimatum saying that they would gherao the office of the Executive Engineer, JSD, at Jawali with empty pitchers and water containers if their water supply was not restored within the next three days.Residents of Gher village, KangraSEVERAL REMINDERS SENT TO AUTHORITIESWe have sent several reminders to the authorities concerned but our problem has not been addressed. A senior JSD official of Jawali had assured us of resolving the piped water supply problem, but nothing has been done so far.The residents, especially women of this village with a population around 300, are forced to fetch water from a tap installed on a tube well far away from their houses.Ashok Kumar, ward member of ward number one of Jarot panchayat, said the residents of his ward were the worst sufferers amid the corona pandemic as they had to leave their houses several times in a day to fetch water from far away water sources to meet their daily requirements.Hem Raj, Pooja, Beena, Pratap Chand, Sarla Devi, Reeta, Reshma and Kanta Devi of the village lamented that the domestic taps in the houses in their village went dry two months back. They said that in the scorching summer it was a Herculean task to cover a long distance and hold water containers on their heads and shoulders.“Our water supply problem could not be addressed even after several reminders to the authorities. Even after getting assurance from a senior official of the JSD of Jawali who happened to visit our village, our piped water supply problem could not be solved,” they rued.Neeraj Bhogal, Executive Engineer of JSD, who recently joined at Jawali said he had visited the village to take stock of the situation. “The affected consumers are residing in the last corner of the village. They are not getting piped water supply due to shortfall in the underground water discharge of hand pump,” he said. A proposal to lay special pipeline from a nearby overhead water tank had been made for these villagers facing water supply problem, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-water-supply-jawali-villagers-threaten-to-gherao-xens-office-259186
27-05-2021||---||No checks amid curbs, mining mafia having a field day in Palampur||Ravinder SoodPalampur, May 26At a time when the state agencies, including the police, forest and IPH departments, are busy combating the pandemic, the mining mafia is carrying out illegal activities with impunity in the Neugal and Beas rivers. In fact, the lockdown has proved to be a blessing in disguise for the mining mafia.In the absence of any checks, a number of trucks, tippers and JCB machines can be seen extracting sand and stones from the Beas and Neugal rivers along the Palampur-Sujanpur and Alampur–Jaisinghpur highways.The illegal mining in the Beas near Alampur has also endangered a bridge over the river that connects Hamirpur and Kangra districts. Though the state mining policy-2015 prohibits mining 200 metres downward and upward of bridges in the state, it is a free for all these days.Large plumes of dust rising out of stone crushers in Jaisinghpur villages has made the lives of villagers miserable. Many have been experiencing respiratory and pulmonary issues. A panchyat pradhan said in his village, over 50 persons had developed chronic chest infections.Jaisinghpur MLA Ravi Dhiman, when contacted by The Tribune, said the matter was brought to the notice of the higher authorities time and again, but no action was taken. He said people in many villages were unable to sleep as the crushers are functional at night and there is continuous movement of JCB machines. The mafia has dug trenches along the Beas.He said the situation was similar in the Neugal river, where illegal mining is being carried out at night. Earlier, villagers had protested against the illegal mining, which forced the mafia to stop its activities during the day, but now, it carries out its activities at night. Despite various complaints to the authorities concerned, no action has been taken.The Mining Department has also failed to follow the directions of the NGT and the state government with regard to earmarking the area allotted for mining so that no illegal activities are carried out outside the leased area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-checks-amid-curbs-mining-mafia-having-a-field-day-in-palampur-259185
27-05-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Pollution board issues notice to Indora melting plant management||NURPUR, MAY 26The regional authorities of the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), Kangra, issued a 15 days’ show-cause notice to the management of an induction furnace plant of Kandrori in Indora subdivision of Kanga district last evening for allegedly polluting environment. The SPCB has also directed the plant management to rectify the pollution control devices within 15 days, saying that the failure to comply with the directions would attract penal action against the plant management, including stopping of production in the unit.RK Nadda, Superintending Engineer, SPCB, KangraLocals sent a video to SDMI received a video clip from the Indora SDM two days back which was sent to him by locals. In the clip, the furnace of Sood Ispat Private Ltd, Kandrori, in Indora subdivision can be seen emitting black-coloured smoke.RK Nadda, Superintending Engineer, SPCB, Kangra, said he had received a video clip from the Indora SDM two days back which had been sent to him by locals. In the clip, thefurnace of Sood Ispat Private Ltd, Kandrori, can be seen emitting black-coloured smoke.Nadda, who also inspected the plant on Tuesday, told The Tribune that apart from serving the show-cause notice to the plant management, a verbal direction had also been given to it so that people living in thatarea would not suffer due to air pollution.He said if erring plant management defies guidelines/yardsticks laid down by the SPCB, action would be taken as per the provisions of water, air and environment pollution Acts.Somil Gautam, Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Indora, said he had been receiving complaints from residents of Shekhupura, Kandrori and Bhain-Attarian villages that the furnace of the plant was emitting black smoke, leading to air pollution.He said he had taken up the issue with the regional authorities of the State Pollution Control Board for further action.Meanwhile, Shekhupur gram panchayat pradhan Sudhir Pathania alleged that the people residing around the furnace plant had been inhaling polluted air for the past few months. If no corrective measures were taken to rectify pollution control devices, the gram panchayat would submit its resolution to the state government with a demand to shutdown the unit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pollution-board-issues-notice-to-indora-melting-plant-management-259184
27-05-2021||Vijay C Roy||Solan, not Shimla, tops in realty projects in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 26Proximity to Chandigarh, better connectivity and climate has made Solan in Himachal Pradesh a most sought-after destination for home buyers and realty projects. This can be gauged from the fact that the district commands a lion’s share in the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA)-registered projects in the state.According to data, almost 58% of the upcoming projects are concentrated in Solan district, followed by Shimla (26%) and Kangra (5%).The total number of projects registered on HP RERA portal was 78 with Solan having the maximum (45), followed by Shimla (20) and Kangra (4).Demand for holiday homes gains tractionWith most of the professionals working from home, geography is no longer a constraint. The need for a perfect work-life balance has fuelled the concept of a holiday home. —Senior executive, Real estate developer“There are a couple of reasons why maximum projects are concentrated in Solan. Proximity to Chandigarh, better connectivity compared to any other district, including Shimla, and better climate make it an ideal location. Secondly, most of the upcoming projects are in the municipal limits and flats are easily transferable and don’t require permission under Section 118,” said Rajiv Shandil, a real estate agent.Section 118 of the HP Tenancy and Land Reforms Act provides restrictions on buying of agricultural land by non-agriculturists in the state. Only bona fide Himachalis with agricultural background can buy land in the state.In Solan district, a majority of the projects are coming up in Baddi and Kasauli. As per real estate brokers, the demand for holiday homes in the northern region is gaining traction amid the pandemic. In order to cash in on the growing demand, especially from the metros and NRIs, the developers have lined up various projects.Developers said due to the Covid pandemic, the concept of a holiday home or a second home has gained widespread acceptance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/solan-not-shimla-tops-in-realty-projects-in-himachal-258844
