28-05-2021||Shimla||2 die of black fungus at Shimla's IGMC||Two persons have died due to black fungus at Shimla's Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital.According to hospital administration, it’s the first instance of deaths due to black fungus in the state.“These two had not been operated yet,” said IGMC MS Dr. Janak Raj.Both the deceased were men—one from Solan and the other from Hamirpur. While the patient from Hamirpur was brought to IGMC on Thursday, the one from Solan was being treated here since May 22.Raj said that both the patients had developed diabetic ketoacidosis and the infection had reached their brain.There are three more black fungus patients at IGMC at the moment, and they are reported to be stable at the moment.The first case of black fungus was reported in the state on May 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-die-of-black-fungus-at-shimlas-igmc-259812
28-05-2021||---||Opioid tablets worth Rs 15 cr seized from pharma unit in Himachal||Solan, May 28In a night-long join raid by the Himachal Pradesh and Punjab Police, over 30.2 lakh tablets of illegally produced pharma opioids were seized from Unique Formulations pharmaceutical unit located in Devi Nagar area of Paonta Sahib in Sirmaur.Seizure valued at over 15 crores rupees, informed Director General of Police, Sanjay Kundu. Recently, the Amritsar police had confiscated a huge quantity of tramadol illegally smuggled to the area. Around 50,000 tablets were recovered. The raid was a fallow up of that, said the DIG.State Drugs Controller Navneet Marwaha informed that the unit has been asked to stop production by issuance of a show cause notice by the additional drug controller, Nahan, Sunny Kaushal.In a bid to curb any such nefarious activity, all ADCs and deputy drug controlled have been directed to keep a watch on such units.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/opioid-tablets-worth-rs-15-cr-seized-from-pharma-unit-in-himachal-259805
28-05-2021||Lalit Mohan||Infected woman admitted to Nagrota non-Covid hospital||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 27Chief Medical Officer, Kangra (CMO), GD Gupta has ordered an inquiry into reports that the Covid positive mother of the PA of BJP MLA from Nagrota Bagwan Arun Kumar was admitted to the Civil Hospital, Nagrota Bagwan, in violation of the protocols.The woman had tested positive on May 15 and was admitted to the Covid hospital at Paprola. However, after four days, she was moved to the Civil Hospital at Nagrota Bagwan.The BJP MLA has justified admitting her to the hospital. He said many Covid patients were not finding beds in dedicated hospitals. “I cannot see people of my constituency dying for want of treatment,” he said.He said he got 27 positive patients treated in Nagrota Bagwan hospital. They were provided oxygen beds.“What wrong have I done by saving the lives of corona patients by getting them admitted to the Civil Hospital,” Arun said.The CMO said the hospital had not been notified as a Covid facility. He refused to comment on the MLA’s claim that he got 27 patients treated in the hospital.Sources said that the heath authorities were shocked at the claims of the MLA that Covid patients were being treated at the Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/infected-woman-admitted-to-nagrota-non-covid-hospital-259756
28-05-2021||---||No buses to Haridwar, ashes immersed in Baijnath ghat||Ravinder SoodPalampur, May 27The immersion of ashes of Covid victims has become a difficult task because of the suspension of bus services to Hardwar for the past three weeks. Relatives of the victims are reaching “Kheer Ganga Ghat” in Baijnath, 20 km from here, on the banks of the Binwa for the purpose. It is also known as mini Hardwar.There has been a surge in the number of persons visiting Kheer Ganga Ghat these days from Kangra and Mandi districts for the immersion of ashes of their relatives, said Ghanshyam Awasthi and Munish Dixit, residents of Baijnath.Residents of Baijnath also complained that Kheer Ganga Ghat, which is also known as a pilgrimage centre lacks basic facilities for the people coming here for the immersion of ashes. There is no proper arrangements for the sitting of visitors. Even there is no covered area where victims’ families could sit amid rain or bad weather, despite the fact that crores of rupees were lying unspent with the Shiv Mandir Temple Trust.SDM, Baijnath, Dharmesh Ramotra said the matter had come to his notice and facilities would be provided to the people reaching the ghat. The temple trust is being asked to make arrangements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-buses-to-haridwar-ashes-immersed-in-baijnath-ghat-259757
28-05-2021||---||1,472 new cases, 59 deaths in Himachal Pradesh||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 27As many as 1,472 new cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 185,819. Besides, 59 persons died of the virus — 25 in Kangra, eight in Mandi, seven in Shimla, five in Solan, four in Hamirpur, three in Sirmaur, two each in Bilaspur, Kullu and Chamba and one in Lahaul and Spiti.Kangra was the worst affected with 377 cases, followed by Shimla 219, Mandi 155, Hamirpur 137, Una 116, Sirmaur 101, Bilaspur 96, Solan 90, Chamba 89, Kinnaur 46, Kullu 40 and Lahaul and Spiti six. The number of active cases reduced to 20,184.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-472-new-cases-59-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-259758
28-05-2021||Subhash Rajta||Grim 14-day battle at IGMC, 102-yr-old emerges winner||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 27A 102-year-old woman walked out of the IGMC, Shimla, after defeating coronavirus in a grim 14-day battle. A native of Sungra in Kinnaur district, Dharamdasi was rushed to the hospital on May 14 in an unconscious state, with oxygen saturation below 85.“She is stable now, and happy to be back home after spending two weeks in the hospital,” said her son RS Negi. Incidentally, two women in their nineties defeated Covid at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, too, a few days ago. One was 92-year-old, and the other was 99. “Both women showed a lot mental strength, which eventually helped them to beat the disease,” said DDU MS Dr Ravinder Mokta.For the IGMC, the recovery of a 102-year-old patient is a matter of pride. “There was no attendant with the patient. She was looked after entirely by the hospital staff. It was a challenge to handle a patient at this age. It’s a matter of great joy and pride for us that we managed to cure her,” said IGMC Medical Superintendant Dr Janak Raj.Negi couldn’t have sounded more grateful to the hospital. “There was no attendant to take care of her. She was all alone and we were really worried about her. However, the hospital took good care of her. I am extremely grateful to everyone who helped her recover,” said Negi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/grim-14-day-battle-at-igmc-102-yr-old-emerges-winner-259759
28-05-2021||---||Sub-tehsil status granted to Telka in Chamba||Our CorrespondentChamba, May 27The Himachal Pradesh Government has given the approval to open a new sub-tehsil at Telka, a far-flung area in Chamba district, official sources said here.The sources said the government also decided to create required posts to man the work of sub-tehsil.Meanwhile, the people of the Telka area have hailed the decision of the state government. Earlier, the people of the area had to travel about 35 km to Salooni for revenue-related works. They said now, they won't have to face any such inconvenience and would get their work done locally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sub-tehsil-status-granted-to-telka-in-chamba-259760
28-05-2021||Bhanu P Lohumi||Shimla’s iconic Indian Coffee House on brink of closure||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 27After the closure of the famous Baljees restaurant in July 2019, another iconic eating joint Indian Coffee House, crumbling under mounting liabilities due to Covid, is on the brink of closure here.The sales have dipped drastically during the pandemic and employees have not been paid salary for almost a year now and it is becoming tough to survive, said manager of Indian Coffee House Atma Ram, adding, “We are giving Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 to staff to run their homes”.There was no business during the lockdown last year. Most employees have taken loans or withdrawn provident fund to survive during the ongoing pandemic, but the situation is pathetic, he said, adding that now the coffee house has only 7-8 branches with staff of over 250 employees while the liabilities have increased to around Rs 8-9 crore.The coffee house on The Mall has been a rendezvous for the residents for over six decades. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi was a regular visitor to the coffee house when he was the BJP in charge of Himachal. He stopped to sip coffee at this place while returning to the helipad during his visit to Shimla in 2017.It was the most sought-after place for gossip and serious discussion by groups of writers, artists, journalists, employees, scholars and other sections of society. A large number of people, especially senior citizens, who are regular visitors to the coffee house, are sad with the development. Some have even taken to the social networking sites to raise funds to save the 60-year-old venture.Coffee house lovers are coming together to find a solution to the problem and do their bit. In his Facebook post a Arvind Upreti said, “It will be the saddest day for me if the coffee house shuts down.”“They were never a hard core commercial entity, but simply an employees’ cooperative, providing delicious food at reasonable prices and if such a place goes down unsung, I am sure we will be losing an integral part of our childhood nostalgia and Shimla history”, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimlas-iconic-indian-coffee-house-on-brink-of-closure-259761
28-05-2021||---||Farmers to get seeds, fertilisers  on subsidy||Our CorrespondentChamba, May 27The sowing of kharif crops mainly maize in the upper reaches and paddy in the lower areas of Chamba district is in full swing.For the convenience of farmers during Covid curfew, seeds, fertilisers, pesticides and agricultural implements are being made available to them on a subsidy of Rs 40 per kg by the Agriculture Department.In an official communiqué issued here today, deputy director of agriculture Dr Kuldeep Dhiman said this year keeping in mind the consumption of seeds in the district, 1,900 quintal maize seeds and 160 quintal paddy seeds was being provided to farmers through sale centres of the department, besides agriculture cooperative societies.The seeds of rainy season vegetables were also being made available to all farmers on subsidy in the sale centres of the Department of Agriculture and agriculture cooperative societies, Dhiman said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/farmers-to-get-seeds-fertilisers-on-subsidy-259762
28-05-2021||---||Palampur: Bread-winners gone, widows stare at bleak future||Ravinder SoodPalampur, May 27After towns, Covid has now started leaving its impact on rural areas in the state. Despite the fact that the number of Covid positive cases is coming down in Kangra, hundreds of Covid patients are in a critical condition in hospitals.Tales of sorrowAlmost every village in Palampur has suffered the heat of the pandemic.After half an hour travelling from Palampur, this correspondent reached a small village Samana near Bhawarna where Covid has killed both bread-earners of a family, the father and son. Now only widows are left in the house.Santosh and Ruchi narrated how their lives were changed when Covid snatched their husbands within three months. Santosh Kumari said her husband Rakesh Chand had a fever and chest infection. He was diagnosed with Covid. He was taken to Tanda medical college where he died after seven days.She said her 39-year-old son Anil Guleria was working as a designer in a press. On May 5, he had also tested positive and died after struggling for five days in Covid Care Hospital, Dharamsala. He had left behind 33-year-old widow. Now only two women are left in the house without any source of income.Most deaths in the village have taken place because of the shortage of oxygen beds in hospitals. The sick were being rushed to Covid Care Hospitals and the critically ill patients were referred to the TMC.Many residents of the village said the state government should come out with a policy to help such families and sanction ex gratia to the Covid victims||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-bread-winners-gone-widows-stare-at-bleak-future-259763
28-05-2021||Shimla||Few outsiders turn up, locals get jab  at Dodra-Kwar||Over 90 per cent locals got the jab at the remote Dodra-Kwar centre today though outsiders had booked over 90 per cent slots in the 18-44 age category. “As expected, outsiders did not turn up at the centre. So, we re-booked the slots for locals,” said SDM, Rohru, BR Sharma. “Only five outsiders, who had booked the slot, got the jab. They had reached here two-three days back as no one travelled to the Kwar centre from outside today,” he said.On finding out that outsiders had booked the slots at the Kwar centre, the SDM had issued an appeal to them to cancel their bookings. “A few did it. I had received a few calls telling me that they would cancel their bookings,” said Sharma. “Many others perhaps did not travel when they realised how far Kwar was,” he said.Meanwhile, the locals were upset when they realised that outsiders had booked the slots at their centre. To ensure that no outsider take the jab at their centre, the villagers put up nakas to check the entry of outsiders into the area.“Everyone got upset after knowing that outsiders would get the vaccine meant for us. So we put up nakas at the entry point to the area to ensure that no outsiders get the vaccine here. However, we haven’t noticed any outside vehicle entering our area,” said Nirmala Devi, pradhan, Dodra panchayat.“Also, our area is coming out of the grip of corona. So, the outsiders coming here could be corona positive and the infection could spread again in our villages. We did not want to take that chance,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/few-outsiders-turn-up-locals-get-jab-at-dodra-kwar-259764
28-05-2021||---||Indora panchayat reps motivate villagers to follow Covid norms||Rajiv MahajanNurpur, May 27The elected representatives of Ghandran gram panchayat in Indora subdivision of Kangra district has set an example by motivating local villagers to follow the Covid appropriate behaviour.Jugal Kishar and Aziz Mohammad, pradhan and up-pradhan of the panchayat, are regularly sensitising the villagers ever since the number of Covid cases started surging again. They try to ensure that there is no violation of curfew restrictions enforced by the district administration.The pradhan and the up-pradhan yesterday visited two marriage venues in the gram panchayat and ensured physical distancing, wearing of face masks and the presence of a maximum of 20 persons in the functions held in the courtyards. In one house, they also motivated the family to remove tents erected for wedding celebrations. As per the curfew restrictions, tents, community feasts, bands sand DJ systems are prohibited.The duo have also sanitised residential areas in all seven wards of the panchayat having a population of over 2,000. They motivate the residents on a public address system to wear face masks, maintain physical distancing and not to move out of their houses without any specific work.Mohammad said that at present 12 Covid patients were in home isolation in the panchayat. He added that the residents were also being advised not to conceal any symptom of the virus and go for testing immediately. “The campaign launched by the panchayat to sensitise villagers not to violate the curfew restrictions and follow the Covid appropriate behaviour has brought fruitful results. Now, people are well aware of the pandemic,” he said.Indora SDM Somil Gautam said that the campaign of the Ghandram panchayat representatives was a service to society and useful support to the administration. He exhorted the representatives of other gram panchayats to follow in the footsteps of their brethren from Ghandram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/indora-panchayat-reps-motivate-villagers-to-follow-covid-norms-259765
28-05-2021||Shimla||Vax camp  for special people sought||Dr Mallika Nadda, chairperson of Special Olympics Bharat, has urged the government to start a drive to vaccinate persons with special needs.In a letter written to CM Jai Ram Thakur, Dr Nadda said like many other states, Himachal should also hold vaccination camps for people with special needs. “Special Olympics Bharat has made representations to all states to hold vaccination camps for people with special needs,” she urged.Dr Nadda said the camp should be jointly organised by the State Health Department and Special Olympics Bharat, HP Chapter. “Only specially abled persons, along with one attendant, should be vaccinated in the camp,” she stated. The objective is to give the maximum benefit and protection to the underprivileged and neglected section of society, who are not tech savvy and may not be able to book a slot for themselves for the regular vaccination program. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vax-camp-for-special-people-sought-259766
28-05-2021||---||HP High Court to magistrates: Think twice before criminal prosecution||Vijay AroraShimla, May 27Before launching criminal prosecution, it is incumbent upon magistrates to think twice. They must arrive at prima facie satisfaction that the prosecution for defamation, etc., is not based on fabricated, concocted, fictitious material.This was held by the HP High Court while dealing with a petition challenging the order of a Judicial Magistrate, who had issued summons to the petitioner in a criminal defamation case. While setting aside the order of the magistrate, the court held that “the issuance of summons for criminal prosecution without application of mind may instill fear, altering the way a person views his/her right of free speech, and in turn, impinging on the health of any democracy. Thus, the scrutiny of the complaint must be air-tight”.Justice Anoop Chitkara observed that “when allegations are based on defamation due to some media report(s), then it has to be ascertained that the complainant has adduced sufficient evidence to establish that such media reports were based on false or fabricated or concocted stories and were in fact not true”.The court said “before proceeding to summon the accused, the magistrates must prima facie be satisfied that the material tendered in the complaint is not fake or incomplete or is not intentionally withheld, and the accused alone, and none else was responsible for such publication or uploading on social or other media. If the complaint clears these stages, and the imputations against the accused seem to be true, still the magistrates must assess that whether such expression of opinion, belief or criticism falls under any exceptions, including Section 499 of the IPC, given the contents of such publication(s)/ post(s)”.The court held that “when the allegations in the complaint can curtail or impact the freedom of speech and expression, the magistrates must endeavour to protect such rights and not to hamper, curb or penalise these rights”. The court made these observations on a petition filed by Amar Singh, who contended therein that his neighbour had filed a criminal complaint before the Judicial Magistrate, Shimla, against him for the commission of offences punishable under Section 499 and 501 of the IPC (defamation) on the basis of a news report. On the basis of this, the magistrate had issued summons to him without verifying the facts.The court declared that the discretion exercised by the magistrate in issuing summons was capricious and arbitrary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hp-high-court-to-magistrates-think-twice-before-criminal-prosecution-259767
28-05-2021||Shimla||Lower hills of Himachal reel under  scorching heat||The lower hills of Himachal reeled under scorching heat as day temperatures maintained the rising trend due to dry weather and Una experienced the hottest day of the season with a high of 42.5 degree.The mercury stayed above 35°C at most places in the lower hills and Bilaspur recorded maximum temperature at 40°C, followed by Kangra 38.4 °C, Hamirpur 38.2 °C, Sundernagar 36.7 °C, Nahan 35.6 °C and Bhuntar 35.3 °C, three to five degree above normal.The temperature was likely to rise during the two days, said MeT office, adding that rains and snow was likely in mid and higher hills from May 30 to June 2. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lower-hills-of-himachal-reel-under-scorching-heat-259768
28-05-2021||---||Narrow escape for families of six Health Dept staffers||Our CorrespondentNurpur, May 27The families of six staff members of the Health Department residing in the double-storey residential complex at Nagrota Surian in Jawali subdivision of Kangra district had a narrow escape last night as a portion of the wall of a ground floor room collapsed.The families of three doctors, one staff nurse and two Class IV employees posted at the local Community Health Centre are living in the type two and three residential quarters for the past many years.The residential complex is in a dilapidated condition but still it has been allotted to the hospital staff, thanks to the apathy of the Health Department that has allocated no budget for its repair and upkeep. As a result, most of the residential buildings in lower Kangra areas are in a bad shape and risky to live in.The families of the hospital staff rushed out of the complex after the wall of a ground floor room suddenly collapsed. They are now fearful of staying in the complex.Ranjan Mehta, Block Medical Officer, Fatehpur, said that after getting information of the incident, he asked the PWD authorities to immediately repair the damaged portion of the complex. He also told them to prepare an estimate plan for the repair and maintenance of the whole residential complex. “Once I get the estimate plan, I will submit it to the higher authorities for the sanction of funds,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/narrow-escape-for-families-of-six-health-dept-staffers-259769
28-05-2021||---||Withdraw farm laws, cancel labour code: CITU||Our CorrespondentChamba, May 27The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) has expressed concern over the resentment prevailing among framers and labourers over the “wavering” policies of the government.While observing a ‘black day’ at the district headquarters on Wednesday to register their protest about the “weakening” economic situation, CITU district president Narender Kumar regretted that the farmers’ issues could not be resolved so far.He demanded withdrawal of farm laws and cancellation of labour code. He also demanded Rs 4 lakh as compensation to the family of those who died of Covid.He claimed that the Centre had completed a span of nearly seven years of its regime, but unemployment and inflation remained the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/withdraw-farm-laws-cancel-labour-code-citu-259770
28-05-2021||---||Penpa Tsering takes over as new Sikyong||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 27Penpa Tsering took over as new Sikyong, President of Tibetan government-in-exile. He was administered oath to office at the headquarters of Tibetan government-in-exile at Dharamsala today.In his inaugural address, Penpa Tsering said efforts would be made to reach out to the Chinese government to find a mutually beneficial, negotiated, non-violent solution to the Sino-Tibet conflict.“We hope that this in turn will set a good example in resolving conflicts around the world. Till such a lasting solution is found, we shall represent the voices of Tibetans inside Tibet and by pooling the resource of every single Tibetan, optimize our global advocacy efforts. We shall monitor and conduct a thorough study of the basic issues concerning environmental destruction and protection of the Tibetan national identity inside Tibet.“We shall not dither from pointing out the gross mistakes of the Chinese government’s policies and programs and seek to redress, withdraw or amend the wrong policies. Likewise, we will put in every effort to seek increased interaction between Tibetans in Tibet and those in exile and work towards realizing the wish of His Holiness the Dalai Lama to visit China”, he said.Penpa Tsering further said that the Tibetans were fortunate to be blessed by the virtual presence of the Dalai Lama. It is of utmost importance that all Tibetans abide by the guidance of the Dalai Lama. The Executive will make every effort to make sure that Tibetans follow and act in accordance with the path shown by the Dalai Lama.“I reiterate my commitment to direct all my energies in carrying out the responsibility of finding a lasting solution for the Sino-Tibet conflict and looking after the welfare of the Tibetan people”, he said.He said the main responsibility of the Kashag is to seek relief from the critical challenges being faced by the endangered Tibet and suffering of the Tibetan people. “We shall resolutely tread the path of middle way espoused by the Dalai Lama that commands high degree of support by general population in and outside Tibet and unanimously approved by the Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile”, he said.Penpa said that the Executive would extend all possible support to all monastic institutions, irrespective of their affiliation in the preservation and promotion of Tibetan religion and culture as per the guidance of the Dalai Lama and the heads of the ecclesiastical order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/penpa-tsering-takes-over-as-new-sikyong-259771
28-05-2021||---||Covid-19 patient's attendant booked in Mandi hospital||Mandi, May 27The attendant of a Covid-19 positive patient has been booked by the police for obstructing a doctor in performing duty at Nerchowk hospital in Mandi.According to the SP Shalini Agnihotri, the accused attendant was forcing the doctor to check his patient first when the doctor was checking another patient in the same ward.“The senior medical superintendent of Nerchowk hospital complained to the police today. On the base of complaint, the accused has been arrested,” said Shalini. Investigation was under way. Primary investigation showed that the attendant of patient was in distress, which led to the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-19-patients-attendant-booked-in-mandi-hospital-259772
28-05-2021||---||Congress banners  found torn in Mandi town||Tribune News ServiceMandi, May 27Banners bearing the pictures of Rajiv Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and former state minister GS Bali regarding the launch of Covid health kits were found torn in Mandi town today. These banners were placed outside the wall of the Gandhi Bhavan at Chauhta Bazaar here; the District Congress Committee (DCC) office is located there.According to DCC office-bearers, the banners were found torn this morning, indicating that the mischief was committed last night. Local BJP leaders felt that the incident betrayed infighting in the Congress. However, DCC president Prakash Chaudhari said, “I condemn the incident.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/congress-banners-found-torn-in-mandi-town-259773
28-05-2021||Dipender Manta||Ladakh Link, BRO opens Darcha-Padum road||Tribune News ServiceMandi, May 27After the restoration of the Sumdho-Kaza-Gramphu road via Kunzum Pass in tribal district Lahaul Spiti, the BRO today achieved another feat by reopening the Darcha-Shinkula-Padum road. This road connects Lahaul Spiti in Himachal to Ladakh in the Zanskar valley.The BRO has restored this road this year one month earlier as compared to previous years. The opening of the crucial road will provide easy access to tourists as well as common people to the Zanskar valley.According to BRO sources, due to high altitude, Shinkula and its nearby areas receive heavy snowfall during the winter season every year, which blocks this road for the traffic movement completely for months.This year the BRO has restored all important routes much earlier as compared to previous years. The Manali-Leh highway or Sumdho-Kaza-Gramphu road and now Darcha-Shinkula-Padum road in Lahaul Spiti have been cleared of snow and thrown open to traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ladakh-link-bro-opens-darcha-padum-road-259774
28-05-2021||Teachers are performing duties at Covid and vaccination centres at various entry points of the state. More than 500 teachers from elementary and higher section have been put on duty in Una. More than 4||Vaccinate teachers on Covid duty||Webinar at IIASThe Indian Institute of Advanced Study (IIAS), Shimla, is organising a webinar under its Distinguished Lecture Series on May 28 at 3 pm on "CG Jung's Psychology and The Upanishadic wisdom: From 'Individuation' towards Atmanisation" by Noa Schwartz Feuerstein, a graduate of the Israeli Institute of Jungian Psychology and MA studies in Clinical Psychology in Bar-Ilan University. She is writing a book titled "On Horror and Beyond: CG Jung's Relation to India and Upanishadic Wisdom", in which she reveals the disrupted dialogue Jung had with the East, by re-reading the Upanishadic literature in light of Jung's reservations.Blood camp collects 56 unitsThe Sunil Upadhyay Education Trust held a blood donation camp at The Ridge in which 56 units of blood were collected. Trust secretary Surender Sharma said the country was passing through trying times, so we all need stand and work together. The Trust is providing food to the Covid patients who are isolated at home.Rethink on Class XII exams: ABVPThe ABVP has urged the state and the Central government to take a well thought out decision on the currently postponed Class XII exams. The ABVP has suggested that considering the circumstances, innovative methods like reduced timings, open book exam, exams of main subjects could be used to hold these exams in July-August. ABVP's Vishal Verma said Covid had affected education the most and the decision should be taken considering the safety and future of the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vaccinate-teachers-on-covid-duty-259778
28-05-2021||Adustbin at Kufri||Clean dustbin regularly||Rajinder Verma, Theog Tarring neededThe Totu-Jubbarhati Airport road needs tarring before the onset of the rainy season. The road has been dug up at many places to lay sewerage pipes in the Totu and Majaith wards of the MC. If the tarring is not done in time, the roads will become a complete mess when it rains.Sanjay, TotuWhat Our Readers SayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/clean-dustbin-regularly-259779
28-05-2021||Shimla||Can’t vaccinate all students: Himachal Pradesh||Himachal is in favour of students taking the exams in their respective schools and the exam time curtailed to 90 minutes for a multiple choice question paper. Importantly, the HP Board exams, in which about 1.10 lakh students are to appear, are also on hold.— Bhanu P Lohumi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cant-vaccinate-all-students-himachal-pradesh-259683
