29-05-2021||Shimla||Paediatric wards being set up at Covid centres in Himachal Pradesh in anticipation of third wave||Paediatric wards and neonatal care units are being set up at Covid centres in Himachal Pradesh to prepare for a potential third wave of the pandemic, a senior state official said on Saturday.Recently, some experts have warned that the next wave of Covid-19 may affect children more while others have said there is little reason to believe this theory. However, experts concur that there is a need to improve paediatric Covid services in the country.Keeping in mind the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Himachal Pradesh government is working to protect vulnerable children on priority and improve paediatric Covid services in the state, Special Secretary (Health) Nipun Jindal said.A protocol in this regard was shared with districts and medical colleges on May 3, he said.It is being ensured that special newborn care units (SNCUs), pediatric high dependency units (PHDUs), neonatal intensive care units (NICU) and pediatric intensive care units (PICU) are made functional on a priority basis, he added.Jindal said the health department is taking serious and focused steps to ensure that vulnerable children are taken care of during the pandemic.All chief medical officers, principals of medical colleges and medical superintendents of district and civil hospitals and medical colleges have been directed to ensure that every dedicated Covid hospital has a paediatric ward and newborn unit. This can be done by either augmenting the existing facilities or earmarking beds, he said.The earmarked beds should preferably have oxygen support, he added.Currently, there are 224 SNCU beds in 16 Covid facilities across the state, Jindal said.In addition, four newborn stabilisation units (NBSU) at Deen Dayal Upadhayay Hospital, Shimla; Zonal Hospital, Dharamshala; and Nalagarh and Nurpur community health centres (CHCs) in Kangra district are shortly going to be upgraded to SNCUs, he said.There are seven PHDUs in the state with 34 beds.Jindal said directions have been issued to ensure emergency triage and treatment services for newborns and children at all levels.Directions have also been issued to make all non-functional equipment in SNCUs functional at the earliest, he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paediatric-wards-being-set-up-at-covid-centres-in-himachal-pradesh%C2%A0in-anticipation-of-third-wave-260440
29-05-2021||Rajiv MahajanNurpur||In a first, FCI procures wheat at two centres in Kangra district||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) for the first time has started wheat procurement at two centres in Kangra district. In the past, local farmers were forced to sell their wheat crop much below the Minimum Support Price (MSP) to private buyers in Punjab. This year, they are selling their produce to the FCI at two procurement centres at Fatehpur and Thakurdwara for the past one month. The two procurement centres became functional as a result of a joint initiative of the State Marketing Board and the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), Kangra.Inquiries by The Tribune have revealed that the Kangra APMC has provided the requisite infrastructure to facilitate the FCI to procure wheat directly from local farmers without paying commission to arhtiyas (commission agents) or middlemen. It also facilitated the FIC to set up the procurement centre in 10 godowns at its grain market yard at Fatehpur that has been lying idle ever since it was inaugurated by the then CM Virbhadra Singh in January, 2017. The APMC has also made makeshift arrangements for the storage of the procured wheat in a vacant private warehouse at Thakurdwara in the Mand area of Indora subdivision.Progressive farmers Suresh Singh of Malkhana, Anup Singh and Satpal of Thakurdwara say that the Mand area is known as a foodgrain bowl, as it produces bumper wheat, paddy and maize crops but farmers always faced difficulties in selling their produce.Ranbir Singh of Chatta village, and Ajay Singh and Balwant of Takoli village in Fatehpur say that the procurement of cereals at the MSP is a long pending demand of the farmers of the area and the FCI should set up a permanent procurement centre in the grain marketing yard at Fatehpur.As per Raj Kumar Bhardwaj, secretary of the APMC, Kangra, the wheat purchase at the MSP of Rs 1,975 per quintal is in progress at these procurement centres and will continue till June 15. He says that till May 26, the FCI had procured 23,475 quintals of wheat and this figure was likely to touch 50,000 quintals by mid June. He adds that the farmers are getting online payment for their produce sold at these procurement centres directly in their bank accounts within 48 hours. He claims in the past, small and marginal farmers in lower Kangra areas faced difficulties in selling their paddy, maize and wheat crops in the absence of buyers. They had to resort to distress sale to private players outside the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-a-first-fci-procures-wheat-at-two-centres-in-kangra-district-259969
29-05-2021||Shimla||Nod to on-site scheduling for vaccination in tribal areas of Himachal||The state has allowed on-site scheduling/appointments for the tribal and hard areas like Dodra Kawar for vaccination of the 18-44 age group. Dodra Kawar, for instance, has no internet connectivity and the outsiders had booked over 90 per cent slots at the vaccination centre in that area.The state steering committee has decided that there will be access to on-site registration (facilitated cohort registration) in these areas. In case of use of on-site registration module, the officials shall ensure prior intimation to the state headquarter.The administration shall ensure no overcrowding/law and order situation arises.“In the non-tribal and other areas, there will be no onsite registration. The session shall be published only with the option of online pre-scheduling and appointment,” said a government spokesperson.He said in case there are slots left due to the absence of pre-booked beneficiaries, they will be published again online in the same session for a maximum of nine beneficiaries on the day of vaccination. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nod-to-on-site-scheduling-for-vaccination-in-tribal-areas-of-himachal-260136
29-05-2021||Shimla||22 categories notified as priority groups for jab||The state Health and Family Welfare Department today issued a notification listing 22 categories, including employees of all government and private educational institutions and all specially abled persons, as priority groups for Covid vaccination.The notification issued by Secretary (Health) Amitabh Awasthy includes several categories of people such as the employees of Animal Husbandry, and Irrigation departments, HP Tourism Development Corporation and all prisoners above 18 years.Lawyers and all employees working in judicial institutions, too, have been included in the priority groups. The other categories included in the priority list are the employees of the Railways, Fire, Forest, IPH, Power, Public Works, Industries, Polluiton Control Board, Food and Civil Supplies, Insurance, Department ofPosts, and telecom services providers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/22-categories-notified-as-priority-groups-for-jab-260137
29-05-2021||Mandi||Salary of outsourced health staff delayed||The salary of outsourced health staff has been delayed at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College and Hospital at Nerchowk in Mandi by the private company management Frontline Manpower Private Limited.The most of those affected are paramedical staff members, who were recruited by the company management on outsource base at Nerchowk hospital to deliver services effectively.Among the employees are lab assistants, ambulance drivers, clerks and data entry operators. These employees alleged that “the month of May is going to end, but still we have not received salary for the month of April. Despite repeated requests, the authority concerned was paying no heed to release our salary.”The employees have also complained on the CM helpline number for help but no to avail.Bhagirath, an affected employee, said that “due to delay in release of salary, I am facing difficulty in feeding my family. Like me, there are a large number of outsourced employees in utter distress at Nerchowk hospital because of the delay in payment of salary.”Naresh Kumar, another affected employee, said the “state government had declared paramedical staff as Corona Warrior, who are playing crucial role in this tough time to fight the pandemic. But it is disappointing that the salary of Corona Warriors is being delayed for months in Nerchowk hospital, which is not acceptable.”When asked, Doctor RC Thakur, Principal of Medical College at Nerchowk in Mandi, said that the company management has been asked to pay salary and it would be released within three days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/salary-of-outsourced-health-staff-delayed-260138
29-05-2021||Mandi||Pandemic hits paraglider, river raft operators in Kullu||River raft and paraglider operators of Kullu district have been hit hard by the second wave of the pandemic. The second wave of Covid-19 outbreak in the state has forced the state government to extend corona curfew till June 7. The inflow of tourists drying up completely they have lost their source of livelihood.Due to the curfew in the state, there was sharp decline in tourist arrival in Kullu district since the first week of this month as the state government had stopped public transportation completely across the state to check the spread of virus. The earnings of raft and paraglider operators depend on the tourists visiting Kullu-Manali.These operators in Kullu district are in distress. Surender Kumar, president of Paraglider Operators Association at Solang valley in Kullu district, told The Tribune, “The second wave of Covid-19 outbreak in the state has affected their livelihood badly. There is silence in Solang valley since the beginning of this month due to decline in tourist arrival. The famous tourist hotspot Manali and its nearby places were wearing a deserted look these days.”“There are over 400 people associated with paragliding activities in Kullu-Manali, who have lost their livelihood. We are waiting for the pandemic to end so that the tourism industry of Kullu-Manali is revived,” he said.Similarly, raft operators of Kullu district are feeling the brunt of second wave of Covid-19 as they have lost business completely. Amid Covid curfew in the state, the movement of people to market areas is allowed only for three hours for urgent works and the river rafting sites are wearing deserted look these days.Shyam Chand, a raft operator in Kullu said, “The livelihood of over 400 raft operators has been affected directly because of the current situation. Apart from this, employees engaged by raft operators were also hit hard as they have lost their jobs.”Like raft operators and paraglider operators, many village women of Manali area have lost their source of livelihood because of this pandemic as they were earning livelihood by providing traditional Kulluvi attire to tourists to click photographs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pandemic-hits-paraglider-river-raft-operators-in-kullu-260139
29-05-2021||Dalhousie||Man held with heroin||The police seized 5.06 gram of heroin from the possession of a resident of Ludhiana on Thursday afternoon and arrested the accused on the spot. Disclosing this here today, Dalhousie DSP Vishal Verma said at a ‘naka’ laid near Dobala Danga by a police team of special investigation unit (SIU), a car coming on the road was stopped.During the search, 5.06 gram heroin was recovered from the possession of Rajvindra Singh, a resident of Ludhiana (Punjab), said the DSP.A case under Sections 21 and 25 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (ND&PS) Act was registered at the Chowari police station, said the DSP, adding that further investigation in the case was underway. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/man-held-with-heroin-260140
29-05-2021||Palampur||Leopard on prowl, creates panic in Palampur||Villagers of the upper area of Palampur are spending sleepless nights and forced to step out of their houses in groups to trap a leopard prowling in the area.During a visit to the affected villages, residents said they had been living in fear. They were unable to do their routine work in fields for the past two days, they said.The leopard killed two cows, belonging to Om Parkash and Chatter Sen, they said. The cows were grazing in the adjoining forest and in the nearby Kavait village. After this, it killed a pet, inside the house.The Forest Department has deployed its staff in the area to locate the animal. As per the local panchayat pradhan, the presence of the leopard had forced farmers to remain indoors. “We are unable to move out to fetch fodder from the forest for the animals or look after the crops. People don’t leave their homes without carrying sticks,” said villagers.The administration has issued safety guidelines to villagers, told them to not leave their homes after 6 pm and take care of children, who can be an easy target. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/leopard-on-prowl-creates-panic-in-palampur-260141
29-05-2021||Our CorrespondentPalampur May 28||Palampur: Snow melts, shepherds start moving to higher hills||Scores of shepherds who were held up in Palampur and its adjoining areas for the past two months because of unusual snowfall in the month of April and May in high-altitude areas of Kangra, Chamba and Lahual Spiti districts have now started moving to higher hills along with their animals.Because of inclement weather, shepherds had been held up in Palampur and other areas of Kangra district with their animals since March. With the onset of summers these tribes move to high hills every year along with their flock of animals.These shepherds are from the traditional Gaddi community and have been moving like this for generations. In summers, they move up in high-altitude areas of Dhauladhar hills, Chhota and Bara Bhanghal, Lahaul Spiti, Kinnaur and in parts of Chamba district.Talking to The Tribune, a number of shepherds said they were held up in Palampur and its adjoin areas because of heavy snow fall in the month of April and May as their all traditional routes via Chamba and Thamsar pass of Dhauladhar hills were blocked because of heavy snow.R K Gupta, former Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, while talking to The Tribune, said the global warming had resulted in change in snow lines. Unusual rain and snow in the high-altitude areas of state had forced these tribes to spend more times in lower hills of the state. He said heavy snowfall in Dhauladhar hills and Lahaul Spiti in the month of April and May is reducing their traditional pastures in high-altitude areas which was a matter of concern.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-snow-melts-shepherds-start-moving-to-higher-hills-260142
29-05-2021||The Department of Civil Engineering||Webinar on engineering applications||NSUI demands fee exemptionThe NSUI has urged the government to exempt fee for all school and college students to provide relief to them during the pandemic. The NSUI has also demanded that stationery shops should be allowed to open, so that students could buy books and study material. These demands were raised after the RKMV NSUI unit conducted a virtual meeting, which was attended by NSUI state secretary Sonia Bhagta too.Rollback of fee soughtThe Student-Parent Forum has asked Director, Higher Education, to instruct schools to roll back the fee that they had enhanced without holding the general house of the parents. The forum said it was illegal to enhance fee during the pandemic, and it should be rolled back. Forum convener Vijender Mehra said if their demand was not met, they will intensify their protest against the schools and the Education Directorate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/webinar-on-engineering-applications-260143
29-05-2021||The packs of dogs wandering on the Ridge and the Mall have become a threat at a time when there are not many people around. In the late evening||Dogs on the ridge a threat||Crowding at totuEVEN as there is a curfew in the state, a small crowd can be seen outside the Jal Shati Vibhag in Totu to deposit their bills. Even when told to keep distance, many don't listen and thereby put everyone at risk. The department should ensure people maintain social distancing. Ritu, TotuIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dogs-on-the-ridge-a-threat-260145
29-05-2021||Solan||30.2 lakh opioids seized in raid at Paonta pharma unit||After a night-long raid, over 30.2 lakh tablets of opioids were seized from Unique Formulations located at Devi Nagar in Paonta Sahib of Sirmaur district today. The Amritsar rural police, which led the raid, was assisted by the local police, Assistant Drugs Controller, Nahan, and drug inspectors from Punjab and Paonta Sahib. Tramadol tablets and capsules and alprazolam tablets valued at over Rs 15 crore were seized, said DGP Sanjay Kundu. He added that the Himahcal Police provided all necessary support and assistance to the Punjab Police in the raid.The Amritsar rural police had recently confiscated 50,000 tramadol tablets that had been illegally smuggled into Punjab and were manufactured by Unique Formulations, Paonta Sahib.Sunny Kaushal, Assistant Drugs Controller, Nahan, said that the company had secured a licence in June 2020 and the permission to manufacture tramadol capsules and tablets as well as alprazolam tablets was secured in November last year.Intriguingly, the firm focused on manufacturing these two drugs, as they are used as sedatives and hence are in demand by drug addicts. “No manufacturing was under way in the factory when the raid started around 6 pm yesterday. The manufacturing chemist, proprietor and a quality control staffer, besides a few others were present at the factory during the raid, which continued till 3 am today,” said Kaushal.The Punjab Police arrested company proprietor Manish Mohan and confiscated the stock of the drugs as well as their relevant records, he said.It was found in the raid that e-way bills showing drug sales were credited to Mansi Medicos, Mayur Vihar, East Delhi. The capsules siezed by the Amritsar police were, however, marketed by PB Medicos, located at Raj Towers, Haus Khas, third floor, New Delhi. However, no record of sale or agreement with PB Medicos was found. “It appears to be a fictitious firm used to divert drug supply to Delhi on paper while it is conveniently sent to Amritsar,” said officials.“The Assistant Drugs Controller, Nahan, has written a letter to the State Drugs Controller, Delhi, to ascertain if PB Medicos was registered and authorised to market drugs or not,” said State Drugs Controller (SDC), Navneet Marwaha. The company has to seek a licence under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act to sell medicines.Marwaha said that action was being initiated against the firm for not properly maintaining records and other production-related mandates. “The Assistant Drugs Controller, Nahan, has issued a show-cause notice to the company and asked it to stop production. “To curb such nefarious activities, all Assistant Drugs Controllers and Deputy Drugs Controllers have been directed to keep a watch on such units,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/30-2-lakh-opioids-seized-in-raid-at-paonta-pharma-unit-260146
29-05-2021||Shimla||Black fungus claims two lives at IGMC, Shimla||Two persons diagnosed with black fungus have died at the IGMC Hospital here. It’s the first instance of Covid-related black fungus deaths in the state.“A 49-year old male from Solan district was admitted to the hospital on May 22 with comorbidities of diabetes mellitus and kidney disease. A 38-year-old from Hamirpur district was admitted on May 27 with comorbidities of diabetic ketoacidosis. Both had Covid pneumonia and died,” said a government spokesperson.Eight cases of black fungus have been reported in the state since May 20 when the first case of a 52-year-old woman from Hamirpur was diagnosed.According to the spokesperson, three cases have been reported from Hamirpur, three from Kangra and two from Solan. While five were admitted to the IGMC, the other three are being treated at Tanda Medical College.According to the IGMC administration, the other three patients being treated at the IGMC are stable. The IGMC has created a separate the 10-bed facility for black fungus patients.The spokesperson urged people to remain vigilant for symptoms such as headache, facial pain, nasal congestion, vision loss, pain in eyes, swelling in cheeks and eyes, loosening of teeth and abnormal black discharge from the nose. “People with such symptoms should report immediately to the treating doctor,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/black-fungus-claims-two-lives-at-igmc-shimla-260147
29-05-2021||Chamba||Pension for traders sought||The Chamba Jan Hit Sangathan has urged the state government to provide a pension of at least Rs 12,000 per month to the poor and small traders above 58 years of age, so that they could earn the bread and butter for their families. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pension-for-traders-sought-260148
29-05-2021||Palampur||Palampur: 13 tea estate  workers test +ve||As many as 13 migrant labourers of a local tea estate and their two children (aged one year and 10 years) have tested positive for Covid-19. They are living in sheds at Saliana village, 7 km from here.Block Development Officer Rajeshwar Bhatia visited the place and advised the infected labourers to isolate themselves. The administration also provided them necessary medicines. The owner of the tea estate has taken the responsibility of following Covid protocol in the area.The local authorities are worried over the spread of Covid in labour colonies.There is no drinking water facility in these slums and labourers fetch water from nearby natural resources or public taps. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/palampur-13-tea-estate-workers-test-ve-260151
29-05-2021||Shimla||Curfew extended till June 7 in Himachal||The state government today extended the curfew till June 7 with some relaxations such as all shops to be allowed to open from 9 am to 2 pm, five days a week from May 31.The decision was taken at a high-level meeting presided over by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here. It was also decided that government offices would function with 30 per cent attendance, except standalone offices with a strength of up to four employees would remain open with all on duty.However, shops selling daily need items such as milk, bread, vegetables, fruits and medicines would remain open as usual on all seven days. At present, only shops selling daily use items are allowed to operate for three hours on all seven days, as per the earlier orders, which would remain in force till 6 am on May 31. All shops could now open for five days a week from 9 am to 2 pm from Monday to Friday May 31 onwards.Meanwhile, all educational institutions in the state would continue to remain closed. Similarly, public transport would also remain suspended till further orders. There is a cap of 20 persons in marriages and funerals while no social, and political functions are allowed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/curfew-extended-till-june-7-in-himachal-260152
29-05-2021||Shimla||Gudiya rape case: Sentence now on June 3||The sentencing in the Gudiya rape and murder case was deferred to June 3 by the CBI special court again as the lone convict Anil Kumar, alias Nilu, a chirani (wood cutter) could not be produced in the court today due to corona curfew.The court had held Nilu guilty of rape and murder on April 28. This is the third time the sentence has been deferred. Earlier, the sentenced was to be announced on May 11 but was postponed to May 18 and then to May 28 due to the curfew in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gudiya-rape-case-sentence-now-on-june-3-260153
29-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal to get 1.67L doses for 18-44 age group in June||The vaccination drive in the 18-44 age group will not pick up pace anytime soon, at least not till the end of June. The state government will receive 1,67,180 doses of Covishield for June, even though there has been an enthusiastic response to vaccination in this age group, which consists of over 30 lakh people. In the four sessions held so far for this age-group, 80,119 persons have been vaccinated.The state government was originally scheduled to get only 1,19,760 doses for the month of June but it requested the Centre for an enhanced supply following a tremendous response in this age group. “The Centre has enhanced the quota available for procurement by 47,420 doses. With this additional allocation, the vaccine doses available under direct procurement by the state for June shall be 1,67,180 doses,” said a government spokesperson.Similarly, the doses meant for the 45-plus age category and the priority groups, too, have been enhanced. The state was to get 2,52,770 doses of Covishield, under free supply from the Government of India, for the first fortnight of June. “On the request of the state, however, the Centre has enhanced the quota of free vaccine supply by 46,630 doses. Under the revised allocation, the state will now get 2,99,400 doses of Covishield,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-to-get-1-67l-doses-for-18-44-age-group-in-june-260154
29-05-2021||Shimla||1,287 new cases, deaths cross 3,000  in Himachal||As many as 1,287 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 187,342. Besides, the death count crossed 3,000 mark as 74 persons died of the virus in the past 24 hours — 25 in Kangra, eight in Solan, seven in Shimla, six in Una, five in Mandi, four in Bilaspur, three in Hamirpur, two each in Sirmaur and Kullu and one each in Kinnaur and Chamba.The highest number of 420 cases was reported in Kangra, followed by 160 in Bilaspur, 153 in Mandi, 147 in Solan, 143 in Shimla, 128 in Chamba, 88 in Mandi, 66 in Sirmaur, 52 in Hamirpur, 44 in Kinnaur and 15 in Lahaul and Spiti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-287-new-cases-deaths-cross-3-000-in-himachal-260157
29-05-2021||Our CorrespondentPalampur||Missing paraglider’s body found on snow-covered slopes of Dhauladhar||A rescue team, with the help of a local shepherd, recovered the body of a missing paraglider, Rohit Badhoria, from the snow-covered slopes of Dhauladhar, about 40 km from here, today. The pilot, who had taken off from Billing, was last seen in high-altitude areas of the Jalsu pass opposite Baijnath on January 8. He had to land back at Bir but did not return.The state government made efforts to trace the missing pilot in January with the help of the Indian Air Force and several rescue teams were also constituted under the Mountaineering Institute, Manali, in the past four months, but in vain. His cap, helmet, jacket and shades was recovered last month by a search party. The family had announced a prize money of Rs 3 lakh for tracing the pilot.Officials sources said family members and friends of Rohit, who hailed from New Delhi, had been called to identify the body. A member of the search team said the body was recovered 3 km from the Jalsu Pass at a height of 14,000 feet and the area was still covered with two feet of snow. Rohit was an experienced pilot who was a regular flier in the difficult topography of Dhauladhar hills. He was staying at Bir from many years.The absence of any safety mechanism has made paragliding a risky affair not only in Billing, but also in other such places in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/missing-paragliders-body-found-on-snow-covered-slopes-of-dhauladhar-260159
29-05-2021||Abhinav VashishtKullu||Hospitality units in Kullu offer huge discounts for longer stay||The hospitality units of Kullu-Manali have started offering huge discounts to lure tourists for longer stays under the concept of ‘Work from mountains’. Very few hotels, cottages, home stays, guest houses and other hospitality units are open as there is no footfall of tourists amid the Covid crisis. Some of these have started providing huge discounts of up to 80 per cent for longer stay.An online booking portal, Madpackers, had put a slogan, “The longer you stay, the lesser you pay.” They have been offering seven days for Rs 1,499, 15 days for Rs 2,499, 30 days for Rs 4,499 and 60 days for Rs 5,999 in Manali.Company executive Mayank said this rate was for one person and included stay with free Wi-Fi. He added that proper care of sanitisation was ensured for safe stay. He added that mostly youngsters were opting for their long stay packages.The ‘Work from mountains’ is a joint initiative between travel companies Travel The Himalayas and Sunshine Adventures. Now, this concept is being adopted by many hospitality units, especially in the rural areas.Ankit Sood, owner of the Sunshine Adventures, said, “Our standalone mountain homes and cottages in the wilderness and in the villages, far from the urban civilisation, are perfect to work and relax in the company of mountains, forests and rivers.” He said necessary essential items to create a comfortable and safe working environment were provided.Ankit said even amid the curfew, many employees of private companies and even government employees were coming for long stays ranging from 15 days to two months.Meanwhile, Manali Hoteliers’ Association president Anup Ram Thakur said tourist footfall was nil. He said due to the curfew, some rare visitors who come too will also have to stay confined to the premises of their stay. He said the government should provide clear guidelines for safe and comfortable stay of the tourists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hospitality-units-in-kullu-offer-huge-discounts-for-longer-stay-260161
29-05-2021||Shimla||Wet spell predicted from May 30||The local meteorological office has issued a yellow warning of thundershowers and lightening at isolated places in low and middle hills of Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla and Sirmaur districts on May 31 and in Una, Bilaspur, Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Solan and Sirmaur on June 1.The weathermen have predicted a wet spell in the region from May 30 onwards.The weather on Friday remained dry in the state and Una was the hottest in day with 39 degrees followed by Bilaspur with 37 degrees, Kangra 37 degrees and Hamirpur with 36 degrees C.There was no significant change in the minimum temperatures and Keylong in tribal Lahaul and Spiti district was the coldest at night recording the minimum temperature of 6.9 degrees C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/wet-spell-predicted-from-may-30-260163
29-05-2021||Our CorrespondentNurpur||CM urged to save Himachal hotel industry from collapse||The Kangra district Congress has urged Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to come to the rescue of the tourism and hotel industry that is on the verge of collapse due to the pandemic.Ajay Mahajan, Congress president, Kangra district, said here that the industry, considered as one of the economic contributors of the state exchequer, had incurred direct and indirect losses to the tune of Rs 7,000 crore in the district and Rs 30,000 crore across the state till now during this pandemic.He said a large number of hoteliers were resorting to distress selling of their properties to avoid the tag of non-performing asset (NPA) by their bankers in the district. “The hospitality industry has opted for self-lockdowns amid this pandemic to support the state government in containing Covid spread, but the government has left thousands of entrepreneurs in the lurch who are unable to sustain their units in the state,” he said. He claimed that around 99 per cent private tourism units were self-raised by entrepreneurs by raising huge bank loans, but now were laying idle incurring losses with each passing day.Mahajan urged the Chief Minister to announce a relief package to the hoteliers by creating employees retention corpus for disbursing salary to the hotel staff, waiving property tax, renewal fee under pollution control, tourism and Excise Acts and garbage collection cess for the period of next two years.He claimed the hotel industry had been generating direct and indirect employment to around 7.50 lakh people in the state and around 90 per cent persons earning their livelihood had become jobless during the pandemic. He also underlined the need to float a subvention scheme for the survival of the hospitality industry comprising tiny hotel units in the state by disbursing collateral free bank loans with interest subvention for initial three years and moratorium on payment for the first two years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-urged-to-save-himachal-hotel-industry-from-collapse-260165
29-05-2021||Our CorrespondentNurpur||19-yr-old’s body found hanging from tree||The body of a 19-year-old girl was found hanging from a tree at Kuther village, under the Jawali police station, today.As per the police, a passer-by first spotted the body and informed the local gram panchayat pradhan, who further intimated the Kotla police chowki. The police took the possession of the body and sent it for forensic post-mortem at the Tanda Medical College.The victim has been identified as Shalu, hailing from Uttar Pradesh. She was a labourer with a private contractor of the Forest Department, working in the Kuther forest.According to Sidharth Sharma, DSP, Jawali, she was missing since May 22 and a report had been lodged at the Kotla police chowki, the next day.The police have registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPc and started the investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/19-yr-olds-body-found-hanging-from-tree-260166
29-05-2021||Nurpur||Watchman found dead  in office||The body of a watchman (chowkidar), identified as Rukamdeen (41) of Darkati village, near Jawali, Kangra district, was found in the compound of the mini-secretariat complex today, in morning. As per the information, the victim was on night duty at the complex. A driver of the fire brigade first spotted the body and informed the local police.Jawali DSP Sidharth Sharma, who inspected the spot, said it was a case of accidental death, as the victim had fallen from the second floor of the building, last night, and died on the spot. He said circumstantial evidence was collected from the mishap spot, indicating it was an accidental death.A case under Section 174 of the CrPc was registered and the body was handed over to the family after the post-mortem was conducted at the Nurpur civil hospital’s mortuary. The SDM, Jawali, has released Rs 10,000 as immediate relief to the bereaved family of the watchman. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/watchman-found-dead-in-office-260168
29-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal extends corona curfew till June 7 with few relaxations||Himachal government on Friday decided to extend the corona curfew till June 7 with a few relaxations. The government has allowed shops to remain open from 9 am to 2 pm, five days a week from May 31. The decision comes after a high-level meeting presided over by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, here. Apart from this, it was also decided that government officers would be allowed to function with 30 per cent attendance, except standalone offices with a strength of up to four employees will remain open with full strength. In the last 24 hours, the state reported 1,287 fresh cases and 64 Covid deaths. However, shops selling daily need items like milk, bread, vegetables, fruits, and medicines would remain open as usual on all seven days.  Presently, only shops selling daily use needs are allowed to open for three hours on all seven days as per the earlier orders, which will remain in force till 6 am on May 31. Now, all shops would remain open for five days a week from 9.00 am to 2.00 pm (Monday to Friday) from May 31 onwards.There has been a slight improvement in the Covid situation in the state. Educational institutions in the state remain closed. Similarly, the public transport would also remain suspended till further orders. There is a cap of 20 persons in marriages and funerals and no social, political function can be held.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-extends-corona-curfew-till-june-7-with-few-relaxations-259898
