31-05-2021||Shimla||Himachal records 865 Covid infections, 19 deaths||Nineteen more people died due to Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh raising the toll to 3,127, while the infection count climbed to 1,90,330 with 865 fresh cases, an official said on Monday.According to the state health department, there are 13,621 active novel coronavirus cases in Himachal Pradesh.The recovery count rose to 1,73,560 with 2,167 patients recuperating from the disease in the past 24 hours, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-records-865-covid-infections-19-deaths-261261
31-05-2021||Vijay Mohan||Rain during May surplus in Haryana and Punjab, less in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31While rain during the month of May has been noticeably surplus in the agrarian states of Haryana and Punjab, it has been a notch below normal in the hill state of Himachal Pradesh during this period.Rain was 138 per cent above normal in Haryana and 39 per cent above normal in Punjab, but deficient by 4 per cent in Himachal Pradesh, data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for the period from May 1 to May 31 reveals.According to IMD, Haryana received 45.1 mm ran during the month as compared to the normal 18.9 mm for this period, while Punjab received 25 mm as compared to 17.9 mm. Himachal received 63.8 mm against the normal of 66.8 mm for the said period.In Haryana, Sirsa, Fatehbad and Hisar were the districts that received the least rainfall in the state during May. In Punjab, it was Faridkot, Ferozepur and Hoshiarpur, while in Himachal Bilaspur, Lahaul and Spiti and Hamirpur were the driest districts.Even for the season beginning March 1 this year, rains in Haryana were surplus  by 39 per cent, but deficient in Punjab and Himachal by 7 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively.The region had witnessed thunderstorms and rainfall on several occasions during the month, which kept the temperature low on some days. The rains were attributed to western disturbances. Rains over the mainland came even as both, the western as well as eastern coasts, were lashed by cyclones this month.Many areas northern and central parts of the country had witnessed severe winds accompanied by lightning and heavy rain that had damaged power transmission lines and property as well as uprooted trees.The weatherman has further predicted thunderstorms with lightning and gusty winds over parts of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and some other parts of the country on June 1 and June 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rain-during-may-surplus-in-haryana-and-punjab-less-in-himachal-261251
31-05-2021||New Delhi||NHB launches pilot phase of Cluster Development Programme in 11 states, UTs||To ensure holistic growth of horticulture, the National Horticulture Board (NHB) on Monday launched the pilot phase of the Cluster Development Programme covering 11 states and UTs, including Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.The 12 clusters include Shopian (J&K) and Kinnaur (HP) for apple, Lucknow (UP), Kutch (Gujarat) and Mahbubnagar (Telangana) for mango, Anantpur (AP), and Theni (TN) for banana, Nasik (Maharashtra) for grapes, Siphahijala (Tripura) for pineapple, Solapur (Maharashtra) and Chitradurga (Karnataka) for pomegranate and West Jaintia Hills (Meghalaya) for turmeric.A central sector programme implemented by the NHB of the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, the CDP aims at growing and developing identified horticulture clusters to make them globally competitive. It is expected to attract an estimated investment of Rs 10,000 crore when implemented in the selected 53 clusters. The clusters will be implemented through Cluster Development Agencies (CDAs) which are appointed on the recommendations of the respective State/UT Government, according to an official statement.The programme was launched by Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister Narendra Singh Tomar in presence of ministers of state Parshottam Rupala and Kailash Chaudhary. Senior officials of the ministry, including Abhilaksh Likhi, Additional Secretary, and Rajbir Singh, NHB Managing Director, were also present. Speaking on the occasion, Tomar said the programme will address all major issues related to the Indian horticulture sector including pre-production, production, post-harvest management, logistics, marketing, and branding.The programme is designed to leverage geographical specialisation and promote integrated and market-led development of horticulture clusters, officials said. The Ministry has identified 53 horticulture clusters, of which 12 have been selected for the pilot launch of the programme. Based on the learnings from the pilot project, the programme will be scaled up to cover all the identified clusters.Regarding its reach and impact, Tomar said, “doubling farmers’ income is one of the biggest priorities of our government. The CDP will benefit about 10 lakh farmers and related stakeholders of the value chain. With this programme, we aim to improve exports of the targeted crops by approx. 20% and create cluster-specific brands to enhance the competitiveness of cluster crops.”The programme is expected to converge with other initiatives of the Government such as the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund which is a medium - long term financing facility for investment in projects for post-harvest management infrastructure and community farming assets and will leverage the central sector scheme of the Ministry for Formation and Promotion of 10,000 Farmers Producer Organisations (FPOs).The CDP has a huge potential to transform the entire horticulture ecosystem, improving its global competitiveness by building last-mile connectivity with the use of multimodal transport for the efficient and timely evacuation and transport of horticulture produce, officials said. Ends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nhb-launches-pilot-phase-of-cluster-development-programme-in-11-states-uts-261220
31-05-2021||Solan||Three arrested, over 300 kg marijuana seized in Himachal||Three people have been arrested and over 303.056 kg of cannabis was seized from them at Shivpur village on the Paonta Sahib-Puruwala road in Sirmaur district around 2:40 am last night, police said on Monday.Police said it was the highest-ever seizure of marijuana in the state. Marijuana is sold for Rs 50,000 per kg, while good quality contraband fetches even higher returns, claimed police.Paonta Sahib DSP, Bir Bahadur, who monitored the seizure said SHO Puruwala Vijay Raghuvanshi stopped a truck for checking and during its search 31 parcels wrapped with brown sellotape were found.Three men-Yusaf(32), a resident of Upperli Bhangani, Kadar Ali (43) of Singhpura and Tohid Ali (30) of Upperli Bhangani-have been arrested.During the investigation, it was revealed that the contraband had been brought from North-East states. A case has been registered under the NDPS Act and a further probe was underway.It was supposed to be supplied to all northern states like Uttrakhand, Punjab, Himachal, Jammu and Kashmir, UP, Haryana, etc.,This is the third such major drug seizure by the Paonta Sahib police in the last year. Earlier 1,300 kg poppy husk was seized in two cases by the Puruwala police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/three-arrested-over-300-kg-marijuana-seized-in-himachal-261186
31-05-2021||Tribune Web Desk||A few days after testing Covid negative, Kangana Ranaut visits Golden Temple in Amritsar for first time with family||Chandigarh, May 31Actor Kangana Ranaut on Monday shared pictures of her visit to Golden Temple in Amritsar with her family, as it was her first visit.Kangana Ranaut, who is away to her hometown in the hills in Manali, has tested negative for Covid a few days back.She shared pictures of the visit on Instagram and spoke of the stunning beauty and divinity of the place.“Today I visited Sri Harmandir Sahib Golden temple, even though I grew up in north and almost everyone in my family has already visited the temple many times only for me it was first time .... speechless and stunned with Golden temple’s beauty and divinity...❤️,” she wrote.A post shared by Kangana Ranaut (@kanganaranaut)The four-time national award-winning actor donned an all-blue pastel coloured churidar suit and kept her curly hair tied in a signature bun.Kangana, in the pictures, is seen posing candidly with her family against the backdrop of the Golden Temple.In one photograph, Kangana posed with her nephew in front of the shrine and in another she is receiving the 'kadha prashad'.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/a-few-days-after-testing-covid-negative-kangana-ranaut-visits-golden-temple-in-amritsar-for-first-time-with-family-261166
31-05-2021||Ambika Sharma||Now, big cache of tablets seized from Kala Amb unit||Tribune News ServiceSolan,May 30In another major seizure, a team of the Punjab Police today seized a large cache of opioid tramadol tablets from the Kala Amb-based Orison Pharma International Group in Sirmaur district.A team of the Ajnala police in Punjab had recently confiscated 10,000 tramadol capsules which were found manufactured by Orison Pharma and marketed by PP Pharma, Mumbai. The drugs were, however, sold by Shiva Traders, Delhi, as per the company staff. The Mumbai-based company reportedly existed only on papers.In the raid, which continued till the filing of this report, assistance was provided by the local police and officials of the drug control administration, said assistant drug controller, Nahan, Sunny Kaushal.This is the second such case in the last week, in which tramadol manufactured in Sirmaur district has been found to have been diverted to Punjab for use as an intoxicant.As per an amendment made to the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules in 2020 which has become implementable from March 1, a marketer has to enter into an agreement with a manufacturer for the sale and distribution of its drugs. He is also responsible for its quality as well as other regulatory compliance along with the manufacturer as per this amendment.Officials, however, did not find any agreement of the said marketing company, PP Pharma, Mumbai, with the Orison Pharma.“Since the new amendment has come into effect from March 2021, the absence of an agreement between the marketing company and the manufacturer was a violation of the Drugs and Cosmetics (Amendment), Rules, 2020,” said Sirmaur SP Dr Khushal Chand Sharma.He said the presence of a company which does not exist in Mumbai indicated malafide intention of the company staff.The Punjab Police have booked the said unit’s management under Section 22 of the Narcotic Drugs and other Psychotropic Substances Act.“Since tramadol is used as an intoxicant by drug addicts, its nefarious use by such diversion will be dealt with seriously by the Drug Control Administration,” said State Drugs Controller Navneet Marwaha.He added that a meeting would be held with all manufacturers on Monday to apprise them of the amendment, to ensure its compliance. A survey of all units manufacturing such drugs will also be conducted soon, he said.Link detected by Punjab Police A team of the Ajnala police in Punjab had recently confiscated 10,000 tramadol capsules, which were found manufactured by Orison Pharma International Group in Kala Amb and marketed by PP Pharma, Mumbai. The drugs were, however, sold by Shiva Traders, Delhi, as per company staff. The Mumbai-based company reportedly existed only on paper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/now-big-cache-of-tablets-seized-from-kala-amb-unit-261066
31-05-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Illegal mining goes on in Chakki rivulet, villagers up in arms||NURPUR, MAY 30With illegal mining intensifying during corona curfew after second Covid wave, the residents of Maira, Batrah, Uprli Khanni, Gudli and Chogan villages in Nurpur have threatened to hold protests against the government authorities responsible for checking this menace.Mining mafia has converted the pandemic into an opportunity for playing havoc not only with the ecology but the lives of the residents of villages surrounding Chakki rivulet. Round the clock mining in the rivulet has been going on.Sandeep Lata, a member of Block Development Committee (BDC), Nurpur representing Uprli-Khanni and Hadal, the worst illegal mining-affected gram panchayats along the Chakki rivulet, lamented that she had been raising the issue for the past one month. She had also submitted a public complaint to the CM helpline, but no action had been initiated.Lata, who has the support of local mahila and yuvak mandals, besides the Kangra district Bhartiya Kisan Sangh (BKS), lamented that she had started receiving threat calls for raising her voice against unscientific mining. She said a memorandum signed by residents was being submitted to the administrative and police authorities.“JCB machines are descending on Chakki river area and extracting minerals by digging 20 to 25 feet deep trenches. One lift irrigation scheme and a number of water hand pumps in my area, on which crores of rupees were spent by the state government, have become dysfunctional as the underground water level has receded drastically. The agrarian land of the villagers has become infertile. People are not against mining but are opposed to unscientific mining,” she said.An official of the state mining department said the permissible limit to dig riverbed for extracting minerals was only one meter. Intriguingly, the state government has also transferred the mining officer from here to Una, leaving the mining mafia free to indulge in illegal activity.Hoshiar Singh, president of Kangra district BKS, who has been struggling against illegal mining in the Chakki rivulet for the past over one decade, alleged that the government machinery was indifferent to implementing HC order vis-à-vis illegal mining. He demanded that the HC order be enforced strictly. He alleged that stone crushers in Punjab were also indulging in illegal mining in HP as they had an understanding with crushers operating from the state.BDC member ‘threatened’ for raising issue||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegal-mining-goes-on-in-chakki-rivulet-villagers-up-in-arms-261067
31-05-2021||r Correspondent
||Kullu man, daughter-in-law washed away in Beas nullah||Kullu, May 30 A woman, identified as Asha Devi (32), and her father-in-law Pune Ram of Ruad village, in Manali subdivision of the district, were washed away in the Beas nullah, near Palchan yesterday. According to the information, they were crossing the rivulet through a temporary wooden bridge, when Asha Devi lost her balance and fell in the nullah, and Pune Ram jumped to save her.  However, both were washed due to the current of water in the nullah. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said the body of Pune Ram was recovered yesterday, while the body of Asha Devi was recovered today. He said the bodies of the victims were handed over to their relatives after the postmortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-man-daughter-in-law-washed-away-in-beas-nullah-261068
31-05-2021||Chamba||Cong questions non-installation  of MRI, CT scan machines||District Congress Committee has lamented that MRI and CT scan machines could not be installed in Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Government Medical College and Hospital (PJNGMC&H) at Chamba even after a period of 16 months. Expressing concern, DCC president Neeraj Nayar said here today that an MoU worth Rs 10.15 crore was signed in January last between the district administration and the NHPC Chamera-II project for the installation of MRI and CT scan machines in the medical college. The Chief Minister had also stated that these machines would be installed but nothing has been done till date.  Nayar said the state government had failed to make a foolproof plan to prevent corona pandemic in the state resulting which the second wave. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-questions-non-installation-of-mri-ct-scan-machines-261070
31-05-2021||Shimla||Moderate to heavy rain lashes state||Intermittent moderate to heavy rains lashed parts of Himachal in the past 24 hours. The local Met office has issued yellow warning of thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places in low and middle hills for the next three days till June 2.  Thunderstorm and lightning is likely at isolated places of Bilaspur, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla and Solan on May 31, Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Chamba, Kangra, Mandi, Shimla and Sirmaur on June 1 and Chamba, Kangra, Mandi, Shimla and Solan on June 2. Dharamsala was the wettest in the region with 71 mm of rains followed by Jogindernagar 38 mm, Paonta Sahib 33 mm, Nagrota Suriyan 15 mm, Guler 12 mm, Nahan 11 mm, Ghamroor and Jubbar Hatti 10 mm each, Kasol and Dalhousie 9 mm each, Kandaghat and Pandoh 8 mm each, Kufri, Shimla and Gaggal 7mm each and Sundernagar, Bhuntar and Kasauli 6 mm each. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/moderate-to-heavy-rain-lashes-state-261071
31-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Two arrested with stolen khair wood logs||Nurpur, May 30Villagers caught Pradeep Kumar, a resident of Kudhal village, and Munish Kumar, a resident of Jamluhi village, while they were allegedly transporting stolen khair tree logs and handed them over to the Fatehpur police. The accused had loaded 17 logs of khair wood in a pickup jeep (HP 67-2008) at Bhabroli village and were going to transport it.Vijay Kumar, up-pradhan of Machhot gram panchayat, along with a ward member tried to stop the loaded jeep, but driver Pradeep Kumar tried to flee. However, the villagers nabbed the duo and handed over them to the police and the khair logs to the Forest Department staff. The accused are suspected to have fallen khair trees in Dhameta beat of the Rey forest range.Jawali DSP Sidharth Sharma said that on the complaint of a forest guard, an FIR under Sections 41-42 of the Indian Forest Act and Section 379 of the IPC had been registered against the accused. The police had arrested the duo and impounded the jeep being used to transport stolen logs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-arrested-with-stolen-khair-wood-logs-261072
31-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Clinical testing facility on the doorstep soon||Palampur, May 30Annapurna Welfare Society, a charitable institution of the town, will purchase two diagnostic mobile vans for the welfare of patients.The general house of the society under the chairmanship of Vipin Singh Parmar, Speaker of the state Assembly, announced to buy two latest diagnostic mobile vans with all clinical testing equipment for conducting 56 types medical tests of people at their doorstep. These mobile vans would move from village to village in Palampur and Sulaha areas for the testing of patients.Talking to mediapersons here last week, Parmar said at present, a number of people were not reaching for health checkups in hospitals and health centres fearing Covid infection. Therefore, the society had taken an initiative to extend clinical testing facility at their doorstep. He said the society would take the help of social media for the advertisement and displaying of venues of tests in far flung villages. All tests would be conducted free of cost.Parmar said at present the Annapurna Welfare Society was providing food to hundreds of Covid patients at their doorstep daily. Besides, it is also serving food to the attendants of patients in Civil Hospital, Palampur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/clinical-testing-facility-on-the-doorstep-soon-261073
31-05-2021||Hamirpur||Village youth joins IAF as Flight Lt||Anshuman Dhatwalia of Maharal village in the district was inducted into the Indian Air Force as Flight Lieutenent at the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, on Saturday.  His father Uttam Dhatwalia is serving as a librarian in BBN Degree College at Chakmoh.  His sister  Vibhuti Dhatwalia said it was the moment of jubilation. Anshuman had made his mother’s dream a reality. His mother died last month in an accident.  Anshuman is an alumnus of Sainik School, Sujanpur Tihra, and is a Gentleman Cadet of the 140th batch of the NDA. Anshuman will now go for fighter jet flying training at the Air Force Academy in Hydrabad for one year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/village-youth-joins-iaf-as-flight-lt-261074
31-05-2021||---||Paonta Sahib firm booked in opioid pill recovery case||Solan, May 30Two days after the Punjab Police seized 30.2 lakh tablets of opioids worth Rs 15 crore from Unique Formulations in Paonta Sahib, the local police today registered a case of cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in the case.The police noted that the company had a licence for manufacturing tramadol, which is a restricted salt. Its owner is Manish Mohan while others were allegedly financing it and selling its products.The wrappers of 50,000 tramadol tablets reveal that it was marketed by PB Pharmaceutical, Raj Tower, Third Floor, Hauz Khas, New Delhi-16. The marketing company, however, does not exist at the address and it was a ploy for nefarious sale of the intoxicants.The Superintendent of Police, Sirmaur, Khushal Chand Sharma, said since the marketing firm did not exist at the address, the intention of the company management seemed mala fide.It was indicative of their criminal intent and also a violation of the terms of licence issued to Unique Formulations. The company also violated the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 2020, which came into effect from March 1, making it mandatory for a company to enter into an agreement with a marketing company.The drugs, as per preliminary police inquiries, seem to be manufactured for nefarious use as per a planned conspiracy by the management.A case under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC and Sections 22 and 8(a) of the NDPS has been registered.The Director General of Police directed Inspector General of Police Himanshu Mishra to look into the case. Mishra, who paid a visit to Paonta Sahib yesterday, examined the case and its various aspects.Mktg firm doesn’t exist at the addressThe wrappers of 50,000 tramadol tablets reveal that it was marketed by PB Pharmaceutical, Raj Tower, Third Floor, Hauz Khas, New Delhi-16. The marketing company, however, does not exist at the address.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/paonta-sahib-firm-booked-in-opioid-pill-recovery-case-261075
31-05-2021||---||IGMC gets liquid oxygen plant||Shimla, May 30Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated key medical facilities at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMC) and Kamla Nehru Hospital (KNH) here today.At the IGMC, he inaugurated a 20 kilolitre liquid oxygen plant and an emergency lab that will work round the clock to ensure timely reports. The liquid oxygen plant has been set up at a cost of Rs 1.5 crore. “The liquid oxygen plant at the IGMC will ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply to Covid as well as other patients. It will enhance the institution’s oxygen capacity from 525 cylinders to over 1,600 cylinders,” he said.At Kamla Nehru Hospital, the Chief Minister inaugurated a modern X-ray plant, 4D ultrasound machine and a medical oxygen plant. “The X-ray plant and 4D ultrasound machine will provide latest treatment and diagnostic facilities to patients. These facilities will minimise the hospital’s dependency on the IGMC. Also, the oxygen plant will facilitate critically ill patients in the hospital,” the CM said.Medical Superintendant, IGMC, Dr Janak Raj said there was urgent need for good and credible emergency that would be functional round the clock at the hospital. “This lab is equipped to provide all diagnostic solutions and it will work as a role model in the entire state,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/igmc-gets-liquid-oxygen-plant-261076
31-05-2021||Dipender Manta||In Mandi, beds with oxygen increased to 700||Tribune News ServiceMandi, May 30To provide better medical care facility to critically ill Covid patients, the district administration has increased the bed capacity equipped with oxygen supply to 700.From March last year to May 29 this year, a total of 25,236 Covid cases were reported in the district, of which 23,215 patients have been cured. As many as 335 deaths were reported in the district in this period. There are 1,686 active cases in the district.Deputy Commissioner, Mandi, Rugved Thakur said, “The state government is paying special attention to strengthening health services and increasing facilities rapidly to combat the virus. The oxygen bed capacity has been increased by six times in the district. Previously, the district had a facility of about 120 such beds, now it has about 700 beds. This has been done in a phased manner.”“Apart from this, new makeshift Covid Hospitals and health centres have been created, where oxygen is being provided to every bed from the central oxygen supply. Efforts are also being made to increase the number of ICUs and oxygen beds in the district as per need,” he added.The DC said as per the orders of the state government, in Mandi district, better health monitoring system has been put in place for those who are in home isolation, besides for those in hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-mandi-beds-with-oxygen-increased-to-700-261077
31-05-2021||---||Keeping positive mindset ‘must to fight Covid’||Shimla, May 39  A positive outlook towards infection and recovery help patients cope well while talking is important to vent out tension as stress, anxiety, depression and suicidal tendencies are on the rise during the ongoing pandemic. As many as 218 persons have committed suicide in the first quarter of the year till March 31 against 134 persons in the same period last year, when there was no pandemic stress. The rate of spread of infection and the rapid progression of the symptoms leading to death is making people apprehensive, fearful and helpless, while on the other hand loss of income or employment could result in sleeplessness, irritability, clinical depression and suicidal ideas, says CEO, Himachal Pradesh State Mental Health Authority (HPSMHA), Dr Sanjay Pathak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/keeping-positive-mindset-must-to-fight-covid-261078
31-05-2021||Dipender Manta||Telemedicine centre to aid of Spiti residents||Tribune News ServiceMandi, May 30Apollo Telemedicine Centre at Kaza in Lahaul-Spiti district is proving to be a boon for residents of the Spiti valley.The centre was set up in April 2015 to provide medical care on the doorstep of residents. As many as 9,480 persons have availed this facility since April 2015 to till date.Sources said most key roads in the region remained blocked to vehicular movement during winter months. It was difficult for the residents of the Spiti valley to avail medical facility in such a situation. Therefore, a telemedicine centre was set up at Kaza to ensure timely treatment to residents.Sher Singh, a Spiti resident, said whenever required, employees of the telemedicine centre connect patients with medical experts through videoconferencing. “We feel fortunate to have this facility in this remote region of Himachal round the year,” he added.Lama Buteeth, a health coordinator at the centre, said, “There are 172 types of medicines that are provided free of cost to patients as per the doctor’s prescription. We connect patients with doctors via videoconferencing.” she remarked.Buteeth said earlier, they had organised awareness camps on regular intervals to make people aware about the importance of the telemedicine facility.She said 17 types of diagnostic tests were also performed at this centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/telemedicine-centre-to-aid-of-spiti-residents-261079
31-05-2021||---||Abducted child rescued in Shimla||Shimla, May 30 A six-year-old child, who was kidnapped from Siliguri in West Bengal on March 13, was traced to Nankhari in Shimla district and returned to her mother back home in Darjeeling. The child was reunited with her mother after over two-and-a-half months yesterday. The abductor woman was handed over to the police from Darjeeling.  According to Rama Kanwar, Child Protection Officer, a Darjeeling NGO, Maarg, was in touch with her to help locate a girl and her abductor as their location was somewhere near Shimla. “Later, we found that the location of the woman was somewhere near Nankhari,” said Kanwar. She said it was on May 17 that the child, along with the woman, was traced and brought to the centre here.  “On May 18, police personnel of Darjeeling confirmed that a missing FIR was registered with them and requested that due to the grim Covid situation and curfew, they were not in a position to come here to fetch the child,” said Kanwar.  She said to ensure the safety of the child, she was shifted to the Child Care Institution on the directions of the Child Welfare Council. The woman, who had abducted her, was sent to the Nari Niketan at Mashobra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/abducted-child-rescued-in-shimla-261080
31-05-2021||Subhash Rajta||Home-isolated fight stress via wellness programme||Tribune News ServiceShimla, May 30For Covid patients in home isolation, anxiety and loneliness could be as challenging as the disease itself. In such tough and trying times, the Ayush Ghar Dwar programme, a wellness programme started by Ayush Department, has helped several patients in home isolation cope with the stressful period and work actively towards their recovery.“It has been a great help. It helped me keep negative thoughts and emotions at bay. Also, I stayed physically active. I am really happy with the initiative,” said Nipun Jain, a cloth merchant from Nalagarh.The programme was started two weeks ago when the active caseload was over 40,000, an all-time high in the state. The department and Art of Living volunteers joined hands to reach the maximum patients in home isolation using social media platforms WhatsApp/Zoom to ensure their mental, physical, social and spiritual wellbeing.“We have created around 1,000 WhatsApp groups, having around 15,000 patients at the moment. Each group has from five to 25 participants, with an Ayush doctor/pharmacist and Art of Living volunteers to guide and assist them,” said an official from the Ayush Department.Apart from making the patients aware of dos and don’ts during the isolation period, the programme offers yoga, breathing exercises, bhajans, and interaction with doctors/instructors through live streaming. “Besides, audios/videos of relevant material is posted on the groups which participants can watch at their preferred time,” the official said.Sunil Suryavanshi from Dharampur, who was in home isolation with his family from May 5-21, says regular interaction with doctors/instructors helped them recover faster. “The best part was that we never felt we are on our own. Whenever we had any questions or doubts about medicine, diet or mental stress, we could ask directly from the doctors on daily basis. Knowing there was someone available round the clock was a huge relief,” said Suryavanshi.For Vivek, a bank employee, the programme kept him stress-free. “Had this programme not been there, the isolation period could have been really stressful. I recommend everyone in home isolation should be a part of this programme,” said Vivek.Many are continuing with the programme even after recovering. “When I was added to the group, I could not participate much as I had to be hospitalised. I am watching it now and I am liking it. I am sure a lot of people are benefitting from it,” said Ajay Mair from Hamirpur.The initiative||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/home-isolated-fight-stress-via-wellness-programme-261081
31-05-2021||Our Correspondent||NGO helps differently abled in Kullu dist register for jab||Kullu, May 30The Aash Child Development Centre, an NGO here, has come forward to provide assistance in registration for vaccination and free transport service for the differently abled persons of Kullu town. Shruti More, director and occupational therapist of the centre, said the needy could call on 9418606898 for assistance. She said as public transport was not available during the curfew, free transport services would be provided to the differently-abled to ensure they got vaccinated.“The differently abled face challenges because of limited accessibility to the vaccination centres, online registration platforms and financial issues,” said More.An initiative of the Samphia Foundation, the centre has been providing physiotherapy, occupation therapy and speech therapy to the differently abled persons of Kullu.The institution also launched a vehicle under ‘Therapy on wheels’, which helps the differently abled children in remote areas. The therapy bus spreads awareness among the people and provides information on the importance of providing therapy to the differently abled children.The Union Government has instructed to set up near to home Covid vaccination centres (NHCVCs) linked to the existing Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) for the differently abled and the elderly.The Health Department had also carried out a special vaccination camp for the residents aged above 45 years of remote Malana village on May 23 and 24.A source from the Health Department said they were able to achieve the goal in Malana village, after counselling by the health authorities and Asha workers.The source said such camps would be organised in other remote villages as well soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngo-helps-differently-abled-in-kullu-dist-register-for-jab-261082
31-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Lt Bawa, Lt Katoch bring laurels to Palampur||Palampur, May 30Lt Arzoo Bawa was commissioned into the Indian Armed Forces yesterday in an impressive POP ceremony held at the Officers Training Academy (OTA) in Chennai. She is the first woman from Palampur to join the armed forces.Arzoo was born in Palampur and is the daughter of Simmi and Col Gurpreet Bawa, residents of Ghuggar. She did her graduation in psychology from Delhi University in 2019 and completed her master’s degree in psychology from Panjab University in Chandigarh. She was an NCC cadet in Rajasthan Girls Battalion.She won the national school-level cooking competition in 2014 and was nominated to represent India in London. She won the “May Queen” title for three years consecutively at the Army cantonment in Jaipur.An ace horse rider and swimmer, Arzoo has won many competitions. Her father Col Gurpreet Bawa served the armed forces for 35 years in the Brigade of Guards. Her mother is a teacher in DPS, Jaipur.Her uncle Wing Commander Dilpreet Bawa also served the Air Force.Meanwhile, Lt Abdesh Katoch of Garh Jamula village, 20 km from Palampur, who was commissioned in the Army yesterday from the Officers Training Institute (OTA), Chennai, brought laurels to the state by securing a gold medal and the Sword of Honour.In the passing-out ceremony, Lieutenant General YK Joshi, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief (GOC-in-C), Northern Command, presented the Sword of Honour and gold medal to ACA Abdesh Katoch for his best performance in 11-month training.Dr Kailash Katoch and Lata Katoch, parents of Abdesh, said due to Covid, parents of the graduating officer cadets were not able to witness the event. However, the OTA had made arrangements for live streaming of the parade and piping ceremony on DD Bharati and YouTube channels for their families.Abdesh had done his schooling from local Mount Carmel School and later completed his B-Tech from HP University, Shimla, before joining the armed services. Abdesh hails from the family of Army officers — his great grandfather, grandfather and uncles had also served in the Army.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lt-bawa-lt-katoch-bring-laurels-to-palampur-261083
31-05-2021||nesh Kanwar
||Farmers go organic, reap profit||Hamipur, May 30 Amid the Covid pandemic when people are finding it difficult to earn livelihood, the Atma project has helped farmers from the district increase their income by switching to organic farming in a scientific way. Project director Niti Soni said more than 8,000 farmers were trained during a workshop. Apart from providing financial assistance, the farmers were given equipment and quality seeds.  Lalit Kalia of Harned village, who also underwent the training, said he had improved the yield in his fields and earned over Rs 30,000 in the current vegetable season. He said financial help and training on scientific and natural agriculture organised under the Atma Project made it possible for him.  Sunita Devi, another farmer, said crop diversification had been more fruitful as conventional farming was less profitable. The production of vegetables, including capsicum, cucumber, peas, coriander etc, fetched them better price in the market, she added. Another farmer from the Bamsan area said field visits organised by the Agriculture Department had changed their outlook towards farming and other related areas such as dairy farming, apiculture, sericulture and mushroom production.  The farmer  said new techniques had changed the economy of farmers and people had started cultivating fields in which farming was abandoned due to poor returns. Deputy Commissioner Debashaweta Banik said farmers must come forward to take the benefit of programmes started by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/farmers-go-organic-reap-profit-261084
31-05-2021||Our Correspondent||2 held with charas||KULLU, MAY 30The police nabbed two persons with 9 kg charas near Shangna bridge in Manikaran valley of this district today.Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said that two persons of Dhunkhra village were coming in a Maruti van and the contraband was recovered from their possession during checking at nakabandi.Driver Dharam Singh (49) and Sher Singh, alias Sher Bahadur, (59) were arrested. A case under sections 20 and 25 of NDPS Act had been registered and further investigations were underway.Photo: Charas seized by the police during nakabandi in Manikaran valley at Kullu on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-held-with-charas-261086
31-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Sanitisation drive starts in Hamirpur||Hamirpur, May 30The process of sanitising the constituency was started from the Gandhi chowk today by MLA Narender Thakur. The vehicle carrying pressurised spray system will cover all (over 300) villages and wards in Hamirpur constituency.After flagging off the spray vehicle, Narender Thakur said sanitisation was an effective mode to kill the virus in the atmosphere. Despite all efforts of the administration and the government, the people were acting careless, he said. Sanitisation would be done in every village and if required, it would be repeated till the situation improved, said the MLA.He said a huge gathering could be seen during cremations, despite strict guidelines. He said people should understand the gravity of the situation and observe social distancing and wear masks.He said the virus could be present anywhere, and taking precautions was the only way to stay safe and healthy.Sandeep Bhardwaj, vice-president of the Municipal Committee, and members of the BJP city unit were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sanitisation-drive-starts-in-hamirpur-261089
31-05-2021||AT about 100 feet stretch on the Chuwari-Lahru link road||Crash barrier badly needed||Poor net connectivityIN the wake of Covid-19 crisis, when the entire work was dependent on digital mode, residents of Pangi tribal valley are facing problem of weak cellular and Internet signals. The residents of mountainous Pangi valley have urged the government to direct the telecom companies to boost 4G data speed and signal strength, thereby improving the cell phone signal and reception. — Residents, PangiIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/crash-barrier-badly-needed-261090
31-05-2021||---||Nadda hits out at Oppn for misleading people on vax||Shimla, May 30BJP national president JP Nadda today hit out at the Opposition for obstructing the vaccination programme by creating doubts in the minds of people about the efficacy of the vaccine.Addressing Tridev booth of Bilaspur virtually on the completion of seven years of the Modi government at the Centre, he said the BJP workers were serving the people putting their lives at risk and reaching out to the needy in one lakh villages and every MP, MLA and other leader would participate in this programme at least in two places.Referring to the criticism of the Modi government over vaccine, Nadda asked the IP cell of Himachal to take out the clippings of statements issued by opposition leaders.He lauded Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur for effectively handling the corona crisis and helping people through Himcare scheme. Party workers had engaged themselves in "Sangathan hi seva" programme. While the BJP workers were working as “sadhak” (facilitators), the opposition leaders acted as “badhak” (obstructions) and said the massive seva would be a world record, he added. However, Opposition leaders were visible only on the social media and press conferences."They had tried to demoralise scientists when the work on the vaccine started and all types of myth and misinformation was spread, he added. Lauding the Modi government for coming to the aid of the people and strengthening the health infrastructure, Nadda said the production of oxygen had reached from 3,000 metric tonne to 9,466 metric tonne in the country.The number of oxygen plants had increased to 1,500 and the corona testing had been increased to 25 lakh per day. Further, the number of isolation and ICU beds had been increased to 14 lakh and 81,000.Meanwhile, Seva programmes were organised at all 7,792 booths in the state.'Seva Hi Sangathan' must be the motive of every party worker and each and every party functionary must come forward to help people in distress during the pandemic, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, while virtually interacting with party functionaries of Murah booth in Seraj and Salban booth in Dalhousie from Shimla.Minister for State for Finance Anurag Thakur was virtually connected at the booth level in Dehra, Samirpur and Bhoranj while the BJP state president Suresh Kashyap distributed medical equipment in Nahan, Sarahan and Pachhad areas in Sirmaur district.----------------||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nadda-hits-out-at-oppn-for-misleading-people-on-vax-261093
31-05-2021||A webinar on 'quality control and quality assurance in building construction' was conducted by the civil engineering department of the Rajiv Gandhi Government Polytechnic||Webinar on civil engineering||Helping youth face life challengesThe goals of social-economic development can be achieved through sustainable development. It will eradicate poverty, unemployment and make society more inclusive. These thoughts were shared by Nixon Joseph, president of the SBI Foundation, during a webinar organised by APG Shimla University and Venkateshwara Open University, Arunachal Pradesh. APG Shimla University’s Vice-Chancellor Ramesh Chauhan welcomed Nixon Joseph, a famous banker, and thanked him for helping the youth face challenges in life. Joseph said a successful professional could find new opportunities of development even during tough times.Students apprised of tech advancementA webinar was organised in Government Polytechnic, Sundernagar, by different departments on latest technological advancements. Principal Neeraj Uppal said that in the webinar, organised by automobile department, Rajesh Sharma apprised students of “general industry expectations and latest automotive technologies”. Parveev Kumar made students aware of ‘Quality Management System’ in automotive industry, he added. Sandeep Sharma, assistant professor, NIT, Hamirpur, briefed the students about field issues and case studies related to ‘sustainable water management In hill towns’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/webinar-on-civil-engineering-261094
31-05-2021||---||Ex-minister urges govt to  fill posts of health worker||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 30Former minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma in a press release issued here today said that the Himachal government should fill the posts of health workers so that the campaign against corona pandemic could be carried out effectively. He alleged that nearly 2,000 posts of multi-purpose male and female health workers were lying vacant in the state.Sudhir Sharma alleged that there were 2,060 sanctioned posts of male multipurpose heath workers in Himachal out of which 1800 were lying vacant. Similarly, there were 2,259 sanctioned posts of female multipurpose health workers in state out of which 800 posts were lying vacant, he said.Sudhir Sharma said that the multipurpose health workers could prove vital in providing medical aid to corona patients in rural areas. They can provide medicines to corona patients, keep a check on their health status and also help in vaccination campaign.Since about 2,600 posts of multi-purpose health workers were lying vacant, many PHCs are without any medical staff and lying closed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ex-minister-urges-govt-to-fill-posts-of-health-worker-261095
31-05-2021||Shimla||Free education for Covid orphans||A day after PM Narendra Modi unveiled plans for children orphaned due to Covid-19, CM Jai Ram Thakur said such children will be given admission in Central schools, Navodaya Vidyalaya and sainik schools and the expenses would be borne by the government.“The government will also bear the expenses of such children studying in private schools,” he said.He said every such student would be enrolled as a beneficiary under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana and the premium amount would be paid by PM-CARES Fund till they attained the age of 18.Under the CM Bal Seva Yojana, every such child will be provided Rs 3,500 per month. He said the state government would also provide Rs 51,000 to orphan girls under the Mukhyamantri Kanyadaan Yojana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/free-education-for-covid-orphans-261096
31-05-2021||In Kangra district||Dilemma over kits distribution||Clamour for creditThere seems to be clamour amongst netas across the political spectrum to take credit for the work and help being extended by them to the people, suffering from Covid. Social media is splashed with pictures of these politicians distributing relief material, be it from their MLA fund or from personal resources to the affected families. Some MLAs even went to the extent of pasting stickers with their own pictures on these health kits which have pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur lest they be deprived of getting credit. A politician will always be a politician, good or bad times, remarked people mockingly.Traders — complaining foreverDespite the government giving in to the demands of traders to open the markets, the business community is unhappy and questioning the rationale of opening all the shops for five hours from 9 am to 2 pm. The office-goers and other sections of the society go to the market in the evening. Increasing the timings of curfew would also reduce crowding, they contend. However, a majority of people feel that it would have been better to start with computers, mobile and stationary shops as students studying online are facing problems in getting their mobile phones and computers repaired. The government should have made better arrangements for opening shops in the valley side and the mountainside or on odd-even basis like it was done last year, lamented a leading businessman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dilemma-over-kits-distribution-261099
31-05-2021||Lalit Mohan||Row over ‘goonda tax’, Himachal blames Punjab||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, May 30Stone crusher owners in Himachal have alleged harassment at the hands of authorities in Punjab. They claim miscreants indulging in illegal mining in connivance with the officials concerned are not allowing the transport of their material to Punjab without paying ‘goonda tax’.Sanjeev Kumar, owner of a stone crusher in Una, said even as they had all valid documents, the Punjab authorities had been stopping them on the pretext that their material had not been mined as per the NGT guidelines.Industries Minister Bikram Thakur, who also holds the mining portfolio, alleged goons controlling mining operations in Punjab were harassing crusher owners based in Himachal. “It appears that such unscrupulous persons enjoy support of the Punjab Government. Many HP crusher owners have moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court against ‘goonda tax’ being collected from them in Punjab,” he said.Thakur said, “We take strict action against those resorting to illegal mining, but those doing legal business should not be harassed. I will write to the Punjab Government.”RN Dhoke, ADGP, who heads the first Enforcement Directorate formed to check illegal mining in Punjab, said only those transporters were stopped who did not have valid documents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/row-over-goonda-tax-himachal-blames-punjab-261131
