01-11-2020||Jharkhand||Tusker dies in Giridih||A solitary male tusker died after falling in a hog trapping system near Jeetkundi in the Dumri police station area in Giridih late on Saturday. The elephant’s trunk was badly injured, which forest department officials feel could have caused breathing problems leading to the animal’s death. Veterinarians conducted a post-mortem of the elephant on the spot. “The post-mortem report suggests that the tusker died due to a lack of oxygen. There was a deep wound in its trunk that had caused breathing problems,” said Raj Kumar Sah, DFO, Giridih (eastern circle). The forest department officials buried the elephant near the spot after extracting its tusks. The tusker reportedly got separated from its herd of 18-20 elephants a few months ago. It used to wander alone between the corridors of Saria-Giridih and Dhanbad. Earlier, it had destroyed standing crops and damaged a few houses. Eyewitness Nandlal Sharma said villagers had started taking guard on hearing the elephant cry. “Later, we realised it was crying in pain,” Sharma said. After having been kicked out of home by her parents, a girl walked to the Sadar hospital in Chatra and told doctors that she was two months pregnant after being raped by her cousin. She alleged that the cousin had gone to her home situated on the Hazaribagh-Chatra road in the Sadar police station area during the lockdown. He stayed at her home for two months and repeatedly raped her. The youth later returned to his village at Sherghati in Bihar’s Gaya, she said. She had been kicked out of her home by her parents and she wanted an abortion, she said. The staff at the hospital are awaiting instructions from officials in the case. Protests by villagers have stalled the construction of a road that would allow the smooth transportation of coal in Chatra’s Tandwa. The villagers claim that the proposed road poses risks since it will pass through a densely populated area. Simaria subdivisional officer Sudhir Kumar Das said he would visit the area to understand the issues raised by the villagers. The road will ensure the transportation of coal from two NTPC projects: Keredari and Chatti Bariatu. Ishwar Dayal Pandey, an associate of BJP MP Sunil Kumar Singh, said the road, from Sisai More to Shivpur siding, will pass through areas having markets, anganwadi centres, schools and homes. The road will cause a spurt in pollution and other problems due to the movement of heavy coal-laden trucks. The solution, according to Pandey, is to lay the road 200 metres from the proposed site. Sonu Sinha of Brinda village alleged that the survey for the new road was conducted without taking into account the issues faced by local residents. Das chaired a meeting on Saturday in which he decided to visit the site selected for the construction of the new road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders up in arms against tax realization drive||Facing unprecedented business scenario due to COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown, the woes of coal town residents have been aggravated by the aggressive revenue realization drive of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) and particularly, holding tax realization drive. A meeting of traders of Jharia under the banner of a social organization, Koylanchal Nagrik Manch was held today at Sahu Market of Jharia under the chairmanship of Amit Sahu, president of Koylanchal Nagrik Manch during which the participants expressed their resentment over the notices given by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation to over 20 traders of Dhanbad for non-payment of holding tax. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Sahu said, “The manner in which the revenue realization is conducted is very objectionable as the civic body team is visiting different shops and business installation, and is threatening to seize the bank account of defaulters and also lodge case against the shop keepers, etc.” “Twenty shop owners and other business installations in Jharia have been given notice yesterday for non-payment of holding tax,” said Sahu and added that fines have also been imposed against some of them. “At a time when the business scenario is at its lowest ebb and traders are facing difficulty paying staff salary, shop and godown rent, loan, EMIs, etc. due to decreased income, further pressuring them for payment of multiple taxes like trade license fee, user charges and holding tax is not at all justified,” further opined Sahu. “We will hold an extensive meeting tomorrow with all the traders including some of the victim shop keepers who have been served notices and chalk out the future course of action as we are already paying holding tax to another civic body, Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority,” said Sahu. Srikant Ambastha, another trader of Jharia who participated in today’s meeting said, “The condition of civic amenities in Jharia is not good and the historic pond, Raja Talab constructed several years, has turned into a cesspool of garbage and filth due to neglect by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation and similar is the pathetic state of affair of drain cleaning and garbage lifting in Jharia.” He also added that instead of concentrating on improving the civic amenities, DMC is only working on imposing and realizing new taxes in the difficult time of COVID-19 pandemic.” Notably, the traders of Dhanbad under the banner of Bank More Chamber of Commerce earlier during the last month wrote a letter to Jharkhand Chief Minister, Hemant Soren demanding waiver of user charges being imposed by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in lieu of door to door collection of garbage due to the unprecedented situation of the economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel affiliated institute completes 99 years, to celebrate its centenary next year||Shavak Nanavati Technical Institute (SNTI), a technical training cradle of Tata Steel completed its glorious 99 years on Sunday. Based at Bistupur in Jamshedpur, SNTI has over the past years made several contributions in expanding the frontiers of learning and development practices and this helped it in emerging as one of the premier corporate training institutions of the country. SNTI mentored the formation of a new institution, J N Tata Vocational Training Institute (JNTVTI) which was set up in 2015 for providing world-class training to the youth of Jharkhand and neighboring Odisha and enable them to secure employment in the Tata Steel ecosystem. Over 3,500 students of the institute have passed out and all of them have secured jobs amongst various companies associated with Tata Steel. SNTI enabled access to its learning products across the world in July 2018. Since then over 25 large companies (both Indian and overseas) have benefited from the wide array of programs offered by it. The technical institute also launched its e-portal Tata Steel Digie-shala in that year (2018) which enabled corporate and retail customers to access a world-class range of technical education programs that are unique in its content and presentation. Prakash Singh, chief of Capability Development, Tata Steel who looks after the affairs of SNTI said, “It has been a long and glorious journey as we completed 99 years today. We will be celebrating the centenary next year.” Singh informed that SNTI intends to begin 25 Schools of Excellence by the end of the current financial year. “Nine schools have been opened so far and the rest will be operational by March next year,” he added. The schools are specifically related to cutting edge areas of priority in the business activities of any manufacturing company – some examples of such schools are those pertaining to data analytics, visualization, lubrication, hydraulics, etc. Notably, SNTI was established on November 1, 1921, as Jamshedpur Technical Institute (JTI) to meet the increasing demand for skilled manpower required by Tata Steel for running the steel plant in Jamshedpur. In 1992, the Jamshedpur Technical Institute was renamed Shavak Nanavati Technical Institute in memory of Shavak Nanavati, the first graduate trainee who later went on to become the managing director of Tata Steel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||State BJP chief firm, dares govt to arrest him||Upping the ante against JMM-Congress-RJD combine, Jharkhand BJP chief and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash on Sunday dared the state government to arrest him if they can, stating that he stands by his comments regarding the current regime. Prakash was referring to the recent arrest of the 82-year-old Jesuit priest and noted tribal worker Stan Swamy, who was picked by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from his residence in Ranchi last month in connection to the 2017 Bhima Koregaon violence. Talking to reporters at the state BJP headquarters in Harmu on Sunday afternoon, Prakash said, “Let them arrest me if they can. I am in Ranchi till 10 am tomorrow. Then I am going to Delhi and will return back on November 3.” He added, “I don’t fear jail and have been to it many times since my early days into politics for the service of people and this country. If being a BJP worker, who chants Bharat Mata ki Jai amounts to sedition, so be it.” On Saturday, Congress’s district president of Dumka, Shyamlal Kishore Singh filed an FIR in the town police station in presence of JMM workers against Prakash over his alleged comments of ‘toppling the Hemant Soren government’. The FIR registered at town police station accused Prakash under four IPC sections, namely, 504, 506, 120B and 124A. Section 504 amounts to causing intentional insult with an intent to provoke breach of peace, section 506 is about criminal intimidation, section 120-B talks of criminal conspiracy to commit a punishable offense with death while section 124 deals with sedition. Prakash said, “I still, stand by my statement. This government will fall in the coming months. It is mainly because of raging unhappiness among ruling party MLAs over the current regime. JMM-Congress-RJD will be solely responsible for the fall of the government, not us.” Prakash didn’t give any clear cut answers when asked if BJP was trying to woo disgruntled MLAs from the ruling camps. He also didn’t make any specific comments when asked if any MLAs from ruling camps are in touch with the BJP. “Just wait and watch,” he remarked. BJP insiders anticipated that the police are unlikely to arrest Prakash, who is facing a non-bailable section, any time soon. A senior party worker said, “Although we are ready to take government’s actions head-on, it won’t move to make our president’s arrest at least before the November 3 bypolls in Dumka and Bermo. It knows that any such action could backfire.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||JFC CEO confident about the team's chances in ISL||Jamshedpur FC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari is optimistic of a stellar show in the seventh edition of Indian Super League (ISL) starting in Goa on November 20. Jamshedpur FC will launch their campaign against Chennaiyin FC at Tilak Maidan in Goa on November 24. According to the schedule, the Tata Steel-owned club will then cross swords with Odisha FC at Tilak Maidan on November 29 in their second outing followed by the encounter versus Hyderabad FC at the same venue on December 2. With an enviable side in place and a top-notch coach to guide the players during the energy-sapping encounters ahead, Choudhari has reasons to believe that Jamshedpur has a bright prospect in the cash-rich league. “We are highly hopeful of a solid show in the league. The preparations have been good. We reached Goa early and utilised time for the much-needed training. We have worked hard to add some very good players in the squad. So, there is lot of optimism on the prospects of the team,” he reasoned. On the pandemic and would the enforced isolation affect the mental set-up of players, Choudhari said the guidelines was meant for other teams as well. “Circumstances were not normal in Covid times. We were consigned to our hotel rooms soon after reaching Goa. Communication was only on telephone and that was quite difficult. There was a fitness gap during isolation but now the players were doing really well and following the Covid guidelines,” the JFC CEO said over phone from Goa. Choudhari informed that the players were in fine fettle and there was no fitness worries. “Training is underway and the players are working out well under head coach Owen Coyle  . There was intensity (in training) from the beginning. Players are fit and there’s no niggles as such,” he added. According to him, Owen Coyle has come on board with an excellent track record and is a man who handles man management very well. “He (Coyle) made a turnaround for Chennaiyin FC after taking charge mid-way. Propelling a team from the bottom to top speaks volumes about his caliber as a coach. Coyle motivates the boys and is very dedicated. We are very hopeful of a good show under him,” Choudhari said. On the team, he said besides the foreign recruits, Indian players of the likes of Jackichand Singh, Narender Gahlot, Jiendra Singh, Mobashir Rahman, Amarjit Singh Kiyam to name a few have the required firepower to excel in  crunch situations. “Tata Football Academy graduates Sandip Mandi and  Vishal Yadav are the findings for them,” he remarked. Choudhari said they were working to build an eco system for football in Jharkhand through JFC. “In fact, the basic objective of Jamshedpur FC  is to work in that direction. Our grassroots programmes has won accolades from various quarters. We have included schools under the training ambit and are giving scientific training to the wannabe footballers. We have also created a pool of coaches and the process is on,” he explained. Choudhari stated that the process was long term and the goal is to promote meritorious Jharkhand players. He said they would miss the Jamshedpur fans this time. “I would like to appeal to the fans to continue to support us just as they do when we play in Jamshedpur. We really need their support in Goa,” he signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||For Indane customers, new number to book your LPG refill||For booking a LPG refill cylinder, Indane­­­­­­­ consumers across Jharkhand will have to dial a Pan India number – 7718955555 from today onwards. The consumer needs to call from the registered mobile phone number and the toll-free number will function 24/7. “Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) introduced the Pan India number for the convenience of Indane consumers,” said an IOCL officer based in Jamshedpur. Confirming this DK Singh, a member of the Federation of LPG Distributors of India and a leading LPG distributor in the steel city said the toll-free number is applicable Pan India. “Indane consumers of Jharkhand, as well as all other states across the country, will be able to book LPG refill cylinders through that toll-free number. The number – 7718955555 is linked to IVRS,” informed Singh. He also added that now while booking new refill cylinder consumers will have to provide the 17- digit LPG ID (which is printed on the cash memo issued by the respective LPG agency or distributors) and the consumer’s Aadhaar card number. As per usual practice after booking the LPG cylinder will be delivered at the door-step of the consumer by the local Indane agency. According to Singh, people need to be made aware of the new Pan India Indane gas cylinder booking number as booking an LPG cylinder through the old system has ceased functioning from midnight. A rough estimate suggests that the three districts of Kolhan – East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and  Seraikela-Kharsawan has over 2.5 lakh Indane consumers (both domestic and commercial) while the number of consumers  across the state would be over 30 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||Property tax: RMC slaps fines, but its portal doesn’t work  ||Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) is charging late payment penalty on holding tax at a time when its online payment gateway has crashed due to technical glitches, forcing residents of the state capital to step out of their homes to pay at counters amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The online payment facility has been out of order since August 12, RMC authorities admitted, adding that residents had the option to visit the Nagrik Suvidha Counter at the RMC building and pay holding tax in person. RMC discontinued the services of Sparrow, an outsource agency roped in to handle collection of holding tax, in August. While the district administration has handed over the contract to another company, Shree Enterprises, the former firm is yet to handover the software for online payment to the new company, said Ranchi deputy mayor Sanjiv Vijaywargiya. “Sparrow delayed the process of handing over the software to the new company. Online payment has been affected since August 12 due to the transfer of contract from one company to another,” Vijaywargiya said. “You can still visit Nagrik Suvidha Counter at RMC and make the payments. The online payment system will be back on track by November 3,” he added. While the RMC has slapped penalty charges on people who could not pay holding tax in person, the government itself had urged residents to stay indoors in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic during the months of August and September. Ranchi witnessed an explosion of Covid-19 cases in August and September. As per government data, there were 1,921 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Ranchi on August 12 and the tally here was 3,799. Cut to September 12, there were 3,673 active cases in Ranchi and the tally jumped to 12,562. The revenue section in-charge of RMC, Sandeep Karn, admitted that there were “minor problems” in online payments due to the transfer of responsibilities from one company to another. However, he said that payment of holding tax did not stop in RMC as property owners visited the RMC office in person to make the payments and avoid penalty. “The online payment system will be fully functional in the first week of November. We will not need more than a week to make hassle-free online payment of holding tax possible through our website,” said Karn. Sambhu Nath, a retired professional staying in Kanke Road locality, said that he was waiting for a fixed deposit to mature, so he could clear the holding tax of around Rs 10,000 in August. “The amount is now close to Rs12,000. But I do not have an option other than waiting for the online payment system to be operational,” he said. The holding tax section of RMC could not be accessed online on Saturday as it was under maintenance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||All you need to know about Blue moon ||A seasonal Blue Moon is the third Full moon of an astronomical season that has four Full Moons. A monthly Blue Moon is the second Full Moon in a calendar month with two Full Moons. The Full Moon on October 31, 2020 is a monthly Blue Moon. October's first Full Moon, and this year's Harvest moon, was on October 1, 2020. The historical origins of the term and its two definitions are shrouded in a bit of mystery and, by many accounts, an interpretation error. Some believe that the term “blue moon” meaning something rare may have originated from when smoke and ashes after a volcanic eruption turned the Moon blue. Others trace the term's origin to over 400 years ago—folklorist Philip Hiscock has suggested that invoking the Blue Moon once meant that something was absurd and would never happen. Seasonal Blue Moons take place slightly less frequently than monthly Blue Moons—in the 1100 years between 1550 and 2650, there are 408 seasonal Blue Moons and 456 monthly Blue Moons. This means that either type of Blue Moon occurs roughly every two or three years. The moon is not going to look blue, Debiprosad Duari, the director (research and academic) of MP Birla Planetarium, had said. “In modern parlance, a blue moon is the second full moon in a calendar month. The time between one full moon and the next is close to the length of a calendar month. So, the only time one month can have two full moons is when the first full moon happens in the first few days of the month, in this case on October 1. "But the original concept of a blue moon is part of folklore and practices of the medieval agrarian society," Duari said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
01-11-2020||Jharkhand||Active cases drop below 100 in 16 of the 24 Jharkhand districts ||With healthy recoveries reported every day, the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection has dropped below 100 in at least 16 of 24 districts in Jharkhand, figures released by the health department highlighted on Saturday, a day when as many as 474 people were found infected across the state. As per government data, the number of active cases in Jharkhand increased slightly on the day after only 367 Covid patients recovered against the nearly 500 fresh cases in 24 hours. However, only Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Khunti, Saraikela, Gumla, Deoghar and Bokaro had more than 100 active cases of infection by Saturday night. As many as 5,302 people were battling the virus across the state on Saturday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) showed. Covid fatalities have reduced in the past 48 hours in Jharkhand. On Saturday, one patient died during treatment in Dhanbad, taking the toll to 884, government data stated. No Covid casualties occurred on Friday. As per government data, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.83 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The government on Saturday tested swab samples of as many as 80,003 people from across the state and less than 500 of them tested positive. The findings indicate that only 0.62 per cent of the total people tested were found infected. On an average, health workers have been testing 35,000 people every day for Covid-19 this week. With 139 fresh cases of infection, Ranchi was the only district that reported a triple-digit spike in the Covid caseload on Saturday. Bokaro reported 73 cases, while East Singhbhum and Dhanbad reported 61 and 31 cases respectively. The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection in Ranchi rose to 1,742 on the day as only 101 patients recovered from the viral infection here. East Singhbhum also reported fewer recoveries than fresh cases, which took the active cases there to 1,335. So far, government agencies and private labs have collected swab samples of 33.71 lakh people and tested 33.62 lakh of them across Jharkhand. Of the over 33 lakh people tested, as many as 1,01,761 were found infected, highlights government data. As per figures compiled by NHM, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.33 per cent against the national average of 0.56 per cent. The doubling rate of the infection in the state was 209.2 days against the national doubling rate of 122.4 days. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand was put at 93.92 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 91.30 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-250
