02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad PMCH trauma centre to become operational soon||The trauma centre of PMCH (now known as Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College) is likely to be established in the emergency ward of the hospital. Kailash Kumar, regional director of Directorate General of Health services of Ministry of Health and family welfare has made a list of requirements for the operations of the centre to begin. The trauma centre was to be launched in 2011 but a land dispute with local residents delayed the project. Several attempts to identify an alternative land near the national highway 2 near Panduki in Govindpur were also made during last year but failed due to the inability of the district administration to procure any land. Head of the department of Orthopaedics of PMCH, Dr D.P. Bhushan who is also the nodal officer of the trauma centre said, “as we don’t have the separate building for launching the centre we will be launching it from the existing emergency ward of hospital and later shift the same to the Super Speciality building as and when the building gets ready.” “We will start the facility with the existing manpower including doctors and support staff as appointment of the separate staff for the centre has yet not been made as yet,” said Bhushan. “Though we are already carrying out the treatment of the emergency cases in the hospital but the new facility will be an additional facility exclusively for the accident cases”, said Bhushan. Due to the absence of a neuro and cardiac surgeon at PMCH the cases are referred to RIMS Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Bars to reopen in Jharkhand from Nov 3||Bar owners have decided to run their establishments from Tuesday, two days after given the green signal, amid indications that the state government would look into demands of exempting license fees for the months they were without business because of the COVID-19 lockdown. Bars across the state were under closure from March. State government allowed its reopening from November 3, much after other traders were unlocked. However, bar owners continued to remain shutdown to demand relaxation in the annual license fee. Close to 50 licensed bars are there in Ranchi while in the state there are over 150. Annually, the state excise department charges Rs 9 lakh from each bar for license renewal but the bar owners demanded waivers from March-end till October 31 citing closure. On Monday, state excise department secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey held a meeting with the Jharkhand Bar and Restaurant Association (JBRA) after which he assured them of relaxation but sought time till the proposal is cleared by the state government. JBRA expressed content with the department’s move post which they decided to return back to the business. Ranjan Kumar, president of JBRA in a statement on Monday night announced the reopening of the bars. “All the bars across Jharkhand will be reopening from Tuesday after the government assured to waive 50% license fee. We will now have to pay Rs 4.50 lakh against Rs 9 lakh. However, those who have already paid or need to pay this year’s license fee need to shell out the entire amount which will be adjusted during the next renewal as per the understanding with the excise department,” said Kumar. He added that while all the restaurants were already operating with heightened COVID-19 safety norms and maintaining social distance rules at their facilities, bars will adhere to all the prescribed guidelines to prevent the spread of the virus. “Established safety norms like social distancing between the seats, provision of sanitizers, mandatory use of masks and gloves wherever required, among other parameters, will be followed by all the bars,” said Kumar. State excise minister Jagarnath Mahto is currently battling COVID-19 and is under treatment in Chennai. Soon he is expected to undergo a lung transplant. Excise department secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey said that the talks remained positive and they will send a proposal for the license fee waiver for cabinet nod soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||All Souls Day at Beldih cemetery ||All Soul's Day was observed at the Beldih cemetery in Bistupur on Monday. This year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic the usual mass conducted in the evening at the cemetery was called off. Instead, various churches including the St. Joseph's Cathedral at Golmuri, Lupita Hall Church at Telco and St. Mary's Church in Bistupur conducted morning and evening masses. "The mass was decentralised to prevent crowding. People were asked to go to the cemetery and pray as per their convenience. They were asked to follow social distancing and other Covid norms during the prayers at the cemetery. Therefore, this year because of the pandemic no mass took place at the cemetery, "said James Davis, who is associated with St. Joseph's Cathedral. Beldih cemetery witnesses the largest gathering in the steel city. Every year the rituals begin late in the afternoon and continue late at night. This year the local administration restricted prayer time at the cemetery till 7 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Suicide on the rise among school children ||Jeevan, the Jamshedpur-based suicide prevention centre, is concerned about school children ending their lives during the Covid pandemic. The pandemic-related situation is showing some signs of improvement with activities opening up but students continue to remain stressed and require adequate counselling to deal with the situation. According to statistics made available by Jeevan, 22 school students chose to end their lives between January and September. While the figure was 2 in January, it was nil in February and March. The number of suicide cases involving students read 2 and 1 in April and May, respectively. However, the number of suicide cases shot up to 4 in June followed by 5 in July. It was 3 in September and 5 in October. “It’s a dangerous trend and reflects on the pyche of the students who are feeling stressed due to some reasons or the other, including pandemic. The number of suicides cases were more from June onwards when the pandemic was its peak,” said Jeoraj Jain, director of Jeevan. According to Jain, they were very concerned with the rise in suicide cases involving students and have planned to organise a webinar later this week. “We will be involving students from standard VI to X for the webinar. Teachers will also be a part of the proceedings,” said Jain. “We think parents are putting too much pressure on their wards. Parents should not put unnecessary pressure on their children and allow them some liberty. Children should also learn how to handle failure. We think the upcoming webinar would make students aware about how to handle difficult situations with help from teachers. Parents would also benefit,” Jain informed. Jeevan will be inviting experts, including psychiatrists and motivational speakers to address the students at the webinar. “We will shortly contact school principals and inform them about the programme. Teachers play an important role in guiding students in challenging times,” Jain pointed out. The Bistupur-based suicide prevention centre organises `Jeevan Trophy’ every year on September (World Suicide Prevention Day) wherein schools who organise maximum number of programmes on how to minimise stress level gets the prize. We could not organise the event this year owing to the pandemic. But it’s an important programme and schools really look forward to it,” the Jeevan director added. Jain lamented that telephone numbers of Jeevan were still not adequately shared. “The East Singhbhum district did help us by putting up posters at different localities and public places but we think more publicity of our numbers was needed. Our volunteers are continuing to help people who need help,” he said. One can reach Jeevan volunteers on: 9297777499,, 9297777500 (only call), 9955377500, 9955435500 (call or Whatsapp).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Road accident kills 5 family members in Dhanbad||Five persons of a priest family of Pakur were killed in a road accident at Pagla More of Govindpur- Sahebganj road in Latani Panchayat of Purbi Tundi police station area of Dhanbad. A neighbor of the family who was driving the car (Maruti Suzuki Wagon R) bearing number registration number JH 15 M 9450 was also injured during the accident and is undergoing treatment at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital in Dhanbad. The incident took place at around 4 am in the morning. The family comprising of Ranjit Kumar Mishra (41), his wife Mira Devi (35) and son Shivansh Mishra (8), daughter Palak Mishra (5), along with his father Subesh Mishra (64) was heading back to their home at Pandit Mohalla on Shitala Mata Road of Pakur from their ancestral home in a rented car of Deoghar owned by one Shiv Shankar Dubey. The car was at high speed and rammed into a static cement laden tipper truck on Pagla More. The impact of the accident was so severe that all the five family members died on the spot while the neighbor cum driver Rahul Pandey (30) was in serious condition due to multiple injuries and is undergoing treatment at PMCH Dhanbad. He is now out of danger. Officer in charge of Purbi Tundi police station of Dhanbad, Kamal Nath Munda said, “We came to know about the accident at around 5 am in the morning and rushed to the spot immediately but the patrolling team of police reached the site before us and extricated the dead bodies of three people including Rajit Kumar Mishra, Subesh Mishra and Shivansh Mishra from the mangled remains of the car,” and also added that the injured driver was also taken out from the car and immediately sent to PMCH. “When we reached the site, we also took out the dead body of a woman Meera Devi and her daughter Palak Mishra with the help of local residents,” said Munda. “The family went to their ancestral home in Gaya three days ago and were returning to their home when the accident took place,” said Munda. He added that they have informed the relatives of the deceased family members who will be reaching Dhanbad in the evening. When asked how the accident took place, Munda said, “As nobody was there around the site and the lone survivor of the accident, Rahul Pandey is also not in a condition to speak so we can’t say that how the accident took place but we will take the statement of the driver once his condition improves and also lodge a case in this regard on the basis of the statement of the family members and driver.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Marandi needles Hemant govt over sedition FIR on BJP leader||Babulal Marandi wondered why state BJP chief president Deepak Prakash had not been arrested by the state government that has slapped sedition charges against him, the former chief minister’s dare coming on Monday barely 24 hours before voting for two crucial byelections is to take place. Two days ago, the JMM-Congress-RJD government filed an FIR against Prakash in Dumka under four IPC sections, including 124A amounting to sedition, over his alleged threat to “topple the government in the coming months” while campaigning in Dumka last week. On Sunday, Prakash also dared the government to arrest him, stating that he would be in Ranchi till Monday morning. He added that he stood by what he said in respect to the future of the Hemant Soren government. Marandi addressed reporters at BJP headquarters in Harmu after his return from Dumka on Monday. “A person charged with sedition is regarded as a threat to the country. How can he be allowed to roam free? Two days have passed after the FIR, but no arrest. Why?” he said. Marandi added that Prakash was scheduled to go to Delhi on Monday but that he had cancelled his trip. “I requested him to stay back so that none can allege that he fled Jharkhand. Tell us when and where to come to get arrested,” Marandi said. The senior BJP leader claimed that he, too, had said what Prakash had said about the future of the Hemant government. “I am ready to face a case now. It is clear the state government is misusing sedition charges,” he said. JMM countered Marandi, saying the law would take its own course. Party general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “We have filed an FIR and now it is up to the police to probe and the courts to decide if he (Deepak) is guilty or not.” He, however, added that BJP’s continuous threats over stability of the government was proof enough that the saffron party was trying to hatch a conspiracy against a democratically elected state government. “But the numbers are with us and let me remind them (BJP) again that this is no Karnataka or Goa. Any kind of political misadventure will prove costly for them,” said the JMM leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jagarnath Mahto needs lung transplant, confirms TN hospital||A search has been launched for a donor to initiate proceedings for a lung transplant for Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who is on life support at a Chennai hospital where is being treated for complications arising out of a coronavirus infection. “We have started looking for a suitable lung donor for him (Mahto). He was kept on ECMO (Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation) here so far, but given his condition, we will have to go for a lung transplant,” said Dr. Apar Jindal, the Clinical Director of Lung Transplant, Interventional Pulmonology and Chest Medicine at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) hospital in Chennai. While the search for a suitable brain-dead lung donor is on, doctors at MGM said it was difficult to predict how soon one could be found. The organ donation will happen through government agencies and patients registered in Chennai will be the first preference for donation if the donor is from Tamil Nadu, doctors said. “There are other criteria that we need to fulfil in order to proceed with the transplant. The donor will have to be of the same blood group as the minister. The donor will also have to be of similar built and have healthy lungs,” said Dr Suresh Rao, Co-director of Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation & Mechanical Circulatory Assist Device at MGM. “Mostly, people dying in accidents qualify for lung donation,” he added. Fifty-three-year-old Mahto, a Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) legislator from Dumri, tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 and was admitted in state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. He was shifted to the ICU of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital on October 1 and put on non-invasive ventilation. The minister was flown to Chennai on October 19 after his lungs showed no signs of improvement and was put on ECMO. ECMO is a life support system in which the gas exchange happens outside the body through a machine instead of the lungs in order to allow healing time to the organ. Dr Rao said that at least four Covid-19 patients had so far undergone lung transplant at the hospital and three of them were doing well. One of the four patients could not survive, he added. “The success rate of lung transplant is 70 per cent. Three of the four Covid patients who underwent lung transplant here have recovered and are leading a normal life,” said Rao. A lung transplant at the hospital would cost at least Rs 30 lakh, and the cost may go up depending on the condition of the patient, doctors at MGM said. “A patient is usually kept in ICU for at least 20 days after a lung transplant and kept under observation even after that,” said Rao.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recovery rate jumps above 94 per cent in Jharkhand||The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand jumped above 94 per cent on Sunday after nearly 400 recoveries were reported across the state against 326 fresh cases of infection, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Figures compiled by the NHM stated that as many as 95,973 of the 102087 Covid patients in Jharkhand have defeated the Covid-19 virus in the state so far. There were as many as 5,229 active cases of infection in the state by Sunday evening, government data further stated. None of the districts in Jharkhand reported a triple-digit spike in the Covid caseload on the day despite over 20,000 people being tested for the viral infection in the past 24 hours. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, Ranchi reported 95 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection, the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. However, the number of active cases of infection dropped in the district as at least 140 Covid patients recovered on the day. There were around 1700 active cases of infection in Ranchi, while around 1330 people were battling the virus in East Singhbhum. The count of active cases was below 100 in at least 16 of 24 districts in the state. As many as 398 patients recovered from the infection on the day. Bokaro reported 47 fresh cases on the day, while Dhanbad and East Singbhum reported 42 and 22 cases respectively. As many as 20 people were found infected in Ramgarh and 15 in West Singhbhum. Meanwhile, the Covid toll in Jharkhand reached 885 on Sunday after one more patient, a resident of Simdega, died during treatment. The Covid-19 mortality rate in the state was 0.86 per cent on Sunday, which is lower than the national average of 1.49 per cent, government data stated. The government has so far collected swab samples of over 34 lakh people from across Jharkhand and tested around 33.93 lakh of them. On Sunday, health workers tested swab samples of 20,384 people and 326 of them tested positive. The figures indicate that 1.5 per cent of the people tested for the virus were found infected. As per the NHM, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.31 per cent against the national average of 0.55 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 213.8 days against the national average of 126.8 days. The national Covid recovery rate was 91.56 per cent against the state’s average of 94.01 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Police raids fireworks dealers in Jugsalai||Steel city police raided the premises of six firecracker dealers at Jugsalai and seized goods worth several lakhs on Sunday evening, Dhalbhum sub-divisional officer (SDO),  Nitish Kumar said the raid was carried out keeping in mind the densely-populated nature of Jugsalai. "The Jharkhand High Court directive  prohibits sale of explosives in heavily populated areas. The cracker dealers where the raids were conducted had overstocked crackers for Diwali," he said. The SDO added that this was the first of a series of raids to be conducted ahead of Diwali. The dealers have been booked under relevant sections of the Explosives Act. The raid comes at a time when firecrackers dealers are waiting for an approval from the administration for storing and sale of fireworks. Following the Jharkhand High Court's  ruling issued in 2003, the district administration every year asks  cracker dealers to stop hoarding or selling crackers in congested areas. Notices are being served to all license holders, despite which several dealers continue to violate norms. All the police stations have been asked to keep an eye on cracker traders and dealers. Jugsalai has been at the centre of illegal fireworks dealings for years, with transactions amounting to crores. As shops and manufacturers vie with each other to provide customers with bigger and louder firecrackers, local anti-noise activists worry that this year too many bombs will go off with deafening bangs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Countdown to Dumka and Bermo bypolls begins||Aggressive campaigning by the UPA and NDA for the Dumka and Bermo byelections ended on Sunday. The fortnight-long political slugfest also witnessed an FIR against state BJP president Deepak Prakash by the ruling alliance, charging him with sedition for his alleged threats of toppling the government during his poll rallies. Chief minister Hemant Soren, star campaigner for the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance, addressed couple of gatherings in Dumka town and interacted with media on the final day of canvassing before returning back to Ranchi. BJP’s Babulal Marandi, who led NDA’s campaigning held road shows in urban pockets. In Bermo, the entire state Congress leadership, led by party president Rameshwar Oraon, held multiple rallies and road shows from dawn to dusk. The BJP, along with its ally AJSU-P, held door-to-door campaigning. The bypolls, first since the Hemant Soren government clinched power 10 months ago, will be an acid test of its popularity. This is also crucial for the ruling alliance to consolidate its strength in the state assembly and ensure stability of the government. The BJP, on the other hand, too is eyeing to up its tally of legislators to emerge stronger to retain its lost ground. Of the two seats, stakes are running high personally for Hemant Soren and his party JMM, which has fielded the CM's younger brother Basant in Dumka, a seat which is considered a JMM stronghold. Dumka is the place where JMM’s patriarch Shibu Soren began his political career and represented both the parliamentary and assembly segment for several terms since the mid 1970s. Also, Hemant debuted in 2009 from Dumka. The BJP, which lost this seat in the 2019 assembly polls, is appealing voters to free Dumka from dynasts for the area’s all-round development. Bermo too is witnessing the debut of Kumar Jaimangal, a son of former MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh, who died in May this year. “We tried to keep the narrative focussed on development by questioning the poor working of this government. Dumka is the place which Sorens consider their bastion, but they have done nothing for its development all these years. People are still struggling for basic amenities. In Bermo too, the situation is no different,” remarked state BJP president Deepak Prakash. The ruling alliance are championing the cause of adivasi-moolvasi asmita (pride) to square up voters against the BJP, accusing it of heavy corruption and lavish spending sans any visible development during its last five year stint. It has also highlighted how the BJP-led government in the centre is now trying to destabilize the tribal state by blocking resources after it went out of power. Chief minister Hemant Soren sounded confident of retaining both the seats. “Unlike the past government, our governance model is based on works than false propaganda and we have exhibited it through our works in last 10 months despite battling the Covid-19 pandemic. People are aware about our serious efforts and have decided to back us on both the seats,” he said while talking to reporters in Dumka on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||Online learning aid for students in Jharkhand||Besides being teachers, Manvi Manisha Tigga, Sharmistha Mandal and Vivekananda Daripa have another thing in common. They, along with many other colleagues, have recorded video lectures for Johar Pathshala, an online class initiative available on YouTube for free that aims to provide interested students learning materials for making up academic losses caused by the closure of schools because of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. A brain child of Manish Ranjan, who took over as the divisional commissioner of Kolhan in July, the initiative covers the syllabus of Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) for Classes IX to XII. “Though the video lectures are based on the JAC syllabus, they cover the same books published by the National Council for Education Research and Training (NCERT). Hence, they will be helpful for all students following those books,” Ranjan told The Telegraph from Chaibasa on Wednesday. He said they have already put Johar Pathshala on a trial run on Tuesday. The intention is to get feedback from the students and improvise the videos if required before it is formally launched shortly, he added. “We have recorded about 180 video lectures in the past 50 days and will add about 20 more, covering the entire JAC syllabus,” Ranjan said. They have also added subject-wise notes in PDF files, model questions and career guidance for motivating students to choose a career like civil services or others. “Those teaching in schools in three districts of the (Kolhan) division — East and West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan — have recorded these videos on their respective subjects,” he said. The videos on career guidance were also recorded by qualified persons, he added. Md Javed Hussain, an IAS probationary officer at Chaibasa, has recorded a video on civil services as a career. Asked what motivated him to introduce the online Pathshala, Ranjan said, “While perusing a course at Barkley (in the US), I realised how the students got quality materials there. I then thought of doing some such thing for our students who can’t even afford the tuition fees.” As the director of primary education in the state education department earlier, Ranjan was also involved in writing and publishing text books for the students. “So far as accessibility of reading materials and guidance are concerned, there exists a rich-poor divide as only the rich can afford to buy such materials and join good coaching classes,” Ranjan said. He said the Johar Pathshala would be helpful for schoolgoing students from humble background wherever they are. The ongoing pandemic has also forced suspension of classes and these videos and notes will help the students to make up the losses to a large extent, he said. “We have also provided a column so that the students can send their feedback on the videos and we’ll surely try to improvise those if needed,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
02-11-2020||Jharkhand||No Covid spread during Puja in Jharkhand||There was no spread of Covid-19 infection during Durga Puja in Jharkhand. A massive testing conducted by the government across the state on Saturday found only 0.59 per cent of those tested that day were Covid positive. Out of the total 80,003 samples tested that day, the number of positive cases was 474 only. “It seems Durga Puja did not have any major impact on spread of coronavirus infection in the state,” Jharkhand’s principal secretary (health) Nitin Madan Kulkarni told The Telegraph, adding the intention of the state-wide massive testing was to assess the impact of Durga Puja on spread of infection. Jharkhand tested 33,62,394 samples till the end of October which is above one-tenth of the state’s total population of which 1,01,761 or 3.03 per cent were positive. While 95,575 of the positive patients recovered and 884 died, positive caseload in the state remained at 5,302 at the end of October on Saturday. The recovery rate in the state was 93.92 per cent on that day which was better than the national rate of 91.30 per cent. The mortality rate was also 0.86 per cent that was much less than the national rate of 1.50 percent. Though 16 of the total 24 districts of the state had less than hundred positive cases on Saturday, only Ranchi and East Singhbhum among the rest 8 had caseloads of more than a thousand cases that day. While the caseload of Ranchi stood at 1,742 on Saturday night, that of East Singhbhum remained 1,337. These two districts together also recorded 408 deaths till October that accounted for 46.15 per cent of the total deaths in the state. While East Singhbhum witnessed 333 Covid deaths till October, Ranchi, despite having more positive cases, had 175. The results of the massive Covid testing on Saturday indicates that the state government’s guidelines strictly restricting gatherings of devotees at Durga Puja pandals seem to have paid dividend. The Muslim community also showed restraint and cancelled their customary procession on Milad-ul-Nabi, Hazrat Mohammed’s birthday, last week. Two other major festivals — Diwali and Chhat — are also slated for later this month that involves large gatherings. “We will remain vigilant,” principal secretary Kulkarni said when pointed out, adding the state government could not afford to go the situation out of control, particularly when it could arrest the spread of infection during Durga Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-249
