03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Voters defy Covid concerns, over 60 per cent turn out for bypolls||Voting in the two Assembly constituencies of Dumka and Bermo, the first election in Jharkhand under the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic, saw an overall turnout of over 60 per cent on Tuesday. While Dumka registered a turnout of 65.27 per cent, marginally lower than the 66.89 recorded in 2019, Bermo recorded 60.20 per cent voting compared to 66.13 per cent last time. Joint chief electoral officer Heera Lal Mandal expressed his satisfaction with the safe and smooth conduct of the elections in the two seats. “Despite several challenges in view of the pandemic, officials walked the extra mile to ensure hassle-free elections with additional safety norms in place in the wake of Covid-19. We added extra booths, ensured proper social distancing at each polling station among other safety precautions,” he told the media. As many as 28 candidates were in fray in the two seats. Dumka, which is seeing a bipolar contest between JMM’s Basant Soren and BJP’s Louise Marandi, had 12 candidates trying their luck. There are 3,12,507 voters in Dumka. In Bermo, 16 candidates are contesting, but the key battle is between Congress’s Kumar Jaimangal and BJP’s Yogeshwar Mahto Batul. Bermo has 2,50,782 voters. Voting began at 7am in both the places but ended at 4pm in Bermo while Dumka concluded an hour later. In spite of the pandemic, voters — mainly in rural areas _ queued up at booths in large numbers to exercise their franchise. Outside each booth, circles were marked out on the ground at a distance of six feet for voters to wait in. Special teams at the entrance scanned every voter’s temperature and offered sanitisers before they went in to cast their vote. At several places, both polling and security personnel used safety gear like face shields and gloves. Officials said that decision to reduce timing in Bermo was taken in view of the sensitivity of the region based on the security inputs provided by the local administration. Mandal said the Election Commission set up 368 booths in Dumka and 468 in Bermo. “Compared to last time, we had increased booths in both places to reduce crowds at polling stations,” he said. Dumka deputy commissioner Rajeshwari B said voters in rural pockets outnumbered their counterparts in urban areas of Dumka constituency. “Urban Dumka witnessed 48 per cent turnout. On the contrary, Dumka rural registered 65.82 per cent and Masalia block 71.95 per cent. Compared to last time, Dumka constituency witnessed marginally lesser turnout. But we are happy that people ventured out defying Covid fears,” she told reporters in Dumka. Officials in Bermo constituency were also upbeat with the turnout of 60.20 per cent. Bermo, part of Bokaro district, has three containment zones and 11 active Covid cases in the constituency. Bokaro deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh said, “In all polling booths, the voter turnout remained good and we ensured all safety norms for Covid-19.” Voters seemed satisfied with the arrangements. Stephen Soren, a 42-year-old farmer of Dumka block, who queued up at sadar polling station since 7am, said voting was different this time. “We were given sanitisers before entering the booth after taking our temperatures. They also provided me a mask even though I covered my face with a towel. Many who didn’t have a mask weren’t allowed to stand in queue,” he said. In Bermo, 74-year-old Kalyani Devi, was among the first to reach the booth in Kargili Bazaar. She said, “Voting is my right and I have come wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing.”  Like her, several elderly people, some  physically challenged, also voted in large numbers. First-time voter Anuska Singh, who was at booth 54, said, "Though I feared Covid-19 but I didn’t want to miss my vote. I have come wearing a mask and brought my own sanitizer." The bypolls, first since the Hemant Soren government came to power 10 months ago, is crucial for the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance. It seeks to retain both seats as it will be a test of the government’s popularity. The BJP on the other hand is looking to recover its lost ground by increasing it tally in the Assembly. Of the two, Dumka is a prestige seat for the JMM. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who after vacating Dumka, has fielded his younger brother. In Bermo, Congress has fielded Kumar Jaimangal, son of former Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh, who died in May. Both the ruling parties and the Opposition claimed that verdicts will be in their favour. While the ruling alliance claimed the turnout as sign of voters' support to them, BJP claimed otherwise. JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said. “The way people voted today is testimony to their faith in our government and eagerness to help us retain our seats.”  State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon added that the rural pockets will guide them to victory. “More than urban pockets, the voting trend in rural areas was very impressive in both the seats since morning. We have no doubt of our win,” he said. BJP’s general secretary Aditya Sahu, however, decoded the voting day turnout in their favour. “People have voted against lawlessness of the last 10 month,” he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Class X student gang-raped on way to school||A Class X student was allegedly gang-raped by two youths in Mahesha forest in the Mayurhund police station area in Chatra district on Monday. The girl was abducted while on her way to school through the forest. One of the alleged rapists was arrested from Gumla on Tuesday evening. According to the police, the 14-year-old girl was on her way to her school, Harijan Janta Uchch Vidyalaya at Manjhgawan, around 3km from her home in Mahesha village. She was intercepted by the youths on a bike. They gagged her using her dupatta and took her to the forest. Local residents reached the spot on hearing her cries, but the youths managed to flee. The villagers identified the duo as Sandeep Kumar Mehta and Mundrika Mehta, who are residents of the area. Mukhiya thrashed: The mukhiya of Giddhore in Chatra, Shakuntala Devi, her husband, former mukhiya Jawahar Yadav, and brothers-in-law Dharmendra Kumar and Gobind Yadav were beaten up on Monday by a few men. The men were armed with lathis and other weapons. Two motorcycles were damaged in the incident. The injured have been admitted to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. More than 100 residents of various parts of Kustore, Alkusa and Khaira, who are dependent on pit water supply by BCCL, on Tuesday staged a demonstration at the Alkusa colliery office and later gheraoed the office of a private miner protesting the irregular supply of water for over two months. The protest ended after intervention by police who assured the demonstrators that they will take up the issue with the BCCL administration. The protestors said that due to pipeline leakages, they are not receiving regular water supply. A delegation of Jharia residents protesting the aggressive realisation of holding tax by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation on Tuesday met local MLA Raj Sinha. They pointed out that the civic body officials while visiting the shops and business establishments to realise taxes are threatening to lodge cases and seize bank accounts in case of any default. The protestors claimed that they are already paying taxes to another civic body, the Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority, and there was no need to pay holding tax to Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. The forest department doled out compensation to the kin of those killed in elephant attacks in various villages in Gola block in Ramgarh district. The money was distributed at an event on Tuesday. The chief guest, MLA Mamta Devi, gave Rs 3 lakh to the widow of Suleman Ansari, a resident of Auradih. Injured Ramesh Murmu’s family received Rs 15,000. Cheques of Rs 1 lakh each were handed to the dependents of three dead. The MLA promised housing facilities to the affected soon. A team led by the Sadar block development officer on Tuesday went to Dandaikala village in Amnari panchayat of Hazaribagh to probe the suicide of 35-year-old farmer Awadhesh Kumar Singh. Singh’s relatives charged the employees of a microfinance company for harassing him regularly to repay loans. They said Singh failed to bear the humiliation and committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan on October 30. Deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand took suo motu cognisance of the matter and asked block development officer Amitabh Bhagat to probe the matter. Bhagat visited the village and spoke to the residents and relatives. He assured government benefits to Singh’s widow. A couple set themselves on fire at a house near the referral hospital at Ranka on Monday night. The woman died in the incident, while her husband was seriously injured. He is being treated at the hospital. Police said there was an argument between the couple over a minor dispute. The deceased was identified as Khushbu Devi, 25, wife of Santosh Ram. Santosh used to run a tea stall near the hospital. They have three small children. The couple were taken to the referral hospital, where doctors referred Khushbu to RIMS, Ranchi, where she died on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Rani falls on hard times due to Covid cutbacks||Pandemic-led paycuts have not spared the "queen" of the Palamau Tiger Reserve. Rani, a German Shepherd tracking dog, who has sniffed out many a poacher and smuggler at the Betla National Park, hasn’t got a paise from State funds for her upkeep for the past seven months. But Rani has been doing her work, foiling attempts at tree-felling or timber-smuggling, and scaring away poachers of deer and wild boar. She is so good at it that tree cutters often flee midway leaving their tools (tangi or axe) behind. A hard-working dog needs to eat, and well, and Palamau Tiger Reserve officials and her handler are taking care of her needs from their own pockets. Kumar Ashish, Deputy Director, north division of the Palamau Tiger Reserve, said his officers were paying for her food, toiletry, etc. “It’s been seven months now and there is no fund for the State’s Vanya Prani Sanrakshan Yojana under which we keep five elephants and a sniffer dog,” he added. The Deputy Director explained that his officers were spending on food and other essentials for Rani hoping that they will be compensated soon. Under the Vanya Prani Sanrakshan Yojana (State Plan), expenses on the German Shepherd are pegged at Rs 1,57,300 for the year 2020-21. The Betla range officials said of this amount, the estimated cost of a German Shepherd’s medical soap, shampoo, medicines, belt, rope, towel, cotton, broom, room disinfectant, powder, etc. is worth more than Rs 11,000 a year. Ashish said the provisions for the German Shepherd, particularly her grooming bill, will have to be curtailed as “the fund is nil now.” Rani’s daily intake comprises 500 gram of rice/flour, a litre of milk and branded dog food (Pedigree), with the bill coming to a little more than Rs. 50,000 a year. A chunk of Rani’s expenses is meant for her handler -- Rs 95,000 annually. Ashish said he is grateful to the Betla grocers who have allowed the forest officials to buy food on credit. There was another sniffer dog which died 10 weeks ago in the Betla range. When asked if the dog died because of any food crisis in this pandemic, Ashish said, “It died due to old age.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Half of RIMS Covid beds free as cases fall||More than half of the dedicated Covid-19 beds at Jharkhand’s premiere state-run hospital are unoccupied after a significant drop in the number of active cases in the state capital, doctors treating patients at the Covid care centre of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) said on Tuesday. The co-ordinator of the Covid-19 task force at RIMS, Dr Prabhat Kumar, said at least 125 of the 218 Covid beds at the hospital were free. Of the 22 ICU beds for Covid patients, around 16 were occupied, he added. “Around a month ago, we could not even provide beds to all Covid patients who came for treatment. There was 100 per cent occupancy, and a long waiting list for patients on most days,” said Kumar. “The number of patients has drastically reduced in the past one week or so,” he added. Dr Kumar, who has been spearheading the team that manages and treats Covid patients at RIMS, said the severity of symptoms had also reduced among patients lately. “Earlier, we had more cases with severe symptoms. Now, most of the patients are either asymptomatic or have mild to moderate symptoms,” said Kumar. The demand for Covid beds has reduced in private hospitals too. Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital, which has 27 dedicated Covid beds, had 23 patients admitted in its Covid ward on Tuesday. However, all the 10 Covid ICU beds were occupied. “Most of the cases that we get are referred to us from other hospitals. But around four to five beds are still vacant,” said Anil Kumar, the Associate Vice President of Medica Hospital. Paras Hospital at Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC) opened its doors for non-Covid patients this week. The hospital was made a dedicated Covid care centre by the Ranchi district administration four months ago, when there was need for more dedicated Covid beds. The number of Covid patients has reduced in Ranchi in the past couple of months, highlights government data. As per latest figures with the health department, as many as 1,697 people were battling the virus in Ranchi on Tuesday. The district reported nearly 26,000 cases of infection and over 90 per cent of the patients recovered. Exactly a month ago, on October 3, there were 3,325 active cases of Covid infection in Ranchi. As per figures compiled by the health department, Ranchi accounts for 32 per cent of the 5000-odd active cases in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad sports training institute receives a generous donation||Dev Kumar Verma, a young BCCL officer, engaged in a philanthropic activity by donating training equipment for the training institute, Shahid Shankar Mahto Sports Club. Mahavir Prasad Mahto (55), founder-cum-operator of the training center, is very happy with the donations received. He provides training to over 50 sportspersons of the economically weaker section of the society in different sports disciplines including Wushu, Karate, Boxing, Sepak Tekra, and Taekwondo along with his two Taekwondo trained daughters, Priti Mahto (30) and Kusum Mahto. Talking to the Telegraph Online today, Mahto said, “We take nominal charges of Rs 50 per month for providing training to all the 50 trainees of our institute and face financial crunch for procuring equipment. The four pair of punching gloves and one punching bag provided to us today will be very helpful as we have only four punching gloves of our own apart from four homemade punching bags.” Divulging into more details, Mahto added, “We have not only been provided with punching bags and punching gloves but also provided with two yoga mats, two skipping rope, several pieces of teeth guard, growing guard and crepe bandage, etc.,” and added that all these gears will help them a lot in training at the center. Dev Kumar Verma, who operates three schools for the coal picker children of Katras to provide free of cost education, while talking to The Telegraph Online said, “We recently came to know about the training center, which has produced several state-level and national-level players and decided to do our bit to help the operator of the center, Mahavir Prasad Mahto, who despite facing financial constrains is dedicated to support the sportsman of the economically deprived section of society.” Shubham Kumar Rajak (21), son of a washerman, Manohar Rajak, who represented Dhanbad in the state-level boxing championships several times turned happy today over the prospects of carrying out better training after receiving the four sets of punching gloves and one punching bag to his training institute. Similar was the reaction of Rahul Kumar (19), another state-level boxer and trainee of the institute, son of a tent house worker Shivbalak, after receiving the training equipment from Verma today for his institute. “A local dancer of Karmatand area of Baliapur block, Sanatan Kumar Mahto who accompanied us during our visit to the training center, today also provided cash worth Rs 2000 to the institute for procuring equipment for the center,” added Verma. Established way back in 1995 by Mahto in memory of his social activist elder brother, Shankar Mahto, the center operates all six working days of the week from 7 am to 9 am the morning and from 4 pm to 6 pm in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||IMD forecasts abrupt fall in temperature due to North Wind||The crisp North Wind coupled with clear weather promises to send the Celsius tumbling across Jharkhand after the next 48 hours, as predicted by India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday. The IMD offices in Ranchi and Patna, in their afternoon bulletins, said dry weather would prevail across districts for the next one week, and revived north-westerly winds would drag down minimum temperatures. “Clear skies mean low humidity and lower minimum. Readings will plunge depending on the intensity of the winds. We are expecting a fall of minimum readings by three to four degrees after 48 hours,” warned the director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre, S D Kotal. For the last two days, the capital was cool at 16°C. As per the forecast in Ranchi, the minimum reading is expected to drop to 12-13°C around this weekend. Bokaro, which for the second day today notched a minimum temperature around 15°C, can expect a drop of two degrees in the next 72 hours. Jamshedpur was warmer at 19°C, but the minimum over the next three days is expected to reach 15°C. The local observatory at Daltonganj recorded around 17°C for the last two days. In the next 72 hours, the Palamau headquarters may expect the shivers at 13°C. The Met department has predicted the same weather across the state until the weekend, with mist every morning and evening. A senior weather analyst at the Patna Meteorological Centre said that the northwesterly has set in over Jharkhand. “This is the post-monsoon season with fluctuating wind patterns. But, gradually the north-westerly wind, which usually helps in bringing down night temperature, is setting in over Jharkhand,” said the climate analyst. The forecast has ruled out the possibility of cloud formation owing to local developments or any prevailing system in the Bay of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Recoveries outnumber fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||Over 500 Covid-19 patients tested negative for the virus on Monday, taking the total count of Covid recoveries in Jharkhand close to 96,500, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. While recoveries outnumbered the number of fresh cases, the Covid toll in the state also increased as one more patient from Ranchi died during treatment in 24 hours. As per government data, as many as 886 people have died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far, and at least 176 of them were from Ranchi. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.49 per cent. Jharkhand’s recovery rate further improved on the day and reached 94.14 per cent after only 403 fresh cases of infection surfaced against 512 recoveries, a daily bulletin released by the NHM highlighted. The national Covid-19 recovery rate, as per government data, was 91.70 per cent on Monday. The count of active cases reduced in Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad – three of the worst-affected districts – as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases in all the three districts. As many as 122 people were found infected in Ranchi on the day against 138 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 40 cases against 65 recoveries and Dhanbad reported 50 cases against 90 recoveries, the NHM bulletin highlighted. The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection has dropped below 100 in at least 18 of 24 districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi and East Singhbhum, two of the remaining six districts, have more than 1000 active cases. The figures, officials said, indicate that Covid cases were concentrated in these two districts. Around 1600 people were battling the infection in Ranchi, while 1300 were undergoing treatment in East Singhbhum on Monday. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 34.39 lakh people and tested 34.31 lakh of them. Of the over 34 lakh people tested, 1,02,490 were found infected. On Monday, health workers across Jharkhand tested swab samples of 29,510 people and around 1.3 per cent of them were found to be infected. At least 5,119 people were battling the virus across the state by the end of Monday, government data stated. The NHM bulletin on Monday highlighted that the doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 223.6 days against the national average of 134.4 days. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.29 per cent against the national average of 0.54 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Election day in Dumka and Bermo||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Probe sought into alleged pre-matric minority scholarship scam||Economist Jean Dreze and independent researcher Vipul Paikra have moved the Jharkhand chief secretary urging him to conduct a probe into an alleged scam in a central scholarship scheme for pre-matric minority students. Dreze and Paikra wrote a letter to chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Monday urging him to look into the matter as it “involves exploitation of minority children”, besides embezzlement of public funds. “It involves collusion between middlemen, business correspondents (bank staff who visit localities for facilitating small transactions) and school principal,” the letter said. Some government officials “also seem to be involved”, it said. The alleged scam came to light when The Indian Express newspaper reported on Sunday that some people withdrew money, suspected to be around Rs 61 crore, in the name of minority students from the state under the scholarship scheme. The students got just a part of the scholarship amount, according to the report. The scholarship, provided by the Union minority affairs ministry, is given in two categories. Poor students studying between Class I and V receive Rs 1,000 per annum, while those between Class VI and X receive Rs 10,700 if they are hostellers or Rs 5,700 if they are day scholars. Applicants are required to register themselves at the National Scholarship Portal (NSP) for submitting their student details, bank account and Aadhaar number, among other documents. The middleman allegedly approached a school owner and proposed to divide the money between the two if the latter provided the school’s login ID and password on the NSP (this is provided, on request, to the nodal officers of schools), the letter said, explaining how it may have happened. For fresh applicants, the middleman opened new bank accounts for the students with the help of a business correspondent. “This is an easy job for the BC since it only requires the applicant’s Aadhaar card and fingerprint,” the letter said. Then the middleman applies for scholarship on behalf of all the eligible students, it added. Once the scholarship is credited into an applicant’s bank account, the middleman and business correspondent visit the school to take fingerprints of the students for withdrawal of the scholarship money from their accounts with the help of a PoS (point-of-sale) machine, they said. The middleman gave only a small amount to the students and the rest of the money was divided among the scamsters, they added. “The BC doesn’t provide any transaction receipt to the students. Sometimes the school owners also did not fully realise what was going on as the middleman sidelined them after procuring the school login ID,” the letter said. The scholarship amount was also drawn using fake names, it added. Dreze and Paikra also furnished statements from some students and their guardians who said they were paid only a part of the scholarship amount. “I just came to know about it and will surely initiate proper action,” chief minister Hemant Soren said in Dumka on Sunday. When pointed out that the students gave their fingerprints willingly, Dreze told The Telegraph: “It reveals that the Aadhaar-enabled payment system can be misused, particularly when it involves illiterate or barely literate masses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
03-11-2020||Jharkhand||Abandoned, transgender now messiah of the poor||Abandoned by parents for being born an intersex, transgender Raju Kumari has turned Good Samaritan to hundreds of poor of Ritudih locality in Bokaro, around 120km north east of capital, Ranchi during lockdown. The 58-year-old Raju Kumari was born to a Damodar Valley Corporation employee in Chandrapura in the Bokaro district but faced rejection by her father when it was detected that Raju Kumari was a transgender. Soon after death of her mother, Raju Kumari was forced out of house in 1962 by her father at the age of 10 years. “I had gone through the plight of an orphan and was fortunate to have been sheltered by a transgender Dulari Kinner in Ritudih in Bokaro who named me as Raju Kumari. “When I started earning on my own by visiting with our groups to houses having happy occasions like birth of a child, construction of new house and marriage of a son, I decided to donate a substantial part for social welfare work by adopting infants who had been abandoned by their parents,” said Raju Kumari, sitting inside her semi-concrete house in the slums of Ritudih under Marafari thana of Bokaro district. It was during the lockdown that people in general came to know about the philanthropic spirit of Raju Kumari who started distributing rice, dal and potato in April and May. “We saw the pitiable condition of poor and daily wagers during the lockdown and I used my savings and also sought help from other transgenders residing close to my house and we provided 5 kg of rice, dal and potato to nearly 250 poor in April and May,” said Raju Kumari who currently looks after a one year-old boy and 16-year-old boys. Raju Kumari claims to have helped four abandoned poor girls get married. “In the last three decades I have married four girls whom I had looked after they were abandoned by their own parents. I have also helped in getting three abandoned boys married. Now I am looking after a one-year-old boy and a 16–year-old boy (Kishore  Shubham) who is preparing for his matriculation exam next year. I ensure that all the abandoned children under my care receive education,” said Raju Kumari who manages to earn close to Rs 40,000 per month. The children stay in a particular part of the locality inhabited by the transgender. “The children are looked after by other transgenders staying in my neighbourhood when I along with other members of the group go out to seek donations. People also approach us  for financial helps on different occasions like marriage, medical treatment cost and shradh ceremony and all transgender residing in the locality help them depending on their ability,” added Raju Kumari who has faith in both Muslim and Hindu religion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-248
