04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Covid cases down to 1 at Bokaro Steel Plant||Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), which witnessed a peak in Covid-19 cases in September, has only one positive case of the coronavirus now. Despite this, the BSL management has issued a fresh advisory to its 11,000 employees asking for strict compliance. BSL’s chief of communication, Manikant Dhan, said: “As many as 189 employees and officials have tested positive of Covid-19 so far. Except one employee who is currently undergoing treatment in the Covid ward of Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), all the affected staffers have been cured. There were no deaths among the present staff.” Covid-19 health camps organised at regular intervals by the district administration have helped curb the spread of the disease, Dhan said. Police have received a complaint from villagers whose homes were among the 10 in Tandwa demolished by NTPC on October 18. The homes, which were built on raiyati land at Raham village, were located at the spot where NTPC is constructing a thermal power plant. No notice was served or compensation paid to the villagers prior to the demolition of their homes. The villagers, who have been rendered homeless and suffered financial loss, named NTPC executive director Asim Kumar Goswami for passing the demolition order. They blamed project heads Tajendra Gupta and Sohail Khan for executing the order. On the instruction of Simaria subdivisional officer Sudhir Kumar Das, Tandwa circle officer Anup Kachchp visited the village and probed the allegations, which were reportedly found true. Das said NTPC was working on a plan to compensate the affected villagers. Police from Hazaribagh’s Korra have arrested a resident of Mayurhand in Chatra for allegedly hacking the Facebook account of a girl and threatening her. Rohit Singh has been accused of being instrumental in the cancellation of her wedding. The girl, who’s from the Deepugarha locality in Hazaribagh town, approached police in Korra, who arrested Singh after tracking his location.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Sarna Code: Special assembly session likely on November 11||The Jharkhand government is considering convening a one-day special session of the state assembly on November 11 to pass a resolution in favour of the Sarna code, eventually forwarding it to the union government ahead of the 2021 session. State rural development department cum parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam on Wednesday said, “We have decided to convene a one day special assembly session for Sarna code. I have sent the proposal to the governor house yesterday as per protocol to formally seek his consent.” The governor being the constitutional head of the state government, it is mandated to apprise Raj Bhavan before convening any session of the house. Alam, the MLA from Pakur, hails from a minority background. He said that both the Congress party and the ruling alliance in its election manifesto had promised to work towards Sarna code - a separate religion column in the national census record, to provide a separate identity to tribals, who largely call themselves as followers of Sarna or nature worshippers. So far, tribals were classified as Hindu, Muslim or Christians in the census. Concerned over the rising protests by tribals in recent weeks, chief minister Hemant Soren on October 3 announced holding an assembly session before statehood day which falls on November 15, to send the proposal to the union government. A section of tribals are now planning to oppose this move by demanding an ‘Adivasi code’ in place of a ‘Sarna code’ for greater acceptance of existence and recognition across the country. Prem Sahi Munda, president of Adivasi Jan Parishad said that several likeminded tribal bodies are opposed to Sarna code as it doesn’t recognise tribals at large. He explained, “Fight for a separate code is to retain our distinct identity. Sarna specifically relates to a place of worship of the Oraon tribe and it is no longer logical to identify all advisasis as Oroans. There are others too like Mundas, and Ho who have different religious practises and affiliations. For example, Mundas call their religious place as Seher while Santhals call it as Jaherthan. Therefore, we want Adivasi code, not Sarna code.” Munda said that several national and state level tribal bodies are therefore gearing up to oppose any move to push for a Sarna code. “Government of India in the past had already rejected a proposal for Sarna code and resending such a proposal will hardly solve any purpose and will be an eyewash,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur to crack down on plastic bags||If you have been using plastic bags in and around Jamshedpur, then beware. From November 5 onward, anyone found using a plastic carry bag will be penalized by the local administration, which has launched a month-long drive in association with its civic bodies to curb the use of plastic in Steel City. During this period, anyone found selling or using plastic carry bags will have to shell out anything ranging between Rs 100 to Rs 10,000 as a penalty. The amount to be paid will be decided by the officials of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC), and Jugsalai Municipality. Acting on instruction of Dhalbhum sub-divisional officer, Nitesh Kumar Singh, three civic bodies have been set-up by special officers to implement the drive. “This is a way to keep the city free from hazardous plastic bags. During this drive, which ends on December 5, we will make the traders and users understand that plastic bags are banned. Hence, using or selling them is illegal and will attract penalty,” said Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online. Using plastic bags was banned in Jamshedpur. But off late, the plastic menace is back. Hence, officials have sprung back into action to educate the vendors and shopkeepers about the plastic hazards. “We have set up four teams, which is being headed by a city manager,” revealed special officer, JNAC, Krishna Kumar. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, he said, “Out of the four teams, two have to detect and recover plastic carry bags from various kinds of shops and users. The remaining two are to penalise those found guilty of using or selling plastic bags. The teams engaged in the drive have the power to intercept any individual found guilty of carrying goods in a plastic bag.” He added, “Snacks shops or hoteliers are allowed to use plastic bags which are above 50 microns. But grocery shop owners are not to use plastic bags instead of the prescribed cotton fabric carry bags.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Hybrid Na-C02 battery to combat global warming||Final year students – Aditi Sinha and Soumyadeep Singha of Electrical and Chemical Engineering department of Birla Institute of Technology (BIT)-Sindri, have made both the state and their institute proud by securing the first runner up position in Tata Steel’s Mind Over Matter, a national-level contest that aims to solve the real-life problem of the steel industry. The seventh season of the contest that concluded yesterday saw the BIT-Sindri duo win a cash prize of Rs 75000 along with a pre-placement interview offer and a participating certificate. The first round of the contest requires the participants to send in ideas for the first round. On clearing the elimination round the selected candidates are mentored by the research and development (R&D) experts at Tata Steel for two months, to create a prototype of their idea. Notably, Sinha and Singha had submitted their research paper on combating global warming by converting Carbon Dioxide (C02) into useful products using a Hybrid Na- C02 battery. On clearing the elimination round they developed a prototype of their research, which captures C02 and converts it into value-added products. Training and placement officer of BIT-Sindri, Ghanshyam Rai, said, “They underwent training at Tata Steel after clearing the first round of the contest earlier this year.” He added, “This is not the first time that our students excelled in the contest. Last year too, our students had impressed the judges with their innovative idea.” Explaining the uniqueness of the winning idea, he said, “Several technologies are available to capture C02 produced on combustion of Carbon-based fuel like coal or natural gas. But mere capturing of C02 will not help to mitigate their greenhouse gas potential. Conversion of the trapped gas into value-added products is the only way out.” He added that the winning students had been mentored by Niloy Kundu of Tata Steel’s R&D team as part of the contest. “Very few research initiatives have been undertaken so far to capture C02 and simultaneously convert it into useful products by the catalytic activity of capturing material. Our students developed a new idea in this regard,” said Rai. In October 2020, Simran Priyadarshni, a third under B Tech student of BIT-Sindri secured the third position in the finale of Tata Steel’s Women of Mettle Scholarship Programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel Foundation funds primary education for over 180 tribal children||The Tata Steel Foundation has sponsored over 180 tribal youngsters from Noamundi and nearby villages in adjoining West Singhbhum district at the Kerala English Medium School since 2012. The tribal land is home to several bright children for whom even basic education has been a distant reality. Located at Jagannathpur in the same district, the Kerala English Medium School has a well-equipped campus with hostel facility and a dedicated faculty providing primary education. Tata Steel collaborated with this school in 2012 and enrolled its first batch of 27 tribal boys and girls. The sponsorship covers tuition fees, hostel fees and other miscellaneous expenses incurred for buying stationary and school uniform. Laxmi Soren from Noamundi was one among these 27 students and is now studying in class VI. Laxmi, who now speaks fluent English said, “I aspire to become a nurse and help my community. I am grateful towards Tata Steel for counselling me and supporting me with my education.” The 187 students sponsored so far come from 36 different villages around Noamundi and three villages from Jagannathpur. "The sponsorship programme has provided a level playing field for the young generation and has cut through the economic and social barriers providing an opportunity to them for getting quality education, "said an official of Tata Steel Foundation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Economic slump forces coal units to seek rebate in electricity charges ||The economic slump has forced over 100 hard coke industry owners in Dhanbad demand for the immediate implementation of the waiver of monthly fixed charges for electricity consumed in April, May, and June, ordered by the Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory Commission (JSERC) on September 21, 2020. The hard coke factory owners have demanded a regular supply of coal (raw material for the coke industry). They also want the Fuel Supply Agreement (FSA) to be revoked, which was earlier scrapped by Coal India Limited in 2019 for hard coke factories. Talking to The Telegraph Online, general secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association, Rajiv Sharma, said, “We want the state government and Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam to immediately implement JSERC's order. It will provide some relief to hard coke units, which is facing difficult times during the pandemic.” Echoing the same, BN Singh president of Industries and Commerce Association, said, “Waiver of fixed charges as per JSERC order will provide some relief to factory owners as the minimum fixed charges of the factories are not less than Rs 40000 per month as all have high tension connection of around 110 KVA capacity.” Notably, JSERC in its September 21 order not only waived the fixed electricity charges for three months for industrial and commercial customers but has also provided a moratorium of three months for the payment of electricity bills that were due from April 1 to June 30, 2020, without levying any delayed payment surcharge for consumers across Jharkhand. Singh further added that only 40 out of 100 hard coke factories of Dhanbad have been operational post lockdown, with 30-40 per cent of its installed capacity due to various constraints like the short supply of quality coal and lesser demand for finished products. “We have written to the all concerned authorities like Prime Minister Narendra Modi; coal secretary Anil Kumar Jain besides A K Sharma, secretary of Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise several times demanding regular supply of coal by reviving the FSA but our letters didn’t elicit any response so far,” claimed Singh. He maintained that the hard coke industry being bulk consumers of coal can’t be treated at par with other customers with lesser coal requirements. “We are not getting the assured supply of coal since the agreement has been scrapped,” said Singh. Notably, the hard coke industries had been procuring coal from Coal India under FSA October 2018 through two successive agreements from 2008 to 2013 and again from 2013 to 2018 which was extended up to June 2019. But Coal India discontinued their supply to hard coke factory owners at the notified price since July 2019, thereby forcing the owners to procure coal by participating in open bidding through e-auction. The price of coal as per the notified price under coal including the transporting charge is Rs 6000 per tonne but the price of coal through e-auction boils down to Rs 7500 per tonne. As per the FSA, 75 per cent of the total annual coal requirement (36 lakh tonne) of the hard coke industry is to be provided at the notified price while 25 per cent  of coal is purchased through e-auction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Man who cheated Tata Steel of Rs 4cr with fake land deal arrested||Police nabbed a man who sold non-existing forest land in Koderma to Tata Steel using forged documents on Tuesday. Police were looking for Neeraj Kumar for the last six years. In a fraudulent deal, Kumar managed to sell Tata Steel a piece of land which he claimed was in the Domchanch area of Koderma district for Rs 4.78 crores. The steel giant was supposed to use the land for a forestation drive. Kumar was arrested from Adityapur, from where he had been running a real estate company. He was then brought to Koderma. Confirming the arrest, DSP Sanjeev Kumar said, “Neeraj was one of the masterminds in this fake deal.” According to police officials, the accused had transferred Rs 1.6 crore of the total money he duped to his bank account. The 427-acres of land transferred to Tata Steel didn’t exist but Kumar managed to show it as forest land in official records in connivance with government officials posted in Koderma. Koderma deputy commissioner Pravin Shankar had initiated a probe into the fraudulent deal, which resulted in the arrest of registrar Manoj Kumar Rukhaiyar, head clerk of the registry office, along with 24 others. Many of the accused are now out on bail. According to police, the fraudsters had manipulated details of the forest land by allotting plot numbers that didn’t exist in official records. Interestingly, the land records had been so cleverly manipulated that officials of Tata Steel failed to smell any foul play. Police revealed that the fraudster had used fake PAN and Aadhaar card details of sellers and identifiers. This made it difficult for the police to trace the accused. According to the land deal, a total of 11 sellers had transferred plots numbered 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 19 to the chief administrator of Tata Steel. Interestingly, in government records, plots numbered 1 to 10 only exist. The circle officer back then had allegedly issued the land possession certificate of the imaginary land, to which the divisional forest officer issued a no-objection certificate. Police are in search of another mastermind who is said to have made Rs 100,000 in the same land deal. According to officials, after Ehtesham Waquarib joined as Koderma superintendent of police, a team led by DSP Kumar was formed to investigate the case. According to them, Giridih and Jamshedpur police also played a role in the arrest. Meanwhile, the investigating officer of the case, L. B. Prasad, has moved the court of the chief judicial magistrate in Koderma and has requested a five-day remand of Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Red Miners all set to virtually cheer for JFC this ISL||Members of Red Miners, an official fan club of Jamshedpur FC, are gearing up to back the Men of Steel in the cash-rich Indian Super League (ISL) starting in Goa on November 20. T-shirts, scarfs, caps, banners and posters highling support for Jamshedpur will be in place before the Tata Steel-owned club launch their campaign against Chennaiyin FC at Tilak Maidan on November 24. “Though the pandemic has played a spoilsport but it has not affected our enthusiasm. Like every season, we are going to support our team to the hilt. We will keep fans connected all the time,” said Sheikh Imran, a member who is arranging the merchandise. Imran said they’ll remain connected with Jamshedpur FC in Goa by  virtual screening via zoom. “There’s no option than to use the social media for supporting our team. We will send updates of every match to our members through social media,” the Mango resident added. There are around 2,000 members on the Red Miners rolls while as many are from Bangalore, Bhubaneswar and Calcutta. “We regularly conduct fan meetings. Slowly and steadily we grew in numbers . We are still growing and we are currently around 4.000 fans strong. We manage things on our own and we thank the members for the same,” said Utsab Ghosh, another member. The members of Red Miners, which was formed with the inception of JFC in 2017, make it a point to watch all home matches involving JFC at the Furnace (JRD Tata Sports Complex). The stadia always simmered with loud cheers and support. “However, this time it is different. But we’ll make our presence felt on the social media. We’ll cheer and support our team like we did at the Furnace. We’ll wear the team jerseys whenever JFC plays,” said Ghosh. “When the  club came into existence, four or five of us started a small group. We made a Facebook page called Jamshedpur FC United. We started making plans via Whatsapp group, added as many people as we could who were interested and before we knew it, the count reached 100 before the club’s first match,” recalled Imran. According to him, they were already keeping the fans updated  on the JFC team and their fixtures. “Each and every details related to our team will be shared between us. We are highly optimistic about the prospects of JFC. The club has signed some top-bracket players in form of Nerijus Valskis and Peter Hartley to name a few. We are sure JFC would make it to the play-offs this time,” Imran added. The Jamshedpur-based fans of JFC made their presence felt by watching Jamshedpur’s away matches streamed live on a giant screen at a ground outside JRD Tata Sports Complex for the past three years. Jamshedpur FC CEO Mukul Choudhari said from Goa they were looking forward to the support from fans. “We need their support even though we are playing in Goa. Jamshedpur FC is their (fans) own team. We want them to back us to the fullest,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dragon fruit cultivation to beat hunger, poverty among farmers ||Jharkhand will soon start cultivation of dragon fruit with the twin objectives of beating malnutrition among the rural populace and generate income for farmers. The initiative is being spearheaded by Jharkhand Tribal Development Society (JTDS) which has already started distributing saplings of this precious fruit, loaded with vitamin A and other healthy nutrients, among impoverished farmers of Ranchi and Khunti as a pilot project. “Around six farmers in Ranchi and Khunti have started cultivation of dragon fruit with technical assistance from us. We have decided to make these farmers master trainers and encourage other villagers to take up cultivation of this fruit,” said Ashish Anand, assistant director at JTDS. Anand said that around 12 per cent land across Jharkhand was suitable for cultivation of dragon fruit, a kind of cactus plant which requires minimal watering and is sold at a high price across India because of its health benefits. “Our idea was to encourage cultivation of dragon fruit and help tribal women and children beat malnutrition. Women in rural Jharkhand suffer from various ailments due to poor nutrition. Adding this fruit to their diet can help them lead a healthy life,” Anand added. The price of dragon fruit varies from Rs.80 per piece to Rs.150 per piece in the market. Farmers may make handsome profits even if they start supplying this fruit to the local markets in Jharkhand. JTDS has been registered under the Societies Registration Act of 1860, primarily to implement tribal development projects of the state and Union governments, and multilateral organizations. Agriculturists claim that dragon fruit is a great source of vitamin C, potassium, magnesium and iron. It is also used for treatment of people suffering from dengue and malaria in some parts of the country. Residents of rural Jharkhand are prone to vector borne diseases, and the fruit can help in their treatment as well, officials from JTDS said. Besides the health benefits of the fruit, JTDS is also eyeing financial gains for farmers through its cultivation. Anand said that the land on which dragon fruit would grow in Jharkhand is mostly left unused by farmers as paddy cannot grow on such rocky terrain. “Basically, we will use unutilized land for farming of this fruit, and try and achieve the target of doubling the income of farmers,” he said. Once the cultivation gains pace across Ranchi and Khunti, JTDS plans to rope in more farmers from other districts of Jharkhand for cultivation of dragon fruits, JTDS officials said. The state may even start supplying dragon fruits to other parts of India and abroad if the fruits are of superior quality, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Five succumb to Coronavirus in a day in Jharkhand||Covid-19 virus claimed at least five more lives in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the total count of Covid casualties in the tribal state to 891, figures compiled by the health department stated. The spike in Covid fatalities on Tuesday comes after Jharkhand reported one death daily for the past four consecutive days. East Singhbhum and Ranchi, two of the worst affected districts in Jharkhand, reported two deaths each while one death occurred in West Singhbhum, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Tuesday night stated. Meanwhile, the trend of recoveries outnumbering fresh cases continued on Tuesday. As many as 397 people were found infected across Jharkhand on the day against 490 recoveries, the NHM bulletin highlighted. Ranchi reported 108 fresh cases of infection, while all the remaining districts reported fewer cases than 100. The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped in Ranchi after the district reported 156 recoveries. However, the active cases increased in East Singhbhum as the district reported 76 fresh cases against 35 recoveries, government data stated. As per records with the health department, there were 1,632 active cases in Ranchi and 1,346 in East Singhbhum. Latest data with the health department puts the count of active cases across Jharkhand at 5,021. Ranchi and East Singhbhum account for nearly 60 per cent of the total active cases in Jharkhand, while the remaining 40 per cent of cases are spread across 22 districts. As per government data, at least 178 people have died of Covid-19 in Ranchi, while 335 people have died of the viral infection in East Singhbhum so far. The figures indicate that nearly 60 per cent of the Covid fatalities in Jharkhand occurred in these two districts. The Covid-19 mortality rate in the state, however, was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. On Tuesday, the health workers tested swab samples of 25,813 people and around 1.5 per cent of them tested positive for Covid-19. The NHM bulletin highlighted that the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.26 per cent against the national average of 0.52 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 223.6 days against the national doubling rate of 137.7 days. The government has so far collected swab samples of 34.73 lakh people and tested 34.61 lakh of them. Of the 35-odd lakh people tested, 1,02,887 were found infected. As per figures with NHM, at least 96,975 people have defeated the deadly virus in Jharkhand so far, taking the recovery rate in Jharkhand up at 94.25 per cent against the national average of 92 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
04-11-2020||Jharkhand||Drive against liquor, drugs||Jharkhand police on Monday issued district-wise WhatsApp helplines as part of its drive against the sale of illicit liquor, drugs and gambling ahead of Diwali. Director-general of police M.V. Rao said that the initiative is aimed at prompt action against illegal sale of liquor and narcotics. “Directive has been issued to all the police heads in districts to publicise the WhatsApp helplines amongst the masses so that people can report about the sale of such illegal things in different districts. The identity of the person will be kept confidential. Dedicated personnel will be assigned to man the helplines and coordinate with the officials concerned,” the DGP said. Rao had in the last week of October directed for rolling out a special drive against the sale of drugs and illegal liquor from November 1. “Raids and crackdowns will be conducted as per the information shared through WhatsApp. In case of any major hauls, the respective officers-in-charge of police stations will be held accountable for failing to stop such practices,” said Rao. The WhatsApp helplines have been issued for all 24 districts and two railway superintendents of police commands in Jamshedpur and Dhanbad. “Informants can send locations along with pictures of the sale of such illegal items in the WhatsApp helplines and the designated officials concerned will inform the respective senior officials of the areas for surprise raids at the locations in the shortest possible time. The helplines will help curb sale of especially drugs in hideouts and also stop youths from resorting to gambling during Diwali, which at times leads to fights and even murders,” said a senior official in the state police headquarters. Jharkhand police had also started WhatsApp-based helplines in all 24 districts to curb crimes against women and children last month. The helplines for crimes against women have received encouraging response. “We have mandated senior police officers, including SPs, to reach the spot and conduct preliminary investigation in case of any suspicious death of women and children to fix responsibility and prevent negligence at police station levels. Within a week of the rollout of the WhatsApp helplines for crimes against women, we had received more than 100 calls,” said Rao. The DGP appealed to the people to come forward and report all kinds of harassment for timely action. “In many cases, people approach the police a long time after the incident, leading to delays in action. We will ensure protection to victims/complainants in sensitive cases if the need arises,” said Rao.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-247
