05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Giridih mayor disqualified for submitting invalid caste certificate||The mayor of Giridih has been disqualified and his services terminated for submitting an invalid caste certificate. The post of mayor of the Giridih Municipal Corporation is reserved for Scheduled Caste candidates. The urban development and housing department has reported that the caste certificate issued to Sunil Kumar Paswan of Sirsia in Giridih was not approved by the caste-screening committee. As a result, the department disqualified him, and he has been relieved from the post, said Rahul Kumar Sinha, deputy commissioner, Giridih. Vinay Kumar Choubey, the secretary of the department, issued a notification in this regard on Thursday. The Giridih deputy commissioner had informed the department in December 2019 that Paswan’s caste certificate has been found to be invalid. The caste certificate had been cancelled by the tribal welfare commissioner in August 2019 following an inquiry. A letter was sent to the deputy commissioner, who reported the matter to the state election commission and the state government. The tribal welfare commissioner after conducting an inquiry had directed the circle officer, Giridih, to cancel Paswan’s caste certificate immediately. He had failed to submit the documents to prove that he belonged to a Scheduled Caste before the caste-screening committee inquiring into the matter. A caste certificate is issued to a person in Jharkhand on the basis of khatiyan of 1950. Since Paswan is from Vaishali, Bihar, he failed to have his name on khatiyan of 1950 and thus his caste certificate was declared invalid in Jharkhand. However, his caste certificate will be valid for Bihar. Paswan, who belongs to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), won the election with a large margin of votes by defeating JMM candidate Pramilla Mehra. Mehra had later complained against Paswan for obtaining a caste certificate by unfair means. This led to the inquiry by the tribal welfare commissioner. The inquiry committee had taken a final decision in October 2020. The tribal welfare commissioner ordered that Paswan be freed from his post. Based on the recommendation of the inquiry committee, the department issued the order to remove Paswan from the post of mayor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Fairmine Carbon, Chowgule and Company get one mine each||On the fourth day of the commercial coal mining auction on Thursday, Fairmine Carbons won a block in Jharkhand, while Chowgule and Company emerged as the highest bidder for a mine in Madhya Pradesh. Fairmine Carbons emerged as the highest bidder for the Rajhara North (Central and Eastern) block in Jharkhand, as it made a final offer of 23 per cent revenue sharing, the coal ministry said in a statement. Companies like Adani Enterprises were also vying for the block. With regard to the Sahapur East block, in Madhya Pradesh having geological reserves of 63.36 million tonnes, Chowgule and Company made the final bid offer of 41 per cent revenue sharing. Firms like JMS Mining Pvt Ltd and Sarda Energy & Minerals Ltd were in the race for the block. “The e-auction witnessed strong competition among the bidders with both the mines attracting good premiums over the floor price,” the communiqué read. Two coal mines ‑ one in Madhya Pradesh and one in Jharkhand ‑ were put up for auction on Day 4 of the commercial coal mine auction, the statement said. The total geological reserves of the mines put up for auction are 83.63 MT with a cumulative peak rated capacity (PRC) of 1.4 million tonnes per annum (MTPA). Including today’s two blocks, the government has so far auctioned 15 mines for commercial mining. Some of the corporate biggies that have bagged blocks so far are Vedanta, Hindalco Industries, Jindal Power, and Aurobindo Reality and Infrastructure. Four more blocks ‑ Radhikapur (East), Urma Paharitola, Gondulpara, and Gare Palma IV/7 ‑ are yet to be auctioned. In June, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the auction process for 41 coal blocks for commercial mining, a move that opened the coal sector to private players, and termed it a major step in the direction of India achieving self-reliance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||CBI powers clipped in Jharkhand||The Jharkhand government has withdrawn the general consent accorded to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to operate within the state which now essentially means that the central agency will have to seek prior permission from the state to investigate any cases under its jurisdiction. The order issued from the state home, prisons and disaster management department on Thursday read: “In exercise of the powers conferred under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act 1946 (25 of 1946), the Government of Jharkhand hereby withdraws the consent accorded to members of Delhi Special Police Establishment to exercise the powers and jurisdiction under the said Act in the state of Jharkhand.” A senior official of the state home department added that the order applies to the CBI, which was given a general consent to investigate cases in the state in 1996 in undivided Bihar. “The consent to operate to the CBI is usually given under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act 1946. That stands withdrawn henceforth,” he explained. In a similar move, the Kerala government on Wednesday scuttled powers of the CBI by withdrawing the consent for its operations through a cabinet decision. Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra are a few other non-BJP-ruled states to have done so in the recent months. The states accuse the Centre of “misusing” the CBI for political vendetta. In Jharkhand, sources in the government said that the move gained pace after the recent arrest of tribal and social activist Stan Swamy by another central agency -- the National Investigation Agency -- last month in connection with the 2017 Bhima Koregaon violence. Swamy, who was accused by the NIA of allegedly having links with Maoists, was picked by the agency in a cloak-and-dagger operation, from his residence in Ranchi on the night of October 8 and flown to Mumbai the next day and was jailed. He is still in custody even though several rights bodies across the country have protested against the arrest of the octogenarian amid the raging pandemic. Sources further added that the current dispensation of the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance is also wary about the possible attempt to unleash CBI sleuths against ministers and MLAs here by the Narendra Modi government in the coming months in an attempt to destabilise the state government. A senior JMM leader said: “The way the BJP vociferously campaigned about the change in government here after the bypolls isn’t just a political comment. In politics, none says anything for the sake of it but serious backdoor attempts are on by them to destabilise the government through horse-trading of MLAs. The CBI and other central agencies are always convenient tools for them to harass the state government.” The Congress, JMM’s ally, too welcomed the move. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said: “The way the CBI and other central agencies have been blatantly misused by the Modi government to destabilise all those states in which the BJP is not in power is public knowledge. It’s high time that state governments rise up to the increasing threat to put checks and balance against violation of constitutional bodies. Even Raj Bhavans continue to be misused by those in power at the Centre.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Saryu Roy stages dharna demanding repair and 4-lane completion of NH-33||Activists of Bhartiya Jan Morcha (BJM) led by Jamshedpur East MLA Saryu Roy on Thursday staged a dharna demanding repair as well as completion of four-laning of NH-33 between Ranchi and Jamshedpur. The agitation which began at around 10 am continued for over 5 hours. “The condition of NH-33 between Pardih and Baliguma has turned miserable. The potholes and damaged highway often invites road mishaps. We want immediate repair work as well as fast execution of the four-lane project,” said Roy. The former minister and a BJP rebel also threatened to intensify agitation and hold a similar dharna before the residence of Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari in New Delhi after Diwali, if the 10 km stretch of NH-33 between Pardih and Baliguma is not repaired till such time and the four-lane project gets completed. In a memorandum to the East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, also suggested sprinkling of water thrice a day on that 10 km stretch of the highway to stop blowing of dust which distracts commuters often resulting in road mishaps. Last month a section of residents of Mango led by local BJP leader Vikas Singh took out a protest march demanding immediate repair on damaged stretches of NH-33. The widening of the NH-33 linking Jamshedpur with the capital Ranchi has been severely hit by the lockdown for the COVID-19 pandemic and the work to turn the stretch into a four-lane is unlikely to meet the 2020-end deadline. As per the Union home ministry directive, infrastructure work in rural areas — NH-33 passes mostly through rural areas of East Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan and Ranchi districts — officially began in April but the accompanying severe restrictions have put a question mark on work commencing full steam. Notably, work on widening the NH-33, the lifeline of Ranchi and Jamshedpur had come to a halt since the middle of 2018 with private concessionaire Madhucon Projects citing financial issues. Hyderabad-based Madhucon Projects had bagged the Rs 1,479 crore contract and started work in January 2013. It was meant to complete the project by June 2016, but failed to do so.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Unknown miscreants rob retired Jamshedpur policeman ||A gang of unknown thieves broke into a retired police inspector’s house at Teachers’ Colony in Jamshedpur on wee hours of Thursday. The theft took place when ex-cop Shailendra Singh was fast asleep with his wife and 10-year-old grand-daughter in one of the rooms of his three-storey residence. Confirming the news, City Superintendent of Police, Subhash Chandra Jat, said that the police are trying to trace the thieves that broke into the ex-police officer’s residence and stole two suitcases from the second-floor room of his three-storey building. “There has been a theft at a retired police inspector’s house in the wee hours of Thursday. We are trying to solve the case by collecting CCTV camera footage,” said Jat while talking to The Telegraph Online. He also informed that sniffer dogs could not be used in this case to get a lead, as the miscreants left no clue on the spot. The retired inspector said, “I was in New Delhi for the past two months with my family. We returned on Wednesday afternoon only. We all went to bed late on Wednesday night. When we woke up, my wife found that two of our bags were missing from the room. On searching, I found the suitcases on the roof-top. They were open with clothes strewn around.” According to the victim, the storeroom on the roof-top was open. “The thieves could have entered into the room from the unlocked door of the storeroom,” he said. Speaking about his loss, Singh said, “I had around Rs 8000 in my suitcase, while my wife had Rs 13000 and gold jewellery worth over Rs 5 lakh in her suitcase. The thieves took away the cash and gold jewellery, leaving behind the inexpensive stuff.” Officer-in-Charge of Sitaramdera police station, Anjani Kumar Singh, mentioned, “The thieves could be professionals, as they not only stole the expensive things at a time when the former cop was sleeping but has also left almost no clue for the police. We are now banking on CCTV footage for any lead.” He maintained that night patrolling in the area had been intensified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||River health survey before and after Durga Puja immersion shows reduced toxin levels||A survey of Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) conducted by its Afityapur-based regional office on river health before and after Durga Puja immersion this year revealed slight changes in two twin lifeline rivets – Subarnarekha and Kharkai. The survey report reflected before-and-after changes in dissolved oxygen (DO) level, biological oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD), pH scale, total dissolved solids (TDS) and turbidity. The findings revealed low depletion of dissolved oxygen (DO) after immersions owing to toxins and chemical dyes. Tests showed water at both rivers had over 5 mg/litre of DO two days before immersion, and 4.5 mg /litre post immersion. The pollution control board had identified eight spots in Subarnarekha and Kharkai from where water samples were collected before and after immersions. The immersion of idols took place on October 26. However, tests concentrated at two places, Subarnarekha ghat at Sakchi near Jai Prakash Narayan Setu and Kharkai ghat under Adityapur bridge. Subarnarekha ghat saw around 80 immersions this year, much less as compared to last year's 150. This is because of the ongoing pandemic. The Kharkai ghat saw less than 50 immersions as compared to last year's 80. Last year, a similar survey had found 6.5mg/litre of DO before immersion and 5mg/litre afterwards. The BOD at Kharkai ghat increased from 5 mg/litre to 6 mg/litre and COD from 14mg/litre to 20mg/litre. At Subarnarekha ghat, both BOD and COD levels witnessed a slight rise post-immersion. The BOD levels, which were around 6mg/litre before immersion, increased to 6.9mg/litre. Again, the COD count, which was 11.5mg/litre before, went up to 14mg/litre after immersion. The TDS level in the sample from river Kharkai was around 190mg/litre but it rose to 198mg/litre post-immersion. The Subarnarekha sample, likewise, showed 200/litre before immersions and around 210mg/litre afterward. The concentration of heavy metals like copper and zinc at Subarnarekha and Kharkai saw a marginal rise, the findings revealed. Samples from both rivers reflected slight alkalinity and a small increase in turbidity after immersions. A JSPCB official who was part of the survey team said, “This year was different. Because of the pandemic and the government guidelines, the size of idols was reduced to 4-5 ft. The immersion count in bigger ghats had reduced. Moreover, artisans who made idols also avoided toxic paints, which increase various parameters beyond prescribed limits and thus causing water pollution.” He went on to say that last year rain has been a savior. “Last year continuous rain after immersions helped in washing away a bulk of pollutants and recharging water at both rivers,” said the state pollution control board official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Festive crowds rejoice as inter-state buses to ply again ||The state government’s move to resume resumption inter-state bus service from November 8 just ahead of Diwali and Chhath Puja has made the Bihar-bound passengers make a beeline at Dhanbad bus depot to book advance tickets. According to the depot officials, most of the bookings and queries are for Aurangabad, Bihar Sharif, Patna, and Nawada bound buses. The operators believe that since many popular Bihar-bound trains like Ganga Damodar Express (running between Dhanbad and Patna), Dhanbad-Gaya Intercity express are yet to resume their services, has resulted in this sudden rush. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Sunil Singh, Joint Secretary of Dhanbad Bus Owners Association, said, “We have received maximum bookings for Bihar Sharif, Aurangabad, and Patna buses. Almost all tickets are booked for November 16 and 17. However, booking is available for other dates.” Singh, who is also the owner of Sunil Deluxe Transport, added, “We are happy that inter-state bus operation has resumed after a gap of around eight months. We are hopeful that the flow of passengers will continue to be healthy even after Chhath Puja. However, we are witnessing a comparatively lesser flow of passengers for intra-state buses like Dhanbad to Ranchi, Bokaro, Itkhori, and Hazaribagh bound buses.” Singh added, “We have had to invest around Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 2 lakh for each bus that will resume its service. Each bus is being repaired and refurbished. Their insurance and fitness certificates have also been renewed.” However, the clause to maintain social distancing is troubling the bus operators. Sumit Singh, the owner of Bundela Travels, said, “We have been asked to operate with half of the sitting capacity of the buses to maintain social distancing. We also have to sanitise the buses and maintain other safety measures. Hence we have raised the fare.” The bus fare has now been almost doubled for any journey. For instance, to travel from Dhanbad to Bihar Sharif now will cost Rs 520 instead of Rs 260, while the pocket pinch for a Dhanbad to Patna journey will be Rs 600 per passenger instead of Rs 300. Bus fare Dhanbad to Burdwan has been doubled to Rs 260. A passenger travelling from Dhanbad to Asansol, now has to pay Rs 120 (instead of 60) for his fare. Several booking queries for Bengal bound buses including, Dhanbad to Calcutta, Dhanbad to Asansol, Dhanbad to Durgapur, Dhanbad to Raniganj, etc have also been made. “We have faced extremely difficult days during the last eight months of lockdown. We have had to pay our staff without earning a penny,” said Singh. The operators have requested the district administration to ensure payment for the ferrying of migrant labours to different parts of Jharkhand as per the district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Sudesh Mahto gets Covid again, to miss trip to UAE for IPL||AJSU Party chief Sudesh Mahto has tested positive for the coronavirus for the second time in over two months, making him the state’s first high-profile case of re-infection, a trend doctors say is already prevalent and could well lead to a second Covid-19 wave in the ongoing festive season. Former deputy chief minister Mahto, an MLA from Silli, undertook a test on Wednesday morning and by late-night, his RT-PCR test results turned out positive. He was scheduled to fly with his family to UAE to watch the IPL playoffs but has now quarantined himself at home. AJSU-P spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat told the media that Mahto was asymptomatic. Mahto tested positive for the virus for the first time on August 19 and was declared cured on August 26. He remained in home isolation. But after a few weeks, he became politically active ahead of the two bypolls in Dumka and Bermo which was held on November 3. Mahto, whose party extended support to the BJP, campaigned in both constituencies and held over a dozen rallies. Dr. Pradeep Bhattacharjee, head of critical care and trauma at state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), said he had started seeing cases of re-infection in recent weeks. “Re-infection is not new anymore, going by our day-to-day experience. We are seeing it quite often now. In fact, a few doctors of RIMS had got re-infected in the past but overcame the virus again,” said the doctor who is among those who have been attending to COVID patients. Bhattacharjee explained that he has noticed that the viral load in re-infections doesn’t necessarily remain high or lethal as in the case of first infections. Asked how or why re-infections occurred, he said, “There could be many reasons. For instance, the cure may have been inadequate, the virus may have become dormant during retest. Generation of antibodies in an infected person may have been inadequate or the antibodies may not have been of high immunity.” He iterated that it was a myth that all cured COVID patients were safe. “That’s because all treatments happening across the country or worldwide are solely based on trial or error due to the unavailability of a specific, sure-shot drug to beat Covid-19. Now, studies are indicating that even if a drug/vaccine is out, its efficiency will only be 70 percent. “It will take years to fully understand the nature of this virus and its long-term impact, its mutations, impact on human genes, among others. So, all that one needs to do is to take precautions of basic hygiene and use masks as preventive measures,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Cricket to resume in Chaibasa from Friday||After a seven-month pause, cricket activities will resume in Chaibasa, the district headquarters of West Singhbhum, on November 6. With the COVID-related situation showing signs of improvement, West Singhbhum District Cricket Association (WSDCA) has decided to conduct the local ‘A division’ and ‘B division’ one-day tournaments at Birsa Munda Cricket Stadium in Chaibasa. The ‘B division’ matches will be held from November 6 to December 13 and encounter in the ‘A division’ is scheduled between December 14 to December 27. “The tournament will be conducted as per COVID-related guidelines of the state government. We have already obtained permission from the district administration. The stadium has already been decked up for the hassle-free conduct of the matches,” said WSDCA secretary Aseem Kumar Singh. Speaking over the phone from Chaibasa, Singh also added that 15 players and two officials from each participating team will be allowed entry to the stadium. “Moreover, two umpires, one scorer and selectors will also be allowed entry. Those entering the stadium will have to go through thermal screening at the entry gate. The matches will be held sans spectators,” Singh informed. According to him, they have issued identity cards to players, team officials, umpires, scorers and selectors without which they will not be allowed to enter the stadium. ‘A division’ matches will be spread over 35 overs while 30 overs will be bowled in the ‘B division’. Prize distribution of both the divisions will be held on December 27. Singh stated that they had discussed the tournaments at the management committee meeting last month which was subsequently approved at the annual general meeting. “Before going ahead with the tournament, we had consulted the district administration and promised to strictly adhere to the COVID-related protocols of the state government,” the WSDCA secretary said. West Singhbhum is the first district in Jharkhand to resume its cricket programs after the pandemic had put a stop to all sports activities across the state. Other affiliated district units of Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) are yet to resume cricket activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||State yet to come out with Diwali, Chhath guidelines||In the absence of guidelines from the state government regarding the Covid-19 protocols for a series of upcoming festivals, Kali Puja committees in Ranchi have decided to stick to the Durga Puja guidelines, but have sought a few additional relaxations, including the permission to distribute bhog and decorate pandals with lights. “The government is yet to issue guidelines for Kali Puja, so we have decided to follow the guidelines that were issued for Durga Puja,” Vinay Singh, president of Ranchi Mahanagar Kali Puja Committee, said on Thursday. “We have only 10 days left to make all the arrangements, so we cannot afford to wait for the guidelines,” he added. Diwali and Kali Puja are likely to be celebrated on November 14, while Chhath, one of the largest festivals of Jharkhand and Bihar, will be celebrated across the state on November 20. Representatives of various Kali Puja committees recently met two ministers, Rameshwar Oraon (finance) and Badal (agriculture), and sought additional relaxations during Kali Puja. “We expect the government to allow lighting at pandals, distribution of bhog and presence of at least 25 people during immersion,” said Singh. At least 50 pandals are erected across Ranchi during Kali Puja every year. Some of the popular Kali Puja pandals have decided to keep the arrangements low-key this year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The festival often coincides with Diwali and is celebrated on the same night. Ranchi district administration has started inspecting various water bodies across the state capital for Chhath. An official from the district administration on Thursday said that the government is likely to issue elaborate guidelines for Chhath, as maintaining social distancing would be a major challenge during this festival. Thousands of devotees visit water bodies across Ranchi during Chhath and offer arghya, a holy ritual of offering water to the Sun god. Chhath ghats are usually overcrowded during the festival, which is likely to make it difficult for the administration to maintain social distancing, sources said. “We have started preparing the water bodies for Chhath. However, it is advisable to offer arghya at home this year as the fear of transmission is quite high when people visit the banks of lakes and ponds and perform the rituals,” said Amarnath Sarkar, a member of the Tiril Chhath Committee. Meanwhile, the sale of crackers has already begun across the state capital, and the government is yet to take a stand to check air and sound pollution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-245
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||East Singbhum farmer reaps success with marigold farming||A small-time farmer of East Singhbhum, Jharkhand, who once grew paddy and vegetables to make ends meet, now has around four to five farming workers toiling for him on his farm. His yields are now much in demand, not just in Jamshedpur but also in West Bengal. Meet Dhananjay Mahato, a brave farmer who took the risk of switching from cultivating paddy to marigold. The 42-year-old farmer from Muchidih village, which falls under the Kuiyani panchayat of Bodam block in East Singhbhum, has set an example for his peers by adopting scientific farming techniques. “I am glad that I decided to grow marigold. The fact that I chose a scientific method of farming over traditional ways has helped me get the desired results,” said an excited Mahato over the phone, from Muchidih. Mahato ventured into floriculture way back in 2015 when some officials touring his area introduced him to the concept of growing flowers.  Since then, there has been no looking back for this farmer. He was recently a “Krishi Mitra” by ATMA (Agriculture Technology Management Agency), East Singhbhum. He has even attended seminars and lectures delivered by experts to better his farming techniques. “I try to encourage my fellow farmers to attend block-level programmes organised by ATMA. I had also been to Maharashtra on an inter-state tour organized by them. During this visit, I learned about drip irrigation and its use. My earning has increased manifold after I adopted the mulching technique to better my farm at my farm productivity,” said Mahato. For the uninitiated, ATMA is a registered society of key stakeholders involved in agricultural activities for sustainable agriculture development in the district. The farmer cultivates around 150 to170 kilograms of marigold in his one-acre field, which he harvests every week. He maintained that his blooms, which cost anything between Rs 50 to Rs60 a kilo, are also in demand in Jamshedpur. His flowers have takers also in Purulia district of Bengal. “Yes, there is a good demand for my flowers in Purulia. I now intend to supply marigold to other places in Bengal,” he said. He then paused and added, “I procure high-quality marigold seeds from Calcutta.” Good demand for his bloom has favoured his fortune, and he now has four to five workers who plough, sow and pluck the floral yield. His family also helps him periodically in his venture. “I am highly satisfied with my success, but I need to make more progress,” said an elated Mahato. The progressive farmer is now planning to take the neighbouring farming plots on lease from other farmers to grow marigold. “It has become a flourishing business for me. I never thought that growing flowers would make me self-reliant. I am a confident man now and want young farmers of my village to also switch over to farming marigold,” Mahato added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Active Covid cases drop below 5,000 in Jharkhand||The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped below 5,000 in Jharkhand on Wednesday after as many as 505 Covid patients overcame the deadly viral infection across the state, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. Of the over 1 lakh people infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far, at least 4,814 people were still battling the virus across Jharkhand on Wednesday night. As per government data, as many as 97,480 people have recovered from the viral infection in the state so far, taking the Covid-19 recovery rate up at 94.46 per cent. At least 301 people, including 105 from Ranchi alone, were found infected across the state on Wednesday, taking the Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand to 1,03,188, a bulletin released by the NHM highlighted. However, the count of active cases of infection dropped in most of the districts, including Ranchi and East Singhbhum. As many as 136 patients recovered from the infection in Ranchi against 105 fresh cases, while East Singhbhum reported 62 recoveries against 48 fresh cases, figures with the health department stated. As many as 23 cases surfaced in Dhanbad, while 24 people were found infected in Deoghar, 11 in Gumla and nine in Bokaro. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 30,086 people and around 1 per cent of them were found to be Covid positive. So far, health workers have collected swab samples of 35.16 lakh people and tested 35.03 lakh of them. While the recovery rate improved, at least three more people died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand on Wednesday. Two of the three casualties occurred in East Singhbhum, a district which has reported 337 of the 894 Covid fatalities so far. One Covid patient died in Lohardaga on the day. The Covid mortality rate in the state was, however, much lower than the national average of 1.50 per cent. The mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.86 per cent, as per the NHM bulletin released on Wednesday night. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.31 per cent against the national average of 0.53 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 222.68 days against the national doubling rate of 139.74 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
05-11-2020||Jharkhand||Report sought on mining impact||The Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed the Centre a day’s time to place on record materials to satisfy that the environment would not be adversely impacted due to commercial mining. The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, was hearing a plea filed by the Jharkhand government under Article 131 of the Constitution challenging the coal ministry’s decision to auction coal blocks in the state for commercial mining. The plea claimed that there is a need for a fair assessment of the social and environmental impact of commercial mining “on the huge ‘tribal population’ and vast tracts of ‘forest lands’ of the state and its residents which are likely to be adversely affected”. Before filing the present suit (in July), the state government had filed a writ petition challenging the Centre’s move for a virtual auction of 41 coal blocks (of which nine are in Jharkhand) in the country for commercial mining. On Wednesday, the bench, also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said it was in favour of appointing an expert committee to submit a report analysing the environmental impact due to mining in the coal blocks near eco-sensitive regions in Jharkhand within a month’s time. The bench then orally proposed to stay the auction of coal blocks scheduled on November 9 and 11 till the committee submits the report. However, attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, objected to the proposal and said that the stay on the auction will affect the plans of the Union government to revive industrial production across the country. “The whole issue of looking at forest is wrong. We don’t want to stop the development of the country but will not lead to erosion of the natural resources. You attach economic value to timber but not the forest. The distance of 70, 79 or 20km is dangerously close. Isn’t it?” Justice Bobde asked after the attorney-general submitted that the mining is proposed only at places 20-25km away from the eco-sensitive zones. “We intend to pass orders that any proposed mining block near the 50-kilometre radius of the eco-sensitive zone in Jharkhand will not be allowed to be e-auctioned,” the bench told Vengugopal. It said that the court is not at all sure about the intention of Jharkhand but “we only want to ensure that the forests are not destroyed”. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the state has filed an affidavit to explain that the elephant corridor and all animal corridors are within 20km in all the seven cases where commercial coal mining will be carried out. Distance from the economically sensitive zone of elephant corridor is within 19km, he said. “If the commercial mining is allowed then how will the court make it irreversible? The core area and buffer area is both important,” he asked. The court however, pointed out that even chief minister Hemant Soren had shown interest initially in the mining. “Dr Singhvi, when we look at environmental factor, it will also curtail your power under the Chhota Nagpur Act. The chief minister looks very enthusiastic from the letter about mining,” Justice Bobde remarked. Venugopal sought a day’s time to place on record material which will “avoid the long-drawn process of a committee report”. The apex court accepted Venugopal’s request and adjourned the matter till Friday, the next date of hearing. Soren had said in July that it was highly inappropriate for the Centre to conduct an auction during the Covid-19 pandemic “as all the machinery of the state and the Centre are to be enjoined to alleviate the problems of citizens”. The chief minister had also raised apprehension about large-scale displacement and consequential rehabilitation and resettlement issues as most of the coal blocks put up for auction fall in tribal-dominated areas. Soren had alleged that the Centre’s action was in violation of the environmental norms and will cause irreparable damage to the environment, forests and land areas. The state government also said that Jharkhand has a forest cover of 29.4 per cent and the coal blocks put up for auction are situated in forest lands and elephant corridors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-246
