06-11-2020||Jharkhand||Bus operators told not to double fares for inter-state travel||The resumption of inter-state bus service made passengers throng bus depots to book their seats well in advance. But, much to their dismay, they had to shell out almost double the fare to get a booking done. The state transport department on Friday intervened to provide relief to the travellers. Just ahead of the commencement of the inter-state bus services, they issued a set of guidelines on Friday, which makes it mandatory for the operators to keep the bus fare the same as it was before the lockdown. State transport secretary K Ravi Kumar said, “The fares will remain unchanged as the buses have been allowed to run as per their full seating capacity. The vehicles are to ply on their assigned routes.” He added, “Operators will have to ensure that all the prescribed Covid-19 safety guidelines are followed during the trip. Use of face masks, sanitization of the vehicle or seats after every trip is a must. Overcrowding is a strict no.” Given the fact that most of the bus operators had doubled the bus fare for interstate travel, the guidelines issued made it clear that the fares shouldn’t be increased given the fact that they directed to run buses with full seating capacity. “Financially, it will be difficult for any inter-state buses to run with half their capacity. As a consequence, the fares will be hiked, which in turn would force the passengers to pay hiked charges for tickets during the inter-state travel,” said an official. Buses with valid permits will be allowed to ply on a fixed route. District administration officials will maintain a special vigil in their jurisdiction to block illegal commute attempts. Even the stoppages will be in accordance with the pre-approved permits. With Diwali and Chhath festivals scheduled later this month, Bihar-bound buses will experience a passenger rush. Now, the operators must keep a record of all the passengers to make tracing easier if anyone of them tests positive for Covid-19.  The driver’s cabin needs to be covered with a curtain or a transparent sheet. During the journey, there is a complete ban on the usage of tobacco and spitting. All passengers are to be screened using a thermal scanner while boarding. Sanitisers are to be provided on the vehicle. “Any kind of violation will amount to lead to the slapping of a case on the operator under the Disaster Management Act,” warned Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||No bail for Lalu as high court defers hearing||The bail plea of former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav has been to November 27, by the Jharkhand High Court, thereby, making it impossible for the RJD supremo to be out on bail before the Bihar Assembly Poll verdict. Lalu has been in custody since January 2018 and has procured bail in four out of five cases in the Rs 970 crore fodder scam involving four different treasuries. While postponing Lalu’s hearing to November 27, Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh asked CBI to file a counter affidavit in the matter. Reacting to today’s development, Lalu’s counsel, Prabhat Kumar accused CBI of deliberately delaying the affidavit submission. “In connection with the Dumka treasury case, we had appealed before the court for his bail 15 days but CBI didn’t submit the counter affidavit deliberately. Now, the court them to do so by November 23,” he said. However, the spokesperson of Jharkhand BJP, Pratul Shahdeo denied the allegation. He said, “During the last hearing, Jharkhand High Court had asked the jail IG to submit a detailed report on people who met Lalu had met in the last two-three months by November 6. But to our knowledge, jail IG is yet to submit the report. Leveling accusations against CBI is completely baseless.” The former chief minister’s conviction in the Dumka treasury scam involves illegal withdrawals of Rs 3.13 crore. He has been accused of facilitating other financial irregularities concerning Ranchi, Chaibasa, and Deoghar treasuries. Lalu had been granted bail in all the other cases pending against him, barring the Dumka treasury case. On October 9, earlier this year, he got bail in connection with the Chaibasa treasury scam, which involved misappropriation of Rs 33.67 crore towards the purchase of fodder and medicines for cattle. In the Dumka treasury, he was awarded imprisonment for 14 years by CBI court. In the Chaibasa case, he was convicted for five years, while in the Deoghar treasury case, he was sentenced to 3.5 years but had procured bail in 2013. Lalu, who has in custody since January 2018, is currently undergoing treatment for various age-related ailments in Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) since then. In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Lalu is presently stationed at the director’s bungalow of RIMS also known as Kelly’s Bungalow. He has undergone the Covid-19 test twice after his helpers and security guards tested positive. However, the 72-year-old politician has remained immune to the virus so far. Ahead of the Bihar elections, many believed that RJD chief was calling the shots for ticket distribution. Many from the party, including RJD’s working president Tejaswi Yadav, had announced while addressing poll rallies that Lalu would be out on November 9. He had even stated that the day would mark the farewell of present Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar. The HC verdict came as a setback for Lalu’s party. An RJD leader in the state said, “Bihar is all set for a massive change. We are more than hopeful of a landslide victory. CM Nitish Kumar announcing this as his last election while campaigning on Thursday testified his desperation and nervousness. We were upbeat and sure that our party supremo would join us on November 10 for the verdict.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||Ten popular trains resume services, booking begins on Nov 7||Bihar-bound passengers were making a beeline at Dhanbad’s Inter-State Bus Terminus at Bartand to book their tickets till yesterday. But thanks to Eastern and Central Railways, they now have an alternate. The railways have announced temporary resumption services of 10 popular trains, like the Ganga Damodar Express, which runs between Dhanbad and Patna. It has a stoppage at several stations in Bihar. These trains will be plying between November 10 to November 30 to ferry the native festive crowd to their hamlets for Diwali and Chhath revelry. Special trains will also ferry passengers with reserved seats on the same route. However, they will have different train numbers. For example, a special train plying on the same train route as that of Ganga Damodar Express will have train numbers 03329 and 03330 instead of its traditional number 13329 and 13330. Train reservation windows are all set to become functional from tomorrow. But that hasn’t stopped prospective travelers from making queries at the inquiry counter and reservation counter of Dhanbad railway station. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ranjit Dutta, said, “Anticipating resumption of train services, we had already readied three rakes of Ganga Damodar Express. But we are cleaning them once again, just ahead of the trail run between Dhanbad and Koderma.” Senior divisional commercial manager, Akhilesh Kumar Pandey, stated, “Ticket booking for all the ten special trains including Ganga Damodar Express will begin tomorrow.  The rakes are ready and so are to run the train on the scheduled time.” Besides Ganga Damodar Express, Palamu Link Express running between Barakakana to Patna will also originate from Dhanbad Division. Notably, the Ganga Damodar Express will have a total of 24 coaches - one First AC, two 2- tier AC, four 3- tier AC and nine Sleeper coaches, six general coaches, and two brake vans. Similarly, the Palamu Link Express running between Barkakana to Patna through Gomoh will have 12 coaches - one 2-Tier AC, two 3-Tier AC, three sleepers, four general coaches, and two brake vans. Expressing happiness over the development, Nitin Bhatt, Dhanbad-based trader and member of Divisional Railway User Consultative Committee of Dhanbad, said, “A large number of people visit their native village in Bihar around this time of the year to celebrate Chhath with their family.  The decision to run special trains is a welcome move.” Janki Express (Jaynagar to Manihari and vice-versa), South Bihar Express (Rajendra Nagar Terminal to Durg and vice versa), and Patna Ranchi Janshatabdi Express (Patna to Ranchi and vice versa) will also be plying during the festive season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||CBI powers clipped: BJP attacks Hemant govt||The Opposition BJP has launched a Twitter campaign called Daal mein kuch kaala hai (something fishy) in reaction to the Hemant Soren government’s decision to revoke the general consent accorded to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the country’s premier investigating agency, for taking up investigations in Jharkhand without its prior consent. On Thursday, the state home department notified an order revoking the consent given to the central agency by exercising powers conferred under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act 1946 (25 of 1946). A general consent to investigate cases in the state was granted to the CBI way back in 1996 in undivided Bihar. The JMM-Congress-RJD ruling coalition has reasoned that the move is in view of the increasing trend of the CBI’s alleged misuse by the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre to harass non-BJP-ruled states out of political vendetta. Besides Jharkhand, a few other states, namely Maharashtra, Bengal, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Mizoram, had already withdrawn consent to the CBI in recent times, thereby clipping its powers to operate in their respective jurisdictions without approval. Babulal Marandi, the former Jharkhand chief minister and current leader of the BJP legislative party, on Friday said the sudden decision to clip the CBI’s powers in the state suggested that the Hemant government was nervous of its wrongdoings and might be trying to save those engaged in acts of corruption. He said: “I would have welcomed (the move) if the state government had strengthened the investigative agencies to show its commitment towards curbing corruption, Naxal menace, etc. but the sudden urgency to restrain the CBI makes one believe that the ruling dispensation is trying to shield and hide something big…something’s fishy (daal mein kuch toh kaala hai).” His reactions on Twitter earlier in the day too used the “daal mein kuch toh kaala hai” punch line. Marandi added that a few months ago, the CBI conducted nationwide raids against businessman Amit Agarwal in connection with illegal money transactions and had also reportedly seized a diary from his residence in Bengal. “In power corridors, Agarwal is said to be close to Hemant Sorenji and takes care of his financial interests. In fact, it is also said that Agarwal is the proxy chief minister. Probably, Hemant is nervous after the CBI seized the diary,” Marandi claimed, adding that more than the BJP, it is the MLAs of the ruling party who in recent months have been crying hoarse about corruption and lawlessness in the state. On the new restrictions on the CBI, state BJP president Deepak Prakash too posed a question to the Hemant government: “Hujur ne Jharkhand mein CBI ke pravesh pe bhi pabandi laga di hai. Kahin daal mein kuch kaala toh nahi? (Sir has curbed the entry of the CBI in Jharkhand. Is there something fishy?)” Several other BJP leaders too commented on similar lines using the same tagline to snub the ban.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||NCLAT fixes December 15 for next hearing on Incab||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) hearing on Incab Industries Limited on Friday took a strange turn when a private firm M/s. Tropical Ventures through its advocate staked claim of Rs 277 crore which it owes from Incab's Pune-based plant. The private firm sought an intervener petition into the case. The hearing took place through a video conferencing facility. The next NCLAT hearing is scheduled on December 15. Tropical Ventures have also filed a petition earlier with the Bombay High Court over its outstanding dues. Today's development came as a blow to the ongoing liquidation process initiated by Shashi Agarwal, the liquidator of the ailing Incab Industries appointed by the Calcutta-bench of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The liquidator was about to carry out an e-auction of the company's Pune plant this month which has been deferred till next month. “We were expecting a final order from NCLAT today on the petition filed by us challenging the liquidation order of Incab passed by NCLT's Calcutta bench in February this year. Another petitioner - an official of Incab's head office in Calcutta - had challenged the liquidation order. But, NCLAT could not give an order because of the claim made by Tropical Ventures. The next hearing will take place on December 15,” said S K Mohanty, a Supreme Court lawyer fighting the case on behalf of the 277-workers of Incab in NCLAT. He participated in the hearing on a virtual platform. In another development two senior advocates - Akhilesh Srivastava and Rohit Singha today challenged before the Jharkhand High Court that the recent order of the Calcutta-bench of NCLT which had said that the land on which Incab Industries is located in a sub-lease land of Tata Steel was false. “The land now belongs to the state government. How can NCLT pass such orders which are beyond its jurisdiction,” pointed out Srivastava adding that the Jharkhand  High Court today issued an order for serving notices to the concerned parties in this regard. Notably, the Calcutta bench of NCLT on February 7 this year had ordered dissolution of ailing Incab Industries Limited under The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. The liquidation order came as a major blow to the workers in Jamshedpur as well as the union operating here and in Calcutta, where Incab has its head office. Incab's Jamshedpur plant currently has a strength of around 900-odd employees. In the mid-1990s, a Malaysian promoter Leader Universal Berhad Cables took over the firm. But, the company started suffering losses and slid deeper in the red. As it was suffering losses Incab was referred to the BIFR in 1999, a year before Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar. Since then the employees are deprived of their monthly salary and other benefits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||One injured in elephant attack in Dhanbad||Ravilal Marandi (70), a resident of Bhagabandh Panchayat of Laghata area of Nirsa block of Dhanbad received a serious head injury this morning when he was attacked by an elephant, around 500 meters away from his house. Local residents, who rushed the site after hearing the cry, drove away the elephant and then took the injured person to a private nursing home of Nirsa with the help of local police. He was finally admitted to Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), where he is undergoing treatment. Babulal Marandi, a local resident and also a distant relative of the victim Ravilal Marandi, while talking to media said, “The incident took place at around 6 am in the morning when Ravilal was on a morning walk in the area and was attacked by the elephant.” “The incident also exposed the pitiable state of affairs of the government-owned medical care facilities as when we rushed at the Nirsa PHC, we found no doctors there and other support staff present in the center refused to admit them due to lack of resources, compelling us to admit him in a private nursing home of Nirsa from where he was later referred to PMCH Dhanbad for treatment,” said Marandi. Wasim Ansari, an assistant sub-inspector of police of Nirsa, who rushed to the site and admitted the injured person to the hospital said, “We came to know about the incident at around 6.10 am and immediately rushed to the site and also informed the forest department after admitting the injured person to PMCH.” Divisional forest officer, Dhanbad, Bimal Lakra said, “The injured person is undergoing treatment at PMCH and we have initiated for providing compensation to him and trying to provide some advance even before the sanctioning of full compensation at the earliest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city to get new people-friendly traffic system soon||The vehicle traffic system is all set to have a face-lift in the steel city as the district police's traffic wing is on a revamping mode. The steps being taken by the traffic wing are aimed at removing some pitfalls in the existing system which causes the commuters as well as the commercial vehicle operators in unwanted trouble. Revealing about the steps, Babban Singh, the deputy superintendent of police (Traffic) who joined the district police recently said that vehicular traffic system should be people-friendly and not just to extort penalty from the violators of the traffic rules. “To begin with the important roads, exit or entry points and strategic locations will have to be equipped with sign-boards of ‘No Entry’, ‘No Parking’ and rates of penalties, something which is nowhere to be seen in the steel city.  Once such sign-boards are installed at the strategic points, the vehicle riders will follow them and will tend to make no violation in the traffic rules,” said Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online. The new traffic DSP who joined the East Singhbhum district police just on Monday said that he came to know about how the vehicle riders have to face difficulties without the necessary sign-board when he dealt with a case involving a car-owner coming from Bengal recently. “A family boarded in a car having West Bengal's registration number had wrongfully been parked along the Bistupur Main Road on Wednesday.  After an altercation between the car driver and some traffic cops, the matter reached my notice. The traffic cops wanted to penalize the car driver for parking wrongfully. On reaching the spot, I inquired but found no sign-board displaying ‘No parking’ around where the car was parked.  I immediately let the car driver go from the spot as he was not at fault, and then only I decided the important roads where there are undeclared no-parking zones in place should be equipped with the sign-boards,” informed the traffic DSP. Singh pointed out there was not a single sign-board displaying ‘No-entry’ at the exit or entry points of the city. "If the ‘No-entry’ boards are put at the entry points with the ‘No-entry’ timing prominently, hardly any driver will violate the traffic rules. We have, therefore, decided to put up a huge sign-board for displaying the ‘No-entry’ timing at all the entry points like Dimna Chowk, Pardih Chowk in Mango, Sundarnagar and Kharkai bridge in Bistupur as well as the newly set up Domuhani bridge in Sonari soon, so that the drivers of the heavy commercial vehicles which come from other states may not have to face difficulty to enter into the city,” the senior police officer said. Singh also informed that they would install five huge sign-boards regarding the penalties that the traffic department charges for violating the traffic rules. “The traffic police continue to carry out drives like helmet checking, seat-belt checking, etc. But the vehicle owners are not aware of the extent of the penalty they are supposed to pay. And such vehicle owners do come to know about the extent of a penalty after they are caught during such traffic checking drive only. But if there are prominent sign-boards displaying the amount of penalty to be charged, then it will definitely put a positive effect on the vehicle owners,” the traffic DSP said. Significantly, an insider in the traffic police said, “The authority concerned in the traffic police evaded to put up any sign-board because they wanted to keep pitfalls in the system so as to have an advantage over vehicle operators, especially the ones coming from other states. If there were sign-boards displaying ‘No-entry’ or ‘No parking’, then such vehicle operators will not make mistakes, and the cops will be able to extort the ‘penalty’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||Peter Hartley to captain JFC this season||English defender Peter Hartley looks set to lead Jamshedpur FC in the seventh edition of Indian Super League (ISL), which kicks- off in Goa on November 20. Sources revealed that the JFC team management was veering around the idea of handing over the responsibility to Hartley for some weeks but the final decision was made by head coach Owen Coyle. There were other names under consideration but Hartley emerged on the top. The 32-year-old Hartley, a former Motherwell FC (Scottish Premiership) captain, is the man the Tata Steel-owned club was looking for when it came to heading a side which is looking to make their maiden entry to the elusive play-off of the cash-rich tournament. Jamshedpur launch their ISL campaign against last edition’s runners-up Chennaiyin FC at Tilak Maidan on November 24. Sources revealed that JFC was looking for a player who can fill the void left by Jose Luis Espinosa Arroyo (Tiri) who led the team for the last three seasons but has switched over to ATK Mohun Bagan this time. “Hartley is the front runner when it comes to chosing a captain. He is experienced, has character and is also a good human being. He will captain the side this season,” a member of the team management said. According to him, Hartley is the first choice of head coach Owen Coyle and the defender has also been made aware about his responsibility. “Coyle has great faith in the leadership qualities of Hartley,” he remarked while requesting not to be quoted. JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari said they want a man with good leadership skills and one who can take the side along. “Hartley has all these qualities and surely fits the bill. We wanted someone like Tiri to lead the side in the upcoming encounters. Hartley is  also a very good human being and has character,” he said. Choudhary added they also wanted a man who can gel well with the team members. Sources said players like Lithuanian striker Nerijus Valskis, Brazilian mid-fielder Alex Monteiro de Lima and Indian winger Jackichand Singh also have the ability to lead the side but the team management decided to hand over the armband to the English defender. Moreover, it was on Coyle's insistence that Hartley joined Jamshedpur. The fact that Hartley has a great understanding with the head coach and knows Coyle’s capability also helped the management make the decision The experienced Hartley began his career at Sunderland, during which he had a spell on loan to Chesterfield. He then went to play for Hartlepool United, Stevenage, Plymouth Argyle, Bristol Rovers and Blackpool. Hartley signed for Motherwell FC in 2017, initially on loan, making the move permanent the following year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||State pollution board rolls out clean air plans for eight cities||Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) has sprung into action to both plan and implement the clean air action plan for eight cities including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Hazaribagh, Ramgarh, Chaibasa, Dumka, Sahibganj, and Pakur. These cities do not fall under the non-attainment cities notified in the National Clean Air Program (NCAP). During a workshop – Towards Clean Air for Jharkhand, jointly organized by JSPCB and Center for Environment & Energy Development (CEED) on Friday, PK Verma, JSPCB chairman, announced the details of the project. “The proactive action being taken by JSPCB to develop a clean air action plan for these 8 cities will go a long way to prepare action measures to avoid these cities from reaching the non-attainment level. It will also combat rising air pollution in smaller cities and ensure better air quality amidst the concern of health crisis. The state government is committed to ensuring clean and healthy air for all. Stringent mitigation measures and constructive steps will be taken to address the issue of air pollution,” he stated. Verma added, “Over the years real-time ambient air quality monitoring stations have been set up at over two dozen places across the state through public-private-partnership.”  He maintained that more such units would soon be set up across Jharkhand. “Real-time monitoring stations help local authorities and the public at large to know the status of the air they breathe on any particular day. It also indicates the looming dangers and calls for timely action. To achieve healthy air, we will require the participation of all stakeholders,” he stated. Different state government agencies, departments, private players, civil society organisations, and citizen groups attended the workshop. Highlighting the health concerns caused by air pollution in the post-Covid-19 era, Dr Atri Gangopadhyay, Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis, Medica Super Specialty Hospital, Ranchi, warned about Jharkhand being at a greater health risk, as the expansion of Covid-19 pandemic usually exacerbates respiratory disorders. “Children, women, and elderly people exposed to polluted air often develop asthma, several pulmonary diseases, and respiratory disorders due to harmful particulate matters present in it. With the onset of winter, there will be a spike in the level of air pollution. Hence, we need a holistic approach to address health problems. Increasing air quality monitoring and strict mitigation measures for attaining clean air will help,” Dr Gangopadhyay asserted. At present, the air quality of Jharkhand is worrisome. According to the National Ambient Air Quality Database, high-level air pollution exists in cities with operational air quality monitoring system. The pollutants are far above the safe limits, thereby making the air unfit to breathe. NCAP was launched in January 2019 by the Government of India to keep a tab on air pollution.  It aims to reduce PM 2.5 and PM10 levels by 20-30 per cent by 2024 from that recorded in 2017. Among the 122 cities falling under the non-attainment cities, only Dhanbad from Jharkhand made it to the list. “In Jharkhand, the city air action plan has been prepared for Dhanbad so far,” said Ramapati Kumar, CEO of CEED. However, Kumar appreciated the steps that are being taken by JSPCB towards making Jharkhand a breathable state. He said, “Jharkhand has become the first state to formulate a clean air action plan for the cities which are yet to make it to the list of non-attainment cities. This affirms the belief that air pollution is not necessarily linked to the big cities and brings much-needed spotlights on various two and three-tier cities, which are witnessing deteriorating air quality and needs urgent attention there.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant: Revoke admission ban on medical colleges of aspirational districts ||Keeping the interest of students from poor, backward, and tribal community of the state, the Jharkhand government has appealed to the National Medical Commission (NMC) to revoke its ban on medical academic session 2020-21 (MBBS seats) in three newly set up medical colleges which are located in Palamau, Hazaribaghh, and Dumka. Significantly, these three medical colleges had been set up during the BJP regime led by Raghubar Das. They had been inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, last year, just ahead of the Lok Sabha polls. However, NMC has asked these colleges to not take further admission from the current session, on grounds of poor infrastructure and faculty crunch. This decision has prompted the Opposition party – BJP, to accuse the Soren-led government of being unable to sustain the educational assets created by them. With the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) result being declared fresh admission for MBBS has begun across the nation for the new session (2020-21). This made chief minister Hemant Soren urge NCM chairperson Suresh Chandra Sharma to reconsider their decision. He has promised to fix all the issues with the three medical colleges by the end of November. In a letter issued by Hemant’s office, on Thursday, the chief minister termed NMC’s decision to stall admissions as a shocker. In the letter to Sharma, he wrote, “Under the phase 1 of centrally sponsored scheme, Union Health Ministry had sanctioned three new medical colleges in Dumka, Hazaribagh, and Palamau by upgrading the existing district hospitals and approving Rs 340 crores. The state government too had promptly released its share of Rs 392.88 crore. The building work of each of the college was over last year and inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, post which admissions on 100 seats in each college was undertaken in 2019-20. However, NMC has now banned further admissions on the basis of some faculty and infrastructure deficiencies. This has sent a shock wave among aspiring students of this poor, backward and tribal state.” Acknowledging the gaps flagged by NMC, Hemant maintained that his government is sincerely working towards fixing them but, their efforts suffered roadblocks because of the nationwide lockdown triggered due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “For the recruitment of associate professors and professors, we are facing problems in getting them as eligible and selected candidates aren’t willing to work in a backward state like ours. However, all the gaps highlighted in NMC’s report following an online assessment will be sorted out by November 30,” assured Hemant, while urging NMC to appreciate the state government’s effort despite the existing challenges. “I request and hope that NMC will revoke its decision to allow admissions to take place in these medical colleges, which fall in districts identified as aspirational by Niti Aayog,” he added. Notably, while talking to reporters on a different occasion, Hemant had reacted to NMC’s diktat. He had questioned Deoghar’s centrally-funded AIIMS, not having to face such consequences. “By the yardstick of infrastructural gaps as citied by NMC, admissions in AIIMS were not stalled, even when the premier institute is barely 5-10 per cent complete,” highlighted Hemant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||Recoveries outnumber fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||At least 12 of 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a single digit spike in the Covid-19 caseload on Thursday despite the government testing over 30,000 swab samples on the day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated, highlighting the significant fall in the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in the state. While Sahebganj, Garhwa and Latehar reported one case each, only three people were found infected in Chatra, revealed a bulletin released by the NHM on Thursday night. Dumka, Hazaribag and Lohardaga reported four cases each, while Jamtara and Palamu reported seven cases each. Eight people were found infected in Saraikela. Ranchi reported the highest spike in cases among all the districts in Jharkhand on Thursday. However, the number of active cases here dropped to 1,532 as the district reported 166 recoveries against 99 cases in 24 hours. Dhanbad reported 34 cases and was the second highest contributor to the Covid caseload on the day. East Singhbhum reported 26 cases and 49 recoveries, which brought the number of active cases down at 1,305 in the district. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 355 people were infected on Thursday. At least 484 recoveries brought the number of active cases further down at 4,685, the bulletin added. As per government records, at least 18 of 24 districts in Jharkhand have less than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection. On Thursday, health workers tested swab samples of 30,319 people and around 1.17 per cent of them were found to be Covid positive, data with the health department highlighted. The government in Jharkhand has collected swab samples of 35.42 lakh people so far and tested 35.40 lakh of them. As per government data, 1,03,543 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state so far. No Covid casualties were reported from any part of the state in the past 24 hours, NHM stated in its bulletin. As per government data, as many as 894 people have died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand so far. At least 337 of the victims were from East Singhbhum and 178 from Ranchi. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.32 per cent against the national average of 0.56 per cent. The doubling rate of the viral infection in the state was 220.25 days against the national doubling rate of 143.64 days. Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate was 94.61 per cent against the national average of 92.20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
06-11-2020||Jharkhand||Chakka jam protest in Jharkhand against farm laws||Farmer groups staged protests in different parts of Jharkhand on Thursday as part of the nationwide agitation called by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee to protest against the three farm laws passed in September. “Protests were held along state highways and national highways in the morning till 10.30am in different parts of the state as part of the call given by the national body. At some places there was chakka jam (road block), while at other places it was human chain protest,” said Rajendra Singh Munda, general secretary of the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sabha. Sources said road blockades were staged by the farmers near Daltonganj, Lohardagga, Bundu-Silli state highway near Ranchi, Baharagora (in East Singhbhum), Khunti, Gumla, Chaibasa and in Tamar (near Ranchi). There were reports of vehicular movement affected in some stretches for a few hours in the morning. “It was a symbolic chakka jam today. However, on November 26 we will organise a statewide agitation. We will also march to the Raj Bhavan and submit a memorandum to the governor (Draupadi Murmu) on November 27 demanding repeal of the three farm laws,” Munda said. Farmer groups backed by the Opposition parties have been protesting against the three laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act — alleging that the laws will harm the farmers’  interest and benefit corporates, a claim denied by the Centre. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-244
