07-11-2020||Jharkhand||Labour officer helps tribal man get his pending wages||Forty-years-old Dasu Oraon, a tribal hailing from Baiga Toli of Kottam village, Garu block in Latehar district, Jharkhand, has got his Diwali gift well in advance. The man’s employer Vincent Augustine based at Idukki district, Kerala, transferred Oraon’s pending wage worth Rs 114000 digitally. The poor tribal man got relief after 10-months of uncertainty and harassment. “Our district labour superintendent Babban Singh took all the pains to make sure that this man got his pending wage worth Rs 1.14 lakh by his Kerala-based employer,” DC Latehar Abu Imran told TT Online today. Babban Singh on being contacted, informed, “Oraon came to me with a written complaint in September. He maintained that his former employer Vincent Augustine based in Kerala was not clearing his dues worth Rs 1.14 lakh.” In the complaint, Oraon further wrote that his employer had issued a South India Bank cheque worth the same amount. He had deposited it at the State Bank of India, Garu branch. However, the cheque bounced back, as there was no balance in his employer’s account. According to Singh, Oraon had worked for Augustine for two years and had quit his job in December 2019 to return home. Labour superintendent revealed, “He has no bank account of his own. He had given his neighbour Ram Pervesh Singh’s bank account to Augustine, where the cheque bounced.” Following which Oraon made frequent calls to Augustine, but his employer never took his calls. Singh maintained that the bounced cheque proved the tribal man’s contention before the Labour Officer of Idukki in Kerala, who then helped the Jharkhand official connect with the district magistrate Idukki, who intervened to help the poor man. “I knew it would be difficult for Augustine to deny or disown Oraon because of the bounced cheque, so I persuaded my counterpart in Idukki to bail out this tribal. I believe Augustine understood that any further delay in payment would land him into legal trouble as it had all the ingredients of an interstate non-payment of wages issue,” said Singh. He added, “This realization made Augustine digitally transfer the pending payment in Oraon’s neighbour’s account.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
07-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city bus owners want hike in fares ||Long-distance buses will start plying from the steel city from Sunday with the Jamshedpur Bus Owners’ Welfare Association (JBOWA) proposing a fare hike. Around 125 long-distance buses ply from Sitaramdera bus terminus to Bihar, Bengal, and Odisha. The state government has given permission to operate long-distance buses which were discontinued since March owing to the pandemic. JBOWA president Ram Uday Prasad Singh said that they will resume bus service from Sunday with the old fare but it would not be possible to continue it for long. “Prices of fuel and spare parts have gone up. It will not be possible to continue with the old fare for long. We request the state government to give serious thought to this issue otherwise we would be forced to increase it (fare) by 40% after Chhath,” he added. According to him, they have also sent a proposal to the Jharkhand Bus Owners’ Association for increasing the fare. “We cannot survive if the fare is not hiked. Prices of fuel, lubricants, tyres and spare parts have gone up. This will have a direct bearing on our operational costs. It has become imperative for us to hike the bus fare. But we’ll wait till Chhath,” Singh said. Upender Sharma, JBOWA patron-in-chief stated, “The government has not hiked the fare but has allowed ferrying passengers as per the seating capacity of buses.” According to him, they have requested the government for a fare hike. “We have proposed a fare hike. If the government does not accept this then we will have no option but to stop operations. We are not in a position to incur any further losses,” Sharma added. JBOWA president Singh added few passengers would prefer to travel by bus for the fear of coronavirus. “This is another problem which we will have to face. We request the passengers to book tickets as there are people who plan outstation trips to other states in view of Diwali and Chhath,” Singh said while thanking the state government for allowing passengers as per the vehicle’s seating capacity. He said that they would adhere to the state government’s guidelines while plying their buses. “We will ply our vehicles by strictly following the guidelines of the state government. The pandemic has not fully subsided and we need to be very careful in dealing with the situation,” Singh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
07-11-2020||Jharkhand||Three drug peddlers including a woman arrested in Mango and Adityapur||Three drug dealers including a woman were arrested by the police from Mango and Adityapur Thana area in East Singhbhum district and adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district respectively on Saturday. While a 40-year-old woman, Sabnam Khatoon was arrested from her house on Road No 2 in Azadnagar under Mango Thana area with brown sugar, Afsar Ali and Akhtar Hussain were arrested from Adityapur Muslim Bustee in Adityapur. Vinay Kumar, OC, Mango Thana stated that they had information about Sabnam's husband, Mohammed Illiyash who was indulged in the sale of brown sugar at home. “As we raided his house, Illiyash escaped. We found 27 small-packets containing the brown sugar from the possession of Sabnam. We, therefore, arrested the woman,” said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The arrest of Sabnam was made on the tip given by two women who were arrested for being indulged in the sale of this narcotic drug in the Sitaramdera Thana area. “On November 4, two women identified as Errik Mary (35) and Chhotki Rao (30) were arrested from the Sitaramdera area. They were drug-peddlers and the police had also recovered over two dozens of small packets containing the brown-sugar from them during the arrest. During interrogation, the duo had divulged that they used to bring the drugs from Adityapur Muslim Bustee in Adityapur. They also revealed that a couple, Mohammed Illiyas and his wife sell the drugs at their house at Azadnagar in Mango. The raid on Illiyas' house was based on this information,” Kumar said. This information was shared with the Adityapur police who raided the house of Asraf Ali in Adityapur Muslim Bustee. Rajendra Kumar Mahto, OC, Adityapur Thana, confirmed the arrest of Asraf Ali and one of his associates, Akhtar Hussain with 55 packets of brown sugar. “We were aware that the sale of brown sugar was on at Adityapur Muslim Bustee even after arresting of the notorious lady drug peddler Dolly in July. But we raided the house of Asraf Ali after getting specific information about the sale of drugs from his house on Friday night,” said Mahto while talking to The Telegraph Online. Dolly, who is presently in Seraikela divisional jail, was the kingpin in the supply of brown sugar in Adityapur. Dolly was arrested on July 19 following which Asfar Ali had resumed the drug business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
07-11-2020||Jharkhand||Koderma DC buys diyas worth Rs 1 lakh from local artisans||Koderma’s Deputy Commissioner Ramesh Gholap chose to bring a smile on the face of local artisans of the district, who have toiled hard to produce the traditional clay lamps or diyas for Diwali. Gholap, led a team of administrative officials, to the Shivpuri Mohalla in Jhumri Telaiya town and purchased diyas worth Rs 100000 to promote the local art. “Diwali is the festival of light. It eradicates darkness. I purchased diyas from the local artisans who have been toiling very hard to light up their lives by purchasing the locally made lamps,” said Gholap. The IAS officer, hails from Maharashtra’s Sholapur and hasn’t forgotten his humble upbringing. Gholap’s father, a cycle repairman man, passed away when he was young. His mother, a bangle-seller fought against all adversity to educate her son, who cracked the prestigious UPSC examination in 2012 to become an IAS officer. Not forgetting his origin, the officer is known as a kind officer in his circle. This Diwali, he along with his team comprising deputy development officer - R Ronita, additional collector - Anil Tirki, sub-divisional officer Manish Kumar, district Panchayati Raj officer - Paras Kumar, and a few more not just visited the artisans but also distributed study materials to the children and also purchased a healthy number of diyas to boost their business. He said, “The main objective of this initiative is to encourage people to buy clay diyas and toys from local artisans. This will help strengthen the business of these artisans who have been doing this work for generations. Also, we must not forget that clay diyas are an integral part of our traditional Diwali celebration.” Artisan Manoj Kumar couldn’t believe his luck. He said, “It’s still unbelievable for me that DC Gholap visited our mohalla to purchase diyas. This is the only way to promote local business.” Kumar added, “Purchasing locally produced diyas will be a fitting reply to sellers engaged in selling Chinese products.” Gholap had made it to the headlines by making a beautiful small idol of Lord Ganesha for the Ganesh Chaturthi celebration at his residence. He also happens to be a good painter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
07-11-2020||Jharkhand||State thinking of banning crackers this Diwali, says minister||The government is contemplating a blanket ban on crackers this Diwali in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the adverse effects of air pollution on the respiratory system of residents, state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said on Tuesday, adding that the Hemant Soren-led government will take a decision regarding the sale and bursting of crackers during the festival of lights in a day or two. “We are getting suggestions from different parts of the state on whether we should allow bursting of crackers this Diwali or not. A decision regarding the same will be taken in a day or two,” said Oraon. The minister added that the government was aware of the adverse effect of crackers on the respiratory system of the people of Jharkhand, especially the ones battling a Covid-19 infection. “Doctors have already warned against the bursting of crackers this Diwali. The festival will be celebrated on November 14, and we will take a decision well in advance to ensure strict adherence to it,” Oraon said. Even though the number of Covid-19 cases has reduced significantly in Ranchi, health experts have warned that the air pollution caused by crackers may worsen respiratory ailments and cause breathing problems in patients suffering from Covid-19. While the Covid-19 virus may show different manifestations in different people, it primarily affects the lungs and inhaling toxic air could trigger major discomfort among patients. Meanwhile, Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth demanded a ban on crackers till January 1 if the government bans crackers for Diwali. He said that fireworks were common on Christmas and New Year’s Eve, and the government must ensure that the ban on crackers continues till the new year if at all it proceeds with a ban during Diwali. “Why should we only ban crackers on Diwali? Why not on Christmas? Why not on New Year? If a ban is imposed on crackers during Diwali, then it should continue on Christmas and New Year as well,” said Seth, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader. Several states in India have banned crackers this Diwali citing the effect of air pollution on the health of Covid-19 patients. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot was the first to announce a ban on sale and bursting of crackers on November 2. Later, on November 5, the Delhi government also imposed a ban on sale and bursting of crackers after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the national capital. A day later, the Karnataka government announced a complete ban on crackers this Diwali. Besides, the Calcutta High Court ordered a ban on sale and bursting of crackers across West Bengal owing to Covid-19 on November 5. Jharkhand has reported fewer cases of Covid-19 infection than the aforementioned states. However, the Covid-19 caseload in Jharkhand is above 1 lakh and the number of active cases is down at 4,639, highlights data with the health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
07-11-2020||Jharkhand||JNAC initiative to curb plastic use in Jamshedpur||The Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), the local urban body, has devised a unique concept to not only create awareness against harmful effects of plastic use but also instil fear amongst vendors and shopkeepers still using plastic carry bags in the industrial city. The committee, which covers both Tata Steel-managed residential areas and non-company residential areas, launched the “Jamshedpur Plastic League” on Thursday. “It is an innovative idea to create awareness against the use of plastic and also instil fear amongst shopkeepers and vendors who are still found using plastic bags clandestinely despite prohibition on its use. We would be forming four teams as participants in the league. Each team would comprise 11 members and would be placed under a city manager (a contractual official of the state urban development department) as skipper of the respective teams,” said JNAC special officer Krishna Kumar. The team would be covering different commercial and residential areas within the jurisdiction of JNAC (approximately 200 sqkm). “Members of the four teams would be conducting surprise visits and keep a check on single-use plastic, plastic carry bags and thermocol, etc. Each member would have to submit at the end of the day a list containing details of plastic seized along with details of the shop/vendor from where it was seized and the fine collected from each shop. We will be according one wicket to each shop or vendor which will be added to the tally of the respective team, while each kilo of seized plastic would be treated as one run which will also be added to the team tally,” said Kumar. The tally would be maintained daily by the Swachh Bharat Mission nodal officer, Sandeep Kumar, and the winner and runners-up would be announced on December 5 when the “plastic league” concludes. “Winners and runners-up teams would be given trophies and certificates on the last day. The four teams have been named Sonari Star, Sakchi Kings, Tata Transformers and Green Caps Jamshedpur,” said Ravi Bharti, one of the city managers of JNAC. The Jharkhand cabinet had decided in September 2017 to issue a blanket ban on plastic carry bags, irrespective of thickness and size. The cabinet declared that plastic carry bags could be used only to package food products and milk and for use in nurseries (parks and gardens). The notification by the state government in October 2017 said the blanket ban would be enforced from statehood day (November 15, 2017) onwards.
According to JNAC officials, Jamshedpur generates nearly 15 metric tonnes of plastic waste daily out of a total of 300MT of solid waste.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
07-11-2020||Jharkhand||Coal blocks auction subject to Supreme Court order ||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the Union government to inform the bidders taking part in the coal block auction that benefits of any nature to them will be provisional and subject to the orders of the apex court. A bench of the Supreme Court comprising Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian directed that the November 9 e-auction of 37 coal blocks across the country, including five in Jharkhand, shall be subject to its final order. Significantly, Friday was the last working day of the Supreme Court before it goes into a weeklong vacation for Diwali. Attorney General of India K.K. Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, said no trees will be cut in the area in reply to senior advocate F.S. Nariman that those who win bids should not be cutting off any trees. On November 4, the Supreme Court had said it intended to pass an order that any proposed mining block within the 50km radius of an eco-sensitive zone will not be e-auctioned for commercial purposes in Jharkhand while hearing a plea (an original suit) filed by the Jharkhand government under Article 131 of the Constitution challenging the coal ministry decision to auction coal blocks situated in Jharkhand for commercial mining. The Supreme Court had allowed the Union government a day’s time to place on record materials to satisfy that environment would not be adversely impacted and had adjourned the hearing till Friday. The apex court had on November 4 also considered appointing an expert panel to submit a report analysing the environmental impact because of mining in the coal blocks near eco-sensitive regions in Jharkhand within a month. The coal mines auction which was started virtually by the Union government in June this year will put 41 coal blocks to private bidders out of which nine are in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
