08-11-2020||Jharkhand||Coming soon: Toy train at Topchanchi Lake||Bountiful rain has not just made the Topchachi Lake abundant with water but has also added to its natural beauty. And Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) looks determined to attract more tourists to the once busy picnic spot. It is all set to have a toy train to take tourists around the scenic lake, which come alive every winter with migratory birds. All the preparation has been made to have a 5.5 km road developed around the lake, along with a half-a-kilometere approach from the National Highway 2 to the lake. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, executive engineer cum technical member of JMADA, Indresh Shukla, hinted at the possibility of road development to commence from next week. “The road development work is part of the Rs 310 crore project, which aims to better the water supply from Damodar River to Jharia from Jamadoba. Pipelines will be replaced to better the water supply system. A water treatment plant is also under progress,” he said. Sharing details, Shukla further elaborated, “The development work of the road will help tourists visiting the lake to take a smooth ride around the beautiful locales in their vehicles other than the toy train.” Notably, the beautification work of the litchi garden (litchi bagan) situated on the bank of the lake with jamun, neem, mango, guava and other ornamental plants is on for the last five months. This work is part of the Rs 1 crore project under Gazebo installation around the park, besides concrete shades laying, paver block installation, and boundary wall construction. For the uninitiated, Topchanchi Lake for the past many years had been facing a water crisis with its water level falling way below 50 feet, due to deficient rainfall. However, with a good monsoon, after almost a decade, things look better for the lake. “Besides construction road and having the toy train facility, we also have plans to renovate the existing two guest houses of the lake including the Lakehouse which was constructed during the British era to entertain high profile guests. CI guest house meant for the common visitors” said that the construction work of the guesthouses will begin once the restriction on new projects is lifted due to the Covid pandemic. Developed as an artificial lake during the British Raj in 1924 by tapping the ten different natural water channels flowing through the nearby Parasnath hills, Topchanchi Lake has been a major tourist destination. It even has a wildlife sanctuary that spans over an area of 8.75 square kilometers. Surrounded by several beautiful hillocks, the lake was once a favourite place for filmmakers. Actors like Dharmendra, Ashok Kumar, Uttam Kumar, Mazhar Khan, Girish Karnad, Suchitra Sen have shot for Hindi and Bengali movies in the scenic locales of Topchanchi lake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
08-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand council slashes school syllabus by 40 per cent||The state education department has decided to trim the school syllabus for all classes by 40 per cent amid continued closure of educational institutions across Jharkhand in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) will start sending out the updated syllabus to schools in all the districts from Monday and also upload it on its online education delivery interfaces for the benefit of students. JEPC project director Shailesh Chourasiya said, “The state government has finally cleared our draft proposal to slash syllabus for current fiscal in the wake of extended closure of schools due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. From Monday, we shall start sending details of the new syllabus to everyone across the state.” He said the syllabus had been trimmed 35 per cent to 40 per cent in all subjects. “The slash is for all classes in state board affiliated schools starting from class 1. The next year’s matric and intermediate and all other exams held by Jharkhand Academic Council will now be held on the revised syllabus. Model questions too will be based on the new syllabus,” he said. In another development, the state government has decided to provide 20 grace marks for students who failed to clear the JAC-conducted class 8 exams this year as there would be no retest. As many as 5,3,862 students appeared in the exam this year which was held from January 24. Exams were held for 250 marks of which 33 per cent (83) is fixed as minimum pass marks. Out of total examinees, 4,61,538 were declared passed when JAC published the results in June. A JAC official said, “We are in the process of re-evaluating results after the government directed to give 20 grace marks for those who failed in the exams. The final tally is expected to be out in another two weeks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
08-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand working on MSP for vegetables||The state agriculture department is working on a plan to fix minimum support price (MSP) for vegetables, similar to paddy, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said on Sunday, adding that the move was aimed at providing a fair marketplace for farmers. The minister said he had formed a committee under the aegis of agriculture secretary Abu Bakr Siddique to work out detailed modalities of an MSP for vegetables to ensure that those who grew vegetables did not have to sell their produce at throwaway prices. Badal said he was trying to finalise a plan within the next three months. “We wanted to introduce MSP for vegetables from this year but the plan got delayed due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown because of which neither I or my officials could visit some of the progressive states to find out how it was done there.” Asked about specific vegetables that would be covered under the MSP plan, he said that it would be decided by the committee. “We will fix for as many varieties of vegetables as possible. Jharkhand grows peas, tomatoes, gourd, French beans, cauliflower, cabbage in sufficient quantities,” he said. Jharkhand is a vegetable surplus state, producing over 30 lakh metric tonne annually, as per the department’s data. For the first time in August, the agriculture department, through the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), tied up with a private agency - All Seasons Farm Fresh, to export over a tonne of vegetables for Dubai after procuring directly from the farmers. They consignment included 300kg bitter gourd, 50kg ladies finger, 150kg bottle gourd, 50kg French beans, 100 kg coccinia grandis (kundru), among others. On farm-loan waivers, among the major poll promises of the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government, Badal said verification of bank accounts was on. As many as 8 lakh farmers have been identified for the loan waiver scheme. They will be covered in phased manner. “After the government sanctioned Rs 2000 crore for the scheme, we told banks and the agriculture department to jointly verify account details of all projected beneficiary farmers by seeding UID numbers with bank accounts to prevent duplicity. This exercise is expected to be over by this month,” he said. As for paddy, chief minister Hemant Soren has agreed to the agriculture department proposal to fix Rs 1,868 per quintal as the minimum support price for procurement of paddy this year along with an additional bonus of Rs 182 per quintal. For grade-A quality paddy, Rs 1,888 per quintal will be provided. Now, the proposal will be placed before the cabinet for a formal nod.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
08-11-2020||Jharkhand||Lalu’s health deteriorates, may need dialysis||RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who has been under stress associated with the Bihar Assembly polls, is suffering from kidney malfunctioning and may have to undergo dialysis if his condition deteriorates further, doctors at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) said on Sunday. “His blood creatinine levels are higher than normal. It would be too early to say whether he needs dialysis or not, but he may have to undergo the process if his condition deteriorates further in the days to come,” said Dr Umesh Prasad, who has been treating Lalu at RIMS since he was moved from the Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi to the state-run hospital in 2018. Dr Prasad said Lalu was also suffering from diabetes and other age-related ailments, so any abnormality in his health reports should not be ignored. “There are many other ailments that he (Lalu) is suffering from, but the inflated serum creatinine level is our greatest concern as of now,” he added. A CBI court on December 23, 2017 convicted Lalu in a fodder scam case related to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 89 lakh from the Deoghar treasury between 1991 and 1994 and sent him to jail. A month later, he was convicted in another fodder scam case and sentenced to five years of imprisonment. He was admitted to the cardiology wing of RIMS the next year after he complained of discomfort while serving his term at Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi. Since then, he has been undergoing treatment at the hospital. In 2018, he was referred to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi from where he was later discharged and sent back to Ranchi. As per the jail manual, Lalu was allowed to meet three visitors on Saturday. However, he refused to meet anybody on the day and preferred spending time alone, doctors said. The Jharkhand High Court on Friday deferred Lalu’s bail plea hearing to November 27. The RJD chief’s lawyer, Kapil Sibal, said that Lalu has completed half of the seven-year sentence awarded to him in fodder scam and urged the court to release him on bail. In August 2014, Lalu underwent two major heart surgeries — one to replace an aortic valve and the other to repair the aorta, at Asian Heart Institute in Mumbai. He has since been under medications. He has also had four episodes of perianal abscess, an infection in the rectum which may lead to formation of fistula, doctors said. Currently, he is under medication for hypertension, diabetes, kidney and heart.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
08-11-2020||Jharkhand||It’s Sarna, not adivasi, code for tribals: Bandhu Tirkey||Bandhu Tirkey, a tribal lawmaker of the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance has spoken out against the government’s move to introduce a “Sarna/Adivasi” code, as opposed to only a “Sarna” code, in the special Assembly session on November 11, stating that any such move would end up being rejected by the Centre because of technical complications. Tirkey, a Congress party MLA, also hinted on Saturday that he would oppose any move to introduce the word “adivasi” in the demand for a separate Sarna code. “The draft resolution circulated by the state government two days back mentions Sarna/Advisai code, which is to be vetted by the state Assembly for recommending to the Union government to demand its inclusion in 2021 census. However, I am opposed to the inclusion of the term, adivasi. Adivasi concerns caste while Sarna is about religious affinity. Tribals across the country for decades have been fighting for religious identity in the form of a separate code in the census. By including adivasi, it is likely that the Centre will reject it citing technicalities,” he told the media on Saturday. Tribals have demanded for a separate “Sarna” code for decades in the census column, which according to them will give them a distinctive identity. Without a separate column for tribals in the census, they classified either as Hindus, Muslim or Christians, till date. Concerned about the rising protests by tribals in the recent weeks, chief minister Hemant Soren has now convened a special assembly session to pass a resolution in favour of “Sarna” code. Earlier this week, state parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam had sent a proposal for the special session for Governor Droupadi Murmu’s nod. Post her consent, assembly secretariat has begun working to convene the special session. However, a large section of different tribal bodies off late have also started demanding for an Adivasi code. Claiming that all tribals can’t be forced to accept their identities as nature worshippers, they have announced to launch a protest. This in turn has forced the state government to take a middle path by naming the draft as Sarna/Adivasi code. Tirkey, has made it clear that he will not support any such move in the special assembly session. “I am making my stand clear on the draft. I am in favour of Sarna code and not Sarna/Adivasi code. I urge the government to rectify the draft copy,” he stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-243
