09-11-2020||Jharkhand||50 per cent spot payment for farmers selling paddy||The state government has set a target of procuring 45 lakh tonne paddy during this year’s kharif season and will ensure that all famers selling their produce at government procurement centres receive 50 per cent payment immediately. Usually, procurement of paddy begins from December 1. But the state food and civil supplies department, which is entrusted with the job, is gearing up to begin the process after Chhath in the wake of early harvesting of crops this year, thanks to a good monsoon. On Monday, the state cabinet headed by chief minister Hemant Soren agreed to all the proposals of the agriculture department to encourage farmers and boost procurement of paddy which was grown on 90 per cent of the 18 lakh hectares used for cultivation this year. “For the first time, we have decided to provide hand-to-hand payment to farmers who sell their paddy at government procurement centres. Fifty per cent of the money will be instantly credited to their bank accounts and the rest will be paid gradually,” the state cabinet coordination secretary Ajoy Kumar Singh said, adding that a three-tier committee at state, district and block levels would monitor the process. The state government’s proposal to provide minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,868 per quintal along with an additional bonus of Rs 182/quintal on paddy procurement has also been vetted by the cabinet. “For Grade-A quality paddy, Rs 1,888 will be provided,” Singh said. The cabinet also gave its consent to a draft of the Sarna/Adivasi Code which will be tabled during the special Assembly session convened by the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government on November 11 to pass a resolution ahead of the next year’s nationwide census for inclusion of a separate column for nature, or Sarna, worshippers. The demand of tribals for a separate Sarna code to underscore and acknowledge their separate religious identity has been pending for long. Even churches in Jharkhand backed their demand, urging the state government to honour tribals’ wishes. But of late, several tribal groups have started to demand an adivasi code in place of a Sarna code, claiming that all adviasis may not necessarily be followers of Sarna (nature worshippers). Chief minister’s principal secretary Rajiv Arun Ekka, who was present at Monday’s cabinet briefing, however, clarified that the cabinet had vetted a proposal covering both adivasi and Sarna demands. “The cabinet gave its nod to the draft called Adivasi/Sarna Code. It will be placed before the Assembly on November 11. After the Assembly resolution, it will be sent to the Union government to demand its inclusion in the 2021 census,” he said. Other significant decisions at Monday’s cabinet meeting included a nod to increase MBBS seats at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) from 150 to 250, not conduct a BEd entrance test in the wake of the pandemic and  merge skill mission works with the state labour and employment department. Singh said the state government would soon sign an MoU with the Union government to increase MBBS seats at RIMS. “We plan to increase seats by 100 to take the total number to 250. As per the plan, the state and Centre will share expenses on a 40:60 basis. “Also, the government has decided not to hold an entrance test for Bed admissions this year. The Jharkhand Combined Entrance Competitive Examination Board will prepare a merit list on the basis graduation marks obtained by an applicant and arrange for counselling to colleges,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Sale soars higher for made in China lights in Jamshedpur||With Diwali round the corner, electrical shops in Steel City are flooded with the Chinese decorative lights, and buyers are flocking the kiosks to buy them. Reason: low-cost price.  In the aftermath of the clashes between the Indian and Chinese military at the Galwan Valley, there were calls to boycott Chinese good. The Indian government had also banned many Chinese applications in a bid to punish China economically. But with the festival of light approaching, most seem to have forgotten their call and are asking for the cheap Chinese lights, claiming them to be not just cheaper but also far better than the Indian variety of lights. Many buyers were asking for the latest designer mini-light for Diwali. Around 500 electrical shops across the city are stocked with these mini-lights is available. The Telegraph Online contacted Anurag Kumar, owner of one such shop in the Bistupur market.  “The demand for Chinese mini-lights is much higher than what it was last year. I have run out of my bulk stock of these lights on Monday. People asking for these lights,” said Kumar. On being questioned about selling Chinese products, he laughed it off by saying that shopkeepers are not going to China to sneak in these lights for sale in India. “There are several wholesale traders who supply the Chinese lights to us. We know the nerve buyers.  We have no option but to stock the Chinese products. We also have to do business at the end of the say. It’s sad to see that people have forgotten the deceitful attack by the Chinese army,” Anurag deplored. Significantly, a local businessman who used to deal with Chinese firms informed that the Indian government had given a call for a ban on Chinese products after the death of 20 Indian Army personnel at the Galwan Vallet, but the ban no longer exists. “Now, several items are being imported from China, just like it was in the past. However, the government has increased the import duty on Chinese products from eight per cent to 14 per cent. Chinese mini-sets are on because there is no ban on imports from China,” said the businessman requesting anonymity. According to the businessman, the main idea behind increasing the import duty on the Chinese product was to frustrate the buyers, but it seems like the move hasn’t yielded the desired result. Suresh Sonthalia, national secretary of Confederation of All India Traders, called for the general public to Chinese products. He said, “We should not forget the sacrifices made by our jawans at the Galwan valley earlier this year. Those wishing to buy Chinese lights should recall the entire episode,” said Sonthalia while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel City readies for Chhath||Chhath, the biggest festival of Jharkhand and Bihar will be celebrated on November 21 and 22, this year. And the preparation is in full swing in Steel City to make things smooth for the pilgrims thronging the riverbanks and manmade water bodies in scores to offer their prayers to the setting and rising sun. Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), the local civic body and Jusco, a Tata Teel subsidiary have begun preparing the river ghats for the Chhath festival. All major ghats in the city including Subernarekga ghat at Sakchi, Kapali in Mango, Domuhani in Sonari, Pandey in Bhuiyandih, Bhuiyandih ghat, Sati in Sonari, Substation ghat at Kadma, Bodhanwala in Bistupur and Baroda ghat at Bagbera draw thousands of devotees during Chhath. Hence, it becomes important to clean and level the ghats for the devotees. “Besides cleaning, the ghats will also be leveled. We have begun the work to prepare the ghats for Chhath,” said Ravi Bharti, city manager of JNAC. He added, “All river ghats will be cleansed before Diwali, November 14.” He maintained that streetlights and halogen lights would be set up at the banks to make things convenient for the devotees. The Subernarekha ghat at Sakchi and Bodhanwala ghat at Bistupur on both days of Chhat celebration attract the largest number of devotees to the embankments of Subernarekha and Domuhani rivers.  In Jamshedpur, Chhath would also be celebrated at the sprawling premises of the Surya Mandir at Sidhgora, which has two artificial ponds. “We are getting ready for the festival. Prior to Chhath we will be celebrating Deepotsav during Diwali. It will be a three day celebration,” said a member of the Surya Mandir committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Mandatory Covid SOPs issued for Olympics archery trials||Recurve archers who will be trying their luck at the selection trials for the Tokyo Olympic Games in Jamshedpur later this month will have to adhere to strict Covid-related SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) made mandatory by the Archery Association of India (AAI). The selection trials are scheduled at the JRD Tata Sports Complex from November 23 to 27. Fifty-seven (40 men and 17 women) will be attending the trials. According to the SOP, it is mandatory for all the participants, including archers, team officials, technical officials to undergo a Covid test and carry the negative RTPCR test report issued not more than 48 hours before arriving in Jamshedpur, all participants will be subjected to body temperature check with an electronic thermometer as they enter the JRD Tata Sports Complex premises on a daily basis. Participants will also be required to wear a face mask at all times while at the venue, except while shooting the arrows, during transit and out of the hotel room for safety reasons. They should have the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones. The archers and officials will be accommodated at Hotel Ginger in Bistupur. AAI joint secretary Sumanta Chandra Mohanty informed that the Sports Authority of India has given its approval for conducting the trials in Jamshedpur. “Four men recurve archers and as many women will be selected after the trials. The core group of 8 men and as many women archers that were selected on the basis of selection trials before the postponement of the Tokyo Olympics have been exempted from appearing for the trials in Jamshedpur,” he added. The selected archers from this trial will have to join the national camp which is in progress at the Army Sports Institute in Pune for Olympics preparation. “Archers who have scored 650 and above (men), and 630 and above (women) are eligible to take part in the ensuing trials,” Mohanty informed. The national archery outfit has asked the participants to ensure that their entries reach on or before November 15 at archeryselectionindia@gmai.com. Entries received after the deadline will not be entertained. Boarding and lodging facilities would be provided to participating archers and technical officials only. Accompanying team coaches/members will have to make their own stay arrangements. The arrangements for thermometer, hand sanitizer, face shield and face mask, field equipment, local transportation, tent, chairs, tables and sound system will be provided by Tata Steel, the custodians of the JRD Tata Sports Complex. The Indian men’s team has already qualified for the Olympics while ace archer Deepika Kumari is the lone woman to have made it to the big-ticket event. The steel city had played host to the selection trials in the run-up to the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. Deepika Kumari, L Bombayala Devi, Laxmi Rani Majhi, Rimil Biruily, veteran Dola Banerjee, Reenan Kumari, Jayanta Talukdar, Rahul Banerjee and Mangal Singh Champia were among the top archers who had tried their luck at the trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Congress holds tractor rally against new farm laws, demand rollback||Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC), part of the ruling alliance in the state on Monday took out tractor-rally in Ranchi and other districts demanding rollback of the new farm laws introduced by Narendra Modi government recently calling them as anti-farmer and pro-capitalist. State party president cum finance minister Rameshwar Oraon led the rally which commenced from Rampur in Namkum and passed through Sada Bahar chowk, Doranda and culminated at a new assembly building covering a distance of about 20 km. Over 200 people comprising MLAs, workers and members of the party’s farm wing took part in the rally, with many driving tractors while others walking on foot and moving in their vehicles. On the way, the leaders also interacted with local farmers and the public assembled to witness the procession and apprised them of why the newly enacted laws are anti-farmer. “These laws will force farmers to work as contract laborers for the capitalist,” said Oraon, adding that the party is fighting nationally against these contentious laws in the interest of farmers. Criticizing the BJP led government in the Centre, Oraon said that since 2014, the incumbent regime in the Centre has been strategically weakening the economy, and its driving forces to outsource everything to corporate. “It began four years back with demonetization which forced migrants, daily wagers and the public at large to the brink. They (Centre) claimed black money will get wiped out but nothing happened. All black money returned back. Then it brought goods and services taxes (GST) in form of simplification of the tax system but it turned into a monster for the traders while poor states like us are being denied our dues. Now, our farmlands are put up for sale by bringing new laws in the name of farm linkage with the market,” alleged Oraon. Congress’s Pakur MLA and state rural development minister Alamgir Alam said that that they won’t allow the union government’s laws to get enacted in the state and the party will continue to fight for the farmers. “On one hand, we are talking about strengthening of minimum support price for farmer’s produces but the union government is hell-bent on indirectly end it by bringing these laws claiming that it will enable farmers to sell their produce directly to big companies. Will any profit-oriented company pay a better price to farmers?” he questioned, adding that the ruling alliance of JMM-Congress-RJD in Jharkhand will never allow such black laws in the state. Notably, two Congress-ruled states — Punjab and Rajasthan last month introduced bills in the respective state assemblies against the new farm laws. Punjab chief minister Captain Amrinder Singh also led a rally in Delhi recently demanding a rollback while lakhs of farmers in his state are continuing with the protest. In Jharkhand, chief minister Hemant Soren too had criticized the laws calling them an attack of ‘annadatta’ while talking to the reporters last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||No lung donor yet for Jagarnath Mahto||State education minister Jagarnath Mahto is nearing three weeks of being put on life support, the ideal duration to minimise risks for a patient of his nature, but a suitable lung donor for him is yet to be found. Doctors of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) hospital in Chennai, who have put Mahto on Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO), said three weeks of such life support was ideal to ensure the patient did not develop any health complications. “There could be complications such as blood clotting and infections if a patient is kept on this life support system for a longer duration,” said Dr Suresh Rao, Co-director of the Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation & Mechanical Circulatory Assist Device at MGM. Hospital authorities have not found a suitable lung donor for the 54-year-old JMM leader, whose lungs were compromised after a coronavirus infection. But Rao admitted that some patients suffering from similar respiratory malfunctioning were kept on ECMO for more than two months in the past and they survived. “Some patients develop health complications after completing the safety bracket of 21 days, and some don’t. The Jharkhand minister has been stable so far, but we are yet to get any lead regarding a donor,” he added. ECMO is a life support system in which the gas exchange happens outside the body through a machine instead of the lungs in order to allow healing time to the organ. Mahto has been on ECMO for 20 days now, and keeping him on the life support system may cause infection in the lungs, bleeding or blood clots, doctors in Chennai said. The minister tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 and was admitted to state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. He was shifted to the ICU of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty hospital in the Jharkhand capital on October 1 and put on non-invasive ventilator after his condition deteriorated. The minister was flown to Chennai on October 19 and put on a life support system called ECMO at MGM Healthcare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Palamau Tiger Reserve needs powered boat for patrolling riverine areas||Palamau Tiger Reserve is in immediate need of a powered patrol boat to monitor the forests where illegal tree felling and smuggling of logs are rampant. Deputy director South division, Mukesh Kumar said, “To check felling of trees and its smuggling, a patrol boat is required for the riverine areas in the South division of the Palamau Tiger Reserve.” Kumar said, “Our South division is crisscrossed by the river called Burha Nadi. On the yonder side of this river is the protected forest, Bandua, rich in high commercial value timber. This year we had heavy rainfall and Burha Nadi has still waist-deep water, patrolling for the riverine side of the protected forest is just not possible.” Kumar stated that they need a powered boat for patrolling with a capacity of 6 people to sit in the boat. Kumar also informed that his team very recently seized a pair of spotted deer horns at Bandua under the Bareysarn range of the Palamau Tiger Reserve. He further added that their team seized more than 200 sawn timbers too. “We have identified the offenders and a case is registered under wildlife protection act as well as in the forest act since felling of trees is a major offense as it destroys the habitat and biodiversity,” he informed, adding that now the tree fellers and the smugglers have gone into hiding. According to sources, Mahuadarn is becoming a major illicit timber steal market as timbers from here are being smuggled for the neighborhood Chhattisgarh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Diyas and candles made by special kids to light up homes this Diwali||The confinement of four walls of a home couldn’t restrict the creativity of a group of special children of Dhanbad, who have made a variety of diyas and candles for this Diwali. A group of around eight students of Jeevan Jyoti, a school for special children of Inner Wheel of Dhanbad, have made a wide variety of attractive designer diyas, including single clay diya with charan paduka, big clay diyas of metallic paint, multicolor clay diyas, wax diyas, empty designer diyas, regular candles, designer candles, floating candles, flower floating candles, etc. during the lockdown. Products worth Rs 30,000 has already been sold to different people and institutions, including Park Clinic of Dr. SK Karan and Dr. Sageeta Karan; Sonogenes, a clinic of Renu Upadhyay; Hazra Hospital of Dr. CC Hazra and several Rotary Club members, coal officers, etc. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Aparna Das, principal of Jeevan Jyoti, said, “Though people from different places outside the district, including Muzaffarpur, Chapra and Patna in Bihar and also Bokaro and other places purchase our diyas and candles ahead of Diwali every year, this year we could not supply the products to them. The town customers are not many and only around 105 students could make the diyas, due to complete suspension of classes for around 40 days during the initial phase of lockdown. We began online classes from the first week of May only.” “Those who actively participated in diya and candle making drive at their respective homes under the guidance of vocational teachers included, hearing-impaired students – Abhya Abhishek (19), Rahul Kumar (15), Shahid Anwar Ansari (18), Gautam Kumar (15), Niranjan Kumar Sao (14), Zeishan Hussain (16) besides the mentally-retarded students facing learning disability, Shashwat Sharma (16) and Tanisha Kumari (20),” informed Das and added that the online training to the students was provided through Google meet app by vocational teachers of the school, including, Kanchan Prasad, Tumpa Roy, Pawan Kumar and Nabita Das. “Majority of students who took part in candle making drive this year belonged to the economically weaker section of the society,” said Das and added that Rahul Kumar (15) is the son of a housemaid Rekha Devi while Tanisha Kumari (20) is the daughter of a private sweeper Rohit Ram, who also carries out sweeping at Jeevan Jyoti. Ranjit Singh, speech therapist cum special educator of the school, said, “The earnings made through the sale of diyas and candles are distributed every year in the form of gifts among the students during Children’s day but as Children’s day this year falls during Diwali, we will be distributing the gifts this year among the students after Diwali.” He also added that Shakshi Sharma, a former student of Delhi Public School Dhanbad who is presently pursuing B.Com from Maitreyi College of Delhi University, was in her hometown and had purchased the designer diyas and candles from school this morning. Praising the special children, Sharma said, “Being a member of Rotary Interact Club of Delhi Public School, I always used to visit the school during my school days and feel associated with the exceptional talent of the special students and feel that these children are really special as they concentrate on their work in a better manner than other students.” Established in September 1989, Jeevan Jyoti at present has 105 students on its roll including 55 mentally-retarded and 50 hearing-impaired students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reunites UP woman with family after nine months||The Jharkhand administration has reunited a woman hailing from Uttar Pradesh with her family nine months after she got separated from them, officials said on Monday. The 33-year-old woman, whom the administration has identified as "partially mentally unstable", was found wandering in Daltonganj railway station in Palamu district in February, they said. She was taken to a facility, where officials ascertained by her accent that she hailed from western Uttar Pradesh and by her occasional mumblings that she was either from Etah or Aligarh, Palamu Deputy Commissioner Shashi Ranjan said. IAS trainee officer Dilip Pratap Singh Shekhawat contacted the Etah and Aligarh district administrations and showed them the woman on video calls, following which her family members were traced, he said. It was found that the woman hails from Etah and is married to a man in Aligarh, the official said. Her husband and two children, aged 10 and 12, came to receive her in Daltonganj on Sunday. She immediately recognised them and was reunited with her family, he said. The administration, through several aspects of her behaviour, concluded she is "partially mentally unstable", the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Lowest single-day spike in Jharkhand's Covid cases since July||Jharkhand on Sunday reported the lowest single-day-spike in Covid-19 cases since July as only 203 people were found infected across the state in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the state health department revealed. At least 14 districts reported a single-digit-spike in cases on the day, the NHM bulletin highlighted. Ranchi was the only district to report more than 50 cases, while East Singhbhum reported 13 cases and Hazaribag reported 24 cases, the bulletin further stated. Besides, three of the 24 districts in the state – Palamu, Pakur and Godda – did not report even a single fresh case of Covid-19 infection on the day, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated, highlighting the fall in the growth rate of the lethal virus in Jharkhand. None of the districts reported a triple-digit-spike in cases on Sunday. Ranchi accounted for 60 fresh cases, the highest among all the districts in Jharkhand. Recoveries also outnumbered the fresh cases on Sunday, taking the recovery rate to 94.86 per cent in the state against the national average of 92.50 per cent. At least 298 Covid patients recovered from the infection in 24 hours. The government on Sunday collected swab samples of 20,216 people and around 1 per cent of them were found to be infected. Health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 36.50 lakh people so far for Covid-19 tests and tested 36.32 lakh of them. Of the over 36 lakh people tested, as many as 1,04,442 were found to be Covid positive. However, nearly 1 lakh Covid patients have defeated the viral infection in Jharkhand so far. The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection in the state was down at 4,471 on Sunday and the total number of recoveries stood at 99,074, government data highlighted. No Covid-19 casualties were reported on Sunday, bringing the mortality rate down at 0.85 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. As many as 897 people have died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand so far, figures with the health department state. While 337 people have died of the infection in East Singhbhum, Ranchi has reported 179 Covid fatalities. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.27 per cent against the national average of 0.48 per cent on Sunday. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 257.17 days against the national doubling rate of 145.81 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Official onset of winter in Jharkhand: Met Department||Jharkhand Met department declared the complete onset of winter in the state, with the night temperature plunging below 13°C, on Sunday. The nip in the air due to favourable wind pattern has brought down the temperature of many districts, thereby forcing many to bring out their warm clothes. In Met parlance, the onset of winter means the recording of minimum temperature below 13°C for three consecutive days. Such a trend has already been clocked for several districts of Jharkhand. “Dry north-westerly winds are blowing across Jharkhand. This has resulted in plummeting temperatures. Winter, has officially set in,” informed S.D Kotal, director, Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Kanke, in the outskirts of Ranchi, recorded a minimum temperature of 11.5°C on November 8, which is four notches below the normal, while Ranchi recorded a night reading of 12.2°C, three points below the usual temperature. Bokaro and Ramgarh recorded 12.1°C, five notches below normal, while Daltonganj of Palamau district recorded 12.9°C, three notches less than normal. Chaibasa in neighbouring West Singhbhum recorded 12.6°C, four points below the normal temperature. Meanwhile, Dumka and several other places in Santhal Pargana recorded around 13 degrees Celsius on Sunday. Jamshedpur recorded 14.2°C, three notches below normal temperature, on November 8. “The chill has intensified. I have started wearing warm clothes. Pullovers are a must for an evening out,” said Arvind Kumar Singh, a former Tata Steel employee and a resident of Sonari, who visits Sonari- Kadma Link Road regularly for walks. Weathermen both at IMD’s Ranchi and Patna Met Centre held the crisp dry winds for the nip in the air. However, they have indicated that in the next 48-hours Kotal is expected to witness a slight rise in temperature.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
09-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel City witnesses first wedding ceremony post lockdown||The evidence of social life in Steel City limping back to normalcy lies in the healthy number of clubs, hotels, and lawns being booked for weddings now. With the marriage season on, several shamianas and pandals are back with a bang. A marriage-cum-reception ceremony was hosted at G-Town Officers Club in Bistupur, on Sunday, amid some restrictions imposed, in accordance with the Covid-19 guidelines. “This is the first marriage-cum-reception party for the city.  I am pleased to have resumed my business as a decorator after a gap of eight-month. However, the resumption has cost me a lot,” said Arvind Kumar Singh, owner of Shubham Tent, the firm that took care of the decoration at the G-Town Officers Club while talking to The Telegraph Online. Singh pointed out that many decoration items, furniture, and clothes had to be replaced with new stock. “We had to buy a new stock of clothes and had to get the furniture refurbished, as the stored materials had lost its look. It was like starting the business afresh,” said the decorator. The host of the reception party, on condition of anonymity said, “We had a list for 500 plus guests. But the restrictions have compelled us to invite only close friends and relatives.” As per administrative guidelines issued on November 1, a maximum of 200 guests is now allowed to attend a marriage ceremony or a reception party. The sitting arrangement for the guests has to be done as per the social distancing norms. “The menacing Covid is no longer a hurdle. With the marriage season taking off, we are expecting a boom in our business this December,” said Abdul Rahman, a Bistupur-based florist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-242
