10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Mahto undergoes lung transplant at Chennai hospital||State education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who was on life support for 21 days after testing positive for a Coronavirus infection, underwent lung transplant surgery at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (GM) Healthcare in Chennai on Tuesday. “We found a suitable donor today (Tuesday) and decided to immediately proceed with the transplant,” said Dr. Apar Jindal, the Clinical Director of Lung Transplant, Interventional Pulmonology and Chest Medicine at MGM. Mahto underwent the surgery at night and was subsequently shifted to the ICU of the hospital, Jindal said. “We are done with the surgery and he (Mahto) is stable. He is not on ECMO (Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation) anymore, and we hope he will be fine very soon,” he added. As per the standard practice, the minister will be kept under observation in the ICU for the next two weeks. However, he will be conscious while under observation. Dr. Suresh Rao, Co-director of Institute of Heart and Lung Transplantation & Mechanical Circulatory Assist Device at MGM, told The Telegraph Online that Mahto was in the operation theatre for three hours for the surgery, and was stable after the procedure was complete. “We will keep him on medication and see how he is responding,” Rao said. According to doctors at MGM, the success rate of lung transplant is 70 percent. Mahto is the fifth Covid-19 patient to undergo a lung transplant at MGM hospital. Three of the four patients who underwent the surgery in the past are doing well. One of them could not survive. Mahto was in the priority list of patients in need of lung transplant in the Tamil Nadu capital, said Dr. Rao, refusing to disclose the identity of the donor in accordance with the protocol. Fifty-three-year-old Mahto, a JMM legislator from Dumri Assembly constituency, tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 and was admitted to state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. He was shifted to the ICU of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in the state capital on October 1 and put on non-invasive ventilation. The minister was flown to Chennai on October 19 after his lungs showed no signs of improvement and was put on ECMO, a life support system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad rolls out web portal to register public grievances||Dhanbad district administration launched an exclusive portal, intended at ensuring transparent, speedy, time-bound and efficient redressal of grievances of common people with regard to different services, etc., on Tuesday. The portal is developed by the district unit of National Informatics Center and District Mineral Foundation Trust. The portal, esamadhan.egovdhn.in, a brainchild of Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar, developed on a user-friendly pattern both for complainants as well as different offices has registered 24 complaints including seven registered from district collectorate and 17 other registered through complaints through their smartphones, computers, etc. within four hours of launching from 10 am to 2 pm. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh, who visited the Public Grievance Cell of district collectorate today to take stock of the registration of complaints on the portal after its launching at  around 10 am, said, “Time-bound redressal of complaints of common people will help to solve the difficulties of the common masses and ensure building trust in the administration.” “All the departmental offices have been made accountable for the redressal and disposal of complaints related to their respective departments,” said Singh. Extolling about the specificities of the portal Singh said, “The facility of real-time tracking of complaints, right from it’s registration to resolutions have been made for portal and apart from this, the portal has been enabled with the messaging system for complainants about the different stages of complaint registration and redressal.” “It is a transparent, efficient and safe complaint redressal mechanism and people can register their complaints either in Hindi or English using their smartphones or computers at the place of their convenience,” further said Singh. Regarding the process for registration of complaints Singh said that complainant would have to first register at the portal by submitting their name, full address and mobile phone number at the portal after which they would have to upload their written complaint in PDF format on the portal. “The complainants will get a token number and SMS after registration of their complaint and the token number can be used for online tracking the redressal stage of the complaint, besides which he will also get an SMS about the step by step progress of redressal of his complaint,” informed Singh. “Besides registering the complaints through their smartphone or computers can also register free of cost online complain about the portal by visiting Public Grievance Cell of different Block Development Officer’s office or Circle officer’s office or the public grievance cell office of the district collectorate of with the help of computer operators of  different Panchayat offices,” said Singh, Notably, training to office superintendents, computer operators and public grievance officers of altogether 73 different departments have already been provided for complaint management. Executive magistratation Deepmala and Food Safety officer of Dhanbad Aditi Singh has been entrusted with the task of monitoring to smooth working of the portal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Diwali diyas made by special children witness bumper sale ||Diwali diyas made by intellectually impaired, were up for grabs for a fortnight, has witnessed a bumper sale. Not a single piece is available now even though inquiries have been pouring in almost every day. The special students of Jeevika, a Sonari-based NGO working for the promotion of intellectually challenged, remained busy in modeling, painting and applying varnish to the diyas made in view of the festival of lights since last month. “All the diyas are exhausted. We are no longer selling the product even though people are enquiring about them. The special children worked hard and we feel happy that it has paid off,” said Avtar Singh, founder of Jeevika. According to him, the special children made 4,000 diyas which were procured from a potter in Asanbani, East Singhbhum. “Some diyas were also procured from Jamshedpur. Paint, varnish, wax and threads were purchased locally. The students are presently making diyas which have been ordered by customers in advance. We have also kept some diyas aside for gifting them to our well-wishers,” Singh, a former national cycling champion, informed. Six hundred decoration pieces as well as decorative eco-friendly bags have also been sold. The diyas were displayed and sold from the premises of Jeevika. The visitors appreciated the hard work and skills of the intellectually impaired. The special students, including Ganga Bai, Akash Sharma, Ankit Mukherjee, Ryan Francis and Pankaj Kumar remained busy for about four hours daily at the Jeevika centre. They were assisted by Anuradha Kumari, a temporary staff of Jeevika. “We were aware that there will be an unprecedented demand for diyas since Indians are boycotting Chinese products, including diyas. We were against taking an unnecessary risk since there will be a rush of people if we display more numbers of diyas for sale. So, we kept 4,000 diyas for sale. We wanted to be very cautious in dealing with the pandemic,” Singh explained. The diyas – in various shapes and sizes, the most unique being the turtles – were a hit among people from Jamshedpur and Ranchi. The diyas invariably get exhausted much before Diwali. The diyas are also purchased by different companies and social organizations in the steel city. Ryan Francis, who painted diyas also put strings in decorative paper bags, said he feels very happy with the sale. “We were very sure that the diyas would be sold before Diwali. Now, we are waiting for the gift from our school,” he added. The intellectually impaired will be getting pat and cash from the special school after Diwali. “We will surely recognize the toil of our students,” said Jeevika secretary Sukhdeep Kaur. Jeevika is striving hard to bring special athletes to the social mainstream. Some of its students have got married and are leading a happy life. Seven of its students have landed employment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||JMM-led ruling alliance wins Dumka, Bermo seats convincingly||The ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance retained Dumka and Bermo seats on Tuesday by defeating BJP candidates in a show that defied the national trend of  NDA candidates pulling off a string of victories in 56 byelections held across the country. The contest in Jharkhand did not go down to the wire as was expected during the early hours of counting which began at 8 am amid strict adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols. But the margins of victory in both seats were lower than the 2019 polls. In Dumka, a seat reserved for scheduled tribes and in the traditional JMM stronghold of Santhal Pargana, chief minister Hemant Soren’s younger brother Basant beat the BJP’s Louise Marandi by 6,440 votes, as per the figures released by Election Commission of India. Basant polled 79,964 votes, compared to Louise’s 73,524. Hemant had on the Dumka seat in 2019 by over 13,000 votes.  In Bermo, a Congress stronghold, Kumar Jaimangal won against the BJP’s Yogeshwar Mahto Batul by 14,169 votes, around 7,000 votes less than what his father had polled in 2019. Jaimangal got 92,751 compared to Batul’s 78,582 votes. Soon after the verdict, Hemant tweeted: “I thank people of Dumka and Bermo for reposing faith in the government and to strengthen it further by making our candidates win. I congratulate both the young winners on the historic occasion and bow before the voters for having faith in your government.” Both Louise and Batul had contested from the same seats in the 2019 Assembly election but lost. While the BJP banked on old war horses once again, both the JMM and Congress stuck to family ties by fielding Basant and Jaimangal, who is the son of former Bermo MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh whose death in May necessitated the bypolls.  In Dumka, the seat fell vacant after Hemant vacated it to retain Barhait after the formation of his government. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said the bypoll outcomes were in total sync with expectations right from Day One of the campaign. “The entire credit goes to the government’s good work with a pro-people attitude, workers of the ruling alliance and the voters at large. In 2019, people gave us full mandate for five years. However, bypolls had to be held in these two seats. People have voted us back in these two seats which show we are on the right track,” he noted. In Ranchi, Congress workers hit the streets, bursting crackers and playing drums to celebrate the victory hours before the state government announced a ban on fireworks during Diwali because of the Covid-19 pandemic.  The byelections, the first since the formation of the coalition government and the outbreak of Covid-19, were crucial for the incumbent regime to consolidate its strength in the Assembly in the wake of BJP's alleged threats of “toppling the government”. For the BJP, the bypolls were an occasion to try and make inroads into tribal pockets of the state after it lost miserably in the last elections despite being in power for a full five years, a first since the formation of Jharkhand in 2000. State BJP president Deepak Prakash issued a statement late in the evening to claim that compared to the last elections, the party had done better, which indicated that voters were ready for a change. "We accept the verdict, but compared to the 2019 Assembly polls, our margin of defeat had come down drastically, especially in Dumka, while votes polled had gone up."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Pan India tribal conclave to go online this year||Samvaad, a one-of-its kind pan India tribal conclave organised by Tata Steel Foundation, is set to be back with its seventh edition from November 15 to 19. This year's conclave will take the conversations and celebrations onto a digital platform due to the ongoing pandemic. The Samvaad ecosystem has brought together more than 30,000 people from 117 tribes across 27 states of India and 18 countries in the last six years, and is also an event that the citizens of steel city keenly looks forward to. The theme for this year, `Coming together for social change ‘, representing a belief that there are inherent aspects of tribalism that places seamlessness as a core value of society and valuable lessons in wonderful stories of tribal communities coming together to positively influence their core development challenges. “We are living through times of immense uncertainties but our responsibility towards the extended Samvaad family is to not disrupt the wonderful journey of celebration and contemplation of event. This has given us the confidence to set up Samvaad 2020 online. We are doing this through a model which respects the current restrictions of mobility while balancing the gains and limitations that the digital format places on sustained conversations. The theme for this year is particularly relevant in the altered paradigms that have evolved in the last six months and will possibly continue doing so in the near future,” said Sourav Roy, chief, corporate social responsibility, Tata Steel. The conclave will hear stories from across the country. The event encourages participants to engage in experience sharing sessions in various areas that affect the communities and gives them an opportunity to enrich the platform with their thoughts. The five days will therefore witness a cross-pollination of ideas among more than 1,000 tribal women and men who are expected to join online and celebrate the vibrant cultures of different tribes. The many offshoots of Samvaad such as tribal handicraft,, tribal film screenings, tribal cuisine and the cultural performances of various tribes that contribute significantly to  the essence of Samvaad will bring the traditional practices and rich heritage to the common masses through its YouTube channel. The conclave will celebrate traditional cuisines of 16 tribes across 10 states with the dishes exclusively available for the people of Jamshedpur on online aggregator platform Zomato. Cinema lovers have a lot to look forward to as tribal films will be screened on the YouTube channel which will be held followed by discussions with the filmmaker. Around 500 school children from Jamshedpur will attend the screening. Art enthusiasts will get a chance to attend master classes on Oraon, Sohrai, Gond, Saura, Warli and Rajwar Bhittichitra art forms that will be hosted by tribal artisans. Each day will conclude with cultural performances from celebrated artists like Guru Rewben from Manipur and Tetseo Sisters from Nagaland and cultural groups from tribes of Galo, Siddhi, Damdami Madia, Bhumij and others. This year will also witness a release of a musical composition  as a tribute to Birsa Munda, curated by Padma Shri Mukund Nayak and the Samvaad musical collective, Rhythms of the Earth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||State bans bursting of firecrackers in public during Diwali||The Jharkhand government imposed a ban on bursting firecrackers in public places this Diwali, citing the Covid-19 pandemic, but said that a separate set of guidelines for bursting firecrackers in private places would be issued in accordance with National Green Tribunal (NGT) guidelines. The directive, issued by the Home, Prison & Disaster Management Department, comes close on the heels of an NGT order which prohibited bursting of firecrackers until November 30 in highly polluted cities, including Jharkhand’s Dhanbad. The Jharkhand notification permitted Kali Puja in pandals and temples across the state but prohibited the entry of visitors. “Kali Puja pandals shall be barricaded on all the sides in a way to prevent the entry of public. Only organisers up to a maximum strength of 15 are permitted inside the barricaded pandal,” the notification, signed by chief secretary Sukhdeo Singh, stated. The government turned down the various Kali Puja committees’ demand to allow lighting and decoration at pandals. In the notification, it stated that there should be no decoration or lighting at and around the pandals. Besides, no welcome gates should be erected. Kali Puja committees had also sought permission for distributing bhog, but the government decided against it to curb the spread of the coronavirus. However, the government allowed the use of public address systems at pandals for live broadcast of chanting of mantras only up to a limit of 55 decibel and not within a 100-meter radius of hospitals and courts. Puja committees will be allowed to play live chanting of mantras on loudspeakers from 7am to 9pm. As per the government notification, puja committees have been prohibited from taking out processions during immersion of idols. Also, immersions have to be done at places approved by respective district administrations. The ban on bursting firecrackers in public places comes at a time when Dhanbad, Sindri, Jamshedpur, Saraikela Kharsawan, Ranchi and Barajamda have been found to have higher air pollution levels than the upper limit set by the union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climatic Change, as per a report by Greenpeace India. However, only Dhanbad was added in the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) as a non-attainment city, the report stated. Several states in India have banned crackers this Diwali citing the effect of air pollution on the health of Covid-19 patients. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot was the first to announce a ban on sale and bursting of crackers on November 2. Later, on November 5, the Delhi government also imposed a ban on the sale and bursting of crackers after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the national capital. A day later, the Karnataka government announced a complete ban on crackers this Diwali. Besides, the Calcutta High Court ordered a ban on sale and bursting of crackers across West Bengal owing to Covid-19 on November 5. Jharkhand has reported fewer Covid-19 cases than the states like Delhi and Rajasthan. However, the Covid-19 caseload in Jharkhand is above 1 lakh and the number of active cases is down at 4,251, as per data with the health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||JMM-Congress-RJD alliance set to win in Dumka and Bermo||The ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance has retained Dumka and Bermo by considerable margins defeating BJP candidates. In Dumka, considered a prestige seat for JMM, chief minister Hemant Soren’s younger brother Basant Soren defeated BJP’s Louise Marandi by 6440 votes in his electoral debut from the party’s traditional stronghold. By end of the total counting process, Basant pocketed 79964 votes compared to Louise’s 73524. In Bermo, Congress’s Kumar Jaimangal trounced BJP’s Yogeshwar Mahto Batul by 14,169 votes. Jaimangal got 92751 compared to Batul’s 78582. Jaimangal, son of Congress veteran Rajendra Prasad Singh, is contesting elections for the first time after the sudden demise of his father, who won the 2019 assembly polls from Bermo. Counting of the votes polled in the November 3 byelections in Dumka and Bermo began at 8am on Tuesday amid heightened security and strict adherence to Covid-19 safety norms, poll officials said. The local administrations of both Dumka and Bermo have clamped Section 144 in their respective jurisdictions to bar victory processions in the wake of the pandemic. In Dumka, a seat reserved for scheduled tribe in Santhal Pargana, counting will be held in 18 rounds for 368 booths while in Bermo in Bokaro district, counting will be in 17 rounds. As many as 28 candidates are in the fray in both seats with 12 in Dumka and the rest in Bermo. However, the contest is largely expected to be between the ruling UPA and NDA in both seats. While chief minister Hemant Soren’s brother and JMM’s Basant Soren is pitted against BJP’s Louise Marandi in Dumka, battlelines in Bermo are drawn between Congress’s Kumar Jaimangal and  BJP’s Yogeshwar Mahto Batul.  Dumka deputy commissioner Rajeshwari B said they have ensured all security and safety parameters to ensure smooth counting at the Polytechnic College campus. “No one without a mandatory Covid-19 check and authorised identity card will be allowed inside the counting centre. Sufficient security personnel have been put on the job to ensure overall vigil. Focus is also on to ensure no unwanted gathering takes place,” she said. Rajeshwari’s counterpart in Bokaro, Rajesh Kumar, said that prohibitory orders were clamped in Bermo constituency in view of the counting. “This is to curb any chance of a spread of Covid-19,” he said, adding that the prohibitory orders would, however, not be applicable to marriage, markets or essential services. Counting for the Bermo seat is being conducted at the ITI Building premises in Chas. “Counting will take place in 17 rounds across 28 table,” he said. Dumka seat fell vacant in January after chief minister Hemant Soren vacated the constituency in favour of Barhait after winning from both seats. The bypoll in Bermo has been necessitated following the demise of Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh in May. For the ruling alliance of the JMM, Congress and RJD retaining both seats will help maintain stability of the government. The BJP on the other hand is eyeing to increase its tally in the Assembly after being voted out of power despite offering Jharkhand its first stable government since the formation of the state in 2000. After MLAs are elected from filling of both seats, the 81-member Assembly will still have vacancy, that of Madhepur where JMM MLA Haji Hussain Ansari died recently after recovering from Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Coal thieves of Mugma attack Kapasara Colliery manager ||A group of villagers working for Kapasara Colliery of Mugma area of Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL), located about 25 kilometeres away from Dhanbad district headquarters, not just stole coal but also clashed with the ECL team led by VC Singh, General Manager of Mugma area, on Monday morning. The manager was on a regular inspection drive when he detected locals stealing coal. On confronting the locals, Singh was attacked by them with sticks. The villagers pelted stone at the manager, which caused severe damage to his vehicle.  In the scuffle that ensued, Geeta Devi (30), a woman hailing from Siyalkanali village, was injured while trying to flee from the site. She was stealing coal from the site. Following the clash, villagers sat on a demonstration, thereby disrupting work at the Kapasara Colliery. They charged Singh for scolding the villagers and air firing. They have submitted a written complaint against Singh in Nirsa Police station and have asked for his transfer. Sub-divisional police officer Bijay Kumar Kushwaha with his team had separate talks with both the protestors and the manager. They even sent the woman for a medical examination at Nirsa Community Health Centre. Talking to media, Geeta Devi, said, “I went to Kapasara colliery to bring in coal from there to cook food.  We do this regularly, but the manager was inspecting the spot, noticed us, and started to scold us. He used filthy language. When we were heading towards our village, he asked his bodyguard to fire at us. I hurt my right hand.” “Rampant illegal mining and coal theft is done by the residents of this area. In the morning when I was inspecting Kapasara colliery, a group of 100 coal thieves attacked me. They attacked me intending to kill me,” said Singh while accusing the villagers of coal theft. “The crowd, comprising men and women armed with stones, boulder, and sticks, when attacked us, my bodyguard fired in the air to save ourselves and not to harm anyone,” said Singh. He maintained that coal is a national asset and that he would not allow anyone to steal it. Bijay Kumar Kushwaha, Sub Divisional Police officer of the area, said, “The incident took place to protest against the manager drive to control coal theft. Singh is against the local villagers smuggling coal from the colliery.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Motivation session for coal pickers at Jharia in Dhanbad||A 52-year-old alumnus of Bengal’s Visva-Bharati and a private tutor organised a motivation session for coal pickers at Jharia in Dhanbad on Monday to educate their children and not let them venture into hazardous open-cast coal mine areas for work. “Two of my students — Chanda Kumari, 13, and Pankaj Kumar, 14 — had left their studies and gone for coal picking and died when the mines caved in on November 9, 2018, at Jharia. In remembrance of those deceased children, I decided to hold an interactive session at Liloripathra (near Jharia railway station where the mishap had taken place) with the children and their parents about the importance of pursuing education, maintaining hygiene and not to waste their money in gambling and liquor,” said Pinaki Roy, who has been providing education to children of coal pickers through Coalfield Children Classes. During the hour-long session, the children and their parents were informed about the importance of education compared to working in risky conditions in the coal mines in an illegal manner. “Our centre not only helps such students but also guides them in taking up proper careers. We told the children about several avenues available to earn a livelihood without much cost. The parents were asked not to let their children venture into coal picking and not waste money on liquor and gambling ” Roy said. He has also provided free meals to 370 families of coal pickers between April and May during the lockdown with contributions from well-wishers. Roy, his wife and two other faculties have been helping the children of coal pickers by teaching them mathematics, English, art and computer free of cost at Hetlibandh, Gansadih and Sahanapahari Dobari — all areas affected by underground fires in Jharia — thrice a week for the last two years under the banner of Coalfield Children Classes. The students are also provided copies, schoolbags, water bottles and geometry boxes free of cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Debate among tribals of Jharkhand on name of code||The tribals of Jharkhand appear to be divided on the name of their religious code even as a special session of the state Assembly on Wednesday is set to a pass a resolution for the code’s inclusion in the census form. While the tribals of the state have been demanding for a separate Sarna code for a long time, some of their organisations and leaders have also started asking for an Adivasi code instead of a Sarna code. Prem Sahi Munda, president of Adivasi Jan Parishad, was the first to make such a demand saying Sarna is the religious place of the Oraons while other tribes have different names for their religious places like the Santhals have their Jaherthan. As such, an Adivasi code would be appropriate for all the tribals, he argued. Congress MLA Bandhu Tirkey, however, did not agree. “Adivasi denotes the tribal community as a whole where as Sarna is identified with their religion,” Tirkey said, emphasising it should be a Sarna code and not an Advasi code as it involves the religious code. But Geetashri Oraon, former minister and president of Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikash Parishad, favoured the name of the code should be Adivasi code. There are around 780 distinct tribal communities in the country and many of them have nothing to do with Sarna, she said, adding the term Adivasi would be acceptable to all the tribal communities. The National Coordination Committee for Tribal Religion, that had its national convention in Ranchi on Sunday, however, appealed to the tribals to be united for pressing for a separate religious code. One of the resolutions taken at its convention, the committee, however, said about asking an Adivasi religion code, not a Sarna code. Pointing out that the tribals have been demanding a separate religion code for them in the census form for a long time, the committee decided to hold a meeting in Delhi next month and also to hold demonstration in other state governments for creating pressure of those states to pass a resolution similar to that of Jharkhand for asking a separate religious code for the tribals. The Jharkhand cabinet in its meeting held on Monday evening decided to approach the Centre for consideration of inclusion of an Adivasi/Sarna code in the form to be used for the census 2021. At present, the census form has six distinct codes in its religion column for the Hindus, Muslims, Christians, Buddhists, Jains and Sikhs and those following tribals religious practices can not specify their religion in the form. That was why the tribals have been demanding a separate religion code for them in the census form.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand drive against Centre’s ‘rights violations’||As many as 10 tribal social organisations have decided to jointly launch a campaign called “Ek Soch” (a thought) in creating awareness at panchayat level about the BJP-led Union government’s alleged violation of the rights of tribals, Dalits and minorities in the state and the country and the blatant misuse of laws to harass rights activists. At a meeting held on Sunday evening at Bihar Club in Ranchi, over 50 representatives unanimously decided that the arrest of Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, 83, by the National Investigation Agency on fabricated charges, denial of bail and delay in grant of permission to use a straw and sipper cup for drinking to a person suffering from Parkinson’s disease has exposed the Centre’s desperation against those who raise voices for tribal, minorities and Dalits. They said people at village level need to be made aware about the government’s agenda. “With the turn of events in the country especially the arrest of Father Stan Swamy, who has always been vocal for tribal rights, we felt that it is high time that all like-minded organisations join hands to launch a joint campaign and make people aware about the real intent of the current central government. The people, be it tribals, minorities or Dalits, need to be made aware of their rights enshrined in the Constitution and also how the government is misusing the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act to target rights activists. We will be reaching to almost every panchayat in Jharkhand and inform the people,” said tribal women rights defender and senior functionary of the Adivasi Adhikar Manch, Aloka Kujur. Former tribal advisory council (TAC) member Ratan Tirkey, who was appointed secretary of the Ek Soch campaign, told The Telegraph that reaching out to the masses was the need of the hour. “Merely holding dharnas, forming human chains and holding agitation would not serve the purpose. The people who stand to be affected by the central government’s agenda need to be informed about it. The Ek Soch campaign hopefully will do that in Jharkhand,” said Tirkey. He said meetings would be held at the gram sabha level in the nearly 4,200 panchayats across the state. The members decided to observe November 26 as constitution day and December 10 as human rights day across the state. A meeting would be held at Bagaicha, the residence of Fr Swamy, on Tuesday to chalk out a course of action. Fr Swamy was arrested by the NIA on October 8 night from his residence near Ranchi and produced before a special court in Mumbai. He was remanded to judicial custody at Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai for his alleged involvement in the Bhima Koregaon incident and links with Maoist outfits. His bail petition was rejected by the special court on October 22. Leaders of almost all prominent Opposition parties, including Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren and his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan, have condemned the arrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
10-11-2020||Jharkhand||Free medicines meant for the poor dumped after expiry||In a district, that is infamous for its frail health care system, medicines worth several lakh rupees were found dumped at a secluded place, on Saturday. The huge stock of medicines allegedly had expired in the storeroom of Referral Hospital Simaria, which falls under the Simaria subdivision of Chatra district. This negligence has confirmed the claims of many that doctors and other staff posted in the hospital never cared to give the free medicines to needy patients, thereby resulting in the expiry of this huge stock of medicines. Notably, all the medicines had expired in 2012 but the hospital staff including the doctors didn’t have the time to check the medicine stock. The dumped medicines included 40 bags of expired DDT (Dichloro Diphenyl Trichloro-ethane), used to treat malaria and other insect borne diseases along with several injections and tablets. Locals, who spotted the dumped medicines, complained about the hospital not providing free medicines to the poor only to dump them after they expire. “Most of the hospital staff get a fixed commission from local medicine retailers and so they never give us free medicines. They ask us to buy from the market. They are not bothered about our financial burden,” accused one of the villagers. The hospital allegedly had dumped the medicines in a secluded place, close to the hospital. People hardly visit the spot. But the huge dump of medical waste made people take notice. Doctors and other staff of the hospital refused to comment or explain how all the medicine had expired. A health department official on condition of anonymity said, “It’s a huge lapse on the part of the doctors. They didn’t care to give these medicines to the needy patients.” He added, “The government is providing medicines to every healthcare centre to ensure that needy patients get the medicines for free. But, look at how government funds are wasted.” When The Telegraph online contacted Arun Kumar Paswan, the civil surgeon of Chatra district, he confirmed the news and informed that the investigation is on and the details related to the dumping of medicines are being collected from Simaria Health Department's officials. Paswan added, “I will ensure that a proper investigation will be conducted.” Chatra MLA Satyanand Bhokta told The Telegraph Online, “It’s a case of negligence and is a very serious issue. Strict action will be taken against those found guilty.” Bhokta is also the labour minister of Jharkhand. Chatra shares its border with Hazaribagh in Jharkhand and Gaya in Bihar. It is dependent on these two districts for medical facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-241
