11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad auto drivers hiking fare are being punished: Transport officer||With the Jharkhand government making it mandatory for all public transport operators to reintroduce the pre-lockdown fares, regular disputes between the passengers and auto-rickshaw operators have become a norm in Dhanbad. While the passengers are insisting on paying the old fare, auto drivers are continuing to charge the increased fare, citing difficulty in managing fuel expense due to the constraint imposed on them of accommodating only a limited number of passengers in vehicles, due to Covid-19. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Ranjit Keshri, a shop owner at Jharia’s Steel Gate, said that despite the government calling for the restoration of old fare, the drivers are charging the same amount as they were charging while ferrying only two passengers during the lockdown period. “Travelling from Dhanbad Station to Steel Gate by auto would cost Rs 10 in the pre-lockdown time. Now, when the lockdown is over and there are limited restrictions, still the auto drivers are charging Rs 20 per head despite the fact that they are carrying more than 10 passengers,” said Keshri. Echoing a similar sentiment, Rajeev Keshri, a Jharia-based advocate who regularly travels to the Dhanbad Court by auto-rickshaw, said, “The pre-lockdown fare for Jharia to Dhanbad was Rs 13 per head. However, we are still being asked to pay the increased fare of Rs 25 per passenger.” “Things can’t be taken in isolation. The entire issue needs a holistic approach, the predicament of auto-drivers and auto operators also needs to be taken into consideration,” said Sunil Singh, president of Jharkhand Pariwahan Mazdoor Union. He maintained that prior to lockdown the auto operators were ferrying over 10 passengers in one auto but they have been asked to limit the number of commuters now. “As per the latest instruction we have to follow the Covid guidelines. Police are taking action on such vehicles carrying more than four passengers. It is not possible to manage the operation of vehicles at the old fare” said Singh, who also is an auto driver. According to him the operators had approached deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh and District Transport Officer Om Prakash Yadav to put forward their demand for revising the fare. “We have already submitted a memorandum before the sub-divisional officer of Dhanbad, Surendra Prasad, demanding an increase in fare by 30 per cent in view of changed scenario due to the pandemic,” said Chotan Singh, President of Dhanbad Pradesh Diesel Auto Chalak Mahasangh. District transport officer, Om Prakash Yadav stated that auto operators flouting the rules in Dhanbad are being punished. He said, “Auto drivers charging high fare are being fined in a bid to ensure the restoration of pre lockdown fare.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Govt to hold low-key Statehood Day function ||The Jharkhand government is unlikely to hold a grand celebration on the 20th Statehood Day and instead only organise a ritualistic ceremony with limited guests for the first time since the formation of the state on November 15, 2000, a senior secretary rank official, in the thick of affairs said on Wednesday. The decision of holding a low-key Statehood Day ceremony was taken in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, said the official. Unlike the past years, the government will not invite special performers from other states this time around to perform in Ranchi during the Statehood Day celebrations, he added. “A Statehood Day celebration as grand as the ones held in the past years would encourage public gathering and increase the chances of Covid-19 transmission. We will have a ritualistic ceremony following the protocols, but there will not be any extravagance this year,” the official said, requesting anonymity. The government was yet to issue an official statement regarding the Statehood Day ceremony by the time this report was filed. Usually, the preparations for Statehood Day begin a month prior to November 15. This year, the government has been busy combating Covid-19 pandemic since March and is unwilling to take any risk of holding a gathering on Statehood Day. Every year, Bollywood singers and celebrities from the tinsel town perform at the Morhabadi Ground in Ranchi on the occasion of Statehood Day. Last year, singer Sukhwinder Singh enthralled Jharkhand residents in a star-studded evening on November 15. Bollywood singers Sunidhi Chauhan, Shaan and Kailash Kher have also performed in Ranchi on Jharkhand’s Statehood Day in the past years. On Statehood Day every year, the chief minister addresses the people of the state from Morhabadi Ground in presence of dignitaries and guests from across the country. In the evening, a grand celebration and light show is organised at the same venue. “As per the protocol, the chief minister will address the people of the state on Statehood Day from Morhabadi and garland statue of Bhagwan Birsa Munda. But limited guests will be allowed to attend the programme in person,” said a close aide of chief minister Hemant Soren. Jharkhand was carved out of erstwhile Bihar and established as an independent state on November 15, 2000 after years of struggle by leaders and tribal rights activists involved in the Jharkhand Movement. The government celebrates the contribution of the activists of Jharkhand Movement on this day every year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Tata offers scholarship for sports enthusiasts||Employees of Tata Steel wanting their kids to make a career in sports can now look forward to getting a sports scholarship. The steel behemoth will be providing this grant to the children of permanent employees, who have a keen interest in sports. According to the scholarship scheme, all unemployed children of permanent employees who have participated or have won medals in national or international tournaments are eligible to apply for it. Applicants can apply under two categories – under 20 and under 25 years of age. Selected candidates who have represented India internationally will be given a sum of Rs 10,000, while those who have won medals at the national level will get an annual stipend of Rs 6000. According to the Tata Steel spokesperson, a five-member selection committee under the chairmanship of the chief (protocol and sports) will scrutinise the application to select the deserving candidates. “Application can be filled and sent to the company’s sports department at JRD Tata Sports Complex. The last date for the submission of applications is December 15,” he informed. He added, “Applications can be sent to officefice.headsports@tatasteel.com or anand.m@tatasteel.com.” A special category to help specially-abled sportspersons has also been created. Five male and female falling under the intellectually/physically/visually challenged and hearing impaired categories will be considered for this category. The scholarship will be given to general sportspersons (male and female) for sports recognized by the Indian Olympic Association (IOA). The disciplines recognised by IOA includes - aquatics, archery, athletics, badminton, basketball, billiards and snooker, bowling boxing, cycling, equestrian, fencing, football, golf, gymnastics, handball, hockey, judo, kabaddi, karate, kayaking and canoeing, kho-kho, modern pentathlon, netball, rowing, rugby, sailing, shooting, squash, table tennis, taekwondo, tennis, triathlon, volleyball, weightlifting, wrestling, and wushu. Tata Steel’s contribution to sports is well-known. Besides setting up three sports academies for football, hockey, and archery, the company also runs a training centre for athletics, handball, archery, basketball, golf, swimming, table tennis, boxing chess, karate. The company also boasts of having a dedicated sports department that employs former and current international sportspersons. Several children of Tata employees hone their skills under experienced hands at training centres which operate from JRD Tata Sports Complex. “It’s a very welcome step. We appreciate the company’s interest in promoting sports. I am sure it will not only boost the young athletes but will also encourage parents to let their children make a career in sports,” said a Tata employee whose son is a promising swimmer, on condition of anonymity. The steel giant, in the past, has produced international sportspersons, including archers Deepika Kumari, Jayanta Talukdar, and athlete Sinimol Paulose to name a few.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Assembly passes resolution favouring Sarna Adivasi Code||The Jharkhand Assembly passed a resolution in favour of a Sarna Adivasi Code at a special session held on Wednesday with both ruling and treasury benches extending support to the draft that will now be sent to the Union government to seek its implementation during the 2021 national census. Chief minister Hemant Soren tabled the draft on the floor of the House at around 1.12pm for discussion. However, the original draft titled “Adivasis/Sarna Code” met with objections with a few MLAs from the ruling alliance and the Opposition asking that the slash be removed from the title to read Adivasi Sarna Code. Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey, who joined Congress this year after winning on a now defunct JVM-P in the 2019 Assembly elections, put forth the demand first. Soon, BJP’s Khunti MLA Neelkanth Singh Munda also raised objections, demanding the title be changed to Sarna Adivasi Code, or simply, “Sarna Code”. After a discussion, the chief minister said that the proposal which would be sent to the Centre would be named Sarna Adivasi Code. All members agreed. The 81-member Assembly has an effective strength of 80 after the demise of a JMM MLA recently. During Wednesday’s proceedings, about 70 MLAs attended. The rest were either away from Ranchi or were down with Covid-19. In his address, chief minister Hemant stressed that a separate code for tribals would go a long way in preserving their identity, religion and cultural diversity. “Reports suggest that the tribal population is on the decline nationally for the last few decades, and hence there is an urgent need to first assess their real population, religious affiliations among others, to understand the situation better and take corrective steps,” he said. Hemant said that providing a separate identity to those who follow Sarna (nature worshippers) would also send a positive message to the world about India’s commitment towards conservation of nature. “For Sarna tribals, jal, jungle and jameen (land, forest and land) are gods. Nature and environment are almighty. At a time when conservation is a global concern, it’s apt to recognise those who consider nature as their god. Therefore, we appeal to the Union government to include a separate column in next year’s census for Sarna,” he said. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, who is at a private city hospital undergoing treatment for Covid19, called the day historic. “The incumbent regime led by JMM-Congress-RJD in its poll manifesto had vowed to put in place a Sarna code. The Congress party has always been standing in support of this long pending demand of tribals. It is a historic day for Jharkhand to pass a resolution in its support. We hope the Union government too exhibits urgency to accept our demands this time,” he said in a statement. Oraon recalled that Sarna was recognised as a separate religion till the 1950s but during the census in 1961-62, the separate code was removed. “In 2011, as many as 50 lakh tribals across the country had put their religion as Sarna in the ‘others’ column,” he said. Mandar MLA Tirkey, who had earlier asked that the word, Adivasi, not be mentioned in the draft resolution, sounded convinced now. “It has become Sarna Adivasi Code, which is even better. Sarna is preceded by Adivasi and without a slash,” he said over the phone. Wednesday’s special Assembly session was convened in the wake of an avalanche of protests by various tribal groups to demand a Sarna code. The chief minister agreed to send a proposal to the Centre in the last week of October. The Congress and JMM welcomed the move. Party spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “One by one, the state government is fulfilling promises made to voters. Today’s (Wednesday) development is another step in that direction. We now hope the BJP-led Union government will exhibit its commitment towards tribals and the state of Jharkhand. Union home minister Amit Shah during poll rallies in 2019 in Jharkhand promised a Sarna code. It’s time to fulfil it.” During the session, newly elected MLAs of Dumka and Bermo — Basant Soren (JMM) and Kumar Jaimangal (Congress) — were administered the oath of office by Speaker Rabindranath Mahto.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Three-day pottery fair begins at Bistupur||A three-day Diwali Mela, aimed at promoting potters to sell their work ahead of the festival, kicked off on Wednesday at the Chamber Bhavan in Bistupur. About a dozen of potters have participated in the fair organised by the Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI), and have put designer diyas and other clay pots meant for Diwali, up for sale. “We will also  get buyers for the products made by potters. Apart from other customers we have asked all our members to make their Diwali purchases from those potters who have put up stalls at the venue of the fair,” SCCI president Ashok Bhalotia said. The fair will open at 11 am and continue till 7 pm on all three days, he added. Rajesh Prajapati, a potter participating in the fair said, "The demand for traditional diyas has dropped in the last few years and this has affected our business. This year we are not much optimistic of the sale due to the Covid-19 pandemic." In a bid to express the community’s plight, he said that earlier, potters’ hands would be full during the Diwali season, but eventually the numbers have dwindled. Another porter at the fair pointed out, "The increase in the price of raw materials and customers bargaining steadily is resulting in loss for potters." Notably, despite a ban on Chinese products  most households prefer plastic and glass products to light up their homes instead of earthen lamps. However, commoners are seen paying attention to the potters, given their poor conditions. In a bid to support indegenous workers, people have come up with the hashtag #PottersKiDiwali on Twitter, urging people to shop for traditional diyas instead of modern lamps and lights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Alcoholic man dies of fisticuffs in Telco||A grievously injured man was found lying in an unconscious state near his house in the urban slum area of Telco thana on Wednesday night. The victim identified as Prabhat Tiwary, was rushed to the MGM Medical College Hospital, where he was declared as brought dead. Tiwary, a resident of Bajrangi Bagan, was an alcoholic. He had picked up a fight with a local shopkeeper under the influence of liquor at around 11 pm on Wednesday night. The argument between the two led to shopkeeper assaulting Tiwary with others. According to sources, the victim, a private company employee, had sustained grievous injuries on his face and head during the assault. This made Tiwary loose conscious on the spot. His family was alerted about the around midnight. Following which, they rushed him to the hospital, where he was declared dead. The police on being informed about the unnatural death rushed to the hospital and seized the dead body for both Covid test and autopsy. Officer-in-charge of Telco thana, Akhilesh Kumar Mandal confirmed the death. “The man had reportedly picked up a quarrel with a local shop-keeper at Bajrangi Bagan and had abused the shop-keeper. In a reaction to the abuses, the shopkeeper assaulted him with fisticuffs along with others. During the assault, he fell down and succumbed to internal injury. Later, when his family members rushed the man to the medical college hospital, he was declared as brought dead,” said the OC while talking to The Telegraph Online. According to Mandal said, “Preliminary investigation indicates it to be a case of unintentional murder, but still we are trying trace people involved in the assault.” He added, “The family is yet to lodge a formal first information report or give a formal statement to the police, as they also are unaware of the people who assaulted the victim. The investigation is in progress, those found guilty will be punished. According to sources, the police already picked up four individuals in connection with the murder case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro zoo gets ready for winter, fortifies enclosures||With the advent of winter in Jharkhand, Bokaro zoo has begun its annual exercise of ensuring that inmates don’t catch a chill. However, unlike earlier years, the focus is on providing natural remedies for the animals to beat the cold. According to a staffer of Jawaharlal Nehru Biological Park, animals love to enjoy the winter sun. Hence, the trees are being trimmed, in the park, with the sole objective of making adequate run rays reach the animal enclosures. “During this time of the year, we make adequate arrangements for the enclosures to be comfortable for animals. We will not only be placing room heaters but are also making arrangements for the sun rays to reach each enclosure so that they feel comfortable in a natural way,” said Gautam Chakraborty, in-charge of JNB Park. The zoo authorities also plan to light a fire inside the enclosures of the spotted deer and blackbucks. “We have collected firewood for the spotted deer and blackbuck enclosures, as they like to sit and enjoy the warmth of the fire from a distance. We have also made the necessary arrangements to have hay and wooden planks for the animals,” informed Chakraborty. Curtains inside the enclosures of animals like the panther, tiger, and lion will protect them from the cold wave. Chakraborty added that the snake, civet, and bird enclosures would have hay to make the cage cosier. Additionally, vitamins would be administered to the animals to beat the cold weather. The zoo has been closed since lockdown, thereby, making it possible for the management to carry out several developmental works inside the premises, right from bettering the enclosures to trimming the trees to carrying out beautification work inside the park. A beautiful garden is being developed inside the park for the visitors, in JNB Park, also known as Bokaro zoo. The park spread over 27 acres of land boasts of hundreds of varieties of animals, birds, and trees. The zoo has 26 animal enclosures, which houses animals like tiger, Himalayan bear, leopards, EMU, hippopotamus, deer, snakes, and several others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city coach named handball federation member ||Hassan Imam Mallick, a Jamshedpur-based mentor, has been nominated as a member of the technical committee of the Handball Federation of India (HFI). As a member of the technical panel, the chief coach of Tata Steel Handball Training Centre at JRD Tata Sports Complex will now be responsible for taking charge at national and international competitions. Mallick, a veteran with sound knowledge of the technical aspects associated with handball, has also played the role of a guide to help some of his trainees land a job at several organisations across the country. “I am thankful to HFI for nominating me as a member of the technical committee. I will use my experience and try to do a good job,” Mallick, a resident of Dhatkidih and an employee of Tata Steel, said. A former national medalist, Mallick has also been instrumental in producing players, some of whom have represented India in national and international contests. “I am optimistic to do a good job since I am well versed with the technical aspects of the game,” he added. Mallick says that after archery, handball is a job spinner in Jharkhand. “Over 3 graduates from our training centre have landed employment in various sectors. I think more employment can materialise if handball is effectively channelised in the state.  Our cradle is doing the needful in this direction,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
11-11-2020||Jharkhand||Finance Minister Rameshwar Oraon tests positive for Covid||Finance Minister Rameshwar Oraon was among the 252 people found to be Covid positive in Jharkhand on Tuesday. Oraon, the sixth minister in the Hemant Soren cabinet to get infected by the lethal virus, was admitted to Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi as a precautionary measure, leaders from the Congress party said. Oraon had met several bureaucrats, party workers and even chief minister Hemant Soren recently, putting all of them under Covid scanner. Besides, he was actively involved in the preparations for the twin assembly bypolls in Bermo and Dumka. Until Tuesday, at least five ministers in the Jharkhand Cabinet had tested positive for Covid-19. One of them, Minority Welfare Minister Haji Hussain Ansari died of a cardiac arrest. Health Minister Banna Gupta, Drinking Water and Sanitation Minister Mithilesh Thakur and Agriculture Minister Badal Patralekh also tested positive for Covid-19 earlier and recovered without complaining of any symptoms. However, Covid-infected Education Minister Jagarnath Mahto had to undergo a lung transplant surgery in Chennai. Meanwhile, five more people died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the toll up at 910, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The casualties occurred in Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Deoghar, Bokaro, Chatra and Giridih. Each of these districts reported one death each. The Covid-19 recovery rate, however, improved on the day as at least 456 patients overcame the virus in 24 hours, government data stated. The total number of Covid recoveries in the state inched towards 1 lakh on the day. As per government data, of the 1,04,940 people infected by the virus so far, 99988 have recovered, taking the recovery rate up at 95.28 per cent. None of the districts reported a triple-digit spike in Covid cases on Tuesday. With 43 cases, Ranchi reported the highest spike among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. However, with 153 recoveries, the district also had the highest contribution in Covid recoveries reported on the day. As per government data, there were around 1200 active cases in Ranchi on Tuesday and around 1250 active cases in East Singhbhum, which reported 36 fresh cases against 85 recoveries. At least 31 people were found infected in Bokaro, 32 in Dhanbad, 12 in Deoghar and 12 in Simdega. As many as 13 districts reported a single-digit-spike on the day, while no cases occurred in Pakur. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 28,815 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers across Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 37 lakh people and tested 36.87 lakh of them. As per government data, the growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.24 per cent against the national average of 0.47 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 284.91 days against the national average of 146.73 days. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.85 per cent against the national average of 1.48 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-240
