12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Festive shopping ahead of Dhanteras and Diwali||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Cracker sales on at designated areas in Jamshedpur||Retailers began selling firecrackers at designated places earmarked across the steel city on Thursday after the state pollution control board issued a directive limiting the time of bursting crackers to two hours on Diwali, Chhath and Christmas. As per the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) notification, crackers can be burst between 8pm and 10pm on Diwali on November 14. The sale of firecrackers in Jamshedpur will continue till November 15. "We are aware of the order. Tomorrow (Friday) we will issue a directive to all police stations to ensure that the guideline issued by the pollution control board is strictly implemented in steel city," said Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Singh. Singh ordered surprise inspections at all points of sale for crackers to ensure strict adherence to fire safety norms. The district administration has been issued temporary licences to over 250 retailers. Safety guidelines include selling only at designated points of sale, and keeping sufficient water, sand buckets and small fire extinguishers handy. Shops must maintain safe distance between each other to endure  fire tenders would be able to make their way in  case of an exigency. The retailers have been also asked to follow Covid safety norms. Various police stations have been directed to confiscate crackers if these were being sold at any other place other than the designated sale points. Wholesalers in Jugsalai had been issued safety guidelines last week. The two largest common sale points are Aambagan grounds in Sakchi with  around 40 firecracker sellers, and the  G-Town grounds in Bistupur with around 30 retailers. Other large sale points are at Baridih Durga Puja maidan (Baridih), Gandhi Maidan (Mango), Ram Mandir grounds (Sonari), RP Patel High School grounds (Jugsalai), N Type Durga Puja maidan and Sabuj Kalyan Sangha grounds (both in Telco), Circus Maidan (Golmuri), Sunday market (Birsanagar) and Burmamines Durga Puja maidan (Burmamines).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad witnesses brisk sales for Dhanteras, Diwali||Huge rush of people was witnessed in the market during the first day of Dhanteras this year. All this, as Dhanbad market, based on a large number of service class customers, made a comeback for the first time after the Covid-19 crisis and witnessed some brisk sell of a wide range of products including FMCG products and also automobiles, utensils, sweets, other items like diyas, candles, and other decorative materials, etc. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Rajesh Gupta, former president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry said the Dhanbad economy is based on the employees of a wide range of Public Sector Companies, institutions, and major private sector companies like Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL), Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), Tata Steel, Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited, Maithon Power Limited, IIT (ISM), BIT Sindri, Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research, etc. who are largely unaffected due to the Covid-19 crisis. “Though the sale of clothes and footwear was abysmally low during the Durga Puja the situation improved significantly during the Diwali as people are buying all kinds of items like utensils, FMCG products, automobile, sweets, crackers, etc,” said Gupta. Echoing sentiments with Gupta, Surendra Arora, a gift shop owner of Bank More locality who is also the former president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce said that we are expecting the Diwali and Dhanteras sales to be also of the same tune as the previous year. Giving details of two-wheeler sale, AK Mazumdar, Manager of Guru Kripa Auto, “The sale of two-wheelers is likely to be almost similar to last year as we sold 995 two-wheelers on Dhanteras last year and since the Dhaneras is being celebrated on two days on Thursday and Friday we have registered 550 sales of two-wheelers.” Echoing sentiments, Gopal Chatterjee, Manager of Reliable Industries, authorized dealer of Maruti Cars said, “We have received 450 bookings of different cars this Diwali and which is almost the same as that of last Diwali.” “We are also facing a shortage of vehicles and some customers will be provided with vehicles during Chhath despite advance booking made by them due to short supply of vehicles from the manufacturers,” informed Chatterjee. Manish Kumar, Manager of the biggest outlet of FMCG products in Dhanbad, Great Eastern Trading Company said, “We are registering the sale of all products like television and especially Smart TVs besides washing machines, water purifiers, refrigerator, oven, etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city’s impressive Dhanteras shopping response in the midst of pandemic||Despite clouds of Covid-19 pandemic still hovering over the steel city, sales were impressive here both in the automobile sector as well as in the electronics sector this Dhanteras on Thursday. While the shop-keepers have made the sale of electronic goods, especially the air-conditioners, by giving lucrative discounts and offers, in the car segment the Covid-19 is playing its role for a brisk business. The majority of those who turned up at the showrooms of Maruti Suzuki or Hyundai are buying four-wheelers as they want to evade the public transport system in fear of getting infected with the Coronavirus. “The demand for high-end cars like Verna and Creta is so high that we have exhausted our stock.  From Thursday morning we have sold over 25 cars, mostly of high end. Part of Dhanteras is tomorrow also and by the end of tomorrow evening, the expected number of sales of cars will cross 60-mark,” said Rajesh Singh, sales manager, Hyundai Car, having its showroom on L Road in Bistupur while talking to The Telegraph Online. He pointed out that a very less number of cars are coming for their stock as production has not been full-fledged yet due to the pandemic. Similarly, Amit Singh, sales manager of Pebco, Maruti Suzuki's showroom on K Road in Bistupur said they are getting an overwhelming number of customers this Dhanteras. “Most of the customers are willing to buy Desire, but the customers are disappointed as our stock of this car model has exhausted. As a result of which several customers tend to book this car for delivery at a later date while several others settle at other models,” said Amit while talking to The Telegraph Online. He pointed out as Dhanteras is extended up to Friday evening, they expect the number of booked or sold out cars will cross 80-mark by then. The sale of electronic goods was equally impressive on Thursday. “During the lockdown, we could not sell air-conditioners and refrigerators incurring a loss, but now we expect to compensate the loss by promoting the sale of air-conditioners and refrigerators this Dhanteras despite it is not summer season,” said Ravin Singh, proprietor of National Electronics having his showroom on Kalimati Road in Sakchi while talking to The Telegraph Online. Ravi informed that they are giving a 40 percent discount to the Voltas company's air-conditioners, something which has become profitable for the people. “Despite the arrival of winter, customers are turning up to buy air-conditioners at as high as 40 percent discount too for the Voltas air conditioner. In some other company's air-conditioners, we gave a gift voucher of Rs 7,000, an offer which had not been given ever before,” said the shop-keeper who also has showrooms at Mango and Adityapur. He pointed out air-conditioners and refrigerators are being sold in greater numbers in comparison to other electronics appliances. Management of the Electrocraft showroom on K Road in Bistupur is also giving lucrative offers on the occasion of Dhanteras. “Earlier, we used to sell selective five types of electronic appliances at zero down payment basis, but this Dhanteras we have increased such facility for 10 items.  Moreover, we are giving discounts also on maximum items,” said Kishore Singhania, owner of the showroom while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||JFC unveils video wall to help fans connect with team||Jamshedpur FC fans will soon be able to connect with their team virtually during the seventh edition of the Indian Super League, which unfolds in Goa on November 20. The authorities have given supporters of every club an opportunity to be a part of its live video fan wall. This will be streamed into stadiums as well as on live television during the matches. With less than two weeks away till the JFC faces their opponent Chennaiyan FC during their first match,  the excitement for the football fans in the steel city is at its peak. “All the clubs will be without their fans and that direct emotional connection will obviously be missing. However, credit to ISL and Star for making the concept of the Fan Wall possible. We will be conducting contests for the fans to be able to feature on the Fan Wall. This will be a good opportunity for the fans to be connected virtually at the stadium. Twenty-thirty fans will be selected for the same,” said JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari. He added that the JFC authorities will conduct contests on their social media handles including Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, starting Thursday, to select the winners.“All the fans have to do is answer correctly a simple question to be able to have a chance to be part of the Fan Wall. The winners will be chosen at random,” Choudhari said, speaking from Goa. He also spoke about the challenges the team may face in Goa. “Well, we were mentally prepared for the challenges. We knew it’s not going to be as easy as it is back at home in Jamshedpur. For example, in Jamshedpur our practice ground  is right downstairs at our players accommodation, but here in Goa it’s half-an-hour (12 km travel)  one-way. But the league has taken great initiatives and have been really helpful for all the clubs to settle. It’s a massive task to conduct a tournament of ISL stature in the current situation and the organisers have done a fabulous job to help us all.” The team has been establishing a bond and mixing well during its training as well as off the field, he explained. “That’s the whole point of having the pre-season in the end. Owen Coyle (head coach) has been focusing on fitness of the players too as many of them haven’t played a competitive match for almost seven months now (last matches played in February/March this year). The coach demands high intensity from his players and pre-season is of  paramount  importance. The team has already played a couple of practice matches and will be playing two more in the coming days,” he added. Choudhari said they promoted 10 ex-Tata Football Academy graduates to be available for the senior team. Four of them, Manisana, Manash Gogoi, Billu Teli and goalkeeper Vishal Yadav have been retained in Goa and others will be called on basis of requirements of the coach. On the home venue (Tilak Maidan in Vasco da Gama), he said the ground is being shared by JFC, NorthEast United FC, SC East Bengal and Hyderabad FC. “It will be very different without the fans and not being able to play at the Furnace (JRD Tata Sports Complex in Jamshedpur), but we have to adjust to the new normal,” he said while signing off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Special guest's visit livens up Dhanbad orphanage||Rahul Kumar, an inmate of Hindu Mission Orphanage in Dhanbad’s Hirapur was sleeping after his afternoon lunch when he received a sweet surprise from a special guest who came to visit him. Surprised at receiving desserts and crackers from him, the 17-year-old recognised the guest -- and it was none other than Javed Pathan, a Mumbai-based television actor. Pathan was on a visit to his native home in Dhanbad for Diwali when he decided to  make the festival special for the children.. Rahul, son of a housemaid, Anita Devi, said, “We never expected to celebrate Diwali this year due to difficult times prevailing everywhere due to Covid crisis but Javed Pathan gave us a surprise when he came up with a variety of sweets and crackers”. The teenager is pursuing his electrician course at ITI Dhanbad. Echoing his sentiments, another inmate named Mukesh Kumar said, “The actor is so simple and humble that he spent more than an hour with us and took all details of our life in the orphanage. He also showed us the video clipping of his numerous TV shows including Mahrana Pratap, Balveer, and Ganesha”. Mukesh, a native of Topchanchi was abandoned by his parents. Speaking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Pathan said that some of the inmates were not aware of his fame and were really surprised when they watched the clippings of his television shows. “I came to know about the orphanage through some of my local friends of Dhanbad and after arriving at my home town last week I decided to visit them during Diwali to make the festival special for them”, said Pathan, who is also planning to visit Ranchi next week. There, he plans to visit Chief Minister Hemant Soren to discuss setting up a film industry in Jharkhand itself. He will return to Mumbai after 10 days. Pathan, an alumni of the DAV Public School, Hehal, said, “Jharkhand has one of the best locales of the country and with little support of the government a film industry can develop here. In that way, our youth, who are willing to make a career in acting, direction, music, dance and are compelled to migrate to other places and will not have to go to distant places.” Pathan acted in a number of mythological TV serials including Jay Jay Bajranj Bali, Jay Jagjanani Maa Durga, Mahadev, Jodha Akbar, Maharana Pratap, Baalvir, as well as a movie  titled Paranormal. He has also visited the US to as the chief judge in the Miss and Mrs Jersey Contest where Bollywood actor Dia Mirza was the chief guest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Five more flights from Ranchi to start soon ||Five more flights will soon become operational from Birsa Munda International Airport to improve air connectivity after its recommencement post the nationwide lockdown. On Thursday, the state transport and civil aviation department gave its nod for more flights following a proposal from Ranchi airport a month back. Ranchi airport director Vinod Kumar Sharma confirmed the developments. “Finally, the state government gave its nod to start five more flights. Airports Authority of India (AAI) will soon finalize and announce the destinations,” he said. Currently, 12 flights (24 to and fro) are flying from Ranchi to Delhi, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Hyderabad, and Mumbai. Sharma added that all are running to its full capacity and there was a need to increase flights in view of the increased demands. “Before lockdown, we were operating about 32 odd flights to different places. Following the Unlock, it’s time to retain all the flights to improve air connectivity from Ranchi,” he said. Airport sources said that the additional flights are unlikely to begin by Diwali, which is scheduled on November 14 but they are trying to make them operational by Chhath. “Hopefully, by Chhath we shall start five more flights to handle the festive rush. Also with the onset of tourist season, operators are unlikely to face any losses,” said another official. Notably, as part of its mission to improve customer services, Ranchi airport from this month also introduced new parking rates to offer pocket-friendly options to park their vehicles while visiting the airport to drop or pick-up anyone. The airport authority had introduced time-based rate slabs replacing the fixed rate which was in vogue earlier. For example, the rate for vehicle parking for the first one hour is now charged Rs 20, Rs 35 for two hours, and so on. Ranchi airport was also rated first among 17 medium category airports across the country in terms in terms of customer satisfaction index survey conducted by the Airports Authority of India early this year, results of which were announced in the first week of October. Ranchi airport had scored 4.79 points out of a total of five points covering 33 parameters centered on the passenger facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Crackers allowed only two hours, orders state pollution watchdog||Bursting of crackers during Diwali and other subsequent festivals this year will be allowed only for two hours during the night, the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) on Thursday notified the order in view of the National Green Tribunal’s diktat to all states amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. JSPCB’s member secretary Rajiv Lochan Bakshi in an official communiqué has stated that the bursting of crackers will be allowed between 8 pm to 10 pm on Diwali and Guruparv while during Chhath, the window will be between 6 am – 8 am. For Christmas and New Year, crackers will be allowed from 11.55 pm to 12.30 am only. Only green crackers will be allowed in select districts which had recorded moderately high air pollution levels in 2019. The districts included Ranchi, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Palamau, East Singbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharasawan, Hazaribag, Giridih, Dhanbad, Deoghar, Godda, Pakur and Sahebganj. “In these districts, only green crackers are allowed for sale, and bursting can be done between 8 pm – 10 pm. In the rest of the districts where pollution levels were within the limit, normal crackers with a maximum noise level of 125 decibels will be allowed but during the same window period for bursting,” he said, adding that anyone violating the directives will be liable for action under section 188 of IPC and section 37 of the Air Pollution Act, 1981. Two days ago, the state government notified the ban on crackers in public places during Diwali in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic following concerns raised by the medical fraternity of possible health complications which could trigger because of air pollution due to crackers with the onset of winter. The state chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) had in fact demanded a complete ban on crackers this year. Dr. AK Singh, state president of IMA welcomed the move. “Limiting time frame for the bursting of crackers will help in controlling air pollution but the challenge lies in its effective enforcement across the state,” said Singh. Another doctor of Rims on anonymity, however, said that the move came very late. “By now, many had already bought crackers and the order banning the sale of non-green crackers in few districts is just eyewash. The order should have come weeks ahead of the sale of crackers. Also, how will administrations enforce a two-hour window? Already, the sound of crackers is ruling airwaves everywhere in the city, which is proof enough of everyone stocking sufficient stocks of fireworks. Let’s hope for the best,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro Steel makes sanitary pads for rural women||Bokaro Steel plant (BSL), this Dhanteras, has installed machines to produce sanitary napkins which would be distributed among women belonging to the deprived class in the city. These machines are purchased from Padamshree, Arunachalam Muruganantham, known as Padman of India. Many of us have seen the famous movie Padman, which was inspired by the story of Arunachalam Muruganantham born in a poor family in South India. In real life, Arunachalam Muruganantham has invented the machine to manufacture cheap sanitary pads for poor women. His machines brought a revolution in the health of rural women not only in India but also in other developing countries. Now his machines are proving helpful for poor women in Bokaro also. BSL, a unit of SAIL, has purchased the machines for making sanitary pads from poor women. BSL has installed these semi-automatic sanitary napkin producing machines in the Swavalamban Center operated by Mahila Samiti, Bokaro at Sector-4. The Mahila Samiti is run by wives of BSL officers. These machines are producing high-quality sanitary napkins which are now being delivered to women. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “BSL started the sanitary napkin production project for women at the Swavalamban Kendra in collaboration with Mahila Samiti Bokaro in 2015. The project aims to make low-cost sanitary napkins and distribute them to rural women in the surroundings.” Initially, the project was being implemented in a manual manner and some women were employed through the Mahila Samiti. The total production of sanitary napkins was low due to manual machine production and the quality was also lower than other sanitary napkins available in the market. This made BSL lay an effort to increase the production and quality of sanitary napkins. Working in this direction, BSL decided to install advanced machines. It was also kept in mind that the new machines should provide employment opportunities to women along with improvement in production and quality. During the process, the officials came to know about Muruganantham (Padman) and his company manufacturing low-cost machines for making sanitary napkins. Dhan said, “The film Padman on the life of Arunachalam Muruganantham was also a source of inspiration for our work. BSL bought this machine from Muruganantham’s company JayaShree Industries.” With the introduction of the new machines, both the production and quality of the women working here have improved without any decrease in employment. Arrangements are being made to distribute the pads being built at the self-reliance center in the surrounding villages. Director In-charge, Bokaro Steel Plant, Amarendu Prakash believes that this project will play an important role in the health as well as the empowerment of women in the coming years and BSL's will be successful in fulfilling its objectives by implementing it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Marine Drive reeks of municipal waste creating environmental hazards||The stretch of Marine Drive near Domuhani in Sonari reeks of municipal waste and air pollution which is leading to environmental hazards. Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), the local urban civic body, is blamed for converting an area at Domuhani along the Marine Drive which also hosts several residential flats and apartments into a waste dumping yard. The daily wastes collected from different houses in areas that fall under the command of JNAC is dumped at the dumping yard. This practice is going on for the last few months. Several areas fall under JNAC command including Sakchi, Sonari, Kadma, Baridih, Agrico, Sitaramdera, Bhuiyandih, etc. A rough estimate suggests that areas under JNAC generate daily waste of over 200 tons. “Because of heat generation and formation of methane gas the waste catches fire and this results in air pollution and harmful effects on the environment,” pointed out Raja Ghosh, a local environmentalist. JNAC officials said though they are aware of the environmental hazard caused by the dumping of domestic wastes at that site but they are helpless. “The Khairbani waste disposal project in the outskirts of steel city failed to take off due to land-related disputes. So the vacant land along the Marine Drive in Sonari was the only option left with us for dumping domestic wastes collected daily from different areas,” said Ravi Bharti, a JNAC official. The proposed plant at around 35-acres land in Khairbani was expected to deliver state-of-the-art solid-waste treatment and scientific landfill solutions. Municipal waste collected from different points was supposed to be processed at the treatment plant to generate biogas and produce fertilizers and construction bricks. But, the project was facing hindrances due to protests by local tribal. Meanwhile, the Adityapur-based regional office of Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) has taken notice of it. “We have sought explanations from JNAC on the dumping of municipal wastes at Sonari which is causing environmental hazards. Reply from JNAC is awaited,” said Suresh Paswan, regional officer of JSPCB talking to The Telegraph Online. Of late residents and daily commuters complain of air pollution, foul smell and dust while negotiating through that stretch. “Our life has turned hell as smokes always come out of the dump yard affecting the residents. Though recently we took this matter to the JNAC but to no avail,” said A K Chatterjee, a resident of Swarn Vihar, an apartment located close to the municipal waste dump yard spread in over 20 acres of land. Another elderly commuter rued, “Continuous exposure to such mess would definitely affect our health, and it will lead to heart-related ailments.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Covid survivors cross the one lakh mark in Jharkhand||The number of people overcoming Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand crossed the 1 lakh mark on Wednesday as over 300 patients recovered from the lethal infection in 24 hours, taking the recovery rate up at 95.32 per cent in the state, government data highlighted. Meanwhile, at least three more Covid-19 patients died in Jharkhand on Wednesday while the number of active cases dropped close to 4000 as the recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on the day, data compiled by the health department stated. As per figures with the health department, at least 1,00,302 Covid patients have recovered from the infection in Jharkhand so far. As many as 314 Covid-19 patients recovered from the infection on the day against 284 fresh cases surfacing during the same period, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. With 78 fresh cases and 98 recoveries Ranchi topped among all the districts in terms of fresh cases as well as recoveries. The number of active cases in Ranchi dropped below that in East Singhbhum for the first time since the entry of the virus in Jharkhand on Wednesday. As per government data, there were 1181 active cases in Ranchi, while at least 1230 people were battling the virus in East Singhbhum. At least 13 of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a single-digit-spike in Covid cases, while three districts – Koderma, Hazaribag and Pakur – did not report even a single fresh case of infection on the day. As many as 40 fresh cases occurred in Bokaro, 29 in East Singhbhum, 16 in Gumla and 13 in Palamu. Meanwhile, state education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who underwent a lung transplant surgery in Chennai on Tuesday, was stable and recovering well, doctors from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare in the Tamil Nadu capital said. The minister will be kept under observation in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for at least two more weeks. Another cabinet minister, Rameshwar Oraon, who was admitted at Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, was also stable and did not complain of any severe symptoms, doctors from the private healthcare facility said. The government on Wednesday tested swab samples of 25,320 people and around 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 37.33 lakh people and tested 37.14 lakh of them. The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand was 1,05,224 while the number of active cases reached 4009 on Wednesday. At least 913 people have died of the viral infection in Jharkhand so far. As per government data, the doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.23 per cent against the national average of 0.39 per cent. The doubling rate of infection in the tribal state was 301.28 days against the national average of 180.14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
12-11-2020||Jharkhand||Sindri fertilizer unit to commence production by Aug 2021||Sindri’s natural-gas-based fertilizer unit had been facing the challenge of being completed on time, but now it looks all set to be completed soon. The initial hiccup that the fertilizer factory of Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL) was facing due to the lockdown has been resolved. And the installation work of the Rs 6500 crore factory is back on time. According to officials, 79 per cent of the project was completed by October 2020. The factory will start production by August 2021 if the work continues at the same pace. The HURL fertilizer plant is a joint venture project with Coal India Limited (CIL), National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), Indian Oil Company Limited (IOCL), and Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited (FCIL), Sindri. “Seventy-nine per cent of the work is complete.Ammonia converter, urea reactor, and CO2 absorption unit have been installed. The low-pressure and high-pressure flash drums have also been set up,” said Himmat Singh Chauhan, General Manager of HURL’s Sindri unit, during a press conference. “A switchyard of 220 KV capacity, along with the peeling tower has been set up at the site,” he informed. Regarding the ongoing work for other facilities at the Sindri unit, Chauhan maintained that the mechanical work for the installation work of two captive power plants of 20 megawatts each is complete. “These power plants will become functional by March 2020. Also, by the end of this year, the natural gas pipeline work will be completed. Work is in progress to have the demineralization plant and bagging building functional on time,” added Singh. He also hinted at getting the cooperation of the locals for the timely completion of the project. “Apart from having the factory set up, we are working hard to improve the basic facilities for the locals. We have plans to better the water and electricity supply here along with the healthcare facilities. We have planned to develop the existing Urban Primary Health Centre (PHC) of Sindri into a model health centre of Jharkhand,” elaborated Chauhan. Notably, deputy commissioner of Dhanbad, Uma Shankar Singh during a meeting with HURL, FCIL, Sindri unit, and Associated Cement Company (ACC) Limited, Sindri unit chalked out a plan for up-gradation of facilities of Sindri Urban PHC, on November 5 at the district collectorate. During the meeting, he constituted a committee led by Medical Officer in Charge of Jharia, Kumari Punam to prepare a detailed report concerning the facilities available at Sindri’s urban PHC. “Besides upgrading Sindri urban PHC we also have a long-term plan to revive the 205 bedded Hospital of Fertilizer Corporation of India in association with Fertilizer Corporation of India, State Government, and ACC Limited. Talking about improving the power supply of Sindri, Chauhan said, “We working with Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited to better the electricity supply. Work is also on to improve the water supply.” He added that they are also in talks with Dhanbad Municipal Corporation to replace the non-functional streetlights of Sindri in the next two months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-239
