13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad florists demand resumption of trains to Calcutta||The florists of Dhanbad, who are dependent on the flowers of Calcutta, are facing a lot of difficulties bringing flowers from Calcutta due to disruption of train services from Calcutta to Dhanbad during the lockdown and non-resumption of the services of popular trains like Coalfield Express (12340) and Black diamond Express (22388/22389) till date. The biggest difficulty was experienced by the florists during Diwali as they were required to bring a huge quantity of flowers, garlands, bouquet, etc. from Calcutta for supply in the local market to Dhanbad. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Friday, Lallu Malakar, a florist of Court More locality of Dhanbad said, “We are now required to bring the flowers in reserved mini trucks having a fare of Rs 11,500 per trip due to the various restrictions and the reserved vehicle fare for Calcutta has also been increased from Rs 7,500 to Rs 11,500 during the Covid-19 time.” “Though the demand for flowers this Diwali is like every year but due to apprehensions regarding the lack of liquidity in the market, a slightly lesser quantity of flowers have been brought by the florists and this may lead to a crisis on Saturday during the day as the response of customers is better than our expectations,” said Malakar. Echoing sentiments, Ramesh Malakar, another florist of station road locality of Dhanbad said, “Though it is not possible for every one of us to visit Calcutta and bring their consignment in separated reserved vehicles we have devised the system of hiring of pool vehicles for bringing flowers,” and added that instead of dealing with contractors for procuring flower they are now directly visiting the villages like Kolaghat, Ranaghat, Krishnanagar, etc. to purchase the flower from flower growers. “The situation was not so difficult during the pre-lockdown period when a majority of our consignment used to come through trains like Coalfield Express, Black Diamond Express through which a large number of daily passengers of Dhanbad also used to visit Calcutta to bring a wide range of products from there for sale in the local market,” said Ramesh. “We demand the state government and district administration to ensure early resumption of train services between the Dhanbad and Calcutta so that small traders like us dependent to Calcutta market do not have to face difficulty,” said Ramesh and added that though interstate bus service has started from Jharkhand but the bus operators are charging an increased fare and instead of regular fare of Rs 450 they are charging Rs 600 per person as fare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur-based adventure team scales three peaks||A team from Jamshedpur’s Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF), including Everester and Padma Bhushan awardee Bachendri Pal, reached three peaks successfully in an arduous journey from Uttarakhand to Himachal Pradesh, making the trek the country’s first. Apart from Pal, the team comprised 11 thrill-seekers as well as a group from the steel city-based adventure outfit. The members hail from Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Indore and Jaipur. Named as the Triple Pass Challenge, the adventure kicked off on October 9, and ended on October 29 spanning across three peaks and the same number of weeks. In normal cases, trekkers stick to reach just one pass, but for the first time the expedition was organised to cover three high-altitude passes in a go. The team wrested Darwa Pass (13,500 ft), Bali Pass (16,200 ft) and Borasu Pass (17,300 ft) -- all in Uttarakhand. Besides Pal, other Everesters included Hemant Gupta, R.S. Pal and Poonam Rawat as well as highly experienced instructors Mohan Rawat, Dharmendra and Randev. A TSAF official said that the trek was well-planned keeping adjustments and difficulty levels in mind. “Covid-related safety measures were adopted. All the participants were tested before joining the journey and all standard government guidelines were followed during the expedition,” he said. The team started from Sangamchatti in Uttarkashi on October 12, then crossed dense forest of pine and rhododendron and the mystique Dodital lake. It crossed Darwa Pass on October 14 before starting  the downhill climb till Hanuman Chatti. However, this did not keep the members from starting to prepare for the next challenge to climb the  Bali Pass on October 17. With several exposed sections on the way, the journey was not easy. But with help from the TSAF team, every member successfully passed the sections and finally reached the Bali Pass on October 20, after navigating through steep, rocky areas. The team also crossed a glacier and trekked through an exposed ridge till Odari, which is situated at an altitude of 14,000 feet. The morning at Odari on October 21 was one of the coldest nights in the expedition. The journey to Borasu Pass started on October 23. A rarely visited location, much information about the pass was not available to the trekkers beforehand. However, walking through some difficult  crevasse and rocky terrain, the team finally reached the pass on October 27. Shortly,  the team started the arduous downhill journey which proved to be difficult, especially crossing the never-ending moraine field . The team walked even after sunset. Finally, the members  camped in an abandoned ITBP camp near Chitkul in Himachal. On October 28, the members reached Chitkul – the destination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Baby elephant falls in farm well, rescued||A baby elephant, which fell into a farm well at a village in Ramgarh district on Friday morning, was rescued after a mammoth, hour-long effort of the forest department with the help of local villagers. "A herd of six elephants including two baby elephants were passing by from the nearby forest. Suddenly a baby elephant fell into the farm well. Our team reached there and rescued the elephant from the well. The elephant has no injuries and was reunited with the herd," said Ramgarh DFO Vaid Prakash Kamboj. When the baby elephant drowned, there were five other elephants present near the well at the Rakuwa village under the Gola block of Ramgarh district. There was panic in the entire area till the rescue of the baby elephant was completed. "The herd of elephant is a resident of the Gola area and we have alerted the forest department team following the incident," Kamboj added. The Gola block in Ramgarh district is the most affected area of Jharkhand by wild elephants. Regularly herds of elephant come from the forest and destroy standing crops, mud-built houses, and they have even killed men, women, and children of the village. Local social worker Sudhir Manglesh said, “Elephant attack is quite common in our villages. We have lost property and lives for the last several years. Department has no proper plan to control the attack of elephants. The life of the local villagers is always at stake. The herds of elephant are fearless. They don't fear by the bursting of firecrackers, dragon torches, or any other local means."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Bedia tola snake charmers receive special Diwali gifts||With Diwali round the corner, more than 100 residents at Bedia tola village of Pradhankhanta locality of Dhanbad got a surprise when they received exquisite dresses ahead of the festival. Not only this, the residents, majority of whom are snake charmers by profession, received homemade food as Diwali gift from Prity Pathak, the special guest at the village. Pathak, a fashion designer of Jagjivan Nagar area in Dhanbad, made the designer kurtas for the village men, sarees for the women and lehengas for the girls. She distributed the clothes among the residents on Friday. Talking to The Telegraph Online, the 23-year-old  said, “I came to know about the village about a month ago through one of my father’s contacts Bengu Thakur, a resident of a nearby locality who is also a language-right activist. I was surprised to know that people here are so far from development and still making a living with the traditional profession of snake charming.” “I decided to help these people during Diwali and prepared the dresses on my own for over a month. I invested my savings of around Rs 30,000, and gathered Rs 20,000 from crowdfunding through an online platform called Milap. Other than this, I gathered around Rs 10,000 more from friends and other family  members,” Pathak, the daughter of a BCCL employee and a homemaker, said. The fashion designer completed her course from International School of Fashion Designing in Calcutta this year, and has been engaging in social activities since her days at Calcutta. “All the dresses designed by me are premium quality ethnic wear,” said Pathak, adding that she wanted to celebrate Diwali this year by bringing a smile on the faces of those who are economically deprived. Pathak also revealed that during her Calcutta days, she prepared sanitary pads and provided them to more than 2,000 women. She has also provided masks made by her to the poorer sections of the society. Jitendra Bedia, a construction worker and one of the first persons in Bedia tola to complete matriculation, said, “Due to extreme poverty, majority of the children here are deprived of education as they are compelled to work along with adults to financially support the family. All of them were very happy receiving special dresses  during Diwali from a special guest.” “Many of the children and women were very curious about the job and the  lifestyle of Prity and wanted to know what kind of study is required to become a fashion designer,” said Sapan Bedia, another villager of Bedia tola.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city police to crack down on gambling during Diwali||The district police have elaborate arrangements to see that steel city is free from gambling which is an age-old practice during Diwali here. Significantly, intensive raids have been planned to be conducted at various places infamous for organizing gambling during the Diwali night and it has also been declared by the superintendent of police (City) Subhash Chandra Jat, those police officers will be taken to task if their involvement is established behind organizing it. "We have decided to prevent gambling from being organized at places during Diwali. For making our drive a success, we need the help of the common men who may pass on information on my number that is 9471190203 without fear. The help expected from the people will be in addition to the special teams that we have set up to check the gambling across the city," said Jat while talking to The Telegraph Online. The City SP said they have instructed OCs of all the police stations to give utmost importance to any tip-off given the people regarding the gambling. He made it clear that patrolling parties have also been instructed to carry out surprise raids at the places wherever they suspect the gamblers are assembled. "If any police officer is found indulged in providing tacit support in organizing the gambling, then the officer will be taken to task," the senior police officer pointed out. Jat said that he will monitor the policing against gambling during Diwali while monitoring the general law and order situation in the steel city. He pointed out the district police and mobile cops have also been instructed to keep an eye on the gambling. Gambling is organized on a large scale at localities like Sonari, Kadma, Jugsalai, Sitaramdera and Sakchi on the occasion of Diwali. At Sonari and Kadma, people tend to try their luck by participating in gambling at open places, while at Sakchi, Sitaramdera and Jugsalai, it is held in closed doors.  Gambling is also organized in the most clandestine way at the posh Circuit House area in Bistupur. A police officer on the condition of anonymity revealed that gambling arrangements cannot be held without the support of the local police. "This is the reason that the superintendent of police (city) has given a word of caution against the OCs to remain extra vigilant against gambling during the festival of light," said the cop. A source that has links with the underworld activities in the steel city said that the gambling is organized in a professional way at such hotels which are not known for running well. "The one who organizes the gambling pays lucrative rent for using the rooms of the hotels that are not run properly. Gambling is also held in vacant company quarters and also closed industrial units," said the source while talking to this website. Incidentally, a Diwali reveler, Mohan Lal who does indulge in gambling during Diwali said, "It is a common practice for us. There is a belief that if anyone plays gambling during Diwali and wins it, Goddess Laxmi gets pleased and money flows the whole year."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Mayor meets chief secy over delay in Chhath guidelines||Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra has demanded that the state government issue guidelines for Chhath immediately and end the uncertainty among people since the festival is a week away. Lakra met with chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Friday to highlight problems being faced by the public and civic bodies across the state to complete the groundwork required for the festival. Singh is understood to have assured the mayor that the administration would issue dos and don’ts for Chhath in the next couple of days. Lakra, who is the constitutional head of Ranchi Municipal Corporation, said, “After Durga puja, we worked on a war footing to clean all water bodies in the city. We have also finished preparations for immersion of Kali idols. However, there are several other works that have to be done at Chhath ghats, namely, arrange lights, set up toilets, lay pathways, to ensure devotees don’t face any problems. But without proper guidelines, we aren’t able to proceed.” Chhath, an important festival for Biharis, is widely celebrated in Jharkhand. This year, it is scheduled to be held on November 20 and 21 when devotees offer arghya (prayer) to the sun God at dusk and dawn. Lakhs of devotees turn up at water bodies for a holy dip and prayers. But amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, allowing such religious congregations could well prove risky, and may aid the spread of the virus. Lakra demanded that the state government clear its stand without further delay. “It’s true that the pandemic is still looming, but one has to balance rituals and religious practices. Let the government say if Chhath will be allowed in public or whether it has to be observed indoors. Delaying guidelines is only adding to the uncertainty,” she said. The state government has been extremely cautious about issuing public advisories ahead of key festivals, because of which guidelines have been notified late. Durga Puja guidelines were issued at the 11th hour, upsetting organisers. For Diwali too, the government came up with guidelines only four days before the festival, announcing a ban on crackers in public places. On Thursday, it issued a two-hour window for bursting crackers at homes and residential complexes, annoying health experts who advocate a total ban on firecrackers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Cyclists to promote fitness at steel city||Steel city’s Marine Drive is set to witness an assembly of former national and international pedal stars on Saturday as they participate in a cycling expedition. Inderjeet Singh, an ex-international cyclist and a national champion, is the main person behind the organisation of this event. Singh, through this occasion, wishes to tell people that cycling was one of the finest ways of maintaining fitness level. “The 60-km cycling expedition will be of two rounds commencing from Domuhani river side along the Marine drive to Adityapur toll bridge  and back. In fact, November 14 also happens to be my 60th birthday and I wish people to participate in the event,” Singh, former president of Central Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee and current vice-president of Takht Harimandir Patna Sahib, said. He will be one of the participants in Friday’s event and will exhibit his zeal to set out the message that age is not a barrier in the path of maintaining fitness. Former international cyclist Satbir Singh Sahota, who is overseeing the affair, said they were expecting around 30 participants. “Some former national and international cyclists have confirmed their participation and an appeal has also been made to the general people to support us in spreading the message for fitness,” he said. According to Sahota, the former secretary of Jharkhand Cycling Association, the participants will assemble near the Domuhani river at 8.15 am and the expedition will be held from 8.30 am to 10.30 am. It will be followed by a simple cake-cutting ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city shopkeepers do brisk business on Dhanteras||Hundreds of shoppers thronged the local markets, malls, and retail outlets since Friday morning for buying jewellery, utensils, coins (gold and silver) on the auspicious occasion of Dhanteras. Dhanteras marks the beginning of Diwali. It is a time when people loosen their purse strings and go on a buying spree. This year Dhanteras is being celebrated for two days. The auspicious time for buying began at 9.30 pm last night which will continue till Friday evening. The crowd flouted Covid-19 safety protocols by evading social distancing norms and avoided wearing face masks. The jewellery stores in the city were happy with the customers’ positive response despite the pandemic. Sunil Verma, proprietor of Bistupur-based Kuldip Sons Jewellers, a leading jewellery store of Jamshedpur said that many people had made advance bookings. “The response of customers has been quite good despite the pandemic situation. Many customers who had booked their jewellery in advance got them delivered today on Dhanteras. We followed the Covid-19 safety protocols. Entry to our store was restricted for those without face masks,” said Verma while talking to The Telegraph Online. A salesman of a store at Sakchi echoed similar views. “Covid-19 has failed to dampen the spirit of Dhanteras because jewellery, coins, and utensils were in huge demand,” he said. Even small shops in areas like Sonari, Kadma, Baridih, Golmuri, and Telco attracted a large number of customers. Rakesh Agarwal, owner of a utensils store at Dalda Line in Sakchi said, “We did brisk business as the market remained crowded throughout the day.” People also purchased kitchen appliances, electronic goods, apparel, and footwear on the occasion. Aman Kumar, who sells decorative items and utensils at a shop inside the Bistupur market, said, “The sale picked up pace in the afternoon when several customers bought decorative pieces and utensils from me.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries on the rise, fresh cases dip in Jharkhand||Jharkhand on Thursday reported over twice as many recoveries compared to fresh cases of Covid-19, but could not put a check on the growing number of casualties, four of which occurred from Wednesday midnight to Thursday evening, government data highlighted. At least 606 Covid-19 patients recovered from the infection in 24 hours against 269 fresh cases surfacing across the state, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi on Thursday reported 65 fresh cases of infection against 108 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 265 recoveries against only 49 fresh cases. As per latest government data, at least 18 districts in Jharkhand had less than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection on Thursday evening. However, despite the fall in the number of active cases and a rise in the recovery rate, number of Covid-19 casualties in the tribal state is on the rise. The four deaths reported on Thursday took the Covid-19 toll in the state to 917. Latehar, Ranchi, Chatra and Palamu reported one Covid casualty each on the day, the NHM bulletin stated. The government on Thursday tested swab samples of 22,126 people and around 1 per cent of them were found infected. Health workers in Jharkhand have so far collected swab samples of 37.56 lakh people and tested 37.38 lakh of them. At least 16 of the 24 districts in the state reported a single-digit-spike in Covid-19 cases, while two districts, Jamtara and Dumka, did not report even a single case of infection on Thursday. The number of active cases in East Singhbhum as well as in Ranchi dropped close to 1000 after Thursday’s findings. Of the over 37 lakh people tested so far, as many as 1,05,493 were found to be Covid positive. However, at least 1,00,908 Covid patients have recovered from the infection in Jharkhand so far, bringing the number of active cases down at 3,668 and the recovery rate up at 95.65 per cent. Jharkhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate was higher than the national average of 92.90 per cent, highlighted government data. As per government data, the growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand was 0.22 per cent against the national average of 0.45 per cent. The doubling rate of Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand was 318.68 days against the national average of 152.74 days. The mortality rate in Jharkhand, however, increased marginally on Thursday and reached 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
13-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand lines up universal pension scheme ||The Jharkhand government is planning to launch a universal pension scheme for elderly, widows and disabled people. Sources in the chief minister’s office said chief minister Hemant Soren is keen on announcing the universal pension scheme for elderly, widows and disabled on statehood day (November 15). “There are over 2 million people in the state who are either disabled, widows or senior citizens. The chief minister wants all of them to get pension irrespective of their financial, family or caste status. The formal announcement would be done by the chief minister during statehood day which would make Jharkhand the only state in eastern India to have a universal pension scheme for the disabled, widows and elderly,” said a senior official at the CMO in Ranchi. In June 2019, Bihar became the first state to launch a universal old-age pension scheme in which any person aged 60 years and above will get a sum of Rs 400 per month directly transferred to their bank accounts irrespective of their financial, family or caste status. In other states, pension is provided to elderly, widows and physically challenged people only if they are living below poverty line or belong to Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes. “The state social welfare department is working on the scheme. There will be a mechanism wherein beneficiaries, if they are not getting any other pension either from the state or the central government, will be entitled to get an amount between Rs 200 and Rs 300 per month. Monitoring would be done at the district level to avoid duplicity with the existing central government scheme,” the source said. Under the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP), a BPL person aged between 60 and 80 years and above gets a pension of Rs 1,000 per month, after adding shares of both the central and state governments. Disabled BPL people aged between 18 and 79 years get a monthly pension of Rs 1,000, while BPL widows aged between 40 and 79 years also get a monthly pension of Rs 1,000. “Once the universal pension scheme is launched, the criteria would not have restrictions based on income and age and would be applicable to all,” said a close aide of the chief minister. Principal secretary, social welfare department, Avinash Kumar, confirmed the plan but refused to elaborate. “Yes there are plans on these lines but I would not like to speak much on it at the moment,” he said. The Jharkhand Viklang Manch, an organisation espousing the cause of disabled people in the state, has started a campaign to tweet to chief minister Soren on his official Twitter handle reminding him about providing a monthly pension of Rs 2,500 to the disabled which was mentioned in the JMM election manifesto. “The JMM had assured in its manifesto during 2019 Assembly polls that it will provide a pension of Rs 2,500 to all disabled people. We would like the chief minister to fulfil the promise on November 15,” said Arun Kumar, a founder member of the Manch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-238
