14-11-2020||Jharkhand||Youth arrested with drugs in Jamshedpur, brown sugar seized||Acting on a tip-off, police nabbed a 22-year-old youth and recovered three packets of brown sugar from his possession at Kalyan Nagar under the Sitaramdera Thana area on Friday late night. The youth identified as Taranjeet Singh who is a resident of Birsanagar near Telco was returning home after buying the narcotic drug from a woman drug-peddler in Kalyan Nagar at about 10.30 pm when he was nabbed and subsequently arrested. The Sitaramdera Thana OC Anjani Kumar Singh confirmed the confiscation of three packets of brown sugar from a youth late in the night. "After two women were arrested from the adjoining Chhayanagar while selling brown sugar on November 4, we had spread a message among residents living across the Chhayanagar and Kalyan Nagar to remain vigilant against the drug-peddling in the localities. The arrest of the 22-year-old youth with the drug was the result of our initiative. A section of local residents was watchful about the activities of Bharti Devi and as soon as the youth came to her house, some of the residents had given the tip-off. A police team nabbed the accused watching the suspicious movement of the youth at the exit of the slum late last night," said Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online. On being interrogated by the police, the youth pointed out that he bought the brown sugar from the woman identified as Bharti Devi. Soon afterward a police team entered into the densely-populated Kalyan Nagar for raiding the house of Bharti. But as there was a commotion at the sight of the raiding police team, the woman peddler managed to escape the urban slum. The police raided her house, but neither was she found nor any stock of brown sugar was recovered from her house. The OC said they are continuously raiding the house of Bharti Devi who is still absconding. "If the woman peddler continues to remain absconding, then we will start a process of getting her properties attached by putting a petition with the Jamshedpur court," said the OC. The police, however, registered a case under relevant sections against Taranjeet Singh and also against Bharti Devi on the FIR lodged by the OC of Sitaramdera Thana, Anjani Kumar Singh. Taranjeet, on Saturday, was sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail after a Covid-19 test was done on him and he was produced before a judicial magistrate on Saturday afternoon. Of late, Kalyan Nagar and Chhayanagar which fall under Bhuinyadih in Sitaramdera have come up as hubs for drug-peddlers.  A source having knowledge in the drug-peddling activity said that Adityapur Muslim Bustee in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district used to be a hub of the drug-peddling where a large number of drug-addicts, including girls, used to visit regularly. But after Dolly, a woman kingpin in the drug-peddling was arrested in July this year, several women residing in the slum areas in Bhuinyadih have taken up the profession, giving the youngsters of the steel city to procure the brown sugar from the city itself. The source pointed out some of the key associates of Dolly had started supplying the drugs active in the Sitaramdera area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
14-11-2020||Jharkhand||The Diwali chill has gone, likely to come back during Chhath||The prevailing nip in the air has done the vanishing act in Jharkhand in the last 48-hours and weathermen say it is likely to make a comeback around Chhath, but till then, anti-cyclonic conditions prevailing across the state will keep things relatively warm. Weathermen said an anti-cyclone prevailing over Jharkhand had pushed up the Celsius. "Jharkhand is under the influence of an anti-cyclone which usually results in fair weather and a rise in night temperatures. Today's (Saturday) Met reading suggests that there won't be any significant changes in the weather condition of Jharkhand at least in the next five to six days. Mercury is likely to plummet around November 21 as we are expecting restoration of north westerly wind flow by then," explained Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Met Centre talking to The Telegraph Online. The senior Met official said the adverse system had blocked the free flow of the north-westerly wind despite the fact that there has been moderate snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir. “It has also resulted in a rise in minimum temperature by several degrees,” he added. The night reading has also followed an upward curve in Ranchi, Jamshedpur and elsewhere in the last couple of days. IMD's Ranchi weather office recorded a minimum of 16.4°C, three notches above normal, on Saturday. Kanke, on the outskirts of Ranchi, recorded around 15°C. Last week, the minimum readings at Kanke had plummeted to around 11°C while Ranchi had recorded around 12 °C. On Saturday, Jamshedpur was a tad warmer at 19.2°C, four notches above the average normal. Daltonganj, the Palamau headquarters, recorded a minimum temperature of 17.9°C, three notches above normal. Bokaro, Dhanbad, Koderma, Chaibasa in West Singhbhum and several other places recorded minimum readings of over 16 °C. The Ranchi weather office, in its long-term forecast, said minimum temperatures would witness a plunge once again from November 21. Till then, fair weather conditions would prevail in most districts. Whethermen ruled out any possibility of rain in the next one week. “The impact of the anti-cyclone will wane in the next five to six days. This will result in a further dip in temperatures,” said a duty officer at IMD's Regional Met Centre at Alipore in Calcutta. He went on to say that they did not find any trace of western disturbance in Saturday’s satellite readings which usually results in rainfall in winter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
14-11-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi, Dhanbad celebrate Kali Puja and Diwali||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
14-11-2020||Jharkhand||NTPC achieves major feat at its North Karanpura Project ||The National Thermal Power Corporation  (NTPC) on Saturday announced a major achievement at its North Karanpura Super Thermal Power Project (3x660MW), when it performed the main boiler acid cleaning of Unit-I in a record time frame. Project head Asim Kumar Goswami said that they have achieved all designated parameters as per schedule. With this compulsory process being completed, chances are high that the first unit of the project will get commissioned within the next three months. The plant, situated in Chatra's industrial town Tandwa, is supposed to supply power to several states including Bengal. According to sources, the process is a mandatory requirement at a power plant. They said that in the older method, the process is initiated only after the boiler is lit up, and that too, is done after it reaches a certain temperature. However, in this process, the boiler needs to be shut down for 20 days, during which all operations related to power generation are halted. The NTPC’s idea of cleaning the main boiler before commissioning means that it does not need to be cleaned after it gets a commission. Officers termed this achievement big, and expressed their happiness.They said that with this mandatory process achieved, they believe that its first 660MW unit will hopefully be commissioned in next three months. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Goswami told that the unique part about this achievement is that the required temperature of 75 to 80 degrees Celsius has been achieved by an Aux Boiler for the first time of BHEL NTPC thermal units. He said the acid cleaning process started on November 9 which concluded on Saturday without any error. Once the first unit gets commissioned, the second process would need another six months to start, officers said.  Third unit will start six months after the commissioning of the second one, they added. The Covid-19 pandemic has delayed the commissioning of the first unit coming up in Tandwa. The Rs14,300crore project will cater to the power needs of Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal once fully operational. The project was originally proposed in 1996 but got delayed because Coal India Limited objected to the location of the power plant as it was coming up on a site having 6 billion tonnes of coal, and demanded a relocation. The work restarted much later in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
14-11-2020||Jharkhand||Grocery store owner robbed by armed militants in Palamu||Armed militants suspected to be of the Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad attacked a house in the Palamu district and robbed cash, jewellery and a motorcycle, police said on Saturday. The incident happened in Getha village in the Lesliganj police station area on Friday, they said. Raju Saw runs a grocery store at his house and the militants knocked on the pretext of buying goods for Diwali, they said. As the shopkeeper opened the door, the militants threatened him with guns and looted Rs 62,000 in cash, jewellery and a motorcycle, police said. It could be that some local criminals robbed the house in the name of a militant organisation, an officer said, adding that an investigation is underway. A 38-year-old man was shot dead and his face crushed in Jharkhand's Dumka district, police said on Saturday. The body of Sunil Das was found on the bank of Motihara river in Machkol village on Friday, Sub-divisional Police Officer (SDPO) Animesh Naithani said. Das, a resident of Barnia in the Taljhari police station area, was shot and also attacked with a sharp weapon to deform the face, police said. Superintendent of Police Ambar Lakra said that the reason behind the killing seems to be enmity with someone. The face was badly injured so that the corpse is not identified, he said. The police are investigating the case, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
14-11-2020||Jharkhand||Giridih illegal mica mine collapse kills 4||Four persons were buried alive when the roof of an illegal mica mine caved in on Thursday in Jharkhand’s Giridih district. The incident happened around 5pm on Thursday in a dense forest under Gawan police station area, over 60km from the district headquarters. The deceased have been identified as Sukhu Tuddu, 18, of Gawan and Ravi Kamar, 24, Anil Yadav, 38, and Gopal Manjhi, 35, all from Dhab police station area in Koderma district. However, the bodies were allegedly cremated by the locals without informing police, forcing the police team along with district mining and forest officials to initiate a probe. Giridih deputy commissioner Rahul Kumar Sinha said, “The incident happened in a forest area bordering the two districts of Giridih and Koderma. Three of the deceased were from neighbouring Koderma district while one was from Giridih district. They were engaged in illegally extracting mica from the mine. A police team reached the spot on Friday. On the basis of the report submitted by the district mining unit and the forest department, the police will lodge an FIR against the person carrying out illegal mining activities in that area and unnatural death cases will be registered. A joint team comprising officials from Koderma and Giridih districts will investigate the steps to be taken to stop such illegal mining activities. The forest department will pay adequate compensation to the deceased families as per government norms.” Giridih superintendent of police Amit Renu confirmed the deaths. He said that forest and mining department officials will submit a report soon and they will take action against the operators of such illegal mines. “Extraction of mica in a forest area is illegal and has been banned for more than two decades on environmental grounds. But private operators take advantage of the dense forest and reluctance on the part of the police and forest officials to visit the area due to extremism to operate mica mines without following any safety norms. Even the mandatory requirement of filling up closed mines with sand is not followed. Mine operators lure poor villagers to extract scrap from the abandoned mines in the forest area and this has resulted in several mishaps due to collapse of the mine roof,” said a source in Gawan police station. Mica extracted from such illegal and abandoned mines are sold to intermediaries and then exported to cosmetic manufacturers as it is used to add glitter to natural cosmetics and is a key ingredient in products such as face packs, mascara, eyeliner, lipstick and nail polish. The mines have been closed but people do engage in scrap mining at a risk to their lives with the threat of roof or the mine wall collapse looming on them. “There has been a boom in mica mining in the recent years with soaring demand for natural cosmetics as artificial makeup made of synthetic chemicals have been linked to illness, including cancer. This has made private operators carry out scrap mining in the abandoned mines illegally using poor villagers who have no other source of livelihood,” said social worker P.K. Mrinal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-237
