15-11-2020||Jharkhand||Saathi Foundation provides free education to 45 children in Wasseypur||A group of self-motivated youths is providing free of cost education to around 45 children in Wasseypur and the adjoining localities. Sabauddin Nishat (45), a foreign returned teacher of Wasseypur locality of Dhanbad, who along with an event manager of his locality, Irfan Alam (25), are working to shape the future of the children of Wasseypur locality by providing free of cost evening tuitions to them for the last five years. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Sabauddin who earlier worked in Qatar and returned to his hometown said, “We have two centres of our organization, Saathi Foundation, including one at my house near Ara More in Wasseypur and another one near Bhatta locality of Wasseypur, where free of cost educational classes to children of 6 years to 20 years is provided.” These children are from the economically weaker section of the society. Echoing sentiments, Irfan Alam said, "Majority of our students are wards of daily wage-earners, auto drivers or rickshaw pullers of the nearby locality. Besides imparting education to them, we also teach communication skills and hygienic way of living." "We have completed all preparations for imparting free of cost spoken English tutorials for the girl students of our locality which will be launched next week. We have invested our own money in the initiative. We also get some occasional contribution to our philanthropism from some people of Wasseypur locality," said Alam. Razia Parween, coordinator of Saathi Foundation who also imparts education to the children at Saathi foundation Centre said, "We carry out education of children of the junior section from 3 pm to 4.30 pm and the senior students of 15 to 20 years of age are taught from 7 pm." "We also contribute to the free of cost services at the centre," added Parween. Sadhni Devi, a resident of Kharkabad locality, said, “My husband Rajesh Bauri works as a construction site laborer and could hardly earn enough to manage the tuition expense of my daughter Neha (10). I am thankful from the core of my heart to Saathi Foundation who helped her with the free of cost education." Rehan (9), another student of Azadnagar locality, said, "My father Maqsood Alam is an auto driver and could not afford to pay for private tuitions but I clarified my doubts in Maths and Science by attending the regular tuition classes at Saathi Foundation Centre."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
15-11-2020||Jharkhand||Three fires break out at Jamshedpur on Diwali night||Three fires broke out at Jugsalai, Sonari and Mango localities on Diwali (Sunday) night, partially gutting two shops, and severely damaging a flat in a residential apartment. While a paint-cum-hardware shop that caught fire at Sonari market was put out by locals, the fires at Jugsalai and the apartment were extinguished by the fire brigade. A dia or lamp lit during a Laxmi Puja triggered the fire at the paint-cum-hardware shop in Sonari around 9 PM. Shop owner Sitaram Agarwal said that he suddenly noticed the flames in the paint section of the shop while he and his family members were busy with the puja. "Paints are highly flammable; the fire suddenly spread and engulfed the shelve where the paint containers were kept. The puja was disrupted, causing a commotion.  Soon neighbours rushed in and started throwing water at the fire, which prevented it from spreading further. It was finally doused when someone from the neighbourhood used a handy fire-extinguisher," Agrawal told The Telegraph Online. "A fire broke out at a paint-cum-hardware shop in the densely populated Sonari market area.  Had the neighbours not acted in time, this could have become a major mishap.  When we reached the spot, the fire had already been brought under control," Renu Gupta, OC, Sonari Thana, informed. The Jugalsai fire broke out at a plastic shop on Station Road around 10.30 PM. A number of young people engaged in bursting fireworks on the road noticed the flames. “A few of them broke open the shop's door and made others throw water at the flames. Some of them dared to enter the shop and dragged out the shelves which were on fire. A fire-tender reached the spot soon after and extinguished the fire," Nityanand Mahto, OC, Jugsalai Thana, said. According to Mahto, a short circuit resulted in the fire. The shop owner shut up the shop following Laxmi Puja without switching off the lights. The third fire broke out at Mango at around 11 PM, on the fourth floor of one Tarun Apartment on Dimna Road. The flat was unoccupied as owner Puja Sardar was out of station. A local alerted other residents after he saw smoke coming out of the flat, prompting them to inform the fire brigade and police. Firefighters rushed to the area and brought the situation under control. It took two hours for the fire brigade to extinguish the flames completely," Vinay Kumar, OC, Mango Thana informed The Telegraph Online. Kumar said initial reports suggest the accident was caused due to a short circuit, and that the owner of the flat has been informed about the mishap.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
15-11-2020||Jharkhand||Achinto Pramanik nominated as secretary of Masters Athletics Association||Veteran runner and national medalist Achinto Pramanik has been nominated as the secretary of the newly-formed Masters Athletics Association, Jharkhand. He was unanimously nominated to the post by representatives from different districts at a meeting held on the Ramchandrapur football ground in Seraikela-Kharsawan district on Sunday. The 67-year-old resident of Gamharia, who has won medals in national masters athletics championships, said he would try work towards promotion and betterment of athletics in the state by involving veteran athletes. “I have competed in masters athletic championships and am aware of the problems faced by athletes. They have to arrange funds on their own to compete in national competitions. It’s a big problem,” he remarked. Pramanik, who stills maintains his fitness by running daily on the Tata-Kandra road, said the new outfit would try to find sponsors and would also generate funds on its own. Others who were nominated to different posts of the association include - Avinash Soren as president (Seraikela-Kharsawan), Laxman Upadhyay (Ranchi) and Jagan Babu (East Singhbhum) as vice-presidents, Nishanand Mahto (West Singhbhum), Rayel Bakhla (Ranchi) and Ashok Nayak (Seraikela-Kharsawan) as assistant secretaries, Chinand Rakhal Das as treasurer, with Bhairav Pramanik and Tapas Pramanik as joint treasurers (Seraikela-Kharsawan). Lalmohan Mandal, Rakesh Singh, Mithun Pramanik, Manoj Choudhury, and Shivansh Dey have been made committee members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
15-11-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant felicitates 80 policemen on Statehood Day||Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Sunday felicitated at least 80 police personnel with medals at Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP) 1 Ground for exemplary work and lauded the police department for not only maintaining law and order in the state but also doing a commendable job in combating the Covid-19 pandemic. Hemant awarded three police personnel with the Governor Police Medal, as many as 47 police personnel with the Chief Minister’s Police Medal for gallantry and 30 cops with police medals for meritorious work. “While the poor and the needy were fed through community kitchens in all police stations of the state, the police, as Corona warriors, carried out their responsibilities well. During this time many policemen were also infected. But they were quick to resume work after recovering from the infection,” said Hemant. The chief minister also felicitated dependents of six martyrs during a march past ceremony on the occasion of the 20th Statehood Day and assured them the government’s complete support. “Many brave sons of Jharkhand have laid down their lives while protecting the people of our state. I salute them today, and I assure their dependents that the government will provide all possible support to them,” Hemant said. Neelamani Devi, widow of Shaheed S. A. Shukra Oraon; Vicky Kumar, son of martyred home guard Jamuna Prasad; Padmini Devi, widow of martyred home guard Satendra Singh; Muni Kumari, widow of Shaheed Shambhu Prasad Singh; Balmuni Gagrai, widow of martyr A. Lakhindra Munda and Sunita Soren, widow of martyr S.D. Chandrai Soren were felicitated and handed over cheques of Rs 25,000. The Inspector General of Police, Operations, Saket Kumar Singh and two others were awarded the Jharkhand Governor Medal for distinguished service. The 47 policemen, who were awarded Chief Minister’s Gallantry medals, included Nathu Singh Meena, Sub-Divisional Police Officer of Chakradharpur. Jharkhand Police Medal was awarded to Deputy Inspector General of Police, Akhilesh Kumar Jha, Senior Superintendent of Police M. Tamil Vanan, along with 30 police officers and policemen for meritorious service. Five other police officers who performed well during basic training were also honoured. Addressing cops from across the state, the chief minister admitted that the Covid-19 pandemic was taking a toll on the world, and Jharkhand was no different. “2020 has been a challenging year for all of us, but I am glad that we all have accepted the challenge and are moving ahead at a steady pace despite the odds,” he said. Hemant asked cops to remember great freedom fighters of Jharkhand on the birth anniversary of tribal hero Birsa Munda. “The land of Jharkhand has given birth to many brave sons of motherland India. And our state continues to produce brave soldiers who have vowed to protect the country and its people irrespective of the circumstances,” he said. The chief minister also inaugurated a 24-room IPS guest house at JAP 1 campus and witnessed a march past by jawans of JAP1, JAP2, JAP10, Indian Reserve Battalions (IRB) and Ranchi Police. “Time changes, circumstances also change. And it is our duty to adapt to the situation and strive for success,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
15-11-2020||Jharkhand||CM, Governor remember tribal hero Birsa Munda as Jharkhand turns 20||Chief Minister Hemant Soren and Governor Droupadi Murmu paid floral tributes to freedom fighter and tribal hero Birsa Munda on the occasion of his birth anniversary and the 20th Statehood Day of Jharkhand on Sunday. Recalling the contribution of Birsa Munda and other tribal heroes like Sidho Kanho and Nilamber Pitamber for the uplift of the tribal community and the people of Jharkhand at large, Hemant said that the residents of the state should never forget the sacrifices made by the tribal heroes of Jharkhand. After garlanding a statue of Birsa Munda at Bhagwan Birsa Munda Samadhi Sthal in Kokar, Hemant also spoke about the Jharkhand movement, which led to the formation of Jharkhand, a mineral-rich state with around 27 percent tribal population and over 30 tribe groups, including vulnerable groups. “Jharkhand was given a status of a separate state after years of struggle. We must never forget the sacrifices made to get a state we could call our own,” said Hemant. “We remember our heroes in almost every ceremony, so the younger generation can learn about their contribution and the feeling of patriotism and humanitarian values could be inculcated in them,” the chief minister added. Jharkhand was carved out of erstwhile Bihar on November 15, 2000. Every year, the state celebrates this day with pomp and glory. However, no grand celebrations were organised this year in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “I congratulate all my fellow Jharkhandis on this auspicious day. We have come a long way since the formation of the state. It has already been 20 years, and I am sure that we will see prosperity, growth and holistic development in the days to come,” Hemant said. Meanwhile, Governor Droupadi Murmu garlanded the statue of Birsa Munda amid the reverberating beats of tribal Mandar. Murmu said that the state was developing at a fast pace, and all the residents of the state should try and make Jharkhand a state that Dharti Aba Birsa Munda had dreamt of. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also extended his wishes to the people of Jharkhand on the Statehood Day. Modi took to microblogging website Twitter and paid tribute to Birsa Munda, who is referred to as Bhagwan (God) in Jharkhand. “He (Birsa Munda) was the true messiah of the poor. He struggled throughout his life for the welfare of the exploited and deprived. His contribution to the freedom movement and his efforts for social harmony will always inspire the countrymen,” Modi tweeted. Born in 1875 in Ulihatu village of Ranchi district, Birsa Munda had challenged the British rule and is credited with mobilising the tribal people against the British empire. The freedom fighter died in British custody at an early age of 25 years and attained a folk hero status. His portrait hangs in the Indian Parliament Museum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
15-11-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand MP letter to Kovind for Stan Swamy release||Rajmahal MP and JMM leader Vijay Kumar Hansdak has become the first parliamentarian from Jharkhand to come out in support of octogenarian Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, who has been arrested and jailed for his alleged involvement in the Bhima Koregaon violence and Maoist links. Fr Swamy was arrested by the National Investigation Agency on October 8 night from his residence near Ranchi. In a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind on November 10, Hansdak, son of former Congress MP Thomas Hansdah, has sought the immediate release of the elderly priest and closure of the “false” case lodged against Fr Swamy. “The 83-year-old Father Swamy is suffering from multiple ailments and is a veteran tribal rights activist and for close to five decades has been working on the forest rights of the tribal community. Through his arrest, NIA is yet again sending a message to the rest of the human rights community that they can stoop to any level to silence and crush dissent,” the letter said. “Father Stan Swamy’s arrest by NIA is malicious and spiteful as he and his associates have been constantly denying any link with Maoists. The allegation against him about his links in the Bhima Koregaon case is also false and fabricated. I on behalf of people of Jharkhand would like to appeal to take immediate concrete action to stop the proceedings of all the false allegations against Father Swamy and release him. I also appeal to release all those innocent social activists and intellectuals who have been arrested on false allegations,” the MP wrote. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, his Kerala counterpart Pinarai Vijayan, a host of senior Opposition leaders and MPs of the Congress, the DMK, the NCP along with human rights activists from across the country have condemned the arrest and demanded the release of the Jesuit priest. Peaceful protests have been held across the country seeking the release of Fr Swamy. Fr Swamy, who is lodged in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, had last week filed an application in court saying that he cannot hold a glass and asked permission to use a straw and a sipper. The court scheduled the hearing of the application on November 28, as the prosecution sought 20 days to respond. The medical plea of Fr Swamy stated that he had almost lost his hearing ability in both ears, fallen in jail multiple times and has been operated on for hernia twice and still has pain in his lower abdomen. On October 23, a special NIA court had denied Fr Swamy’s interim bail petition on health grounds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-236
