16-11-2020||Jharkhand||Police arrest four assailants for a murder in Adityapur||The police arrested all four assailants within 24 hours after they killed a 26-year-old youth at Vidyutnagar, Jamshedpur on Sunday. Those arrested on Monday were identified as Kuar Sabaiya alias Mathura, Bhagwan Sabaiya, Jogen Sabaiya and Goberdhan Kurli, all residents of Vidyutnagar. The police also recovered two iron rods and many sticks used in the murder from their houses at Vidyutnagar on Monday. The murder happened in Vidyutnagar under Adityapur thana area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district about five km away. Revealing about the breakthrough, Seraikela-Kharsawan superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi said that the murder victim Deepak Sardar was returning home after closing his stationery shop at Vidyutnagar at around 10 pm when the four assailants led by Mathura attacked him with iron rods and sticks. Arshi also informed that the attackers had inflected grievous injury to Deepak's younger brother Krishna Sardar. "Having inflicted fatal injuries to Deepak, the four fled the scene, leaving two victims in a pool of blood. As soon as the news of the fatal attack spread, a patrolling party of Adityapur thana reached the spot and rescued the injured, and rushed them to the MGM Medical College Hospital. Deepak who had sustained grievous head injuries succumbed to his injuries in an hour," said Arshi while talking to the media. Speaking about the reason behind the attack, Arshi stated that both Deepak and Mathura wanted to establish their supremacy in Vidyutnagar area and were in a rivalry. He said on the night of November 13, Deepak who was a resident of Krishnanagar in RIT thana area had clashed with Mathura at Vidyutnagar, triggering an enmity between the two. "Two days later Mathura arranged his friends and planned the attack on Deepak for avenging the assault meted out to him on Friday night. Having assaulted the murder victim, the assailants had taken shelter at several slums in and around Adityapur. But a police team led by Adityapur thana OC, Rajendra Kumar Mahto took a statement from the victim's brother Sanjay Sardar and raided each and every probable hideout and arrested all the four by 5 am on Monday," the superintendent of police pointed out. Arshi said the iron rods and sticks that they recovered were blood-stained, suggesting that these had been used in the murder of Deepak Sardar. He said the police would get a forensic test on the blood-stained iron rods and sticks so as to produce them as an exhibit during the trial of the murder case in court. The senior police officer said, though the assailants, all in the age-group of 23-25 years, committed a murder, they did not have any police records as such. All four were sent to the Seraikela Sadar Hospital for Covid-19 test and subsequently sent to Seraikela divisional jail after their production before a judicial magistrate in the afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||Baba Baijnath Seva Sangh to offer doorstep delivery of Chhath Puja items||A Mango-based religious outfit, Baba Baijnath Seva Sangh, will be distributing Chhath Puja items free of cost among the devotees. Fruits and other puja paraphernalia would be delivered at the doorstep of devotees who are also referred to as Chhath vratis in properly sanitized cotton bags. “We are making arrangements for distributing Chhath Puja items in over 5,000 households in Mango and its adjoining areas. We are doing this because of the pandemic. The fruits and other items would be properly sanitized before they are delivered to the doorstep of devotees,” said Vikas Singh, a senior functionary of Baba Baijnath Seva Sangh on Monday. The outfit also organizes a free trip for devotees to Deoghar from steel city during the holy month of Shravan. On Monday, the religious outfit issued two contact numbers – 8540986994 and 9334141644 – where devotees can call for getting Chhath Puja items. This year Chhath will be celebrated on November 20 and 21. The outfit will distribute the puja items on November 19. Meanwhile, the residents have started making arrangements for celebrating the festival on the rooftop and courtyard of their homes as the state disaster management on Sunday midnight issued a communique debarring devotees from celebrating Chhath on river ghats, ponds, lakes and other water bodies due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The directive also banned any kind of stalls to be set up near water bodies and prohibited individuals from earmarking space near water bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||JFC acquire AFC and national licenses for 2020-21 season||FC is one of the six Indian Super League (ISL) clubs to have secured the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) and national Licenses for the 2020-21 season. The results were communicated to the clubs on Saturday evening by the All India Football Federation (AIFF). “We are glad to have fulfilled the Indian clubs licensing by complying to all the criteria required for the same. The objective of club licensing is to develop a professional system of football in the country and we at Jamshedpur FC strive to work towards complying to it. The AIFF has been very encouraging and supporting during the  extensive process of club licensing, especially considering the Covid-19 scenario,” said JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari. He added that the club strongly believes in committing to professionalism and development of football guided with the values of Tata Steel. “We take this very seriously here and ensure that we follow the right practices as laid down by the AIFF and AFC. The club has a robust grassroots and academy system along with various initiatives of coach education, player development, community engagement and various CSR activities in the rural areas of Jharkhand,” Choudhari said. The AIFF had opened up the club licensing system for the 2020-21 season on July 14. The Club Licensing Application Pack (CLAP) was sent to all eligible clubs and they were asked to submit a signed copy of the Club Licensing agreement which is a declaration that they are ready to undertake the initiative for the Club Licensing. Later in October, the AFC had extended the deadline for submitting the necessary documents for the Club Licensing to November 13. Besides JFC,  other clubs who have fulfilled the criteria for club licensing are FC Goa, ATK Mohun Bagan FC, Bengaluru FC, Chennaiyin FC and Mumbai City FC. SC East Bengal, Kerala Blasters FC, Hyderabad FC, NorthEast United FC and Odisha FC have not cleared the licensing procedure. The Tata Steel-owned JFC are presently in Goa for the seventh edition of the cash-rich ISL starting at three separate venues from November 20. Jamshedpur launch their campaign against last season’s runners-up Chennaiyin FC at Tilak Maidan on November 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant govt faces flak for banning Chhath at lake, ponds||The Hemant Soren government faced severe criticism for banning Chhath congregations at public water bodies with both ruling and Opposition party members accusing it of hurting religious sentiments on Monday, barely 12 hours after a midnight communique was issued to announce the guidelines. The Opposition BJP launched protests on the streets in many parts of the state, including capital Ranchi. Members of the ruling JMM and Congress issued separate appeals and submitted memorandums to the chief minister, asking him to reconsider the guidelines, which were issued keeping the Covid-19 pandemic in mind. Chhath Puja is scheduled to be held November 20 and 21.  Former chief minister Raghubar Das, who is also a patron of the Chhath Puja Samiti of Sidhgora in Jamshedpur, wrote to Hemant, appealing to him to allow devotees to perform morning and evening arghya at ponds amid strict Covid-19 safety norms on the lines of Bihar. “In Bihar, the government has allowed Chhath festival and puja at ponds where congregations can be regulated. Jharkhand too should do it on similar lines to not hurt religious sentiments of Hindus. Chhath is a major festival in Jharkhand too,” Das wrote. State BJP president Deepak Prakash accused the government of being anti-Hindu. “The strange order should be taken back in view of popular religious sentiments. Maintaining social distancing at Chhath ghats is possible with proper planning. BJP will continue to oppose it tooth and nail,” he said. Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth, mayor Asha Lakra, along with district units of the party, held protests at Button Talab in Doranda in the afternoon. Ruling JMM and Congress members also sought amendments of the Chhath guidelines. JMM general secretary Vinod Pandey wrote to Hemant demanding reconsideration of the diktat. Ally Congress echoed similar sentiments. The party’s co-working president Rajesh Thakur said in a statement, “We urge the government to reconsider its decision. Covid-19 is not over yet, but religion and cultural practices are equally important. The babus (bureaucrats) have issued guidelines without applying their minds and keeping people’s religious sentiments in mind.” Around midnight on Sunday, the government issued guidelines banning Chhath Puja at rivers/ponds and other public water bodies in view of the covid-19 pandemic. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh in his order maintained that since it would  not be possible to maintain the national order of “do gaz ki doori (two feet social distancing) while performing Chhath rituals, the state government was asking residents to stay indoors during the festival to minimise chances of a renewed spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel to organize Virtual Run 2020 on Saturday, November 22 ||The first-ever Tata Steel virtual run, scheduled on November 22, will be different and with a social cause. Registrations for the ‘sought-after’ event, to be conducted in groups like 5 km (12-16 years boys and girls), 7 km (16 years and above, men and women) and 10 km (16 years and above, men and women) are open. To encourage maximum participation, some exciting recognitions like e-certificate, discount coupons and a steel medal especially crafted from steel and made by Tata Steel will be given to participants as per terms and conditions. To respect and protect Mother Nature, and value the great advantages that trees bless us with every day, a sapling will be planted for each participant in Jamshedpur, a Tata Steel official said. The participants can visit www.getactiveindia.com to register. The run is open only for Indian nationals. The participants can run from anywhere they choose to. The activities can be recorded by using GPS-based watch Garmin or mobile fitness app Strava only. The data needs to be uploaded along with the screenshot of the run from the link provided with the registration confirmation mail. Tata Steel has been promoting fitness culture through its marathons organized in five cities across India – Calcutta, Jamshedpur and Noamundi (both in Jharkhand), and Bhubaneswar and Angul (both in Odisha). The run has been a hit whenever it was held in the steel city. People, including corporate honchos and marathoners from across the country, have added gloss to the event. Annually, around 35,000 people participate in these running events. Due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, a need was identified to get connected with various stakeholders through a virtual run. Being conducted on a digital platform ensures extended reach and aim to have more number of participants across the country compared to previous years. The event will be managed by Striders (the event partner) – a fitness training group that designs and organizes fitness-specific training programs and conducts various run events throughout the year. It is sponsored by Brooks, the popular running shoe brand in the world, who designs and markets running-specific performance footwear, apparel and accessories worldwide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||7-hour airport shutdown daily till January 2021  ||Flight operations will remain suspended for seven hours between 10.15 am to 5.30 pm at Ranchi airport for the next two months in view of repairs on the runway, airport officials said on Monday. Birsa Munda International Airport director Vinod Kumar Sharma said, “Re-carpeting of the runway was required to be undertaken for smooth operation of flights at our airport. We began work from today (Monday) after getting all clearances from our headquarters. Hence, we have rescheduled our operation timings by splitting it into two halves. In the  first half, flights will run between 6.45 am to 10.15 am and in the second half from 5.30 pm till 9.15 pm.” Sharma said the new timings would be in force till January 15, 2021. As per the new schedule, as many as 12 flights of Go Air, Air Asia, Indigo and Vistara would be operated during the first half while about 11 would be operated in the second half. Ranchi airport has a runway length of around 8,901 feet, at least 2,000 feet short of the regulation length for operating international flights. Hence, despite the inauguration of a new integrated passenger terminal building and renaming it as an international airport in 2013, Ranchi is yet to begin operating flights to international destinations. New Chennai flight In terms of services, a significant addition was announced on Monday. Ranchi residents will now be able to take direct flights to Chennai without having to halt or layover at other destinations. According to airport officials, the first flight to Chennai, run by Indigo Airlines, will take off from Ranchi airport on Wednesday, November 18, at 8.45 am and land in the Tamil Nadu capital at 11.15 am. The Indigo flight will first ferry passengers from Chennai to Ranchi. It will take off from Chennai airport at 5.45 am and land in Ranchi at 8.15 am. “There was a lot of demand for direct flights to Chennai from Ranchi. It was in the pipeline for a long time but we somehow could not start. We will finally start flight services to Chennai from November 18, and it will be a daily service,” said Deputy General Manager (Air Traffic Management) of Birsa Munda Airport, Wilfred Kerketta. Several hundred students, especially the ones pursuing engineering in Tamil Nadu colleges, are likely to benefit from the new direct flights. The demand for direct flights to Chennai was also fueled by the high frequency of Ranchi residents travelling to Vellore for medical treatments and tests. Vellore is about 140km from Chennai by road, and patients may now take a flight to Chennai for visiting Vellore instead of opting for trains, which consume more time, said the DGM (ATM). Ranchi airport is fast growing in terms of connectivity with other cities. The largest airport in Jharkhand has 30 flights connecting Ranchi to cities like New Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta, Bangalore and Hyderabad. Now, with the inclusion of Chennai in the list, travelling to destinations in southern India is expected to get easier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||Mother with 2 children jumps in front of train, 3-year-old girl survives||A three-year-old girl survived miraculously after her mother, along with her brother and her, jumped in front of an approaching train at Jalpa station on Saturday. Members of the Palamau district legal services authority helped rescue Kirti Kumari, who has had to have a portion of her foot amputated. Legal aid officials are now overseeing her treatment at the Medinirai Medical College Hospital in Daltonganj. According to Hussainabad sub-divisional police officer Jitendra Kumar, Kirti’s mother, Geeta Devi, took her and her brother to platform number 3 of the Japla railway station, under Mughalsarai station, and jumped with both of them before a goods train that was headed towards Sone Nagar. He said the chairman of the district legal services authority, Pradip K Choubey, who is the principal district and sessions judge of Daltonganj, deputed Sanjiv Kumar, along with paralegal volunteer Bhagirath Dubey, to visit Kirti at the children’s ward of the hospital on Sunday. The legal aid functionary said, “On visiting the girl child at the hospital we found that she needed better treatment and immediately asked Palamau civil surgeon John F Kennedy and deputy medical superintendent K.N. Singh to look into it.” A two-member team from child welfare committee (CWC), comprising Dhirender Kumar and Pranav Kumar Verenyam, also reached the hospital to ensure Kirti received good medical care. Kirti’s grandfather Bandhu Yadav is understood to have petitioned CWC to say that he was too poor to be able to provide for her treatment. He urged the CWC to help them organise her continued medical treatment. Legal services authority chairman Choubey said, “We understand that GRP will investigate this case thoroughly as it occurred on railway tracks. Legal services is open to assisting this child. We will monitor this case too,” he added. Palamau civil surgeon Kennedy said Kirti had already given a unit of blood. “The blood bank has been directed to ensure transfusion facilities were available 24x7. We have to ensure the child does not contract any infection,” he said. Deputy medical superintendent Singh said he had directed physician R. K. Ranjan, surgeon Sushil Pandey and attending doctor Sanjay Singh to keep a round-the-clock vigil on the girl. Singh said, “The child is stable. Her bleeding has stopped. Nurses and other paramedics have been asked to see that she faces minimal discomfort. The attending doctors have been advised to arrange medicines on their own as the child comes from a very poor family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||Only 129 fresh infections in a day, active Covid cases drop below 3000 in Jharkhand||Active cases of the Covid-19 infection dropped below 3,000 in Jharkhand on Sunday after 291 patients recovered from the infection in 24 hours while only 129 fresh cases surfaced, figures compiled by the health department stated. As per latest government data, as many as 2,952 people were battling the viral infection across Jharkhand and at least 975 of them were from Ranchi, the district with highest Covid caseload and active cases. East Singhbhum, on the other hand, had 536 active cases of infection, the second highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per the NHM bulletin, none of the districts reported a triple-digit-spike in Covid-19 cases, while at least 11 districts reported less than 10 active cases. No fresh cases of infection were reported in at least seven districts, including Saraikela, Simdega and Giridih, the bulletin stated. As many as 18 of 24 districts in Jharkhand had less than 100 active cases of infection, stated the bulletin, highlighting the rapid fall in the number of Covid-19 cases owing to a high recovery rate and low growth rate in the state. The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand, as per government data, was 96.34 per cent on Sunday against the national average of 93.10 per cent. While the active cases dropped significantly in Jharkhand, the number of Covid casualties increased slightly on Sunday as two more patients died during treatment in 24 hours. Both East SInghbhum and Ranchi reported one Covid casualty on the day, taking the toll in Ranchi to 185 and that in East Singhbhum to 345. As per government figures, at least 924 people have died of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand so far, taking the Covid mortality rate up at 0.87 per cent. However, the mortality rate in Jharkhand was lower than the national average of 1.50 per cent. The NHM bulletin released on Sunday night further stated that the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.19 per cent against the national average of 0.43 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 371.57 days against the national average of 161.35 days, the bulletin highlighted. Health workers in Jharkhand tested swab samples of 10,186 people on Sunday and over 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 38.18 lakh people and tested 37.90 lakh of them. The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand, as on Sunday, was 1,06,064 and at least 1,02,188 of them have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
16-11-2020||Jharkhand||Observe Chhath rituals indoors, state issues strict guidelines||Lakes, ponds, riverbeds and other public water bodies will be out of bounds for devotees during Chhath, the two-day festival scheduled to begin on November 20, the state disaster management department said in a communiqué issued around Sunday midnight. Signed by state chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, the order reads, “Since it will not be possible to maintain the national order of ‘do gaz ki doori (two-feet social distancing)’ while performing Chhath puja in the waters of river/pond/lakes/rivers/dams/reservoirs/any other public water bodies, it is, therefore, not permitted to be held so as to minimise the chances of the spread of the coronavirus infection.” The directive also banned any kind of stalls to be set up near water bodies and prohibited individuals from earmarking space near water bodies, putting up lights or making other special arrangements. The curbs on bursting of crackers in public places during the Chhath festival or the conduct of entertainment and cultural programmes would continue to be in force. “The order was issued after lots of deliberations to balance culture and precautions during the pandemic. Finally, everyone was of the view that Chhath should also be a private affair like other festivals to tackle the pandemic,” said an official of the state IPRD department. All districts, civic bodies and other stakeholders have been directed to ensure total compliance ahead of the festival celebrated widely across Bihar and Jharkhand. This year, Chhath is scheduled to be held on November 20 and 21 when devotees offer arghya (prayer) to the sun God at dusk and dawn. Lakhs of devotees turn up at water bodies for a holy dip and prayers. But amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, allowing such religious congregations could well prove risky, and may aid the spread of the virus. Notably, on Friday, Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra met with the chief secretary to demand urgent issuance of directives for the upcoming festival to end ambiguity and uncertainty among officials and devotees at large. The state had also imposed several curbs during Durga puja and Diwali. While the outcome of the Diwali curbs is yet unknown, the state government seems to have largely succeeded in containing the spread of infection after Durga Puja which was held during the end of October. Recoveries of Covid-19 cases continue to outnumber fresh infections. As per Sunday night’s bulletin, total active cases have come down below the 3,000-mark. There are 2,952 people under treatment for coronavirus infection. State reported 129 new cases, 291 recoveries and two deaths in the last 24 hours. As per official data, Jharkhand has recorded 1,06,064 Covid cases in all. Of these,  1,02,188 have recovered working out to a recovery rate of 96.34 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-235
