17-11-2020||Jharkhand||Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research celebrates 75th foundation day||Platinum jubilee celebration of the Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CIMFR), Dhanbad was held at the institute auditorium on Tuesday. The premiere laboratory of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) celebrated its 75th foundation day which marked the inauguration of three new facilities, including a Pressurized Fluidized Bed Gasification pilot plant, a Non Recovery Coke Oven plant with hot stamping facility and a Centre of Excellence for Strategic and Infrastructural Sector. The inaugurations were done online from Vigyan Bhavan in New Delhi by union minister Harsh Vardhan in presence of NITI Aayog member Vijay Kumar Saraswat and CSIR director general Shekhar C Mande. The day also witnessed the signing of different agreements for transfer of technology with mining and allied sector companies including Knowledge Lens Pvt Ltd, Bangalore and Coresonant Systems Pvt Ltd, Secunderabad for digital mining using IOT. A similar collaborative agreement with Sandros Pvt Ltd, Nagpur for Development of Technology for application of Geo synthetic Concrete Cement Mat (GCCM) & Intelligent Slope Monitoring System and its turn key based application was also made during the occasion. This was followed by another  agreement with AKD Genmining Solutions (OPC) Pvt Ltd, Ranchi for use of CIMFR facility for Geophysical Exploration Related to Electrical Resistivity Imaging System for geophysical survey for coal preparation. A bilateral agreement with Maithon Power Limited, Dhanbad for Coal Quality Assessment at unloading point for coal sampling work was also made during the occasion. Two tripartite agreements on coal quality assessment at loading points for coal sampling work including one with Navi Nagar Power Generation Company Ltd and Central Coalfields Limited, Ranchi and another with Western Coalfields Limited, Nagpur and NTPC Mohuda was also made. The function also marked the release of the platinum jubilee logo of CIMFR by Harsh Vardhan. Addressing participants, including scientists of the institute, industry representatives and other stakeholders through video conferencing, Harsh Vardhan said at a time when the focus of the country is on clean coal technology, the role of CIMFR is crucial. He further said “as we are striving for making our mining policy more pragmatic, research oriented, people friendly, industry friendly, nation friendly and society friendly, the role of scientist of institutes like CIMFR to solve mining related issues through development of technology assumes significance”. He also lauded the role of scientists and researchers in the fight against Covid 19 by developing testing kits, ventilators, PPE kits and other equipment. A bilateral agreement with Maithon Power Limited, Dhanbad for Coal Quality Assessment at unloading point for coal sampling work was also made during the occasion. Two tripartite agreements on coal quality assessment at loading points for coal sampling work including one with Navi Nagar Power Generation Company Ltd and Central Coalfields Limited, Ranchi and another with Western Coalfields Limited, Nagpur and NTPC Mohuda was also made. The function also marked the release of the platinum jubilee logo of CIMFR by Harsh Vardhan. Addressing participants, including scientists of the institute, industry representatives and other stakeholders through video conferencing, Harsh Vardhan said at a time when the focus of the country is on clean coal technology, the role of CIMFR is crucial. He further said “as we are striving for making our mining policy more pragmatic, research oriented, people friendly, industry friendly, nation friendly and society friendly, the role of scientist of institutes like CIMFR to solve mining related issues through development of technology assumes significance”. He also lauded the role of scientists and researchers in the fight against Covid 19 by developing testing kits, ventilators, PPE kits and other equipment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-233
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||State backtracks, allows Chhath at public water bodies||Chief minister Hemant Soren rolled back his government’s decision banning Chhath puja at public water bodies on Tuesday after severe public backlash against Sunday’s guidelines that were issued to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. “Considering popular sentiments and demands from all quarters, we have decided to allow devotees to go to ghats of rivers/ponds/water bodies as opposed to the earlier order. Everyone must ensure use of masks and other safeguards while the respective district administrations and civic bodies will work towards maintaining social distancing,” he told the media at Project Building. Hemant, however, appealed to the people to celebrate the festival indoors. “Many have been observing Chhath at their houses, on terraces, lawns and so on, even before the Covid-19 outbreak. It is my personal appeal to the public to embrace this method of celebration in the interest of personal, family and public health,” the chief minister said in the presence of state health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta. Sources in the disaster management department said detailed guidelines would be issued shortly. “CM has spelt out the broad guidelines. Soon, details will be issued after these are vetted by concerned authorities,” said an official. Both ruling party and Opposition party leaders hailed the decision. The BJP claimed success of its sustained protests to safeguard “Hindu rituals” and the rights of the public. “We are happy that the government has taken back its Tuglaki farman (autocratic diktat). Public sentiments have won over the mindless order issued by the government. This is the victory over wrong policies of the incumbent government,” said state BJP president Deepak Prakash. Earlier in the day, JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee accused the BJP of playing cheap politics over public health, adding that the government would take a favourable decision. “Unlike BJP, this government respects all religion, caste and creed. Above all, it is the responsibility of the government to safeguard public health but at the same time our government respects every festival and will take logical decision in the larger interest of people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||Cops arrest two touts at Tatanagar station||In a first after the coronavirus-induced lockdown got imposed in March, two railway ticket touts were sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail on Tuesday, following their arrests from the Tatanagar Railway Station on Monday night. One of the scalpers, identified as 24-year-old Mohammed Sahad Khan, was arrested by a team of the Railway Police near the Computerised Reservation Centre (CRS) centre at Tatanagar, while the other, 21-year-old Rohit Kumar Tiwary, was booked from his house at Chhotagovindpur in Govind. Khan, a resident of Azadnagar, was caught by the railway police for illegally getting reserved tickets for his `clients' at the railway reservation counter. On the other hand, Tiwary was arrested for violating the norms of IRCTC and procuring online tickets at his house. Revealing the breakthrough, M.K Sahoo, inspector Railway Protection Force (RPF), Tatanagar, said that the police had got a tip off after the number of passengers t the breakthrough, inspector, Railway Protection Force (RPF), Tatanagar, MK Sahoo said that they had got tips off that after the rush of passenger started to pick up post-lockdown suggesting that several brokers became active in providing reserved tickets from the ticket reservation counters as well as through online booking. “We set up two separate teams of the railway police for probing into the information and act accordingly,” he said. "One of the teams first carried out an inspection in plain clothes and identified some suspected touts at the railway ticket reservation counter. A few minutes before the reservation counter was closed, the team raided the reservation counter and nabbed a youth to recover more than one reserved ticket. On being interrogated, the youth who gave his name as Mohammed Sahad Khan  was indulged in touting tickets.  Khan was taken into custody immediately," said Sahoo, while talking to The Telegraph Online. The RPF inspector pointed out the railway police team had also scanned the CCTV footage at the CRC and found that Khan had been procuring the reserved tickets from the reservation counter every day since the past week. The other team, which was tasked with detecting online fraud, identified Tiwary and verified if he was reserving the tickets from his house at Govindpur in a genuine way. "But during investigation, it was found that Tiwary had opened a personal ID through which he was making the tickets and would sell them at a premium price. The accused had no approval of the IRCTC and continued to make tickets online by using his personal ID.  Hence the railway police team picked up Tiwary from his house too," Sahoo said. The duo was subsequently produced before a judicial magistrate on Tuesday afternoon and moved to the Ghaghidih Central jail later in the day. The train services had come to a standstill since March 23, but the railways had gradually resumed the services since May. Currently 56 trains pass through Tatanagar in the Chakradharpur railway division daily. Of the 56 trains,18 are regular, which run on a daily basis, but due to the festive and wedding seasons, the rush of passengers has surged recently. Senior divisional commercial manager, Chakradharpur, Manish Pathak, while talking to The Telegraph Online, said, "The existing provision of 56 trains through Tatanagar will continue till November 30, and from December 1 onward more passenger trains are likely to resume service.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dalma daily wagers receive pending dues after 8 months||The daily wagers of Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary finally received their pending dues which were cleared by the state government. It was a wait of 8 months for the 48 men and women while the forest officials kept assuring them that they would receive their dues soon. On Tuesday, the cheques were sent to the respective bank accounts of the laborers and the money can be withdrawn from Wednesday. “The pending wages of the laborers have been cleared. The cheques have been sent to the bank accounts of daily wagers,” said Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra. Shrishtidhar Mahato, who heads the Dainik Vetan Bhogi Majdoor Sangh, said they have finally received their pending dues. “It would have been better had the dues were cleared before the festivals – Durga Puja and Diwali. But we are happy that the wait is over,” he added. According to him, they faced lots of hardship during the Covid-19 lockdown as they had no work opportunities. “Der sahi hamen hamara mehnat ka paisa mil gaya (even if it is delayed we have at least got our hard-earned money),” Mahto said. The daily wage earners, who are engaged in maintaining accommodations, taking care of two domesticated elephants (as mahauts), and cooking and tracking, some are tasked with keeping a tab on the movement of animals at the sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary (30 km from Jamshedpur), are paid Rs 249.83 for the labor. They had participated in an agitation near the main entrance and also gheraoed the forest range officer Dinesh Chandra in July. However, nothing moved forward. Some of the laborers were also forced to mortgage their motorbikes to sustain their families while others had taken money by paying interest. Most of the daily wagers were also forced to discontinue tuitions of their wards as it was difficult for them to afford the same. Some foresters had also arranged groceries by asking shopkeepers to provide food on credit. They had also arranged money for the hapless laborers. A forester said the state government has sent the funds and the daily wagers would not have to wait for their dues for some more months. “The laborers will get timely payment of their dues till March next year,” he said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad woman sees a homemaker as nation-builder  ||A housewife starts her day by stepping into the kitchen in the morning and continues working all day, preparing breakfast for her children and husband, arranging children’s books, washing clothes, cooking lunch and dinner, and doing other chores for the family. But her efforts often go unrecognized by members of the family. Most housewives have the same story to tell, those who sacrifice their careers for the wellbeing of their family. The efforts of millions of such housewives have been recognized by a working woman named Abhilasha Singh. The post graduate teacher at the English Department of DAV Public School, Koylanagar in Dhanbad, has written on the efforts of such women in the form of an English novel, titled ‘Housewife, The nation maker’, highlighting the contribution of the women in family and thereby in the nation-building. The 84-page book, published by Indore based Orange Book Publication, would be launched at a function scheduled for November 22. It was written in two years. It highlights the role of such women who could have done much better on the professional front compared to their other family members, as they are having the requisite qualifications for plum jobs but are willingly sacrificing their careers for the family. Talking to the Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Singh, wife of an investment banker of Tata Capital Ashok Kumar Rai, said, “While serving in school for the last 10 years, I had the opportunity to interact with more than 2,000 housemakers, many of whom are immensely talented and I am peeved to know that their sacrifice is not recognized by the family itself.” “My novel revolves around Sudha, the central character who is a housemaker and takes care of every member of the family but nobody recognizes her effort towards them. Everybody in the family ignored her but one day she recognizes herself and her value. She started her career as a writer and also as a small boutique owner and at last succeeds also. Everybody in the family then recognizes her value and contribution in the family,” said Singh. “I was more deeply peeved over the lack of recognition of the effort of their mother by the children of the family, despite the fact that many of these women played the role of the main architect of their career and thus decided to write the novel three ago. I wrote the novel based on the life of one such mother with whom I was greatly impressed,” added Singh. “I got dismayed witnessing one of such dedicated housewife getting humiliated by her own family members and when I asked her why she did not make her own career then she replied that as the entire family depends on her and the career of the other family members will get derailed once she stops taking care of them,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||RMC goes ahead with pre-Chhath clean-up of ghats||Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) has stepped up Chhath preparations at water bodies across the city in anticipation of the state government revising its guideline to ban puja in public in the wake of widespread protests across Jharkhand. Sources said that in the event of non-revision of guidelines, RMC would require thousands of tankers and additional funds to ensure water was available for the festival across all wards. But mayor Asha Lakra maintained there was no time left to make any alternative arrangements and renewed her plea to the government to revoke the restrictions imposed because of the pandemic. On Tuesday, she led a team of officials and inspected three water bodies - Dhurwa dam, Jagarnath talab and Suvernarekha ghat in Namkum - to supervise arrangements ahead of the festival. “We will need hefty funds for making alternative arrangements for providing water to lakhs of devotees in their areas if the government ban continues on use of public ponds/rivers. But now we don’t have time to make those arrangements and neither do we have enough infrastructure. Had the guidelines come a month back, we could have made alternative arrangements by digging temporary dobhas/culverts in localities,” she told the media at Dhurwa. She said the only option before the government now was to lift the ban in deference to largescale protests across the state. “RMC is hopeful of revised guidelines. Hence, without wasting time we are readying ghats by getting them cleaned and putting up barricades and setting up toilets,” said Lakra, who belongs to the Opposition BJP that is leading protests across the state since Monday. There are around three dozen water bodies across the city where Chhath is held every year. Most of them were nearly ready, said the mayor. “Soon after Dussehra we began cleaning water bodies. Basic sanitisation work is over in almost all places,” she said. Around midnight on Sunday, the state government issued guidelines banning Chhath at rivers/ponds and other public water bodies in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, in his order, maintained that since it would not be possible to maintain the national order of “do gaz ki doori (two feet social distancing)”  while performing Chhath puja in public water bodies, it was being banned to minimise chances of a spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||Chhath devotees make do with curbs, get busy with preparations  ||Markets of the steel city were busy on Tuesday with devotees rushing to buy essentials for Chhath Puja, the biggest festival of Jharkhand and Bihar that will be observed indoors this year as the state government has banned outdoor congregations in view of the pandemic. The four-day-long festival will begin on Wednesday with Nahay Khay. Price of vegetables, especially bottle gourd (or lauki), an essential item used by those observing Chhath, witnessed a rise. It was selling for Rs 20 per kg till Sunday but is now selling at double the price. On Nahay Khay, women take a bath in the morning and cook a proper meal for themselves with rice, chana dal and bottle gourd. The food is cooked in bronze utensils using mango wood on an earthen stove. The women who observe fast eat only once through the entire day. On Tuesday, Chhath vratis put out wheat under sun for drying as is the custom. The wheat is used for making Chhath prasad, also known as kharna, on the second day of the festival. On Friday, November 20, arghya, the main offering, will be given to the Sun God. This year, the state disaster management department has imposed a ban on Chhath celebrations on river ghats, ponds, lakes and other water bodies to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Devotees will, therefore, offer obeisance to the Sun God on the evening of November 20 and early morning of November 21 from their homes. On Tuesday, many residents were seen procuring big-sized water tubs. Others who could create temporary water bodies within residential complexes so that they were able to offer arghya on both days of the festival with family members. “Chhath is associated with faith, purity and devotion to the sun, the only god we can see. We took a bath and cleaned the wheat before setting it out for drying,” said  Renuka Singh, a Bistupur-based housewife sporting a new cotton sari, especially bought for the occasion. Notably, Chhath is celebrated twice in a year, Chaiti Chhath in the summer and now in early winter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand|| Flocks of migratory birds arrive early in Tilaiya Dam||Corona-induced lockdown turned a boon for the environment as pollution came down to a much lower level. This was the reason why migratory birds reached the famous Tilaiya Dam in Koderma district 15 days before the actual time of every year. Due to their sudden visit and that too before time, the forest department became alert for their security. Officials said they were in action and keeping a watch on the birds to put a check on the activities of poachers. Bird watchers said normally these guests arrive after November 15 but for the first time, bird watchers are witnessing their early arrival here. Forest officials informed hundreds of birds have arrived at this picturesque dam including Common Pochard, Tufted Duck, Norton Pinet, and Bar-headed goose. Forest officials said these birds are from Ladakh, Mongolia, China, and few European countries. Their arrival continues till January and they stay at this dam till April after which their return journey starts. In 2017, the international union for conservation of nature had given Tilaiya Dam the status of an important bird area seeing the arrival of thousands of birds at this dam every year. In January, the number of these birds reached several thousand, attracting tourists as well as poachers too. Local residents said earlier 30,000 to 35,000 birds used to come here. But due to human interference at this dam followed by poaching, the numbers had reduced to few thousands with every passing day. Divisional forest officer of Kodera, Suraj Kumar Singh said his department is on high alert for the security of this bird. He said this dam is the favorite spot of migratory birds for decades. He said for the security of these birds, the district tourism committee had given a go-ahead to construct two watchtowers at the dam area. We are identifying the two best spots to construct the towers, he added. Singh said once constructed, these watchtowers will serve two purposes, one will provide an opportunity for tourists to see the birds and beauty of this dam. Second, forest employees can use it to keep eyes on poachers, he added. He said they are ready to take up a census of the migratory birds to know their actual numbers and their species as well. Singh also confirmed that they are taking up plantation drive to save the catchment area of the dam besides making a natural trail here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||Twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases in Jharkhand||While Covid-19 casualties continued to haunt Jharkhand on Monday, the recovery rate further improved as the state reported more than twice as many recoveries as fresh cases of infection in the past 24 hours and four districts did not report even a single fresh case of Covid-19 infection, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. At least four more Covid-19 patients, including two from Ranchi, died during treatment on Monday, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 928, a daily Covid-19 bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Dhanbad and Dumka reported one death each, while two casualties in Ranchi took the Covid-19 toll in the district alone to 187, government figures revealed. Jharkhand, as per the NHM bulletin released on Monday night, reported 360 recoveries against 166 fresh cases on the day, taking the recovery rate up at 96.53 per cent. The state’s Covid recovery rate was higher than the national average of 93.20 per cent, the bulletin further stated. With 56 fresh cases, Ranchi was the highest contributor to the Covid-19 caseload on Monday, while East Singhbhum and Dhanbad reported only 32 and 12 fresh cases of infection respectively. At least 118 people recovered from Covid-19 infection in Ranchi on the day, the highest among all the 24 districts. As many as 54 Covid patients recovered in East Singhbhum while 46 recovered in Dhanbad, government data highlighted. While none of the districts in Jharkhand reported a triple-digit-spike in Covid-19 cases, less than 10 fresh cases surfaced in at least 19 districts. As per the NHM bulletin, Simdega, Sahebganj, Pakur and Hazaribag did not report even a single case of Covid-19 infection in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases was less than 100 in at least 18 districts, including Chatra, Deoghar and Ramgarh. As per government data, at least 912 people were battling the infection in Ranchi, the highest among all the districts in Jharkhand. There were as many as 513 active cases of infection in East Singhbhum, the second highest in Jharkhand. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 14,461 people and around 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 38.26 lakh people and tested 38.07 lakh of them. As many as 1,06,230 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far and 1,02,548 of them have recovered. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.17 per cent against the national average of 0.42 per cent. The doubling rate of the virus in the state was 397.12 days against the national average of 167.07 days. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.87 per cent against the national mortality rate of 1.50 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||Netarhat alumnus step in to take classes||Members of the alumni association of Netarhat Vidyalaya have come forward to help current students of the residential school by opting to take online classes that were disrupted by the shortage of teachers and connectivity problems. “We stepped in when we found the online classes were suffering because of inadequate faculty and connectivity issues,” said Colonel (retired) B.B. Singh, a former student and a member of of Netarhat Old Boys Association (Noba). Singh, who lives in Delhi, said the network problem was fixed and Noba members volunteered to take classes. The residential school spread over 780 acres in the sylvan surrounding of Netarhat hill was established by the then Bihar government in 1954 as a centre of excellence. The students, chosen through a selection process, have excelled in various fields across the globe since then. Run by the Bihar government earlier, the school is now being managed by the Jharkhand government. Though the school was earlier affiliated to the state school board, it is now a CBSE affiliated institution. “The first batch will appear for the CBSE board examination in February-March (2021),” principal Santosh Kumar said, admitting that the classes suffered due to shortage of teachers and connectivity issues. The school had 27 teachers out of the total sanctioned posts of 47, the principal said, adding that the former students have extended a helping hand by by taking classes, particularly in science subjects. “The school has always maintained excellent record in the Class X final examinations with the students grabbing most of the top 10 ranks,” principal Singh said.
He, however, agreed that it was not the same with Class XII exams as many good students join other schools after passing Class X. “Many good students now opt for CBSE schools. So the students of Netarhat school have to face stiff competition, that too at a national level,” Colonel Singh pointed out, adding that the Noba members were trying to make up for the loss of classes so that the students perform well in their first CBSE examination. “Making their presence felt in the CBSE exams at the national level will be a real challenge for the students,” he said. Singh said the school was not getting as many good students as it used to get before. Earlier, over 25,000 students would compete for 60 seats that would be offered at the entry level, but much less number of students show interest for the 100 seats offered now as many other good schools have been opened in the state, he explained. “Taking online classes is a new activity for Noba members. Besides old students, a few women who are either wives of Noba members or daughters of former teachers, have also volunteered to take online classes,” he said. “I have been taking two online maths classes every day for students of classes X and XII,” said Priya Ranjan, an old student and IIT-Kharagpur alumnus who returned from Maryland (US) to teach at SRM University in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
17-11-2020||Jharkhand||How Soumitra enthralled his Jharkhand fans ||Legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee, who passed away in Calcutta on Sunday, had visited Jharkhand on several occasions, mesmerising everyone with his poetry recitation and acting skills. Dhanbad-based advocate and executive member of Lindsay Club and Library, Somnath Choudhary, recalled the visit of the versatile actor to the annual book fair organised by the club in April 2001 in coal town. “We were simply amazed by his poetry recitation skills. I still remember Soumitra Chatterjee’s recitation of Rabindranath Tagore’s Birpurush. Despite being 65 years old, one had to see his energy to believe it. Having come by train, he made sure to visit each of the publisher’s stall at the book fair and also read several poetry books before going up on the stage,” said Choudhary, who had the privilege of getting a poetry collection autographed by the actor. “I distinctly remember how he politely refused to give autographs on books of poetry written by someone else, but when I pleaded with him and showed him that the collection also comprised poems by Tagore, he relented and gave his autograph on the book. He spent the entire day at the book fair interacting with visitors and attended the literary session in the evening before returning to Calcutta by train the next day,” Choudhary, 59, recalled. The famous actor also visited Jamshedpur on several occasions. “I could not sleep yesterday night. The nostalgic memories of spending some time with the great actor kept coming back. It was a godsend opportunityfor me to be able to act with him in two Bengali films (Mrs Universe and Khuje Berai Tare) and both the films were shot in Jamshedpur. I still remember his suggestions on memorising the script and bringing out emotions while acting,” said Amit Das, a Jamshedpur-based theatre artiste, who had acted as a milkman in Mrs Universe in 1996 and a gardener in Khuje Berai Tare in 2018. Das said Chatterjee had also performed in several theatre shows at The Milanee, XLRI Auditorium and Rabindra Bhavan in Jamshedpur. “Theatre lovers in Jamshedpur still remember how the famous actor had left them spellbound with his performance on stage. He had last come to Jamshedpur in 2018 and performed in The Milanee,” Das added. Chatterjee had also come to Ranchi at least once. “I had the privilege of singing during Bangla Sanskritik Mela in 2005 at Mahendra Pratap College in Ranchi where Chatterjee was present for a discussion on poetry and prose. During a brief interaction, he gave me several suggestions on theatre performance,” said Soumita Sanatani, a senior teacher at Sant Nandlal Smriti Vidya Mandir in Ghatshila and a theatre artiste. Chatterjee had also visted Daltonganj in 1969 for Satyajit Ray’s Aranyer Dinratri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-234
